We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Feeding federal employees
See which Gainesville restaurants are offering free food to fed-
eral employees during the government shutdown, pg. 4
A bird’s eye view
National Geographic photographers came to UF, pg. 5Gators take on TCU in SEC/Big 12 Challenge
Guard KeVaughn Allen and the UF offense may 
need to adjust against the Horned Frogs, pg. 14FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 50
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Zachariah Chou wants to exchange his 
likes on Swampy UF memes for top ten 
public teens for votes this Spring.  
At 3:30 p.m. Wednesday, Inspire Party 
announced its executive ticket with Chou, 
21, for Student Body president; Gouthami 
Gadamsetty, 20, for Student Body vice 
president; and Mackintosh Joachim, 19, for Student Body treasurer. 
Impact Party will announce its execu-
tive ticket at noon today for the Feb.19 and 
20 election.
Chou, a UF political science and jour-
nalism junior, said he has served in the UF 
Student Senate for three years as the Inﬁ  n-
ity Hall senator and later as the Murphree 
Hall senator and treasurer.
Posting original memes on Swampy 
memes, a student-run Facebook meme group, has allowed Chou to make SG more 
relatable to UF students, he said.
“I really want to reach out to all corners 
of campus,” Chou said.
Joachim, a UF ﬁ  nance and women’s 
studies sophomore, said being treasurer 
of the UF NAACP chapter has given him 
ample experience.
“Even though I’m young, people should 
trust me enough to lead them,” Joachim 
said. Gadamsetty, a UF industrial and sys-
tems engineering junior, said her time as 
president of the UF Engineering Leadership 
Circle has prepared her for the executive 
ticket. 
Gadamsetty said Inspire Party is going 
to stand for transparency and accountabil-
ity.
“We’re putting everything we have into 
it,” she said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgInspire Party announces executive ticket for Spring election
A BUILDING MAY COST $8 MILLION
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Asian community is looking for a place 
to call home. 
UF Student Body Treasurer Stefan Sanguyo 
hosted a town hall for more than 50 people 
Thursday night in the Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander 
Suite in the Multicultural Diversity Affairs Of-
ﬁ  ce to address interest in building an Asian 
Paciﬁ  c Islander Desi American institute at UF. 
About 7 percent of UF’s population is Asian, ac-
cording to UF’s most recent demographic data. 
A building may cost about $8 million and 
may be completed about two years, he said.
“Why not reach higher? Why not ask for an 
institute?” he said. 
The Institute of Black Culture and La Ca-
sita, two separate, communal spaces at UF for 
black and Latinx students, have been in exis-
tence since 1972 and 1994, respectively. Their 
new buildings, which cost about $10 million, on 
University Avenue is expected to be completed 
this year. 
People said they wanted a place to study, 
hold meetings and dance practices, preserve 
culture and eat authentic cuisine.
UF often doesn’t consider members of the 
Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander Desi American commu-
nity as minorities, said Lisa Tin, a 20-year-old 
UF food science sophomore and vice president 
of education of UF’s Asian American Student 
Union. 
“We still have to ﬁ  ght for the initiation and 
start-up of this, so we can support this institu-
tion and make it a reality instead of just an open 
town hall,” Tin said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgAsian UF 
students discuss 
building instituteFEATURE FRIDAY
Zachariah Chou was named presidential candidateAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Language arts teacher Joey Spiers is moving from this classroom to one more accessible. In her 30 years at Howard W. Bishop Middle 
School, she said she has fended off squirrels running across the ceiling tiles and opossums nesting in science classrooms. 
THE SALES TAX WILL RAISE 
ABOUT $22 MILLION EACH YEAR
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Joey Spiers remembers the chaos of 
her students ducking under desks, fear-
ful a squirrel in the ceiling would slip 
through the tiles. 
She also remembers opening a drawer 
in a science lab ﬁ  lled with an opossum’s nest. 
While these stories from her 30 years 
as a language arts teacher at Howard W. 
Bishop Middle School make her laugh, 
she grows serious when talking about an 
asbestos removal and a student’s allergic 
reaction to the mold.
Alachua County voters passed a half-
cent sales tax in November to renovate 
outdated schools like Howard Bishop. 
The tax, which started Jan. 1, adds half 
a cent to the current 7 percent sales tax that is charged, said Jackie Johnson, the 
Alachua County Public Schools spokes-
person. 
The tax is expected to raise $22 mil-
lion per year, totaling about $250 million 
over the next 12 years, Johnson said. But 
the actual revenue from the tax could 
vary based on the county’s economy. 
Schools will receive the ﬁ  rst dollars 
from the tax in March, Johnson said. 
Howard Bishop, W.A. Metcalfe Elemen-Two cents on the half-cent tax:  
Paying for the future of public schools 
SEE HALF-CENT,  PAGE 8
Gators take on TCU in SEC/Big 12 Challenge
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
FRIDAY
GatorNights 
This week’s free casino-themed 
GatorNights will take place in 
the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 
1 a.m. Attendees must be cur-
rent students with their Gator 1 
Card. They can bring one guest. 
Games include a glow casino, a 
high stakes scavenger hunt, gi-
ant checkers and chess. Crafts 
include making masquerade 
masks and card garlands. The 
Great Jazz Divas will perform. 
Free popcorn and soda will be 
given for the movie “A Simple 
Favor.” The movie will be 
shown in the Reitz Chamber at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. There will 
be free bowling and billiards in 
the Reitz game room and na-
chos will be served at midnight.
Gay Movie Night 
The movie “Eden’s Curve” will 
be shown at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Pride Community Center, lo-
cated at 3131 NW 13th St. To 
cover the cost of snacks, a $2 
donation will be collected. The 
movie is based on actual events 
and features 17-year-old Peter, 
a young college student com-
ing out in the 1970s. Following 
a sexual arrangement with the 
character’s roommate, Joe, and 
Joe’s girlfriend, Bess, Peter dis-
tances himself from the pair as 
his attraction to Joe grows. 
Flipturn, The Hails, The 
Forum, Cat Ridgeway and 
the Tourists
Flipturn and other artists will 
take the stage from 9 p.m. to 1 
a.m. at The Wooly, located at 20 
N Main St. General admission 
tickets are $12 at showclix.com. 
SATURDAY
High Dive food truck rally
The High Dive will host its 6th 
anniversary food truck rally 
from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. at 210 
SW 2nd Ave. This rally will ben-
efit UF Habitat for Humanity. 
The High Dive will also host 
free live music inside from Dr. 
John and the Medicine, Summer 
Frost Music, Madwoman and 
Decyo McDuffie. Participating 
food trucks include: APP’s Food 
Truck, Charlie’s Snow Shack, 
Cilantro Tacos Gainesville, 
Cora’s Kitchen Food Truck, 
Miller’s Funnel Cakes & Fried 
Oreos, Monsta Lobsta, Off The Griddle, Old San Juan 
Gastronomia, Papa Pineapples, 
Rollin Smoke BBQ, Soup to Nuts 
Food Truck and Taste Pho & 
Noodle House. Vegan and vege-
tarian options will be available. 
Attendees can donate money 
to UF Habitat for Humanity by 
placing money in the jar by 
their favorite truck. The truck 
that raises the most money will 
receive a $100 gift card. No tick-
ets are needed for the event and 
dogs are welcome. Drinks and 
seating are available in the Beer 
Garden at High Dive. 
Third Annual Longest Table
From 4-6 p.m. at Depot Park, 
attendees can enjoy dinner and 
a conversation with their neigh-
bors. The event helps build and 
strengthen relationships within 
the community, to work to-
gether and enhance the quality 
of life of residents in Gainesville 
and Alachua County. A movie 
will be played in the park start-
ing at 6 p.m. Each attendee is 
encouraged to bring one non-
perishable food item to be do-
nated to Bread of the Mighty, a 
local food bank. 
MORE
Inspired by Cuba!
This exhibit explores the ways 
in which Cuba has been immor-
talized in ceramic pieces. The 
pieces start from the mid-18th 
century. The exhibition will 
run until April 5 in Room 100 
in Smathers Library. There are 
two possible classifications for 
the pieces. The first includes im-
ages and symbols of the island 
or its people or with references 
to named places, official institu-
tions or commercial establish-
ments. The second includes 
items with the name of Cuba, 
variations of it or Havana, as a 
brand that appeals to consum-
ers.
Words on Canvas: the Harn 
Museum’s Spring 2019 writ-
ing competition
The Words on Canvas annual 
writing competition is open 
to all UF and Santa Fe College 
students who find inspiration 
in art. Writers will choose one 
of 28 pieces of art and submit a 
poem or prose piece inspired by 
it. Winners will be featured in 
the Harn Museum’s Words on 
Canvas booklet and get prizes 
from the Harn’s gift shop. All 
works must be submitted by 11:59 p.m. Feb. 24. Winning 
submissions will be announced 
by email March 27. An awards 
showcase will be held at the 
museum April 11. Further de-
tails on the competition includ-
ing rules, guidelines and the 
featured artworks can be found 
here: http://harn.ufl.edu/woc-
submission. Questions or con-
cerns can be emailed to word-
soncanvas@harn.ufl.edu.
Student Government Elections
Today is the last day for students 
to register Student Government 
Parties. Registration is open 
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the 
SG office in the Reitz Union. 
From Sunday through Tuesday, 
students interested in running 
with a party for the upcom-
ing SG elections can interview 
with them in rooms 3305, 3310, 
3315 and 3320. On Sunday, in-
terviews will take place from 
3-8 p.m.; 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. on 
Monday and 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Tuesday. A mandatory meeting 
for students who are running 
will be held at 8 p.m. Thursday 
in the Reitz Chamber. Requests 
for absentee ballots are due at 
5 p.m Feb. 6. The form can be 
found at www.sg.ufl.edu/elec-
tions. An SG debate will take 
place at 6 p.m. Feb. 12 in the 
Reitz Grand Ballroom and from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. on Feb. 
19 and Feb. 20, UF students can 
vote in the SG election.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  60° LOW  38°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Digital News Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Alexandria Ng, ang@alligator.org
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Hanna Gibson, Hope Hathcock, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Lourdes Hernandez, Graham Marsh,
Blake TrauschkeMarianna Colon, Sabrina Conza, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 50FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Fun &  Fitness
2019
Contact Your Sales Rep Today
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482Deadline
Wed. Jan.  30 
Run Date
Wed., Feb. 6Help students gain a healthy perspective by advertising in 
The Alligator’s Fun & Fitness section, which is dedicated to 
giving students tips about healthy living and excercise.LAURA WYKOFF HAS 
TAUGHT FOR MORE 
THAN A DECADE
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Laura Wykoff keeps letters from 
her students as a reminder of why 
her job is important. 
She normally reads them to her-
self, but on Thursday, she shared 
them to a crowd of 600. 
“I’m glad I had Ms. Wykoff. She 
is my best friend,” she recited. 
The 44-year-old Fort Clarke 
Middle School mathematics teach-
er was named Alachua County’s 
teacher of the year at the Robert W. 
Hughes Teacher of the Year Pro-
gram at Trinity United Methodist 
Church, at 4000 NW 53rd Ave. She 
has been teaching for more than 10 
years, according to the county. 
“If I ever needed a reason to 
know my job is important, this is 
deﬁ  nitely it,” Wykoff said. 
Wykoff edged out 39 other teachers who were honored from 
each Alachua County public 
school. Each school ﬁ  rst nominates 
a teacher, then a school board 
committee selects the ﬁ  nalists and 
ﬁ  nally a winner. 
María Zelaya, an Eastside High 
School Spanish teacher, and Geof-
frey Bramlett, an Alachua Elemen-
tary School media specialist, were 
the other ﬁ  nalists.
All honorees received $500 and 
a gift bag, said Joseph Fluriach, 
the special events director for the 
Education Foundation of Alachua 
County. Wykoff will also be hon-
ored at a UF basketball halftime 
show on Jan. 30.
Robert Hughes, a former super-
intendent, began the program in 
1992. 
“People need to tell [teachers]
how important they are and what 
a signiﬁ  cant impact they make 
on the lives of their young kids,” 
Hughes said.
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgMath teacher named Alachua County’s teacher of the year
Courtesy to The Alligator
Laura Wykoff, 44, was named Alachua County T eacher of the Year. She teaches math to students 
at Fort Clarke Middle School in Gainesville.
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
THREE RESTAURANTS ARE 
GIVING FREE OR 
DISCOUNTED FOOD
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
At least three Gainesville restaurants 
are stepping up to feed federal employees 
who have gone about a month without a 
paycheck.
The government shutdown began Dec. 
22 over disputes over $5 billion to build 
President Donald Trump’s proposed Mexi-
can border wall, according to The Associ-
ated Press. It’s now historically the longest 
shutdown.
MidiCi, a Neapolitan pizza restaurant, 
at 4949 Celebration Pointe Ave., offered 
free lunch to these employees Tuesday, 
said restaurant owner Thomas Evins. 
The free meal includes any classic piz-
za, house or caesar salad and a soda or 
sweet tea with a federal government ID.
“This is an opportunity for us to give 
back to the community and try and do 
what we can to help,” Evins, 28, said. 
Evins said he is not concerned with 
how much the free lunches will cost him. 
“We’re happy to provide as much as it costs to make sure people leave as happy 
as possible,” he said.
Brendan Mickett, a 19-year-old server at 
MidiCi, said the restaurant would extend 
the offer of free lunches every Tuesday un-
til the shutdown is over.
Mickett’s father is a federal employee 
who works for the Ocala National Forest 
and has been on leave since the beginning 
of the shutdown, Mickett said. 
“It’s a good way to give back to the peo-
ple who help us every day,” he said.
Francesca’s Trattoria, at 4410 NW 25th 
Place, posted on Facebook that it is offering 
federal government employees a free en-
tree from its lunch menu and 
a soft drink with a federal ID 
Monday through Friday from 
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
The offer is valid until Feb. 
21 or when the government 
shutdown ends. 
Taziki’s Mediterranean 
Cafe, at 2905 SW 42nd St., 
is also offering a discount for 
these employees. They can get 
a 50 percent discount on any 
meal with a federal ID until the 
government shutdown is over, 
manager Philip Stevens said.“It’s a way that we can give back a little 
bit,” Stevens, 26, said. “If we can give back 
a little bit extra, that’s just something we 
can do to help the community.”
Stevens said with the uncertainty of the 
shutdown and amount of employees in the 
city, it’s unknown how much it will cost 
them.
“We haven’t really crunched any num-
bers because you don’t know who’s going 
to come in,” Stevens said. “We served a 
group of 15 from an office today and that 
was really nice to be able to do something.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgGainesville restaurants offer meals for furloughed federal employees
Courtesy to The Alligator
MidiCi, The Neapolitan Pizza Company, offered free 
lunches to federal employees on temporary leave Jan. 
22. It is one of at least three restaurants in Gainesville 
offering a free or discounted meal to these employees. 
MidiCi The Neapolitan Pizza Company  
(4949 Celebration Pointe Ave.)
Offering any classic pizza, house or caesar salad and a 
soda or sweet tea for lunch with a federal ID.
T aziki’s Mediterranean Cafe (2905 SW 42nd St.)
Offering 50 percent off on any meal with a federal ID 
until the government shutdown ends.
Francesca’s Trattoria (4410 NW 25 Place)
Offering a free lunch entree and a soft drink Monday 
through Friday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Colorful, exotic birds soared through rainforest canopies and 
snacked on fruit but not in Gainesville. 
Photos of the birds were shown in the “National Geogrpahic 
Live: Birds of Paradise” discussion Wednesday evening at the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
Photographer and researcher Tim Laman and ornithologist, 
or bird expert, Ed Scholes spoke about their experiences docu-
menting the forest canopy birds of New Guinea.  
Brandon Nappy, the Phillips Center’s director of marketing , 
said 1,743 tickets sold for the presentation.
“National Geographic has been doing [live events] for a 
while,” Nappy said. “They’ve been on our radar to bring here 
to Gainesville.”
The presentors discussed 13 years worth of studying forest canopy birds, including more than 20 expeditions to New Guin-
ea, interacting with 39 bird species and photographing 39,568 
pictures throughout their trips.
Laman and Scholes set out to not only document informa-
tion about the species and its characteristics but to literally see 
things from the bird’s eye view, they said.
During expeditions, Laman set up cameras from different 
angles, such as a female bird’s view during a male’s mating 
dance. This allowed them to see a color on the top of the Paro-
tia, a type of bird of paradise, that had not previously been seen.
“This is something that would have gone completely unno-
ticed had we not had the idea to see these behaviors from this 
important perspective,” Scholes said.
Laman and Scholes, while not conservation biologists, 
consider themselves conservationists because they believe 
in the protection of natural habitats and the prevention of 
deforestation.
The duo considers the birds of paradise, species within a 
classification of birds native to Oceania, are a symbol of the rainforest. Laman and Scholes also want to inspire people to 
include environmental consciousness in their work, they said. 
Eric Wang, a 21-year-old UF biology junior, said he focuses 
on natural science in his studies and attended the event because 
he enjoys the discipline. He was impressed and inspired by La-
man’s photography. 
“The lengths that people go to get these shots is incredible,” 
Wang said. 
Tiffany Rivera, a 25-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conser-
vation alumna, attended the event because she’s interested in 
nature and birds. Rivera studied abroad in Australia to identify 
bird species and saw one of the birds of paradise, she said.
“Seeing some of the extreme genetic variation in the phe-
notypes of the birds of paradise presented last night was in-
credible and really reminds us just how amazing birds can 
be,” Rivera said.
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgNational Geographic shows Gainesville audience a bird’s eye view
FLAGS WERE USED TO 
REPRESENT AN ESTIMATE OF 
ABORTIONS IN THE U.S.
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Staff Writer
A sea of more than 2,500 fuschia flags 
covered Plaza of the Americas from dawn to 
dusk Tuesday.
The 25 students who set up the display 
are members of UF’s chapter of Young Ameri-
cans for Freedom, said Sarah Long, the chap-
ter president. The purpose of the display was 
to represent the average number of abortions 
given each day in the U.S., she said. 
The number of daily abortions came from 
the Young America’s Foundation, but it is un-
clear how the foundation found that data. 
“It is heartbreaking and inhumane for 
this many unborn children to be killed,” the 
20-year-old UF economics junior said. “De-
nying a baby the right to life should never 
be a choice.” 
Long declined to comment on the cost of 
the display. 
The display is one of the activism events 
that members of the group have created to 
draw awareness for causes they believe are 
important, Long said. Previously, the chapter 
created another flag display with nearly 3,000 flags to honor each of the victims who died 
during the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
This is the second time the group has 
held the display against abortion, Long said. 
The first one was held last Spring and used 
toothpicks.
The group chose to use pink flags to garner 
more attention, Long said. 
“Not only is bright pink a catchy color, it 
also represents innocence and reminds us how 
important it is for us to protect the most vul-
nerable among us,” Long said.
Group members took turns watching the 
display to make sure it was not vandalized, 
Long said. Other students kicked down the dis-
play last year.
Dylan Finucan, a 19-year-old UF political 
science sophomore, saw the display and said 
he believes women have the right to choose 
whether to have an abortion.
“Abortions will happen whether or not 
abortion remains legal from a federal level,” 
Finucan said. “This is why it’s so important to 
keep safe options open for women who decide 
to have one.”
As the leader of the anti-abortion rights 
committee within the group, Philip Smith, a 
21-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, 
said he helped design the project and guarded 
it for the majority of the day.
“This is a message that needs to be seen, 
and I wasn’t going to let intolerant students stifle our freedom to share it,” Smith said. 
Maxine Yeakle, a 20-year-old UF political 
science sophomore, said she sees both sides of 
the issue but believes women have the right 
to make decisions regarding their own bodies. “I am pro-choice because I am pro-free-
dom,” Yeakle said. 
@Taylor__Roth
troth@alligator.orgConservative UF group holds anti-abortion demonstration 
T aylor Roth / Alligator Staff
UF’s chapter of Young Americans for Freedom placed 2,537 flags on Plaza of the Americas 
to represent the average number of abortions per day in the U.S., according to the group. 
1,743 tickets were soldThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
It’s a short week and the sun is warm and shining down 
on Plaza of the Americas. The sweet sounds of guitars are 
playing in the air and friends are chatting on the lawn over 
their Krishna lunch. It is Spring semester, and the days are 
lazy and relaxed. The days seem to be moving just a little bit 
slower. You look over to your friends who are talking about 
their long weekend; and you begin to drown out the back-
ground noises. Your eyelids start to feel heavy as you soak in 
the warmth of the day.
You rest your head down on the grass and cross your arms 
over your chest. You look up to the blue sky full of clouds 
slowly passing by your line of sight. You begin to make out 
shapes: a bunny, a horse and something strange. A plane is 
whizzing through the sky making loops and turns, writing 
something. Your eyes widen as you realize the mystery sky-
writer’s message:
Darts & Laurels
Things are looking exactly the same this week as the 
longest government shutdown in history continues 
to, well, make history. The two plans that were pro-
posed by lawmakers that could have ended the gov-
ernment shutdown were both knocked down. The 
shutdown is nearing its sixth week, showcasing the deep 
rift between the two parties in ofﬁ  ce. A dart has to go to 
the lawmakers in Washington for keeping the government 
closed and, as a result, causing hundreds of thousands of 
government workers to go without pay. Hopefully, next 
week we can hand out a laurel, but for now, we have to 
wait for the government to reopen.
Washington continued to make history this week when 
the Supreme Court voted to approve a policy to reverse a 
decision made during the Obama administration that al-
lowed transgender people to enlist in the military. The deci-
sion, made Tuesday, will allow for the military to bar most 
transgender people from military service. A dart goes to the 
Supreme Court and the Trump administration for revers-
ing a policy that allowed an estimated 14,700 transgender 
troops to serve in the U.S. military. It’s a discriminatory law 
with no basis on the performance of transgender troops in 
the military so far.
In Gainesville, a laurel goes to the Gainesville Orchestra 
for performing “Power! A Celebration of Powerful Women 
in Fact and Fable,” a concert to honor women in the Santa 
Fe Fine Arts Hall. The concert will be at 7:30 p.m. today. 
The idea behind the concert is to encourage women to tell 
their story. It is a sweet reminder that happens to coincide 
with the anniversary of the Women’s March that began in 
2017. It will feature original pieces and be a celebration of 
women who have made and will make history.
A laurel goes out to the Boy Scouts and Gainesville res-
idents who participated in the ﬁ  fth annual Great Invader 
Raider Rally on Saturday. The rally combatted the spread 
of Ardisia crenata, a non-native ﬂ  owering plant that has 
popped up in Alachua County. The cleanup took place all 
across Alachua County in 26 different nature and wildlife 
spots. The day ended in a festival, where volunteers could 
get together and grab some food from local food trucks. 
It’s heartwarming to see the community banding together 
to make a better Gainesville. The rally is a small act but it 
serves as a reminder for all of us to continue to do our part 
in improving our community. 
Knowledge is power and it can change the world 
I’m that friend. The one who, if you say 
the wrong thing about current events or 
political ﬁ  gures, has to start a conversa-
tion about it. The one who went a little 
crazy when you admitted you weren’t 
sure if you were going to vote in the midterms. 
The one who seems to consider it their duty to 
make sure you know what’s going on in the 
world, even if you don’t really care. You know 
the friend I’m talking about. 
I’m admittedly obsessed with the news. I love it. That’s 
encouraging, considering I’m attempting to start a career 
as a journalist. But for those of you who don’t like the 
news and who have no interest in writing for The New 
York Times someday, you’re not off the hook for not pay-
ing attention to the world around you. Actually, it’s even 
more important that you make an effort to know what is 
going on because your everyday life probably doesn’t fo-
cus on current events across the country and globe.
“The news is depressing.” I get it. Hearing and reading 
about wars, children separated from their parents, drug 
problems and more can debilitate your optimism and sour 
your mood. Taylor Swift and Post Malone create a lighter 
atmosphere during your morning commute, I know. Sad 
news doesn’t go away when you ignore it, though. Rather, 
as people become less aware and less involved, bad things 
are far more likely to occur. When you choose ignorance 
over awareness, you are essentially choosing to live like 
you’re in the movie “Bird Box,” blindfolded and fumbling 
around, hoping you are going in the right direction. If 
you’re going the wrong way, you won’t ﬁ  nd out until it 
is too late.
Essentially, ignoring current events equates to handing 
off your right and privilege to inﬂ  uence the world around 
you. How are you going to change the world if you don’t 
even know about it? Don’t think about the news as a dark storm cloud that opens up every time you click 
on an article. Yes, bad things happen. But we 
need to know what is going on in the world 
so we can initiate change. As men, women, 
immigrants, people of every race and religion, 
we all want to live in a world that is good and 
fair and our home. We cannot have a place in 
this world if we don’t claim a spot. The only 
way to belong in this world is to try to make 
a mark. 
We represent the youth, the educated, the hopefuls 
and the inspired. We have so many creative and innova-
tive people entering college and the workforce right now. 
Every single person is born with different skills and as-
sets they can offer. Maybe your job is to learn about is-
sues in education, so when you become a teacher you’re 
equipped with the knowledge of these issues and prepared 
to combat them. Maybe your awareness of the #MeToo 
movement will be important when you send your son on 
his ﬁ  rst date, so he knows that sexual assault is wrong and 
how to have a healthy relationship with his date. 
I’m not asking you to obsess over the news in the same 
way that I do. I’m just asking you to check in every day 
or two. News outlets make it so easy to stay informed. 
They offer daily brieﬁ  ngs by email, podcast and phone 
notiﬁ  cations. Take advantage of these streamlined news 
services if you don’t want to read the whole paper every 
day. These allow you to stay in touch without giving up 
your free time. 
Knowing about the world around you is your obliga-
tion as a living, breathing person on this earth. Like it or 
not, the only way to effect change is to know what needs 
change. The idiom “ignorance is bliss” is bogus. The right 
motto is “knowledge is power.”
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism freshman. Her 
column appears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
I love Spotify. It has person-
alized playlists for every 
mood based on the songs 
you’ve saved, it tailors ra-
dio stations based off each 
like and dislike more accurately 
than Pandora does and it lets 
you seamlessly share singles, 
albums and playlists between 
friends. I can’t remember life 
before Spotify.
It can be difﬁ  cult to communicate mu-
sic with friends who have Apple Music or 
some other streaming service because it’s 
harder to share our music tastes. Links to 
new songs have to be typed into search 
bars, playlists have to be copied and 
queues of songs have to be made on the 
ﬂ  y instead of with a simple swipe.
Music is an integral part of experiencing 
and sharing our lives with people around 
us. We have upbeat tunes for happy road 
trips, somber playlists for those days we 
don’t want to get out of bed and pump-
up songs for when we want to lift like the 
Hulk. The curation of playlists for every 
type of environment can keep you in a 
bubble, but it’s also perfect for when you 
need a change of mental scenery.
If you’ve ever wanted to write in a Pa-
risian café, Spotify has got you. There’s a 
whole genre for coffeehouse music. Are 
you doing AcroYoga or Zumba? The work-
out playlists have everything from “going 
on a run” to Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu. You can 
even learn a new language through playl-
ists with lessons on vocabulary and songs 
sung in that language.
Now more than at any other point in 
history, music is incredibly accessible. It’s 
even possible to put your own sound out 
into the music-verse. Music sharing sites 
like SoundCloud have created a whole 
genre, called “SoundCloud rap”, and con-
tinue to be where underground artists can 
make a career out of streams and social 
media presence.However, with the stream-
ing services and music becom-
ing easier to access, it has be-
come more difﬁ  cult for artists 
to earn their fair share. Some 
artists have resorted to stream-
ing on alternative services like 
Beyoncé, whose album “Lem-
onade” can only be streamed 
on Tidal, her husband Jay-Z’s 
streaming service. Older artists, 
in contrast, focus more on selling physical 
albums, like CDs and vinyls.
Technology continuously draws our at-
tention with social media and communica-
tion, but the individual medium of music 
players can slow you down and let you 
enjoy the music with intention. Listening 
to an old vinyl on a record player is truly 
a different experience from listening with 
your Apple AirPods.
The music world continues to explode 
in a ﬂ  urry of creative expression, with art-
ists ﬁ  nding their audiences and niches. 
Music will become even more reﬁ  ned. The 
sheer amount of music means you have 
reason to worry that you’re missing out on 
your new favorite artist or even genre. But 
there’s so much that we can fall in love 
with if we allow ourselves the time to lis-
ten.
I’ve found some of my favorite musi-
cians through friend recommendations. 
my Discover Weekly playlist on Spotify 
reaches into the depths of the music world 
to bring back similar, yet new, sounds. 
You won’t always ﬁ  nd something you like, 
but you can ﬁ  nd something new that could 
lead you to something you’ll love. We live 
in a time when music doesn’t necessar-
ily have to be found because it ﬁ  nds us. 
We get to experience different genres and 
viewpoints by hitting shufﬂ  e, which will 
allow us to stay connected in a cyberworld.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism 
sophomore. His column appears on Fridays.Spotify is saving music, not ruining itColumn
If you were to make the 
argument that traditional 
news formats are no lon-
ger as popular as they 
once were, it would be 
hard for me to disagree with 
you. An increasing majority 
of the younger generations are 
ditching cable TV and newspa-
pers.
Let me start by saying it’s 
not from a decrease in demand. You could 
even say that people are consuming some 
form of news more than ever before. It all 
comes down to access and availability. 
Cable news and newspapers both lack in 
the two aforementioned categories.
Traditional cable subscriptions can be 
expensive and they tend to lack the sub-
stance and availability that a younger gen-
eration is looking for. On the other hand, 
newspapers are a cheaper alternative, but 
they require readers to seek a physical 
copy, making them less accessible.
As a result, the demand for news has 
precariously landed in the laps of social 
media leaders like Facebook, Twitter and 
Instagram. All of which perform brilliantly 
in the access and availability categories. 
The platforms are theoretically available 
at no cost to anyone, all you need is an in-
ternet connection and a phone, two things 
most people would short-circuit without. 
Also, the content cable news channels can 
be found on Facebook at a cheaper price.
However, as we all learned two years 
ago, social media is absolutely not a per-
fect news forum. It’s far from it actually. 
The tradeoffs associated with a free prod-
uct are almost always negative, and in the 
case of Facebook, the effects exist on a na-
tional scale. Targeted ads and radical po-
litical pages deepen political divides and 
create endless trolls. These are only a few 
of the problems that come with social me-
dia sites like Facebook and Twitter.
I encourage anyone who uses these sites as their primary news 
source to exercise some serious 
caution and discretion. Here are 
a few tips: If it looks too good 
to be true, keep scrolling, espe-
cially if it’s from a non-reputable 
source. If your entire feed looks 
and thinks as you do, then it’s 
probably time to add some di-
versity. It’s healthy to have your 
views and beliefs tested occa-
sionally. And lastly (and most difﬁ  cult), 
stop reading the comments. Some of the 
most divisive rhetoric can be found in the 
comments section of a controversial post.
However, it should be mentioned that 
not all of social media is one big hate pit. 
Most of the world’s leading journalists use 
social media as a tool to disseminate great 
ethical reporting. Twitter can be a useful 
tool for ﬁ  nding veriﬁ  able news. This plat-
form enables ordinary users to follow indi-
vidual journalists, rather than news orga-
nizations as a whole. As a result, users can 
hear breaking news from the people on the 
ground doing the reporting.
If you’re still wary about using social 
media as a newsgathering tool, I under-
stand. However, there are a few other 
good unconventional platforms out there. 
A great option for those interested in 
consuming daily news is podcasts. Every 
morning, The New York Times and NPR 
each release a 10- to 20-minute podcast 
about current events and issues. Like so-
cial media, this format is accessible and 
available for a busy, younger generation. 
They both practice only the highest stan-
dard of journalism.
No matter what platform you choose 
to gather news and opinions, make sure 
it is ethically sourced and grounded in the 
truth.
Elijah Rawls is a UF journalism senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.Source your news responsibly in 2019Column
Elijah Rawls
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgFlorida’s new governor has only been 
in ofﬁ  ce for a couple weeks and he’s 
been anything but idle. So far, he has 
(among other things): appointed three 
justices to the Florida Supreme Court, 
suspended three political ofﬁ  cers, called for 
the legalization of smokable medical mari-
juana and announced a sweeping environ-
mental program. It’s this last item I want to 
focus on.
Coming into ofﬁ  ce, many observers 
weren’t expecting Gov. DeSantis to be a 
climate warrior. He has questioned the role 
of human activity in climate change on the 
campaign trail, he ran under a party with 
a history of denying or minimizing climate 
change and he closely tied himself to a pres-
ident who called climate change a “hoax” 
created by China. His announcement via 
executive order of a sweeping environmen-
tal program on Jan. 10, which included an 
aggressive policy to combat algal blooms, 
ban fracking, oppose offshore drilling and 
promote green infrastructure, came out of 
left ﬁ  eld for many observers. While I and 
many others would like to believe DeSan-tis is some sort of green warrior 
in disguise, we must dig a little 
deeper to see if this optimism is 
justiﬁ  ed.
So, what are the practical ef-
fects of DeSantis’ executive or-
der? For one thing, it directed 
construction to be sped up on a 
17,000-acre Everglades reservoir. 
Some lawmakers like Florida Sen-
ate President Joe Negron backed the plan 
as a way to stop polluted water in Lake 
Okeechobee from reaching the ocean and 
to direct more water to the Everglades. But 
some environmentalist groups have raised 
doubts about the plan, saying it’s far be-
low their initial proposal of a 60,000-acre 
reservoir and that the smaller and deeper 
reservoir of the new proposal may not be ef-
fective in cleaning the water. DeSantis’ ex-
ecutive order also created an Ofﬁ  ce of Resil-
ience and Coastal Protection to prepare for 
rises in sea level and an Ofﬁ  ce of Environ-
mental Accountability and Transparency to 
oversee environmental research and ensure 
agencies are aligned with environmental priorities. It also directs the Flor-
ida Department of Environmental 
Protection to create a program 
for septic conversion and reme-
diation. And there’s more I won’t 
even get into. 
Still, there are some things to 
be worried about. As an article in 
Treasure Coast Newspapers dis-
cussed, both DeSantis’ ofﬁ  ce and 
the Department of Environmental Protec-
tion have been vague when it comes to a 
timetable for these reforms. In addition, at 
least one of DeSantis’ proposals has raised 
eyebrows among environmentalists. De-
Santis’ order would move “environmental 
crimes law enforcement” from the Florida 
Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission 
to the Department of Environmental Protec-
tion. While Florida Fish and Wildlife has 
armed ofﬁ  cers to do the usual police ofﬁ  cer 
things (go on patrol, undercover operations, 
make arrests, etc.), the Department of Envi-
ronmental Protection takes a more concilia-
tory approach, having no sworn law ofﬁ  cers 
and ﬁ  rst sending letters to non-complying entities on how they can get back in com-
pliance. Barring a shift in the department’s 
priorities and operations, this could mean 
weaker and more toothless enforcement of 
environmental protections, which would be 
bad for Florida.
In the end, DeSantis’ environmental pro-
grams mostly sound good, but there are 
one or two more questionable ideas, and 
how these ideas will go into practice is still 
vague. I would like to be optimistic, but the 
lack of a clear timetable and the fact this ex-
ecutive order was only announced 11 days 
ago means we haven’t seen much substan-
tial change so far. Voters will need to be 
vigilant. They have to keep an eye on the 
news to see if he’s following through on his 
promises and hold him accountable if he 
isn’t. If the people of Florida ﬂ  ex their mus-
cles and show their commitment to protect-
ing Florida’s environment, hopefully, we’ll 
get a better and more beautiful Florida to 
pass on to our children.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column normally appears on Mondays.DeSantis’ environmental plan is promising, but will it be eﬀ  ective in Florida?Column
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
Jordan Bourne / Alligator Staff
Howard W. Bishop Elementary School, W.A. Metcalfe Elementary School and Idylwild Elementary 
School are the first schools in Alachua County to have projects funded by the half-cent sales tax.
tary and Idylwild Elementary are the 
county’s priority schools and will 
see some of the first projects funded 
by the tax.
All 40 county public schools, 
which do not include charter 
schools, have been promised an ini-
tial $50,000 from the tax to jump-
start projects, Johnson said. Prin-
cipals will give input on how the 
funding should be used.
Holes and leaks
At Howard Bishop, inspirational 
posters bordering the walls of class-
rooms are laced with mold. A stringy 
black stain bleeds down the wall in 
the computer lab reappears despite 
multiple coats of paint. A hole in the 
ceiling, which has been leaking for 
months, exposes the insulation.
“For facilities, [the funding] just 
hasn’t been there,” said Mike Gam-
ble, the Howard Bishop principal. 
“It’s well-documented on how it’s 
disappeared over the years. Over 
time, it wears on morale.”
Architects and county officials 
began discussing plans in October, 
Johnson said. The school board will 
approve plans to demolish old build-
ings and classrooms, construct new 
ones and improve security in Febru-
ary. 
About 29,000 students sit in 
outdated classrooms at time-worn 
desks, with broken air conditioning 
units and leaky roofs at the county’s 
public schools, said Gunnar Paul-
son, a District 3 Alachua County 
School Board member.
In the last three years, about 
2,000 more students enrolled in the 
county’s public schools, making it 
difficult for the county to provide for 
students, Paulson said. 
Revenue from the half-cent tax 
will bring in essential funding that 
has been cut from Howard Bishop 
and other schools, Paulson said. The 
Florida Legislature cut $168 million 
from the county’s school facilities.
Summer Hartley, a Howard Bish-
op science teacher, jokes she has to 
choose between lecturing and run-
ning the air conditioning because 
the loud humming makes teaching 
difficult. 
Mike McCoy, an American his-
tory teacher, patches up his class-
room’s peeling paint with his own 
time and supplies. 
And Spiers is changing class-
rooms because it is difficult for her 
to move around the compact class-
room on her motorized scooter. 
“We’ve asked for help for years,” 
Spiers said. “We just never get it.” 
‘It’s got to be based on need’
At Metcalfe Elementary in east 
Gainesville, several classrooms are 
more than 50 years old, Principal 
Jacquatte Rolle said.
“Some of our students spend up 
to 10 hours a day at school if you 
include our after-school programs,” 
Rolle said. “The environment in 
which a student learns matters.”
Some Alachua County schools 
have enough classrooms but com-mon areas often cannot fit the stu-
dent body, Johnson said. Meadow-
brook Elementary School tries to 
alleviate the overcrowding by start-
ing lunch at 9:30 a.m.
The facilities at predominantly 
black schools have deteriorated in 
the past decade from the lack of 
funding, Paulson said. At Metcalfe 
and Idylwild, more than half the 
students were eligible for free lunch 
in the 2016 to 2017 school year, ac-
cording to the National Center for 
Education Statistics. 
“It’s prioritized based on needs, 
so that we can provide a high-quali-
ty learning environment to students 
no matter where they go to school,” 
Johnson said. “Some schools are a 
lot closer to that than others so it’s 
got to be based on need.”
‘A culture of low expectation’
To reduce overcrowding, the 
half-cent tax will also fund construc-
tion of a new elementary school 
in southwest Gainesville, Johnson 
said. More than 700 children will 
attend the school when it opens in 
Fall 2021.
Eighth-grader J’Niyah Gilbert, 14, 
will graduate from the private Oak 
Hall School this year, after trans-
ferring last year from Fort Clarke 
Middle School, an Alachua County 
public school. 
“At Fort Clarke, you couldn’t re-
ally learn because the classes were 
bigger,” Gilbert said. “It’s definitely 
easier to learn at Oak Hall because 
the classes are smaller and the 
teachers are more involved.” 
Gilbert’s mother, 39-year-old 
Chanae Jackson-Baker, said the 
county’s public schools do not en-
courage achievement, especially for 
students of color. 
She gave her 18-year-old son, 
Deonis Jackson, who will graduate 
from F.W. Buchholz High School 
this year, as an example. He was 
pulled from his advanced-level 
classes without her permission, and 
she said she received no explana-
tion.
“There’s a culture of low expec-
tation, especially for minority chil-
dren,” Jackson-Baker said. “For a 
mom, that’s a major concern.”
East and west disparities
As an advocate for education 
equality, Jackson-Baker said the 
half-cent tax appeared to be an in-
vestment in future students. But 
she fears the new school in west 
Gainesville may worsen the dispari-
ties between east and west.
While west Gainesville schools 
are overcrowded, east Gainesville 
schools remain under-enrolled. 
Jackson-Baker believes the district 
should consider rezoning instead, 
she said. 
“At first glance, the tax seems 
wonderful. Who wouldn’t want to 
invest in children?” she said. “But 
when you dig deeper, you realize 
that all this is going to do is increase 
the disparities we already have.” 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgHALF-CENT,  from pg. 1The tax started on Jan. 1
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staf
Howard Bishop Middle School Principal Mike Gamble stands in front of a stain in the school’s media center. 
Layers of paint coat the area around the stain, and several computers have been moved to avoid the area.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Staff Writer
John Kasich said he’s not running for pres-
ident again.
It’s not his style.
“If I can’t win, I’m not going to do it,” the 
former 2016 presidential candidate said.
UF’s Accent Speakers Bureau hosted Ka-
sich, Ohio’s former 69th governor, Wednes-
day evening at University Auditorium to a 
sold-out audience of about 800. The speech 
lasted about 40 minutes and was followed by 
a 20-minute Q&A session.
This was Accent’s first event of the Spring 
semester. Kasich was paid $60,000 to speak, 
according to his contract with the university. 
Kasich’s presentation didn’t focus on poli-
tics but rather on telling students how impor-
tant it is to use their lives to make a difference 
in the world.
“When you realize that life is short, you’ll 
want to live a life bigger than yourself,” he 
said. 
Although he has served in government for 
more than 20 years, Kasich warned students 
not to go into politics with a blind eye. 
The field has become a popularity contest 
rather than something that promotes positive 
change, Kasich said. It’s important to do little 
things to the best of one’s ability, instead of 
trying to gain personal attention, because this 
allows people to make a positive impact in the 
lives of others, he said. 
“Unless you are connected to people who 
are really powerful, keep your options open,” 
Kasich said. 
During his first year as an undergraduate student at Ohio State University, Kasich said 
he wrote a letter to President Richard Nixon 
asking what his job was like and if they could 
meet to discuss it further. A week letter, Ka-
sich was mailed an invitation from Nixon to 
meet him at the White House. 
His meeting with Nixon was only five min-
utes long. Kasich said he had the opportunity 
to speak with him about the political field and 
the importance of remaining civil in making 
a difference. 
“I tell you this story because I want you 
to know that this could be you,” Kasich said. 
Kasich did bring up political issues that 
are important to him such as gun control and 
expanding Medicaid, the federal program that 
helps cover medical costs for people with lim-
ited income. 
“If someone is unstable and they pose 
a threat to others and they pose a threat to 
themselves, we should be able to go to the 
courthouse and have their gun taken away,” 
Kasich said. 
Although they are far from politicians, 
Kasich said he looks up to Elon Musk, the 
former CEO of Tesla, and Steve Jobs, the co-
founder of Apple. 
“These are people who understood the 
importance of opening their minds to make 
a difference,” Kasich said. “If you want to be 
interesting and useful, you need to explore 
like them.”
Before opening the floor to questions, Ka-
sich talked about how a student at Clemson 
University asked him for a hug during a pre-
sentation in 2016. The student said his moth-
er was an alcoholic.
“I felt like I was 10 feet tall and all it was, was a hug,” Kasich said.
Amid discussions about the government 
shutdown and civility in politics, one UF stu-
dent asked Kasich for a hug, to which Kasich 
responded with an embrace.
The student declined to comment.
Jarrod Rodriguez, a 19-year-old UF politi-
cal science sophomore, said he attended the 
event because he wanted to learn more about 
the reasons for Kasich’s political views.Although Kasich did not talk about politics 
as much as he hoped for, Rodriguez said that 
he felt inspired after hearing his speech. 
“It wasn’t just about politics and contro-
versy,” Rodriguez said. “He was genuinely 
trying to motivate us to do good regardless of 
what political side we are on.”
@Taylor__Roth
troth@alligator.orgJohn Kasich encourages UF students to make an impact
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
John Kasich, Ohio’s former 69th governor, speaks to about 800 people Wednesday in the 
University Auditorium at UF. Kasich spoke about lessons that he had learned throughout his 
life and encouraged students to try and impact the world in any way they can. 
ABOUT 200 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE EVENT
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Wrapped in their national flag 
and clad in its colors — yellow, 
blue and red — members of the 
Venezuelan community em-
braced one another while sharing 
posters and banners.
Written on some were “Lib-
ertad” and “Venezuela Estamos 
Contigo,” which translate to “Lib-
erty” and “Venezuela, We Are 
With You.”
A harmonization of voices 
and the instrumental sounds of 
traditional Venezuelan folk mu-
sic filled the air above Bo Diddley 
Plaza, at 111 E. University Ave., 
Wednesday afternoon to show 
support for Juan Guaidó, the Na-
tional Assembly President of Ven-
ezuela.
On Wednesday, Guaidó de-
clared himself interim president, 
which challenged the leader of 
Venezuela Nicolás Maduro, ac-
cording to The Associated Press. 
Because Guaidó was backed by 
President Donald Trump’s ad-
ministration, Maduro cut off dip-
lomatic relations with the U.S. and gave American diplomats 72 
hours to leave Venezuela.
Cecilia Mejias, 52, posted 
an announcement Saturday in 
“Venezolanos En Gainesville,” 
Venezuelans In Gainesville, a 
Facebook group she created, call-
ing for its members to gather at 
the plaza. Mejias said about 200 
people attended throughout the 
two-hour event. 
“Every time there’s an inter-
national event in Venezuela, I try 
to have people together here in 
Gainesville,” she said.
Cesar Dager Carlesso, a 
21-year-old UF political science 
senior, learned about the local 
demonstration Tuesday night. 
He moved from Venezuela to 
Orlando when he was 11. He 
decided to show solidarity with 
other Venezuelans after he was 
invited to speak about the family 
ties community members have in 
Gainesville.
“We are showing to the peo-
ple back home that we are in the 
same struggle as they are and that 
we are drawing attention to what 
they are going through,” Carlesso 
said.
Rinaldo Jose Sintjago Flores, 
62, and Tania Cecilia Cordova-
Sintjago, 60, also sang traditional Venezuelan music. Songs includ-
ed “Apure en un Viaje” by Gena-
ro Prieto and “Caballo Viejo” by 
Simón Díaz, directly translated 
as “Hurry on a Trip,” and “Old 
Horse.”
“The idea wasn’t to sing, but 
to unite with the people,” Flores 
said. 
Also in attendance and from 
Venezuela was Sondra Rojas, 28, 
who moved to Gainesville in 2015 
after she was detained in Barqui-
simeto, Venezuela.
In 2014, she was imprisoned 
for three days for protesting 
against Maduro, she said. She 
was denied food, water and ac-
cess to a bathroom. The guards 
dragged her by her hair and de-
manded that she stay crouched 
for 20 hours.
“[The guards] would ask me 
‘Who’s your president?’ and I’d 
say Henrique Capriles,” she said. 
“They would hit me on the head 
with frozen water bottles.”
She attended the event with 
her family to celebrate the possi-
bility of change, she said.
After an hour of singing, they 
closed the demonstration with 
the national anthem and chanted 
“Viva Venezuela,” or “Long Live 
Venezuela” one last time.Gainesville Venezuelan community gathers to demonstrate  
Edysmar Diaz-Cruz / Alligator Contributor
About 200 Gainesville residents gathered on Bo Diddley Plaza to show 
support for self-declared Venezuelan interim president Juan Guaidó 
throughout a two-hour event.
About 800 students attended10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
THE MAN’S BOND HAS
 NOT BEEN SET
By Katherine  
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A man suspected of threatening his 
ex-girlfriend with a gun surrendered af-
ter a two-hour standoff near Newberry, 
deputies said.
The woman returned from work 
Wednesday when Matthew Carter 
Wells, 36, of Gainesville, appeared 
from the corner of her apartment 
building, near Southwest 145 Street 
in Jonesville, according to an Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office arrest report.
He was ordered not to contact her 
after he was found guilty for biting her 
in November, according to court re-
cords.
Wells wanted to talk to her before 
he went to rehab, the report said. They 
went into her apartment. After, the 
woman went to bed, and Wells stayed 
in her apartment.  
When she woke up during the 
night, Wells was being belligerent and 
threatened to kill her and himself, the 
report said. He shoved her 9mm hand-
gun into her mouth.
She kicked Wells away and banged 
on the wall for help, the report said. 
She didn’t know where the gun went, 
but she kept fighting him.
After the fight, the victim texted her supervisor for help 
and then deleted the 
message, the report 
said. She told Wells 
she was texting her 
supervisor that she 
couldn’t go to work 
Thursday. 
At about 8:40 
a.m., deputies ar-
rived at the complex after her cowork-
ers notified them, said the sheriff’s of-
fice spokesperson Lt. Brett Rhodenizer. 
When deputies knocked on her 
door, she told Wells to see who it was, 
the report said. He told her it was the 
police, covered her with a blanket and 
told her to be quiet. When Wells hid in 
a closet she left the apartment. 
The sheriff’s office SWAT team ar-
rived to negotiate with Wells, Rhoden-
izer said. He peacefully surrendered at 
about 10:40 a.m.
Wells had an active warrant after 
he failed to appear at orientation for 
probation from the biting incident, ac-
cording to court records. 
Wells was charged with aggravated 
assault with a deadly weapon without 
intent to kill, domestic violence and 
possession of a firearm, the report said. 
Wells remained in the Alachua 
County Jail on Thursday. His bond will 
be set today. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgMan arrested after threatening to kill woman, two-hour standoff
Courtesy to The Alligator
A man suspected of threatening his ex-girlfriend with a gun surrendered after a two-hour 
standoff near Newberry, according to the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office.
Wells
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
Part-time office help wanted for CPA office. 
Must be organized, able to use a scanner, 
and have great phone skills. Proficiency in 
Word and Excel is must, and Quickbooks 
knowledge is a plus. If this sounds great, 
please email us at job2018@cpa.vg    1-25-
19-7-14
EARN $400 Or More A Week!
 Start Now At:
Collegeincomes.com      1-25-19-3-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
Come hear about “Fear and Flourishing
in the Age of Robots,” a discussion with
expert and author Nigel Cameron at the
Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention, 
Monday, January 28 at 6 p.m. 
Tickets at cademuseum.org
1-28-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attem -
ted to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-
4903 2-08-7-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/25/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/25/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, January 25, 2019
ACROSS
1 Court player
7 Accident-prone
14 Fuel calculation
15 Satanic attribute
16 Feature of 
frequently 
sheared sheep?
18 “__ everything?”
19 Orioles’ div.
20 Chill in the air
21 Miss equivalent, 
in some cases
22 Player under 
Auerbach, 
familiarly
23 Like aromatic, 
weather-resistant 
plants?
30 Namely
31 Turn heads 
during the 
audition
32 Whodunit 
revelation
35 Compare to, with 
“against”
39 Fathers
41 Twill fabric
42 Skills acquired 
manufacturing 
linens?
46 Pennywhistle 
sound
47 Take __ empty 
stomach
48 Coffee hour 
vessel
49 Prohibit
52 It might be 
used before 
sandpapering
56 Shepherds’ view 
during  
breakfast?
59 “__ Arms”: 
Coldplay song
60 Brother of Isis
61 Business 
representatives
62 Least courteous
DOWN
1 Kid
2 Repeat
3 Put away
4 Works on a  
route
5 Rhinitis-treating 
MD
6 Target field
7 “__ few bars and 
I’ll play it for you”
8 Pound sounds
9 Bearskin rug, e.g.10 “Fever” singer 
Peggy
11 Tied
12 Mediterranean 
island
13 Was out all night, 
maybe
15 Works on one’s 
image, in a way
17 “First Lady of 
Song”
21 1999 Best Visual 
Effects Oscar 
winner, with 
“The”
22 December 
display
23 Fraud watchdog 
org.
24 Comedic 
Costello
25 Big-eyed flier
26 Excitedly tries to 
open, as a gift
27 Cabinet agcy. 
founded under 
Bush 43
28 Broadway 
success
29 Pain relief brand
33 North Atl. country
34 “Oedipus __” :  
P.D.Q. Bach 
western-themed 
parody36 Many bar 
mitzvah guests
37 Chapel Hill sch.
38 “MS. Found in a 
Bottle” author
40 Jug band 
percussionist’s 
tools
42 To fit every 
possible
43 Well-supplied with
44 Oklahoma city
45 Tried to be 
elected46 Marching band 
section
49 K-12
50 Very short time 
pd.
51 Unsettles
52 Source of rage, 
briefly
53 Farm unit
54 Downhill runners
55 Restrained 
“Hey!”
57 LAX stat
58 SEC school
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/24/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/24/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, January 24, 2019
ACROSS
1 It can cause a 
bad trip
4 Renders 
speechless
8 Late-night host 
with an orange-
blimp running 
gag
13 Show of hands
14 Some Pequod 
crewmen
16 Tapped pic
17 Many Bach 
compositions
18 Sources of 
“Family Feud” 
answers
20 Soccer officials
21 Till this moment
22 Utah lily
23 Hush-hush org.
26 Rebuffed, with 
“off”
29 Mob scenes
31 In bygone days
33 Retailer with 
blue-and-yellow 
megastores
34 Does penance 
(for)
35 Clothing line
37 Go-aheads
39 Eye layer
40 Say
42 Hops hot spot
44 “Things Are Fine 
in Mount __”: 
Charley Weaver 
book
45 Augment
46 Unborn
48 Scale members
49 Preserves, in a 
way
51 Baton-passing 
event
54 Switch partner
55 Makes moist
57 Electrical 
generator
61 “The Matrix” 
actress Carrie-__ 
Moss
62 Clothing 
accessory, 
perhaps ... or 
what you can see 
in each of four 
groups of circles?
63 Cupcake 
decorator
64 Andean shrubs
65 Little piggies66 Nero Wolfe 
creator Stout
DOWN
1 Center of power
2 Panels illustrating 
film scripts
3 High capital
4 “Hey, sailor!”
5 General 
concerns?
6 Unit of work
7 Let off
8 Solace
9 Responsibility
10 Wii forerunner, 
briefly
11 Onassis 
nickname
12 Foreign policy 
advisory gp.
13 Plastic choice
15 100 sawbucks
19 Place for pins 
and needles
22 Salts, say
23 King’s philosophy
24 Jousting mount
25 Test for purity
27 Scottish isle
28 Half a giggle
30 Letters for short 
people?
31 Equidistant
32 Sparkly stone34 Boss’ backup: 
Abbr.
36 Witty remark
38 __ de toilette
41 Strict diet 
restriction
43 __ paper
46 Whole
47 Get to work again
50 Japanese 
aborigine
52 Subsidiary 
structure53 Belgian river
54 Phi __ Kappa
55 Dish (out)
56 Son of Zeus and 
Hera
57 TV network 
with much 
Shondaland 
programming
58 Summer sign
59 Solace for a sad 
BFF
60 Ref’s ruling
1.  ____ chop
1.  With compassion5.  More modern
2.  Untanned pelt6.  Mad
3.  Portico, deck7.  Despise
4.  BottomREKAAT
LNDYKIRNWEE
TEARI
AHEDIRW
CAERTRESTEEDT
OSTLWEANSWERS: 1A-Karate  5A-Newer  6A-Irate  7A-Detest
1D-Kindly  2D-Rawhide  3D-Terrace  4D-Lowest  B-Hilary Swank1-25-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actress was named one of People 
magazine‘s “50 Most Beautiful People” 
in 2000, 2004 and 2005. BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators lacrosse earns multiple preseason awards
The Florida lacrosse team was ranked No. 1 in the American Athletic Con-
ference Preseason Coaches' Poll on Thursday. Lindsey Ronbeck, Cara 
Trombetta, Sydney Pirreca and Haley Hicklen were named Preseason At-
tacker, Defender, Midfielder and Goalkeeper of the Year, respectively.Florida men's basketball signees 
Tre Mann (pictured) and Scottie 
Lewis were named to the 2019 
McDonald's All-American rosters 
on Thursday.Nothing But Nettuno / Opinion
A second-half barrage 
saved the Gators from a dev-
astating home loss to Texas 
A&M on Tuesday night. No UF 
player had scored 20 points in 
a game this season heading 
into the matchup with the Ag-
gies, but KeVaughn Allen and 
Noah Locke scored 31 and 27, 
respectively. 
Florida overcame a 13-point 
halftime deficit to secure back-to-back 
conference wins and get back to a .500 
record in the SEC. It was the best half 
of basketball the Gators have played this 
season. 
The team showed just how dangerous 
its offense can be when threes are fall-
ing, as it shot 54.9 percent in the sec-
ond half and earned an 81-72 win. Locke 
and fellow freshmen Andrew Nembhard 
and Keyontae Johnson are quickly taking 
over the team, with fourth-year junior Keith Stone out for the rest of 
the season with a torn ACL. 
Their play has to thrill coach 
Mike White.
It was a huge step in the 
right direction for Florida, 
without a doubt. But make no 
mistake, UF is still in a very 
tenuous position.
The Gators are currently in 
Joe Lunardi’s “Last Four In” 
despite having seven losses on their re-
sume. A major reason for this is the af-
fection advanced analytics seem to have 
for UF. Florida is ranked No. 37 in the 
NCAA’s NET rankings, and it’s under-
standable why. None of Florida’s losses 
are embarrassing, after all. 
It’s hard to fault UF too much for its 
effort in hard-fought losses to current 
No. 6 Michigan State and No. 1 Ten-
nessee. Even a two-point home loss to Florida appears to be back on track.
But now it enters crucial juncture
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
It took 17 games for a Florida men’s basketball player to 
eclipse 20 points in a contest. 
Seventeen.
Other players came close. Guard Deaundrae Ballard scored 
19 against Stanford on Nov. 22. Guards Noah Locke and KeV-
aughn Allen have hovered around that mark multiple times 
throughout the season but never attained that coveted statis-
tical prize.
Not until Tuesday night.
Both Locke and Allen scored over 20 points in the Gators’ 
win over Texas A&M. They didn’t just reach that bar, they 
surpassed it. Allen dropped a season-high 31 points, while 
Locke scored a career-high 27. 
But that’s now in the past. The question remains: can they 
keep up that level of scoring intensity as UF faces TCU on 
Saturday in Fort Worth, Texas?
“As I told our guys, I hope we get 18 threes every night, 
but we’re not going to,” Florida coach Mike White said. 
“We’ve got to find other ways to score as well.”
The first response might be "no." It’s almost impossible to 
repeat that kind of performance.
Allen shot 80 percent from beyond the arc on 10 shots, a 
shooting night that has been unparalleled so far this season. 
He shot 10 of 16 from the floor, had three steals, blocked two 
shots and grabbed three rebounds.
“It’s two games in a row where he’s just been aggressive, 
confident, getting the ball,” White said. “Everyone in this 
room knows he’s capable of doing that, so it’s nice to see it.”Gators rely on Allen, Locke to keep intensity against TCU
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Guard KeVaughn Allen became the first Gator this season to score at least 20 points when he dropped 31 against 
T exas A&M on Tuesday. "It's two games in a row where he's just been aggressive, confident, " coach Mike White said.
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The Florida gymnastics team faced two 
Tigers to start the season and felled them 
both. It’ll be facing off against yet another 
feline opponent in its return to the O’Connell 
Center.
The Gators will take on the No. 17 Ken-
tucky Wildcats (3-2, 1-0 SEC), who just 
knocked off the Arkansas Razorbacks in their 
last meet, tonight at the O'Connell Center. 
While Kentucky isn’t ranked as high as LSU, 
the team still has some formidable presence 
to bring to the competition that UF will cer-
tainly be looking out for.
 
Anarchy from UK
There was quite a bit to like from the 
Wildcats in their victory over Arkansas, and 
there were some aspects of the meet they’d 
like to take back.
A gymnast the Gators (2-0, 2-0 SEC) will keep a close eye on is Kentucky’s Mollie 
Korth. The two-time All-American and All-
SEC representative did well in most of her 
all-around events with a 9.900 on the vault 
and floor.
That being said, there were a few rough 
areas for the Wildcats. The team’s beam 
score was a very low 47.775, Kentucky’s 
lowest score on the beam in four years. 
The abysmal rotation included a 9.600 from 
Korth and a staggeringly poor 9.125 from se-
nior Alex Hyland.
The Wildcats will need to shape up their 
beam score if they have any hopes of beat-
ing the Gators, and Kentucky coach Tim Gar-
rison acknowledged that UF will be one of 
Kentucky’s bigger challenges.
“Our opening SEC road slate at Florida 
will certainly be a challenge,” Garrison said 
in a release. “They are a very talented — and 
judging from their first two meets, a very 
confident — team.”UF set to face off against Kentucky 
in third SEC meet of the season
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16Tyler Nettuno
Twitter: @TylerNettuno
FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
Alligator Sports Meme of the Week
By River WellsWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
If you told Florida women’s basketball 
coach Cam Newbauer that the Gators out-
rebounded No. 7 Mississippi State and held 
its leading scorer, Teaira McCowan, to just 
two points, he probably wouldn’t have ex-
pected his team to get blown out.
But they did.
Mississippi State dominated almost ev-
ery other facet of the game in its 90-42 
victory over the Gators on Thursday night 
at the O’Connell Center. The 48-point loss 
was the worst Florida has suffered since 
last February — the last time the Bulldogs 
came to Gainesville.
“We got better tonight. We fought,” 
the always-positive Newbauer said. “We 
learned a lot, and we will grow from this 
game for sure.”
After the Gators (5-14, 1-5 SEC) jumped 
out to a 5-4 lead early, it was all Mississip-
pi State. The Bulldogs (18-1, 6-0 SEC) rode 
the hot hand of forward Anriel Howard to a 
17-2 run and led 27-9 after the first quarter. 
It was a career quarter for the gradu-
ate transfer, who scored 17 of Mississippi 
State’s 27 points on her way to a 21-point, 
eight rebound performance in just 21 min-
utes.
Guard Funda Nakkasoglu was the only 
Gator to score in the quarter.
Things went from bad to worse early 
in the fourth quarter for Florida when the team’s second-leading scorer, Delicia 
Washington, went down after taking an el-
bow from an opponent to the face. There 
was a lengthy delay as Washington lay on her back on the court, but she gingerly 
walked off with help from the trainers.
“Any time there’s any sort of activity 
towards your head, your face, you know, you wanna be precautious,” Newbauer 
said. “She seems completely normal to be 
honest, so day-to-day.”
The Bulldogs were on cruise control af-
ter the first quarter. Mississippi State coach 
Vic Schaefer liberally made use of substitu-
tions, using 11 players in all. It was shoot-
ing practice from the floor for Schaefer’s 
team as they went 39 of 70 in total and 6 of 
12 from three, maneuvering around Flor-
ida’s zone defense with ease. The Gators 
managed just 13 of 50 and 3 of 23 in those 
categories.
Mississippi State also won the turnover 
battle as Florida struggled with its full-
court press. The press relaxed as the game 
went on, but Florida’s sloppy play on of-
fense resulted in a 27-10 turnover margin 
in favor of MSU.
The bright spots for Florida were few 
and far between. The Gators did hold Mc-
Cowan to just two points and they did 
out-rebound the Bulldogs 40-36. Gradu-
ate guard Funda Nakkasoglu led the way 
for Florida in the scoring department, as 
she has done virtually all season, this time 
with 14 points.
“We’re gaining more experience,” New-
bauer said. “We’d be remiss if we sit here 
and we’re gonna focus on the scoreboard 
and realize ‘oh shoot, we lost.’ No, we got-
ta see where we won today. And we won 
in a lot of places.”   
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgFlorida embarrassed by Mississippi State at O’Dome
TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Both the Gators women’s and men’s tennis 
teams are back in action for the opening weekend 
of the fall season at home in the ITA Kickoff Week-
end. The men’s team will open its 2019 campaign 
against William & Mary at 11 a.m., while the wom-
en’s team will take on UC Santa Barbara at 2 p.m. 
on Saturday.
Men’s Team
Florida enters the season ranked fourth in the 
Oracle/ITA rankings following a 19-10 finish last 
season after falling to Texas A&M in the NCAA 
quarterfinals. The Gators continue their 17-year 
streak of being ranked in the preseason Top 25 
with its highest rank since the 2006 season. 
Led by seniors McClain Kessler and Alfredo Per-
ez, Florida looks to return to the NCAA semifinals 
for the first time since 2005. Two-time All-Ameri-
can Perez and 2018 All-American Johannes Ingild-
sen look to pick up where they left off last season 
in doubles play, where they earned the No. 1 seed 
in the Fall National Championships before losing in 
the quarterfinals. Ingildsen tallied a 21-13 doubles 
record, while fellow sophomore Oliver Crawford 
finished with a team-best 26-7 duos record. 
The Gators also welcome five new freshmen 
into the rotation headlined by former No. 2 recruit 
in the nation Sam Riffice, along with five-star twins 
Harrison and Greyson Cacciatore, who were the 
No. 73 and 77 prospects in the nation, respectively.Women’s Team
The No. 11 Florida women’s tennis team didn’t 
have an ideal start to dual-match play after losing 
to California 4-3 earlier this week. Coach Roland 
Thornqvist isn’t worried about his young squad, 
though, as he knows experience will come with 
time.
“We had five new players in the starting lineup 
today, and they had never represented Florida be-
fore,” Thornqvist said. “Clearly there were some 
jitters, but we have to get a little bit better at the 
end of sets and the way we process them.”
Thornqvist saw freshmen Marlee Zein and Syd-
ney Berlin finish at the end of sets as they both 
picked up a win in the singles and doubles column 
in their first performances for Florida. McCartney 
Kessler also dominated in her first performance 
back easily, defeating Cal’s Julia Rosenqvist in 
straight sets.
The Gators will need a better performance from 
the rest of their squad if they hope to walk away 
with their first victory of the season against a tal-
ented UC Santa Barbara squad. 
Florida will host the ITA Kickoff Weekend tour-
nament on Saturday and Sunday at the Ring Ten-
nis Complex. The men’s team invites William & 
Mary, Louisville and Florida Atlantic University to 
the Ring, while the women’s team welcomes UC 
Santa Barbara, Mississippi State and North Caro-
lina State. 
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgGators men’s and women’s teams 
host ITA Kickoff WeekendAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF guard Funda Nakkasoglu scored 14 points in Florida’s 90-42 loss to Mississippi 
State on Thursday night. She was the only Gator to score in the first quarter.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Locke had a similar night. He made sev-
en shots from deep on 13 attempts, and he 
spent most of his night attacking from the 
perimeter.
The odds of both Allen and Locke re-
peating those performances are slim to 
none.
That doesn’t mean they can’t both bring 
a good offensive showing against TCU. The 
Horned Frogs allow 66.9 points per game, 
but they defend the three-ball well. Op-ponents make 27.7 percent of their three 
pointers when playing TCU.
This means that Allen and Locke will 
have to attack the basket more to get those 
points.
They already showed offensive prow-
ess, increasing their scoring average in SEC 
play to 17.8 and 15.3, respectively.
“I was trying to pick it up for the team,” 
Locke said. “I try to have that attitude all 
the time.”  
TCU won’t be easy to score against, 
even with Allen and Locke showing vast improvement. The Horned Frogs are 14-4 
on the season and 3-3 in the Big 12, and 
two of those losses came against ranked 
opponents in Kansas and Oklahoma. 
“You can’t be a high-level team and 
ﬂ  uctuate with your energy, intensity, com-
petitiveness levels, focus levels, especially 
when you don’t have a huge margin for 
error,” White said. “We’re not superior to 
any team we play.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Allen is averaging 17.8 points per game in SEC play
a South Carolina team that had a losing 
record at the time looks a lot better just a 
few weeks later. The Gamecocks are now 
5-1 in the SEC and upset No. 16 Auburn 
on Tuesday night.
This all makes sense. Florida’s sched-
ule has been brutal so far, and the Gators 
are better than their record indicates as 
a result. But that doesn’t mean Florida 
should feel conﬁ  dent its name will be 
called on Selection Sunday.
Far from it.
UF needs to show that its offensive 
performance against Texas A&M was no 
aberration, because the upcoming sched-
ule is relentless. On Saturday, Florida will 
travel to Fort Worth, Texas, to play TCU 
in the SEC/Big 12 Challenge. The Horned 
Frogs are coming off a 65-61 win over 
Texas and recently beat West Virginia by 
31 points. The Gators struggled to beat 
the Mountaineers in December.
After that, Florida plays a stretch of 
four ranked teams in a row. Ole Miss and 
Kentucky travel to the O’Connell Center, 
and then the Gators will take on Auburn 
and Tennessee on the road. Realistically, 
Florida needs to win two of these games, 
and that isn’t going to be easy.
The magic number for the Gators is 
10 SEC wins, meaning they would need 
to ﬁ  nish 7-5 in their remaining league 
games. This should be doable, but the 
margin for error is minimal. Florida can’t 
afford to lose another game to an average 
team. In fact, it probably needs to score a 
win against a team it shouldn’t beat, like 
the No. 8 Wildcats at home. Regardless, 
it seems the Gators are doomed to be sit-
ting on the bubble for the remainder of 
the year.
White hopes that his team has turned a 
corner, and it’s possible it has. But if not, 
UF could be watching the festivities from 
home or in the NIT come March.
Tyler Nettuno is a sports writer for the Al-
ligator. Follow him on Twitter @TylerNettu-
no or contact him at tnettuno@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
Hungry, Hungry Gators
There was plenty of reason 
to celebrate after the Gators 
ended LSU’s 35 consecutive 
home-meet winning streak, but 
coach Jenny Rowland made it 
clear that the team didn’t stay 
stuck in the past.
“We celebrated, it was a 
wonderful day,” Rowland said. 
“Now it’s time to get our heads 
back looking forward.”
Florida will carry the mo-
mentum from that win into its 
return to the O’Connell Center 
against an opponent that  made 
the NCAA Championships for 
the ﬁ  rst time last year.
With sophomore Alyssa Bau-
mann ﬁ  rmly back in the lineup 
and freshman Trinity Thomas 
continuing to impress in her 
role as an all-arounder, things 
are looking up for Florida to 
continue its hot streak when the 
Wildcats roll into town. 
Junior Rachel Gowey also 
joined Thomas and senior Ali-cia Boren in winning a weekly 
award, being named SEC Spe-
cialist of the Week for her ef-
forts on the beam against LSU.
With the momentum from 
a huge win behind them and consistent success in their ﬁ  rst 
two meets, the Gators will be far 
from reserved when they return 
to Gainesville.
“This team is ﬁ  red up,” Row-
land said. “They’re hungry. They’ve got this grit, this desire 
that’s deﬁ  nitely been elevated.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14Gowey tabbed SEC Specialist of the W eek after LSU meet
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF gymnast Rachel Gowey scored a meet-high 9.925 on the beam against LSU.
