We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaMONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 60
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Steamy Deliciousness
Sakshi Gopal Das, a 42-year-old Hare Krishna, prepares masala dosa, an Indian dish served with chutney, 
Saturday during the Gainesville VegFest at Depot Park. Das works at the Alachua chapter of the 
International Society for Krishna Consciousness. VegFest had over 100 tents and tables set up around 
the park, and the majority of the food vendors offered vegan and vegetarian dishes to customers.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS VOTING GUIDE 
Election Dates
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Tuesday and Wednesday 
Here are the candidates running for SG’s executive branch:
Student Body President
Michael Murphy, Impact Party
Zachariah Chou, Inspire Party
Student Body Vice President
Sarah Abraham, Impact Party
Gouthami Gadamsetty, Inspire Party
Student Body Treasurer
Mackintosh Joachim, Inspire Party
Santiago Gutierrez, Impact Party
 
See pages 8 and 9 for our candidate profiles. 
Senate:
Students will vote for 41 contested Senate seats determined by either 
college or year. 
These seats include the Agriculture and Life Sciences, Architecture, Busi-
ness, Dentistry, Engineering, Fine Arts, Graduate, Health and Human Per-
formance, Public Health and Health Professions, Journalism and Commu-
nications, Law, Liberal Arts and Sciences, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy 
and Sophomore. 
Students need a UFID in order to vote. Here’s where you can cast a ballot:
Beaty Commons TV-Recreation Room
Broward Hall, Recreation Room
Health Science Center, Biomedical Information T eaching Space C1-121
Heavener Hall, Room 202
Levin College of Law, Bruton-Geer Hall Student Commons
Marston Computer Lab, Second Floor 
Murphree Hall, Conference Room
Norman Hall, Education Library
Reitz Union, Lower Level, SG Print Lab
Southwest Recreation Center, Social Lounge
Springs Area Office, Room C202
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Richard Murphy wanted to 
make students aware of the Im-
pact Party executive candidates’ 
controversial Facebook posts.
So he made a meme.
The meme, posted on the 
Swampy UF memes for top ten 
public teens Facebook group, is a 
picture of Kermit the Frog wearing 
a UF hat while sipping tea.
The meme, which was created 
after an Alligator story revealed Impact Party’s UF Student Body 
executive candidates had racially 
insensitive and homophobic posts, 
received more than 350 likes. 
Mostsof the posts that were found 
were on Student Body Presidential 
Candidate Michael Murphy’s Face-
book account.  
The meme read “Wants us to 
ignore homophobic posts and 
focus on what he did in college. 
Allowed and liked the blatantly 
racist post on profile from 2016 
during his time in college.” 
“A lot of times things are brushed over and they’re not 
addressed in the moment,” the 
21-year-old UF entomology and 
nematology senior said. “It’s re-
ally time that we look at what’s 
going on.”
Richard Murphy said if the can-
didate claims UF should look at 
what he’s done in college rather 
than in middle school, than it’s im-
portant to discuss his 2016 posts.
He said the posts raise the 
question as to why parties do not 
vet their candidates before select-
ing them. As a Hispanic student on cam-
pus, Richard Muphy said he felt 
disappointed by reading the posts 
from the candidates. 
“It makes you question wheth-
er or not you know the party has 
good morals or what’s going on 
because they’re the ones who put 
these candidates up.”
One of the racially insensitive 
posts was written by another per-
son on his timeline and Michael 
Murphy liked it. It read: “Truth 
is… I don’t really know you but 
you are white so i know i can trust you ;D,” in 2011. 
Also in 2011, Murphy made a 
post reading, “Repost this if you 
are a beautiful strong black wom-
an who don’t need no man.”
In 2016, while Murphy was at 
UF, a picture was shared by an-
other person on his timeline of a 
black individual wearing a bikini 
with the caption “happy birfday I 
got you a stripper,” which Murphy 
liked.
The Alligator contacted Student 
Body President Ian Green, who 
has identified as black. He de-
clined to comment.
Multiple organizations and Students and organizations react to candidates’ controversial posts
One of the candidates will meet with the Pride Student Union president
SEE REACTIONS,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TUESDAY
Student Government Elections
When: 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Tuesday and Wednesday
Where: Beaty Commons TV-
Recreation Room, Broward Hall 
Recreation Room, Health Science 
Center BITS C1-121, Heavener 
Hall Room 202, Levin College 
of Law BGH Student Commons, 
Marston Computer Lab Second 
Floor, Murphree Hall Conference 
Room, Norman Hall Education 
Library, Reitz Union Lower Level 
SG Printing Lab, Southwest 
Recreation Center Social Lounge, 
Springs Area Office Room C202
What: UF students can vote in 
the SG election. Candidates for 
the Student Body president, vice 
president and treasurer and 50 
senators by college and grade 
level are on the ballot. 
REAL Talk: Becoming Allies
When: 6-8 p.m. Tuesday
Where: Ustler Hall
What: REAL Talk celebrates 
and raises awareness about the 
multiple identities people may 
have. This workshop is designed 
to help people think about their 
own identities and become more 
aware of different perspectives 
and experiences of others. 
WEDNESDAY
Wine Class - Spain, Italy and 
Australia
When: 6:30-8:30 p.m. 
Wednesday
Where: Downtown Wine and 
Cheese, at 113 N. Main St.
What: This is the first wine class 
of the year. The class is taught 
by wine expert Hollie Pique and 
features wines from Spain, Italy 
and Australia. Classes are $25 per 
person and it includes cheeses for 
wine pairing, an informational 
packet, discounts on the featured 
bottles of wine and a coupon for a 
free Thursday night wine tasting. 
Potential attendees can call the 
business to reserve a spot or buy 
tickets online at downtownwine-
andcheese.com.
FRIDAY
Gay Movie Night 
When: 7:30 p.m. Friday
Where: The Pride Community 
Center, at 3131 NW 13th St.
What: The movie “Beautiful Something” will be shown. Brian 
crashes and burns with each 
guy he meets, but does not un-
derstand why. Jim is not afraid 
to break hearts except when it 
comes to his older lover, a re-
nowned sculptor. Drew is more 
focused on his latest masterpiece 
than Jim. Bob looks for hustlers 
in his white limo and searches 
for the thrill of lost love. They 
look for connections in the City 
of Brotherly Love, but often settle 
for the quick and dirty. Then, 
they cross paths with each other. 
Gay Movie Night is on the last 
Friday of each month.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
Alachua County District Library 
Tasty History
When: 3-4 p.m. Tuesday
Where: Cone Park Branch, at 
2801 E. University Ave.
What: Children ages 5-11 can 
celebrate Black History Month 
and the invention of the potato 
chip.
African American Read-In
When: 2-4 p.m. Sunday
Where: Alachua Branch, at 
14913 NW 140th St.
What: Attendees, including com-
munity leaders, will read pas-
sages, poems and stories by black 
authors.
OTHER
An Ode to Black Women
When: 7 p.m. Wednesday 
Where: Ustler Hall
What: The Women’s Student 
Association is hosting a night 
to celebrate culture, feminism 
and the history of black women. 
There will be a live performance, 
free food and a discussion on the 
impact of black women in soci-
ety. 
Life and Legacy of A. Quinn Jones 
When: From Feb. 1 to Feb. 28
Where: Cone Park Library, at 
2801 E. University Ave.
What: A touring exhibit featuring 
artifacts and panels from the orig-
inal exhibit on display at the A. 
Quinn Jones Museum & Cultural 
Center.
Missing Pieces “Reimagining 
the Middle Passage: Black 
Resistance in Literature, 
Television and Song”
When: 3-5 p.m. Sunday
Where: The A. Quinn Jones Museum & Cultural Center
What: The museum will hold 
a lecture with author Tara T. 
Green, a University of North 
Carolina at Greensboro African 
American and African diaspora 
studies professor.
MORE
Santa Fe adjunct professors 
will speak about their union 
campaign
When: 6 p.m. Feb. 26
Where: Emmanuel Mennonite 
Church, located at 1236 NW 18th 
Ave.
What: Santa Fe College adjunct 
professors will speak about their 
unionization campaign at Santa 
Fe at the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition monthly general meet-
ing. Professors will talk about 
their almost two-year push for liv-
ing wages, better working condi-
tions and a union. Refreshments 
will be provided. 
Theater Trivia Fundraiser
When:  6-9 p.m. Saturday
Where: The Hippodrome State 
Theatre, located at 25 SE Second 
Place in downtown Gainesville
What: A theater-themed trivia 
night for Y-Not Theatre’s sec-
ond annual fundraiser from 6-9 
p.m. Feb. 23. The local nonprofit 
supports playwrights and ac-
tors across north central Florida. 
Tickets are $25 before Feb. 8; 
after that, tickets will be $35. 
Sababa, a Mediterranean restau-
rant, will serve a buffet.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  59°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Lily Griton, Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones,  Shelby Smith,
Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 60MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Repurposing in Style
Sean McGee, owner of IrishGlass, wraps up a repurposed bottle for a customer Sunday 
afternoon at the Gainesville Flea Market. The event took place at the Palomino Pool 
Hall in downtown Gainesville. When asked why community markets meant so much to 
vendors, Laura Martin, the owner of the vintage boutique Everyday in Retrograde said, 
“It’s about connecting people. It’s about creating a community. ” 
 TOPPING OUT CEREMONY 
WAS HELD FRIDAY
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer 
Valerie Castaneda carefully wrote 
her signature in Sharpie on the final 
beam of the La Casita structure. 
The Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs department hosted a topping 
out ceremony at 11 a.m. Friday in 
honor of the final beam structure 
being finished at the Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Cultures, known as 
La Casita, and the Institute of Black 
Culture. 
Students could come and go 
as they pleased to sign the beams 
throughout the day on Thursday and 
Friday, either with their names, class 
years or the date, Castaneda said. 
Students were able to watch as the 
last beams of the structures were 
placed on each of the institutes.
“In the future, I could bring my 
children here and show them my col-
lege experience,” the 20-year-old UF 
communication sciences and disor-
ders sophomore said. “I’ll be able to 
find that beam up there that I signed 
when it was first built.”
More than 50 members of the UF 
Latinx community and black com-
munity were in attendance for the 
ceremony, along with staff from the 
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs 
department, said Angelica Abrego, a cabinet member of the Hispanic 
Student Association. The construc-
tion company, Foresight Construc-
tion Group, was also present for the 
ceremony.
The 7-foot-long steel beams were 
painted in the respective colors of 
both institutions, said Lauren Arm-
strong, digital communications man-
ager of Foresight Construction Group. 
For the Institute of Black Culture, 
one beam was painted black, red and 
green. For La Casita, the beam was 
painted teal, red and white.
“We understand the importance of 
these facilities to the students and we 
really wanted to have their involve-
ment and input,” Armstrong said.  
Construction for the houses began 
last Fall and is due to be completed 
in August, Abrego said. She is look-
ing forward to having a place to come 
together with members of the His-
panic Student Association.
“We can get away from everything 
and be with people from our commu-
nity who understand us and know 
what we’ve been going through 
here,” the 19-year-old UF biology 
sophomore said. “This is our way 
of having our own space within the 
campus.”
Alligator contributor Edysmar Diaz-
Cruz  contributed to this report. 
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgUF Hispanic-Latinx, Black 
communities leave mark 
on new campus homes
Courtesy to The Alligator
Two students signing the beam at the topping out ceremony on Friday.
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A former Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
deputy was accused of kidnapping and chok-
ing a woman early Friday morning.
After an evening out on 
Valentine’s Day at White Buf-
falo, at 111 S. Main St., Jo-
seph Clayton Sperring, 29, of 
Gainesville, and the woman-
returned to his apartment at 
about 2 a.m., according to a 
Gainesville Police sworn com-
plaint affidavit. 
Sperring accused her of cheating on him. 
He forced her outside the apartment while she 
tried getting dressed, the report said. She be-
gan walking away when Sperring chased after 
her and said, “You’re not f------ leaving.” He 
then carried her back inside. 
Sperring pushed her against a wall and 
choked her, the report said. He took her phone 
and car keys and told her she couldn’t leave. 
He forced her to lie in bed with him and 
when she tried to leave he blocked the door, 
threw her onto the bed and choked her, police 
said.
He also asked her to have sex with him and 
when she said no he said he would rape her, 
the report said. He unzipped her jeans but stopped when she told him he was making 
things worse. 
She told police the incident lasted about six 
hours, the report said. 
He let her leave when she gave him her 
mother’s address and phone number, the re-
port said. He told her he would give her moth-
er’s contact information to people who would 
kill her and her family if she told police. 
The woman had bloody scratches inside her 
mouth on her upper lip, a bruise on her left 
hand, scratches on her left wrist and abrasions 
on her elbows, knees and right inner bicep, the 
report said. 
Police arrested Sperring on a warrant Satur-
day, according to court records.
He resigned from the Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Office in 2017 before he could be fired af-
ter he was accused of aggravated assault earlier 
that year, said ACSO spokesperson Brett Rho-
denizer. He was hired in 2014.
Sperring was charged with domestic battery 
by strangulation, simple battery, false impris-
onment and delaying communication to law 
enforcement, according to the report.
Sperring could not be reached for comment.
He bonded out of the Alachua County Jail 
on a $155,000 bail Saturday.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org Former ACSO deputy accused of 
kidnapping woman for six hours
He was given a $155,000 bond
Sperring
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019By Nicole Petersen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Santa Fe College is approaching racial 
equity by asking its students about it. 
The college will be participating in 
the newly developed National Assess-
ment of Collegiate Campus Climate Sur-
vey, which was created in Fall 2018 to 
assess diversity issues on varying cam-
puses, said Cheryl Calhoun, Santa Fe 
College Dean of Access and Inclusion.
Santa Fe College is one of the first 
few higher education institutions to par-
ticipate in the survey nationwide in or-
der to figure out what equity gaps exist 
on campus, Calhoun said.
“No matter the result, this gives us 
some tools to work with as we think 
about how we can do better in closing 
the equity gaps that might exist,” Cal-
houn said.The survey opened for students on 
Feb. 5 and will close on March 19, said 
Santa Fe College Student Body President 
Alejandro Puga. The results of the sur-
vey will be available in Fall 2019 .
The National Assessment of Colle-
giate Campus Climate Survey is anony-
mous and takes students about 15 min-
utes to complete, Calhoun said. The 
questions fall into six content areas: ap-
praisals of institutional commitment, im-
pact of external environments, mattering 
and affirmation, racial learning and lit-
eracy, encounters with racial stress and 
cross-racial engagement.
Students are happy that the survey 
gives them a chance to anonymously 
give feedback to administrators, Puga 
said.
“We’re obviously not perfect,” Puga 
said. “We’re always looking for new op-
portunities to serve more students.”Santa Fe College to reassess 
its campus diversity
THE NEW PLATES WILL FUND BEE 
HEALTH RESEARCH AT UF
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Contributing Writer
Traditional license plates may see a sweet 
change in the near future.
A new “Save the Bees” specialty plate is 
being proposed by the Florida State Beekeep-
ers Association, a non-profit organization that 
advocates and raises funds for state beekeep-
ers and researchers like UF’s Honey Bee & Re-
search Extension Lab scientists.
“Beekeeping is still fairly unknown,” said 
Jennifer Holmes, the association president. 
“We’re working really hard to be more in-volved so that people know who we are and 
what we’re doing.”
The license plate, which has been in the 
works for three years, is being proposed as a 
bill during the state’s next legislative session 
March 5 and 6, Holmes said.
If it passes, she said, it will go to the Flor-
ida Department of Transportation for approv-
al. Then consumers will be able to pre-order 
plates for their vehicles.
The specialty plate will cost $25 annually 
as part of the normal tag fee vehicle owners 
pay every year, she said. The exact figures of 
cost and distribution are yet to be determined.
The money raised from the plates will 
go toward bee health research in the state, 
Holmes said. Bees are most threatened by 
pests and disease, but funding for studies is limited.
With over 5,000 registered beekeepers in 
the state, research will help a large part of 
state agriculture and potentially expand to aid 
beekeepers across the nation, she said.
“We want honey bees to be okay,” Holmes 
said. “That’s the main goal.”
Beekeepers in the U.S. lose about 30 to 40 
percent of their colonies every year, said Mary 
Bammer, the extension coordinator for the UF 
Honey Bee Research and Extension Lab. 
The only way beekeepers make up for this 
loss is by splitting their colonies in half. She 
said the process of splitting, which requires 
extra food, labor and equipment, is only feasi-
ble because of the current high price of honey.
Bammer said the biggest project the two 
groups recently worked together on was the building of a new facility, the Honey Bee Re-
search and Extension Lab, at 1881 Natural 
Area Drive.
The lab was built in August 2018, cost $2 
million of state funding, $1 million of univer-
sity funding and $1.5 million of funding from 
state beekeepers themselves, she said.
Because of this effort, UF is able to run 
three main honey bee programs: teaching, 
extension and research, she said. Teaching 
allows students to take beekeeping classes 
while extension and research help local bee-
keepers learn to better care for and under-
stand bees.
The license plate funds will help further 
develop these programs, she said.
“This is a big issue for beekeepers,” Bam-
mer said.‘To bee or not to bee’: Specialty License Plate ProposedTHERE ARE MORE THAN 1,100 OF 
THESE INSTITUTIONS IN THE U.S.
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator contributing writer
Santa Fe College made a 
national achievement at a lo-
cal level.
On Friday, the college an-
nounced it is one of 26 associ-
ate/baccalaureate U.S. institu-
tions to produce a 2018-2019 
Fulbright Scholar, a college or 
university representative that 
is awarded a grant to conduct 
research and or teach overseas, Dan Rodkin, 
the associate vice president of Santa Fe Col-
lege, said Santa Fe College President Jackson 
Sasser. 
There are more than 1,100 of these institu-
tions in the U.S., including UF, Sasser said.
The Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program is an 
international, educational exchange program 
active in over 125 countries throughout the 
world, Sasser said. The program is funded by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs 
through an annual appropriation given by U.S. 
Congress.
One of Sasser’s first initiatives as president 
was to internationalize the college when he ar-
rived at Santa Fe 17 years ago. He said it is the 
best international program for colleges to uti-
lize because it provides funds while connecting 
cultures and informing participants of different 
religions, geographies and ways of living. 
“We’d like to share what we know and 
love,” Sasser said.“There’s so much more to be 
done, but at least we’ve made the progress that 
we have.”
Rodkin received word about a year ago that 
he was chosen as a Fulbright Scholar.
Last April, he attended the Community Col-
lege Administrators Seminar in Russia for two 
weeks through the program. He visited about a 
dozen different colleges in three Russian cities. 
“Having the Fulbright experience gave us 
one more way to add value to our students’ 
lives and to better provide an international ex-
perience in the classroom,” Rodkin said.Meet Santa Fe College’s Fulbright scholar
The survey is anonymous and 
will close March 19
Rodkin
individuals have commented on the 
insensitive social media posts by the 
Impact Party executive ticket. The can-
didates acknowledged the posts and 
apologized. 
The Pride Student Union released a 
statement addressed to the LGBTQ+ 
community at UF about the posts, stat-
ing that it condemns hate speech di-
rected at any marginalized community.
“While one’s beliefs may change 
with time, it is important that those 
who have expressed offensive beliefs 
must always be held accountable,” the 
release read
Santiago Gutierrez, Impact’s Stu-
dent Body treasurer candidate, will 
meet with PSU President Nathan Quinn 
at about noon today. 
The QTPOC Collective, a UF group 
of queer and transgender students of 
color,  also released a statement on 
Facebook Friday. It referenced UF’s 
history of discrimination, condemn-
ing campus organizations that are elite 
in nature and provide power to those 
who foster these ideas. “It is undeniable that white stu-
dents of economically privileged 
backgrounds are ushered into power 
through means of Greek life and other 
elite campus organizations,” the post 
read. 
The organization could not be 
reached for comment
In the statement, the group was 
critical of “forgiveness of past tran-
gressions against marginalized com-
munities.” 
Austin Buholtz, a 19-year-old UF bi-
ology sophomore, found out about the 
posts through friends and the Swampy 
UF memes for top ten public teens 
Facebook group. He said while oppos-
ing candidates are obviously trying to 
find dirt on each other, if it’s on social 
media, it’s fair game. 
In the end, he believes this won’t 
have an effect on voters, and Impact 
will win the majority of the seats in 
Student Government any way.
“I think most people are either go-
ing to vote for the person they want or 
not,” he said. “I don’t think that’s go-
ing to really change their minds.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgREACTIONS,  from pg. 1PSU released a statement
HE’LL TRAVEL TO 11 COUNTRIES IN 
THREE AND A HALF MONTHS 
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Wifi is limited. Phone service is rare. Dining 
rooms are turned to classrooms, and students 
sometimes have to be excused for seasickness. 
Joshua Greenspan, a 22-year-old UF business 
administration senior, is spending three and a half 
months on a ship studying around the world. 
Greenspan is the only UF student out of 590 
who boarded the M.S. World Odyssey on Jan. 5 
to complete their program with Semester at Sea. 
“To have these experiences and to see other 
cultures and seeing the problems that the world is 
facing today, it just makes you think about life and 
just your new perspective,” Greenspan said. 
In the month since Greenspan said he left UF, 
he’s been to Hawaii, Japan, China and Vietnam. 
His next stop is Myanmar. From there he will sail 
to India, Mauritius, South Africa, Ghana and Mo-
rocco. 
Students generally take 12 to 15 credits and 
have class every day the ship is at sea, Greenspan 
said. 
“I would be in class, and the teacher’s, like, 
falling over because the boats rocking so much,” Greenspan said.
When the ship docks, students have anywhere 
from four to six days in each country, he said. 
They can explore on their own or go on pre-ar-
ranged field program with Semester at Sea. 
Greenspan said he’s going to do both options. 
In India, the country he’s looking forward to 
the most, he will be going on a three-night field 
program that will go to Varanasi and the Taj Ma-
hal, but he’ll also have two nights free to explore. 
Greenspan decided to study abroad with Se-
mester at Sea is because his older sister did the 
program when she was a student at UF. 
Shelley Greenspan, 28 lives in Washington DC, 
spent Spring of 2012 traveling around the world on 
a ship just like her brother. 
“I really wanted it to be his own experience,” 
Shelley Greenspan said.  “I really do believe the 
world is your classroom. The fact that he’ll get to 
explore it means so much to me.”
Shelley and her younger sister, who also gradu-
ated from UF in 2015, will fly to Morocco in April 
to visit Joshua at his final destination of the trip. 
“He has such a desire and hunger to learn 
about the the world, about technology, about soci-
ety, that like, I think, he is such a great candidate 
for a program like this,” Shelley Greenspan said.
 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgUF student experiences the ‘suite’ lifeMONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2019
We will not be not publishing 3/4-3/8, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 11th is 
Friday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Simone Boyce doesn’t take no for 
an answer. 
Instead, she uses it to invigorate 
herself to do better. 
On Sunday, Boyce, who is a 
host for the streaming digital news 
network NBC News Signal and UF 
alumna, was a keynote speaker at 
the 32nd Women’s Leadership Con-
ference, hosted by the Women’s Stu-
dent Association at UF in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom. 
About 70 people attended the 
two-and-a-half-hour event, which 
gave audience members the oppor-
tunity to ask questions and interact 
with Boyce and a panel of ﬁ  ve wom-
en in leadership roles at UF. 
After experiencing rejection early in her professional career, Boyce of-
fered words of encouragement to 
young women looking to be success-
ful. 
“Rejection can be an incred-
ible catalyst for self-reﬂ  ection and 
change,” she said. 
This year’s conference focused 
on the concept of “Woman Up,” a 
phrase that encourages women to 
pursue leadership roles while sup-
porting one another. 
The speakers were not paid to at-
tend the event, said 22-year-old co-
conference director and UF  health 
education senior Pamela McFarlane.
Men usually speak up in a class-
room setting, McFarlane said. Wom-
en should know that they can devel-
op their own voice.
“It’s not about having women 
in leadership just for the sake of it,” said McFarlane. “Diverse teams 
drive innovation and creative think-
ing.” 
Elise Felt, an 18-year-old UF ge-
ology freshman, was empowered by 
the event to take a stand for herself.
“I’m a quiet person,” Felt said. 
“Everyone around you has more to 
say and it’s hard to speak up.”
As a black woman, 21-year-old 
Abigail Cherubin, a UF journalism 
junior who helped with the event, 
felt that the conference acknowl-
edged the struggles of women in 
marginalized communities.
“We all have different identities 
and with that we can provide cre-
ative decisions,” she said. “Having 
different kinds of women reﬂ  ected 
in leadership positions can result in 
more impactful work.” ‘Woman Up’: WSA’s 32nd annual 
Women’s Leadership Conference
Courtesy to The Alligator
(Left to right) Panelists Julia Van de Bogart, Mira Lowe, Sana Nimer, Diana Moreno and Dhara Patel talk 
with a UF Women’s Student Association member about women empowerment in the workplace, women 
standing up for themselves and encouraging other women during a discussion Sunday in the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom. About 70 people attended the talk.
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer 
After overhauling how it af-
fects change in Gainesville, the 
Gainesville Community Redevel-
opment Agency will meet to talk 
about what it will do in the com-
munity.
At 3 p.m. today, the agency, 
which builds community areas 
and creates grants to help busi-
nesses, will meet to review de-
velopment projects it is working 
on at the City Hall Auditorium, 
at 200 E. University Ave.
The meeting will review the 
status of current projects, like 
Heartwood, an affordable hous-
ing project, and improvements 
to South Main Street, said City 
Commissioner David Arreola. 
The agency will also discuss resi-
dential paint vouchers program, 
which helps put money toward 
painting residential houses.
The project update comes af-
ter the city and Alachua County 
commissions agreed to combine 
the agency’s four districts into 
one on Feb 11. Those districts 
are College Park and University 
Heights; 5th Avenue and Pleas-
ant Street; Eastside; and Down-
town. 
Mayor Lauren Poe said he 
wants to see the districts com-
bined so that the CRA can help 
bring development to Eastside.
“How do we bring life back 
to communities that have seen 
historic neglect and disadvance-ment by the private sector?” Poe 
said. “You remove those barriers 
and suddenly you can see a fo-
cus on dollars and investment.”
The decision came after dis-
cussions between the city and 
county. The city voted on the 
combination on Nov. 1 but need-
ed county approval to restructure 
because it provides two thirds of 
the agency’s funding. 
The combination of the four 
districts allows money to be allo-
cated to whichever district needs 
it. Previously, money raised in 
one district could only be used in 
that district.
Due to the previous sys-
tem, areas that raised the least 
amount were not able to develop 
as much, such as Eastside, Ward 
said. This caused an area with a 
lot of need to have little funding.
“Our current model keeps one 
of the four existing districts es-
sentially stagnant,” he said. 
Eastside only generates and 
receives 8 percent of revenue, 
compared to the College Park 
and University Heights district 
which receives 55 percent of rev-
enue, Ward said.
“Communities across the na-
tion face the problem of rein-
vigoration and re-establishing 
neighborhoods, long abandoned 
by private investment,” Ward 
said.
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgRedevelopment agency 
will discuss projects 
coming to GainesvilleThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumnThis UF Student Government 
election cycle has been rid-
dled with controversy from 
both parties. SG elections are 
on Tuesday and Wednesday, 
and students will vote for the Student 
Body president, Student Body vice 
president, Student Body treasurer and 
Senate candidates.  
We, the editorial board, met with 
each party’s executive candidates. 
Both Impact and Inspire’s platforms 
include addressing mental health, 
expanding resources for Asian Ameri-
can students and giving more to re-
sources for sexual assault survivors. 
However, neither party seemed 
to have an answer about how much 
their platform endeavors would cost 
the Student Body. This is a major 
concern for us at The Alligator, con-
sidering these line items would come 
directly from students’ pockets. 
The editorial board has decided 
to, once again, endorse Inspire’s can-
didates, but we cannot enthusiasti-
cally support them. It’s a lesser of two 
evils, if you will. 
Not to mention, our choice for Stu-
dent Body president is between a hu-
man meme and a man with a dodgy 
Facebook past.
Inspire had the most concrete 
ideas concerning what it wanted to 
achieve if it were to be elected. For 
example, Inspire was able to convey 
to us a clearer plan in terms of bud-
geting the nearly $21 million given 
to SG and how they would help to 
reduce the stigma around sexual as-
sault. 
We say we reluctantly support 
Inspire because we have serious con-
cerns about how this ticket will be 
able to handle SG’s highest positions 
given their little experience. Zacha-
riah Chou, 21, the Inspire Student 
Body presidential candidate, has the 
most experience from the entire ticket 
having served on Senate. He meets 
with the administration, SG officials 
and students regularly. He also ad-
dresses students through memes in 
the Facebook group called “Swampy 
UF memes for top ten public teens.”
However, Gouthami Gadamsetty, 
20, Inspire’s Student Body vice presi-
dential candidate, has never been 
elected in SG although she’s had sev-
eral failed Senate runs. 
Mackintosh Joachim, the Inspire Student Body treasurer candidate, 19, 
is also a senator, but there are con-
cerns regarding his age and overall 
qualifications. He said he would ap-
ply his experience from handling the 
UF chapter of NAACP’s $1,000 bud-
get to spearheading a budget that’s 
about 20,000 times as much. 
Despite the steep learning curve, 
we believe Inspire’s ability to address 
what needs to be changed in SG and 
its overall strong platform make it the 
better choice over Impact. 
When comparing the two parties, 
we cannot ignore the glaringly homo-
phobic and racially insensitive Face-
book posts of Impact’s executive tick-
et, especially Michael Murphy, 21, its 
Student Body presidential candidate. 
Half of The Alligator’s current 
editorial board identifies with the 
LGBTQ+ community, and we take 
these posts seriously. We believe 
these comments will hinder Impact’s 
working relationship with UF’s queer 
community. We appreciate that Mur-
phy made an apology statement to 
the Student Body through The Alliga-
tor via text message to a reporter and 
in-person to the editorial board. 
However, in our meeting with 
Murphy, he said party members have 
reached out to Pride Student Union. 
Only Santiago Gutierrez, 20, Impact’s 
Student Body treasurer candidate, has 
set up a meeting with PSU. If Murphy 
is so inclined to say that these homo-
phobic posts no longer represent his 
values, why wouldn’t he personally 
meet with PSU? 
In addition, Impact’s inability to 
tell us how much one of their big-
gest party platforms would cost, their 
dockless scooter initiative, leads us to 
believe the idea is underdeveloped. 
When referencing what the mental 
health kiosks would entail, Impact 
stated they would be similar to other 
universities’ kiosks. However, Im-
pact cited the wrong school when 
referencing the kiosks, stating Florida 
State University uses them; instead, it 
is Framingham State University that 
has implemented them, a different 
FSU. 
We have our reservations in hand-
ing out our endorsement, however, 
we believe Inspire is the Student 
Body’s best option. We hope that if 
Inspire is elected they work to surpass 
our expectations. 
Gender is a social construct, and here’s why
I clearly remember being little and sit-
ting in my booster seat, staring out 
the car window contemplating which 
Happy Meal toy I wanted. It was the 
hardest decision a little kid my age 
would have had to face, and I was in 
agony. On one hand, I could have got-
ten a Polly Pocket (don’t get me wrong, 
Polly Pockets are fun), but my other 
choice was a Hot Wheels racer. My gut 
led me toward the Hot Wheels. “We’ll 
go with the Hot Wheels,” my dad told the person 
working the drive-through. “Okay, so a boy toy,” 
she replied. “Sure, my daughter would like the Hot 
Wheels,” my dad said.
Who came up with the concept of “girl toys” and 
“boy toys”? I would like to have a word with whom-
ever it was. It does not make sense to label one type 
of toy as more or less masculine or feminine than an-
other type. For example, think of cars. Most toy cars, 
like the Hot Wheels racer I chose to accompany my 
Happy Meal some 15 or more years ago, are marketed 
toward young boys. However, most people, regard-
less of gender, drive cars. Adults don’t say that only 
men can have cars, so why should girls be made to 
feel as though toy cars are not for them?
The same goes for boys playing with dolls. Every-
one knows a female, whether it’s his or her mom, sis-
ter, friend or partner, so why shouldn’t boys be able 
to play with American Girls or Barbies? It could be 
that learning how to care for a pretend human can 
promote empathy, understanding and gentleness, of 
which we need more amongst real humans. 
Another example of gendering an arbitrary object 
or concept is the use of specific colors for different 
genders. When you go to the drugstore to pick out 
a card for your friend who just had a baby, you will 
notice one glaring difference between the cards: the color. Cards that read “Welcome, baby 
boy!” are blue, while the “It’s a girl!” cards 
are, without fail, pink. Too bad the baby 
can’t read and will never see the overtly 
gendered, overpriced baby card. Oh wait, 
maybe that’s a good thing. And don’t even 
get me started on gender reveal parties. 
Too late. I just started. Inviting people 
over to celebrate the arbitrariness of your 
child’s gender boggles my mind. The cakes 
are often decorated with trucks, guns, 
bows and jewelry. All of which are hyper-
gendered objects that evoke obvious feminine or mas-
culine feelings. But why? Why shouldn’t a boy like 
hair bows and guns? Or why can’t a girl love wear-
ing jewelry while driving her monster truck around 
town? These are silly examples, but it raises a seri-
ous question: Why are certain objects and colors so 
heavily gendered? The parents who threw their baby 
boy a blue, sports-themed gender reveal party may 
someday learn that he prefers the color purple and 
dislikes all sports. Hopefully they are just as ecstatic 
to learn about who he is now as they were when they 
speculated about who he would be before he was 
born. Gender reveal parties should be replaced with 
something else. Please invite me to your “My baby 
is healthy and loved, regardless of his or her gender” 
party. I will be there in a heartbeat. 
One of my favorite shirts, which I wear regular-
ly, reads in big block letters across the front, “Raise 
boys and girls the same way.” People often ask me, 
puzzled, what this means. It’s quite simple: Let’s let 
our kids decide what toys they want to play with, 
what their favorite color is and what their passions 
are without telling them what they are expected to be 
interested in. Let’s let kids be kids first and allow them 
to decide their own interests. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORA human meme or  
a past of bad posts
Editor’s Note: The Alligator’s editorial board met with representatives from 
the Impact and Inspire parties on Friday night and Sunday afternoon. We 
discussed their party platforms and each candidate’s goals if they were to be 
elected. Our endorsement resulted from these meetings.
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
I understand this will come as a shock to 
many, but the evidence is overwhelm-
ingly clear. Of all of the study spaces on 
campus where Gators can plant them-
selves to work on homework the Reitz 
Union is the most legitimate.
I will ﬁ  rst dismantle the notion that the 
other libraries or study spaces, whatever one 
may care to call them, are worthy of your time 
compared to the ultimate experience of study-
ing in the Reitz, the preeminent study space. 
Let’s start with Marston Science Library. 
The average naive STEM freshman believes 
Marston is the ideal study space, which would 
allow them to blast through hours of studying 
chemistry on the average Tuesday evening. It’s 
a shame the only unique perk is the noise level 
decreases as the height above ground increas-
es because that is also a notable feature of the 
Reitz Union. Have you ever been to the Reitz 
third ﬂ  oor? It is dead silent. Marston is a place 
where students go to feel better about their in-
ability to study. Oh, you have a calculus exam 
worth 30 percent of your grade tomorrow, 
and you don’t know the difference between an integral and a derivative? No 
bro, that’s cool, just go ahead and 
waste another three hours with 
your “study group” talking about 
how cool that last episode of “The 
Joe Rogan Experience” podcast 
was. I’m sure the calculus will 
work itself out. 
Next, we have Library West: 
the rival of Marston, and the 
habitat of students posturing as 
intellectuals. Library West has the beneﬁ  t of a 
beautiful lawn and a breathtaking silhouette. 
Staring at Library West from the foot of the 
Plaza of the Americas is an experience every 
student attending this university should have. 
When you look at the library, you feel connect-
ed with all of the knowledge that has been and 
will be developed here on campus. It’s won-
derful. However, the sight of Library West is a 
curse. The inside is a desolate scattering of the 
hopes of desperate students. The main appeal 
of Library West is that it also offers the quieter-
with-height system. There’s also a certain “feel-
ing” associated with the library. This feeling at-tracts kids with MacBooks, eager 
to appear as if they are “getting 
that bread.” Library West is the 
perfect location for that engineer-
ing sophomore who doesn’t feel 
like going to Midtown on Friday 
night but who doesn’t want to ad-
mit it. The solution? They can go 
to Library West with some home-
work (which they probably won’t 
work on much) and post to their 
Snapchat about how “the grind never stops.” 
I have discussed how both of the often 
celebrated libraries are little more than fronts 
for procrastination and dangerous rationaliza-
tion of poor behavior. I have not yet explained 
how the Reitz is the answer to all of the pitfalls 
of the libraries on campus. Library West and 
Marston are sneakily convincing their patrons 
that the environment they provide is one of 
learning, when in reality they’re just outlets 
to socialize. The Reitz doesn’t hide behind the 
name of a library because it is so much more 
than this pretense. The Reitz is a social space 
that is outﬁ  tted with the fruits of capitalism in the form of the food court and a bowling al-
ley. It is an educational space too, showcas-
ing the triumphs of student leadership with the 
Department of Student Activities and Involve-
ment, meeting rooms and career development 
with the Career Connections Center. 
Still, the Reitz provides more value as a li-
brary than anywhere else. You can buy books 
at the bookstore, while at Marston and Library 
West, you have to return all the books you 
borrow, which you probably won’t even look 
at anyway. There is also the claim that Reitz 
isn’t a real library because there is no actual li-
brary. When you hear this, don’t respond with 
words. Instead, walk with whoever claimed it 
is not straight to the bookstore on the ground 
ﬂ  oor and perform a well-practiced evil laugh. 
How many books have you gotten in the Re-
itz Union compared to the amount you have 
checked out of the library? The answer will 
show you that  the Reitz truly is the most legiti-
mate library on campus. 
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English fresh-
man. His column appears on Mondays.Forget Marston and West, the Reitz Union is the best study space on campus
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Istill remember every detail 
from the day I moved into 
my freshman dorm. 
On Aug. 15, 2015. As I 
got out of my mom’s over-
packed Jeep, the Gainesville air 
was thick and humid, as usual. 
I timidly observed the other stu-
dents I would later get to know 
later on. My dad grabbed the 
minifridge from the back of my mom’s 
car and lifted it up with ease before he 
sprinted up the stairs with it. He still likes 
to brag about how 
he was in better 
shape than all of 
the other parents. 
As I took in the 
scene, it all felt 
surreal. College 
seemed just the way I imagined it.
The next few weeks continued to meet 
all of my preconceived notions of what my 
UF college experience would look like. I 
went through sorority rush, found my 
“home,” went to my ﬁ  rst big party and got 
my ﬁ  rst hangover breakfast at Bagels and 
Noodles. I decided on a favorite library 
(I’m a Marston girl, through and through) 
and I made a big group of friends I did ev-
erything with. I remember thinking to my-
self, this is what it would be like for the 
next four years — exactly like I planned.
While I relished in the glamour of fresh-
ly minted college life, older friends of mine 
assured me that it would only get better. I 
watched my friends in their senior years 
gallivant around campus with their tight-
knit group of friends without a care in the 
world. From the outside, it looked easy. 
Oddly enough, they left out the struggles 
they’d faced over the past four years and 
that sometimes, college sucks. So, as a na-
ive freshman, I believed them when they 
said senior year would be fun. 
Unfortunately, I didn’t just believe this 
lie, I believed the lies I told myself as a 
freshman, too. I had a vision for the next 
four years. I believed that I’d never fall off 
course. I couldn’t have been more wrong. 
As I’m sure you expected, things didn’t go according to plan. It was a 
turbulent four years, but it gave 
me exactly what I needed.
I made close groups of friends, 
but I also lost some friends when 
I realized they weren’t good for 
me. I tried the party scene and 
found out I much prefer being in 
bed by 11 p.m. I dropped out of 
my sorority after I came to the 
heartbreaking realization that I hated just 
about everything Greek life actually stood 
for. I dated a few boys I swore were “the 
one,” only to get 
bored and change 
my mind weeks 
later. I changed 
my major a few 
times and drove 
my parents insane 
when I called them every few weeks with 
a new career path I was “sure about this 
time.” A lot of things changed and a lot of 
things didn’t go the way I wanted them to. 
But, each step I took off of my ideal path 
helped me grow.
So, here I am: three months away from 
graduation and my life is nothing like I 
thought it would be. Everything I believed 
as a freshman about where I would be 
right now was totally off base. But there is 
nothing wrong with that.
To the freshmen out there, please let go 
of your expectations. There are more im-
portant things to accomplish during your 
time at UF. Don’t hold on to toxic friends 
or boring relationships just because you 
want to graduate next to your freshman 
year besties. Don’t stick with a major that 
makes you miserable. Don’t be scared to 
change your mind about something you 
thought you loved. And most important-
ly, don’t believe the lies you told yourself 
about what your college experience would 
look like. These next four years will give 
you exactly what you need, even if you 
don’t know what that is yet.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science 
and journalism senior. Her column appears 
on Mondays.A look at the lies from my freshman year, 
from the perspective of my senior selfColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgHere’s a topic you probably 
haven’t seen in the news in 
a little while: Puerto Rico. As 
many of you know, this U.S. 
territory was hit by the dev-
astating category 5 Hurricane Maria in 
September 2017. Despite over a year 
passing since Maria made landfall, 
the island of Puerto Rico is still deal-
ing with the effects of the storm and 
the muddled response to the crisis. 
When Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico, the 
damage was on an enormous scale. Nearly the 
entire island was without power with 95 per-
cent of the island’s cell sites being knocked out. 
While some neighborhoods were almost com-
pletely destroyed, rebuilding and providing aid 
after Maria was always going to be a challenge. 
The island’s mountainous terrain makes trans-
portation and power line maintenance difﬁ  cult. 
Government agencies like its state-owned pow-
er company have long faced ﬁ  nancial difﬁ  cul-
ties leading to poor service. The Puerto Rican 
government faced bankruptcy mere months be-
fore Maria hit, and as President Donald Trump 
himself pointed out, Puerto Rico “is an island 
surrounded by water, big water, ocean water,” 
making it harder to get supplies to Puerto Rico.
That said, things started poorly. The Trump 
administration was accused of not providing 
enough aid for Puerto Rico. After Maria hit, 
Puerto Rico’s governor, Ricardo Rosselló, and 
San Juan’s mayor, Carmen Yulín Cruz, pub-
licly asked for more federal assistance. Trump 
instead doubled down, criticizing Puerto Rico 
for its ﬁ  nancial difﬁ  culties and suggesting me-
dia coverage of the recovery was biased against 
him. This culminated in a personal spat be-
tween Trump and Cruz both on Twitter and in 
the real world as they traded barbs and accused 
each other of mishandling the crisis. 
Regardless of which side you took, the focus 
on this petty drama took attention away from 
the recovery itself and the legitimate issues 
surrounding it, causing both sides to appear 
distracted from the hard work of recovery. In 
addition, just in case he hadn’t already raised 
doubts about his handling of the crisis, Trump 
caused a stir when he threw paper towels to 
a crowd of survivors during his visit to Puer-
to Rico. While I don’t think it’s fair to judge 
Trump’s handling of the crisis based on “Paper 
Towel-Gate” alone, just like the Cruz feud, it 
generated poor optics and distracted from the 
substance of Puerto Rico’s recovery.While media coverage of Puerto 
Rico’s recovery eventually died 
down, the island’s struggles were 
far from over. According to CNN, 
by late January 2018, 450,000 peo-
ple (out of a population of 3.4 mil-
lion) were still without power, the 
shutdown of IV bag manufacturing 
in Puerto Rico led to a long-term 
shortage across the United States, 
and some experts suggested that the drastically 
increased incidence of the bacterial disease lep-
tospirosis after Maria constituted an epidemic. 
However, it wasn’t until April 2018 that we got 
a full account of Hurricane Maria’s impact, with 
a George Washington University study calculat-
ing the death toll at 2,975. The number of fa-
talities alone warrant questions and concerns 
about the recovery effort. Just last month, The 
Washington Post reported that Trump illegally 
tried to redirect disaster relief funds away from 
Puerto Rico, raising even more concerns about 
the Trump administration’s handling of the 
whole affair.
Last Thursday, Brock Long, the FEMA Direc-
tor who oversaw Hurricane Maria relief efforts, 
resigned. While Long’s departure was due to 
a federal investigation ﬁ  nding improper use of 
government vehicles rather than his handling 
of Hurricane Maria, this still means new lead-
ership at FEMA. Hopefully this new leadership 
can learn from the mistakes of Maria and en-
sure that no state or territory suffers as much as 
Puerto Rico did ever again. However, that does 
not negate the need for accountability when it 
comes to Hurricane Maria, and Congressional 
Democrats (who took control of the House after 
the 2018 midterms) pledged to investigate the 
Trump administration’s handling of the Hurri-
cane Maria recovery. 
Given the many unusual aspects of the re-
covery and the sheer amount of death and de-
struction involved, investigating Maria should 
be a top priority for Democrats, and I hope they 
follow up on it as soon as possible. Maybe an 
investigation will show that the Trump admin-
istration truly was negligent in providing too 
little aid to Puerto Rico. Or maybe it will vin-
dicate Trump and show that his administration 
did the best it could while local ofﬁ  cials mis-
managed recovery efforts. Either way, Puerto 
Rico is waiting for answers. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico in 2017, 
but recovery eﬀ  orts are still ongoing Column
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
"So, here I am: three months away from 
graduation and my life is nothing like 
what I thought it would be." Gouthami Gadamset-
ty hated her name.
No one could 
pronounce it, and a 
gym coach in sixth 
grade recommended she just 
go by “Gigi.”
“Gigi” followed her until 
she came to UF. She decided 
to reclaim a name she had 
heard only at home. 
“People said, ‘Your name 
is really pretty. Why don’t you 
go by that more often?’” said 
Gadamsetty, a 20-year-old UF 
industrial and systems engineering junior.
Thus, Gouthami Gadamsetty was reborn.
Gadamsetty is the president of the UF Engi-
neering Leadership Circle and an ambassador 
of the Involvement Team, a consultation ser-
vice to connect students with extracurricular 
activities. She has also performed in two UF 
Indian dance teams. 
Joining Student Government was natu-
ral for Gadamsetty, even though Indian ste-
reotypes confined her to classroom achieve-
ments.
“It gives me pride to break expectations,” 
Gadamsetty said.
Gadamsetty said she’s spent her life bal-
ancing cultures. Her parents, Vani and Chan-
dra, emigrated from India to Canada, where she was born.  
Gadamsetty said she was 
proud of how she was raised, 
though her parents were rela-
tively strict. She said they’ve 
worked hard to make a life for 
themselves.
She began taking tradi-
tional Indian dance classes in 
the Bharatanatyam style when 
she was 3 years old. 
While most of her family 
was thousands of miles away, 
Gadamsetty would dance with 
her cousin, Sahana Kamisetty. 
“Dance is all about cooperation with other 
people,” said Kamisetty, a 21-year-old Univer-
sity of Miami neuroscience senior. 
Kamisetty said Gadamsetty’s dance back-
ground influenced her leadership style to 
learn to share the stage with everyone.
Vibhor Nayar’s favorite memory of Gad-
amsetty was UF’s Holi in Spring 2017. As di-
rector, Nayar watched Gadamsetty volunteer 
with the event, throw colored powder with 
her friends and then thank all the directors.
“She’s not the type of person who runs 
through the motions,” said the 24-year-old UF 
mechanical engineering senior. 
Gadamsetty used to hate her name, but she 
looks forward to when it’s called as the first 
Indian American Student Body vice president. The clock strikes 
11:11. Sarah Abra-
ham makes a wish. 
She doesn’t set an 
alarm, but catches 
both the morning and night 
occurrence whenever pos-
sible.
“I think my body just kin-
da knows,” said the 21-year-
old UF information systems 
and operations management 
junior. 
Even her home in West Palm Beach starts 
with 1111. 
But Abraham doesn’t base her achieve-
ments on wishes. She is the president of the 
Indian Student Association, and a two-term 
senator for the business school. 
If she wins, she would be the first Indian 
American UF Student Body vice president. 
Sarah’s parents taught her to prioritize ser-
vice to others. Sarah sees her role in Student 
Government as being a voice to students.  
Kishan Patel, former 2016 Student Body 
treasurer, sees Sarah’s power as a leader in 
her ability to connect with people. He was the 
first to talk to Sarah about SG.
In the Indian Student Association, Patel 
said Abraham unified cliques to work to-
gether. At a recent showcase for GatoRaas, 
an Indian UF student dance team, Patel was astounded to see not only 
people from the organization 
but from across campus in the 
audience. 
“She calls almost everyone 
her best friend, and truly they 
are her best friends,” said the 
23-year-old UF electrical engi-
neering senior. 
Abraham wants her lega-
cy to be a permanent dance 
space for the Indian Student 
Association’s six dance teams 
and any other troupe. She said there aren’t 
many spaces on campus that can hold such 
large groups. Teams like GatoRaas practice 
on top of UF parking garages until sunrise. 
“One of my biggest jobs is to make people 
aware of our community,” Abraham said. 
People are drawn to Abraham’s rapid fire 
humor. She got her start in comedy when her 
older sister Naomi placed coached her to say 
knock-knock jokes when she was little.
Shachi Pandya, one of Abraham’s best 
friends, has known her since freshman year 
and now serves alongside her in the Indian 
Student Association as vice president. 
“I know her in all these ways, and she’s 
the exact way in every context,” the 21-year-
old UF statistics junior said. 
Win or lose, Sarah Abraham will still be 
ready with a smile and a pun.All you need to know about Zacha-
riah Chou is his Relish order: a 
salmon patty with garlic mayo and 
crispy onions on both buns with 
extra sauce on the side. 
“You know I’m a man of the people when 
I call it garlic mayo instead of garlic aioli,” 
Chou said. 
Relish, a hamburger restaurant on Univer-
sity Avenue, is home base for the 21-year-old 
after long days spent on campus, even when 
it’s not campaign season. 
Where in the world is Zachariah Chou? He 
said his friends would say “everywhere.” 
One Wednesday, he pinballed from a Ca-
reer Connections Center event at Infinity Hall 
to a Graduate Student Council meeting to 
Pugh Hall to a Caribbean Students Association 
meeting to open mic night at Wing Zone to an 
Inspire Party meeting.
If Chou wins, he would be the first Asian 
American Student Body president at UF.  
“Sometimes in life, you have to work twice 
as hard but will get half as far, but that doesn’t 
win elections,” Chou said. “If you want to win 
you have to work four times as hard just to 
win.” 
Chou has been involved with Student Gov-
ernment since seventh grade. He served as the 
first senator for Infinity Hall for one year and 
the senator for Murphree Hall for two years. 
He says he fought for Infinity Hall street lights, increased access to menstrual products 
and on-campus mental health resources.
The UF junior still has to complete his 
homework for his journalism and political 
science courses when finished on the Senate 
floor, though.
Chou’s mentor Kevin Baron of the Bob 
Graham Center said Chou should slow down.
“He has never taken my advice, but he has 
shown a resiliency and fortitude that deeply 
speaks to the quality of person he is,” Baron 
said. 
The salmon burger is more than fuel for 
Chou’s schedule. It’s reminiscent of home. 
Chou’s Taiwanese immigrant parents, 
Richard and Grace, bought fish in bulk regu-
larly to feed Chou and his older sister, Gabri-
elle. 
“They fed me, and I brought home 
awards,” Chou said.
Richard described Zach as a model son 
who never talked back or had a rebellious 
streak. Often, Richard can only talk to his son 
at 2 a.m. when Zach has a spare moment.
Richard applied to UF for graduate school 
when he immigrated but did not get in.
“He’s proved me wrong so many times,” 
Richard said.  
Much like his time, Chou likes to give 
away his stuffed animals. He’s won many of 
them from claw machines. 
So it’s off to another meeting, but first he 
must finish the salmon burger. Michael Murphy felt the bed shake 
below him at 2 a.m.
The then-15-year-old wondered 
if an earthquake struck his home 
in Fairfax, Virginia. 
He flicked on the light and looked down to 
see his older brother Danny having a seizure 
on the floor. He catapulted off his bunk bed 
and screamed for his parents as his brother’s 
eyes rolled back into his head. 
Six years later, Michael received a call dur-
ing a UF Student Senate committee meeting. 
Danny had another seizure. 
Michael Murphy considers his Student 
Government roles as vessels to take care of 
people like Danny whose epilepsy isn’t imme-
diately recognizable. 
“It’s being there for students when they 
need it,” said the 21-year-old UF political sci-
ence junior.
Murphy is a three-term senator who has 
served as the Senate Pro Tempore and Senate 
President. 
Former Student Body Vice President 
Brendon “BJ” Jonassaint met Murphy dur-
ing a 2016 Preview presentation. Jonassaint 
watched Murphy grow through his SG roles. 
Murphy reached out to Jonassaint in Fall 
2017 to attend the welcome assemblies hosted 
by UF cultural associations. Jonassaint said he 
remembers Murphy’s many questions during 
each event.“On paper he’s extremely qualified, but 
his genuine attitude and integrity is some-
thing that cannot be overlooked,” said the 
24-year-old UF health administration graduate 
student. 
Michael is the third Murphy brother to at-
tend UF. His eldest brother Blake was an Im-
pact Party campaign manager. 
Murphy isn’t interested in leaving a cam-
pus legacy plastered with his name. Anything 
accomplished will have been a team effort. 
“Ultimately, Student Government is the 
amplifier to the bulk of the students’ voices,” 
Murphy said. 
The team mentality can be connected to 
Murphy’s dedication to his family. 
If you ask what his favorite movie is, he’ll 
answer with “The Emperor’s New Groove.” 
He watches it with his sister, Molly, whenever 
he’s home. 
Most played song? It’s “Funkytown” by 
Lipps Inc. because it doesn’t have explicit lyr-
ics, and everyone seems to like it. 
“I like to think that I am someone who is 
inclusive and tries to be including to other 
people and makes them feel comfortable,” 
Murphy said. 
Briana Bazail met Murphy through a mu-
tual friend in Fall 2018. She said Murphy can 
be in a suit in the Reitz Union one moment 
and then spilling coffee on himself at Dunkin’ 
the next moment. 
“He’s the friend that constantly checks in 
on you when you’re having a rough week,” 
said the 21-year-old UF mass communication 
graduate student. 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
STUDENT BODY VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
Michael Murphy
Sarah AbrahamZachariah Chou
Gouthami GadamsettyReach 50,000+ sports fans by featuring 
your ad on the NCAA T ournament  
Bracket! This special bracket will be a 
pull out section that Gator fans can use 
for the whole three weeks of March 
Madness to track their favorite teams.
RUN DATE
Mon, March 18DEADLINE
Thurs March 14T ake the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Starting at
$241.79
includes full color
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Contact Alligator Advertising
Reserve your space today!
376.4482 
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Mackintosh 
Joachim 
screamed 
when he 
was ac-
cepted into UF.
His dad kicked 
down his bedroom 
door with a base-
ball bat in hand. 
“My father 
thought I was be-
ing robbed,” the 
19-year-old UF ﬁ  -
nance and wom-
en’s studies sopho-
more said. 
Joachim applied 
to UF against his 
parents’ wishes. 
They wanted him 
to stay close to West Palm Beach and at-
tend Florida Atlantic University. 
Joachim’s ﬁ  rst semester, Summer B 
2017, is his favorite memory. He said his 
Graham Hall ﬂ  oor had an open door poli-
cy in which everyone left their doors open 
so people could come in and chat.
Graham Hall also housed Joachim’s 
worst UF experience: the arrival of white 
nationalist Richard Spencer in Fall 2017. 
“That day everyone locked their 
doors,” Joachim said. 
Joachim, the son of Haitian immi-
grants, saw how black and brown folks 
were treated and became involved in Stu-
dent Government as a senator for the Gra-
ham Area.
Joachim said he wants to create a bet-
ter UF for his kids one day.
“I would like to make UF a place where 
every student can feel welcome and safe,” 
Joachim said. 
During his freshman year campaign, 
Joachim met one of his best friends, 
Franceline Amissant. 
“He’s the kindest person I’ve met on campus so far,” 
said Amissant, a 
19-year-old UF 
nursing sopho-
more. 
Amissant said 
she has seen 
Joachim run to the 
aid of someone 
having an asthma 
attack and explain 
the ﬁ  nancial aid 
process to a stu-
dent even when he 
has work, classes 
and organizations 
to look after. 
Venecia Street 
said she some-
times has to bring 
Joachim Chick-ﬁ  l-A 
when he works at the Graham Area desk 
because he forgets to eat. 
“He’ll be on campus from 8 to 11 at 
night,” said Street, a 19-year-old UF health 
education and behavior sophomore.
Joachim has plenty to do, but he re-
serves Sundays for cooking. He wants 
to preserve the tradition he had with his 
mom, who died from cancer in November. 
“I want to feel closer to her still,” 
Joachim said.
He remembers cooking with his mom 
after church and getting up at 2 a.m. to 
prepare Thanksgiving for the whole fam-
ily. Jerk chicken, seafood and a pork dish 
called griot were in constant rotation. 
When he announced he was running 
for Student Body treasurer, the ﬁ  rst per-
son he wanted to talk to was her. 
Last year, he wanted to quit SG, but his 
mom texted him, “When you start some-
thing, you never quit it.”
He reads those texts often. He believes 
she would be proud.If “Lloraras” by 
Oscar D’León 
is playing, you 
can bet San-
tiago Gutierrez 
is somewhere danc-
ing. 
At a party, at 
Felipe’s Mexican 
Taqueria or at La 
Casita, Gutier-
rez’s charisma is 
expressed through 
merengue, bachata, 
cumbia and salsa. 
Music has been 
an ingredient in 
Gutierrez’s life 
since high school 
when he played 
percussion in the 
concert and marching bands. He conduct-
ed part of the halftime show as one of the 
drum majors his senior year. 
The chaos of music has taught the 
20-year-old UF international studies and 
economics junior to ﬁ  nd balance in his 
leadership. 
“No matter how stressful, no matter 
how chaotic, you have to stay calm,” Guti-
errez said. 
Gutierrez has struck a balance in his 
roles as the treasurer of the Hispanic Stu-
dent Association, and later, as the chief 
of staff. The Hispanic Student Association 
manages a budget of $120,000. 
Brenda Villanueva, UF Hispanic Stu-
dent Association president, knew Gutier-
rez was going places when she ﬁ  rst met 
him in a philosophy class his freshman 
year. She said he was instrumental in ar-
ranging for Pitbull’s recent performance 
on campus and revising the Hispanic Stu-
dent Association bylaws.
But the work Gutierrez completes isn’t 
self-serving, the 20-year-old UF marketing 
and economics senior said.“At the end of 
the day, he’s do-
ing everything that 
he’s doing for his 
family,” Villanueva 
said. 
Gutierrez’s par-
ents emigrated 
from Colombia be-
fore he was born. 
He wears a yellow, 
blue and red cord 
bracelet on his left 
arm every day to 
remind him of his 
heritage.
Per tradition, 
the bracelet will 
not leave Gutier-
rez’s arm until it 
falls off. The brace-
let also inspires him to infuse more tradi-
tions into the UF experience.
“I think with all this talk of becoming a 
big top ﬁ  ve school, we’re losing a little bit 
of our identity as Gators,” Gutierrez said. 
“Traditions are very important in afﬁ  rm-
ing that love for the school.”
Isabella Oliver, the vice president of 
operations for the UF Hispanic Student 
Association said Gutierrez has helped her 
professionally and personally. 
Last semester, Gutierrez accompanied 
Oliver to the Southwest Recreation Cen-
ter where they completed workouts Oli-
ver created from Instagram. On the mats, 
Gutierrez challenged and motivated Oliver 
with positivity.
“I associated that time with him with 
a time of self care,” the 21-year-old UF 
political science and international studies 
junior said. 
On and off the dance ﬂ  oor, Santiago 
Gutierrez wants to move himself and UF 
forward. 
“Calm down. Don’t freak out. Just feel 
the rhythm,” Gutierrez said. STUDENT BODY TREASURER CANDIDATES
Mackintosh Joachim Santiago Gutierrez10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Birthday Bash
T ophat (left) and Jewel (right), members of The Enforcers Motorcycle Club, prepare to ride off Saturday afternoon 
during the Harley-Davidson 26th Birthday Bash at the Gainesville Harley-Davidson and Buell dealership on 4125 NW 
97th Blvd. T ophat and Jewel refused to give their real names because it would break their organization’s creed. Bikers 
came from all over the country for the celebration. “We all talk with each other like we’ve known each other for 20 years. 
We’re bonded by the motorcycles, ” said Jerry Fletcher, a Gainesville resident who has attended the event for 18 years. 
CONSTRUCTION WILL BEGIN 
LATER THIS YEAR
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
High-voltage transmission lines loom 
over children playing on rusted metal swings 
and a merry-go-round at a park in northeast 
Gainesville.
Northeast 31st Avenue Park, at 1700 NE 
31st Ave., will be replaced with a new park 
on a 3-acre plot of land next door later this 
year at 1710 NE 31st Ave. The new park will 
be renamed Unity Park.
The current park was built in the 1960s, 
and the power lines were constructed in the 
1970s, said Betsy Waite, the director of Wild 
Spaces and Public Places. She said while the 
power lines are not dangerous to children 
playing in the park, the situation is not ideal. 
Wild Spaces and Public Places will unveil 
project plans for the replacement park at 6 
p.m. Tuesday at Upper Room Ministries, at 3575 NE 15th St.
The organization is part of the city parks 
department and funded by the half cent sales tax approved by voters in November 2016.
“We want to make sure we heard them 
at the open house, focus groups and online survey and that we have all those elements 
on paper,” Waite said. The cost of the project 
will be decided after the meeting.
Waite said the plot was picked because it 
had more space. 
The project is about halfway through de-
sign and is set to have two basketball courts, 
a pavilion, a community garden, a new play-
ground and an exercise loop, Waite said. 
Park construction is expected to begin 
later this year, and the original park will be 
demolished once complete, Waite said. The 
new plot is owned by Gainesville Regional 
Utilities.
The project also received $10,000 from 
the Gainesville Woman’s Club in June, 
Waite said.
 For the last two years, the non-proﬁ  t club 
focused on Unity Park, said Bonita Kremer, 
the club’s treasurer. 
“Things come to our attention, and then 
we go out to help,” Kremer said.
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgGainesville park will move away from high-voltage lines
HE CAUSED ABOUT 
$500 IN DAMAGES
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A college student asked an ofﬁ  cer to 
“stop being a cop” for $25,000 after being 
accused of drunkenly driving into a light 
pole.
Daniel Michael Crowe, a 19-year-old 
Santa Fe College health sciences sopho-
more, crashed into a light pole near 2200 
SW 38th Terrace at about 1:22 a.m., ac-
cording to a Gainesville Police arrest re-
port. 
Crowe caused about $500 in damages, the report said. After 
the crash, two witness-
es saw him drive into 
the Ridge at Gainesville 
apartment complex.  
When police talked 
to him, they said his 
eyes were glassy and 
watery, the report said. 
They couldn’t understand him because his 
speech was mumbled and slurred. 
Crowe also couldn’t maintain his bal-
ance and kept swaying, the report said. 
His breath smelled like alcohol and he had 
dried mucus in his nose and around his 
mouth.
He refused to give a breath sample, the report said.
While he was being taken to the police 
department, Crowe told the ofﬁ  cer he was 
a millionaire and asked if they could “stop 
being a cop” and set him free for $25,000, 
the report said. The ofﬁ  cer refused. 
Crowe was charged with a DUI and 
damaging property and resisting an ofﬁ  cer 
without violence and bribery, the report 
said. 
He declined to comment.
Crowe was released from the Alachua 
County Jail on his own recognizance on 
Friday. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgSanta Fe College student accused of drunk driving
Crowe
Map by Jordan Bourne
Northeast 31st Avenue Park, at 1700 NE 31st Ave., will be relocated away from 
high-voltage lines and be renamed to Unity Park. It will have a new playground 
and activity spaces for the community. The area on the right is Northeast 31st 
Avenue Park and the area on the left will be Unity Park.
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
After allegedly failing to 
rob a pizzeria, a man went to 
a school about three minutes 
away and is accused of suc-
ceeding at robbing it Friday.
At about 11:30 p.m. Thurs-
day, Robert James Medlock, 
26, of Fort White, Florida, was 
seen on a surveillance camera 
trying to break into a freezer outside of Pepper-
oni’s Pizzeria, at 19975 NW 244th St., according 
to a High Springs Police arrest report. 
He wasn’t able to because it was locked, the 
report said.
About an hour later, he was walking around 
the parking lot of First Christian Academy, at 
24530 NW 199th Lane, when he saw an open 
window and used it to get inside the school, the 
report said.
He knocked things over and dumped trash 
inside the building, the report said. He stole an 
unspecified amount of food, digital projectors 
and flat-screen televisions worth several thou-
sands of dollars.
The academy had to pay for damaged items 
to be replaced, restored and cleaned, the report 
said. 
A witness recognized Medlock the next morn-
ing near Pepperoni’s Pizzeria and called police, 
the report said. 
He confessed to police that he stole the items 
and hid them in a wooded area nearby, the re-
port said. 
Medlock was charged with burglary, loiter-
ing and prowling, trespassing on school grounds 
and attempted burglary, the report said.
Medlock remains in the Alachua County Jail 
Sunday in lieu of a $170,000 bond. 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgMan accused of 
robbing school, 
attempted pizzeria
His bond is $170,000
Medlock
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
One Bedroom spacious apartment
with Balcony- 2nd Floor.
Walk to Oaks mall and Restaurants-
Call 404-323-9338      2-18-19-3-2
WANTED TO RENT:
Apt, Cottage, Efficiency, Cabin
in relatively quiet & safe area.
I have a HUD / VASH voucher 386-266-6886     
2-22-3-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Busy professional looking for assistant to 
help with errands, managing household, 
etc. 3 hours/week guaranteed, $15.00/hour. 
Contact me at kathyob1961@gmail.com     
2-20-19-3-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
Do you WordPress? If so, we have a job for 
you. You must have strong WP knowledge, 
be familiar with theme development and basic 
coding languages (HTML, CSS, JavaScript & 
PHP). www.dmcreativestudios.com/careers    
2-22-19-4-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring 
deli help.  Fast paced friendly environment. 
No experience needed. Reliable transporta -
tion a must. Applications available on site at 
2327 N W 13th Street.     2-25-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"MATH TUTOR
More thank 20 years of exp. UF engineer 
graduate. Please call Hermon 352-225-8980    
3-1-19-7-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
Learn today,
how to make an extra $400 per week
completing surveys as a student!
Go to www.collegeopportunity.cc     2-18-19-
3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
New side-hustle alert!
Join www.Brands.Buzz and start earning 
with your social network…consistently, every 
day! Free to register. Join today!       2-20-
19-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SERVICE DOG - PTSD, AUTISM CERTIFIED
3 months old, AKC yellow lab, male. 
Comes with training. $1800. 352-472-6099. 
Volunteers needed.              2-18-19-5-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1.  Warning word
1.  Cow, buffalo, etc.5.  Lawful, genuine
2.  ____ mat 6.  ____ Wilde
3.  Extreme7.  Car ____
4.  ____ imageARBEEW
NOBEIVIDAVL
CROAS
EOEMLWC
DALCAIRELERDA
ROMRIRANSWERS: 1A-Beware  5A-Valid  6A-Oscar  7A-Dealer
1D-Bovine  2D-Welcome  3D-Radical  4D-Mirror  B-David Bowie2-18-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ and Peter Frampton 
were childhood friends.
BONUS1. Which major-league team was the 
first to win championships in three 
different divisions?
2. In 1955, a rookie pitcher led each 
league in strikeouts for the season. 
Name either pitcher.
3. Name the last non-SEC team 
before Troy in 2017 to beat the Tigers 
in LSU’s Tiger Stadium.
4. In 2018, Philadelphia’s Markelle 
Fultz became the youngest player (19 
years, 317 days) in NBA history to 
record a triple-double. Who had been 
the youngest?
5. Who was the first player in NHL 
history to have at least 50 assists in 10 
consecutive seasons?
6. What was the last NASCAR race 
won by Dale Earnhardt?
7. How many times has tennis great 
Roger Federer finished a season in the 
top three of the ATP rankings?
Answers
1. Houston won division titles in the 
N.L. West, N.L. Central and A.L. West.
2. Cleveland’s Herb Score (245 
strikeouts) and Sam Jones of the Chi-
cago Cubs (198).
3. UAB, in 2000.
4. Lonzo Ball (20 years, 15 days) of 
the Los Angeles Lakers in 2017.
5. St. Louis’ Bernie Federko (1978-
79 through 1987-88 seasons).
6. He won the Winston 500 at Talla-
dega in 2000.
7. Fourteen.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
February 18, 2019King Features Weekly Service
By Kurt Krauss
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/18/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/18/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 18, 2019
ACROSS
1 Class-conscious 
gp.
4 Big name in 
underwear
9 Near-sighted Mr.
14 __-de-sac
15 Conical home
16 Do penance
17 Extreme-weather 
restriction, 
perhaps
19 Dwindled
20 Krispy __ 
doughnuts
21 Chat room 
chuckle
23 Japanese 
computer giant
24 18-wheeler
25 Title bear of  
’60s TV
28 A flirt may bat 
one
31 Mount McKinley, 
now
32 ’60s “acid”
33 Like baggy  
pants
36 Bewilder
37 Brit’s trash can
39 Paris’ river
43 Boxing’s “Iron 
Mike”
44 Yahoo! rival
47 Obtain through 
intimidation, as 
money
49 Attached, as 
hotel rooms
51 Classic French 
song whose title 
means “It’s so 
good”
54 Unexpected thing 
to hit
55 Cornfield sound
56 Suffix with iso-  
or poly-
57 Footnote abbr.
59 Sci-fi author 
Verne
61 Frank holder
64 Leaning
65 Battery post
66 Absorbed, as a 
loss
67 Fishing line 
holders
68 What a rooster 
rules
69 Like seven U.S. 
flag stripesDOWN
1 Cut for an agt.
2 Thanksgiving 
birds
3 Fearful
4 Flower part
5 Brazilian soccer 
legend
6 Msg. for a cop car
7 “Their Eyes Were 
Watching God” 
novelist Zora __ 
Hurston
8 Arc lamp gas
9 Animal’s gullet
10 Finished
11 (Having) spoiled
12 Like amoebas
13 Wordsmith’s ref.
18 Wedding wear
22 Inc., in Toronto
24 French salt
25 White-sheet 
wearer, on 
Halloween
26 Singer Rimes 
and soaps 
actress Hunley
27 Never, in Neuss
29 Birch family trees
30 Not worth a __
34 Hog’s home
35 “Barnaby Jones” 
star Buddy38 + or - particle
39 “Just a __!”
40 Carry out, as a 
task
41 “Don’t believe 
that!”
42 Ailing
44 Hotel room 
amenity
45 It’s a law
46 Opposite of  
pos.
48 Comic Conway50 Maritime safety 
gp.
52 Joy of “The View”
53 Maine college 
town
57 Sports betting 
numbers
58 Browning or Burns
59 Pickle container
60 Ave. crossers
62 As well
63 Beatty of 
“Deliverance”
By Christopher Adams
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, February 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 High-tech 
accessory that 
may pose privacy 
issues
7 Not quite aligned
13 No-nonsense 
marker
14 Runs off, in a way
16 Leader of New 
Netherland 
before it was 
renamed New 
York
18 Caltech, e.g.: 
Abbr.
19 The __ Man: 
Major Arcana 
card
20 “Nixon in China” 
tenor role
21 Multiple of LXVII
22 Mobile maker
23 Flirtatious bat
24 1983 Streisand 
film
26 Spy novelist 
Deighton
27 “Clerks” clerk
28 Gandhi family 
notable
30 Exposes
31 “The Card 
Players” artist
33 Positive
34 Contract with a 
flat fee?
35 Sweetly, in suites
36 Dizzy genre
37 Secret targets?
41 Old senate 
setting
42 Japan, to natives
44 Roof, e.g.
45 PC space bar 
neighbor
46 Homer, in 
baseball lingo
47 Pieces for one
48 Historical role 
played by Sally 
Field in 2012
51 Coral relative
52 Dr. Scholl’s 
products
53 Promo
54 More adroit
DOWN
1 Word of origin
2 Dirties the dishes3 Poison frontman 
Michaels
4 Bit of EMT 
expertise
5 “Whose Line Is 
It Anyway?” host 
Tyler
6 Like gong 
sounds
7 Space shuttle 
gas
8 Contagious 
enthusiasm
9 Couples of golf
10 “Help wanted” 
sign?
11 Test taker
12 What letters 
need
13 Hot
15 Fuel
17 Like film in a 
camera
22 Composer 
Debussy
23 Put on notice
25 Blank state
27 Ted of “The 
Good Place”
29 Eponymous 2001 
pop album
30 Barnyard sound31 Coconut source
32 Early 
transatlantic  
flier
33 Nuclear reactor 
need
35 Golden Globes 
genre
36 Potential stock 
buyer
38 1962 Lawrence 
portrayer
39 Painting supply40 Pleasant rides
42 2007 #1 hit for 
Alicia Keys
43 Put in one’s two 
cents
46 Classic muscle 
cars
47 Andy Murray, by 
birth
49 Soprano  
Sumac
50 “The Puzzle 
Palace” org.16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida finishes home golf tournament in second place
The Gators men's golf team fell to No. 3 Vanderbilt by one stroke on the fi-
nal hole of the Florida Gators Invitational. UF had four golfers place in the 
top 30: John Axelsen (-3, tied for fourth), Eugene Hong (E, tied for 12th), 
Manuel Girona (+2, tied for 18th), and Chris Nido (+5, tied for 30th).alligatorSports writer and UF 
women's tennis and golf beat 
reporter Victor Prieto won 
the NBA All Star Pop-a-Shot 
Competition on Saturday. He 
dropped 36 points in the finals.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Andrew Nembhard made the right 
choice.
The UF guard had Alabama for-
ward Donta Hall’s hands in his face 
near the free-throw line, where he 
was getting ready to shoot the ball.
Instead, Nembhard passed up the 
shot, drove to the right and lofted the 
ball up for a successful floater, giving 
his team a 12-point advantage late in 
the first half against the Crimson Tide.
Those types of shots allowed Flor-
ida to get more balance from its of-
fense in the past couple of games, and 
that showed in its 71-53 win over Ala-
bama on Saturday.
The Gators’ first six field goals of 
the game were from inside the three-
point arc, and three of those shots 
were from Nembhard.
The freshman made all nine of his 
attempts on Saturday, largely due to 
his shot selection.
He scored 12 of his 21 points in the 
paint, and his two made three point-
ers were uncontested.
Nembhard’s smart shot-taking mir-
rored the Gators’ offense against the 
Crimson Tide.
Florida is a team that averages 25.4 three-point attempts per game, 
but when the three pointers didn’t fall 
in the first half against Alabama — it 
went 4 of 12 for the period — Florida 
started working the ball to the inte-
rior. And despite shooting 33 percent 
from beyond the arc in the first half, 
the Gators made over half of their 
shots during that span.
They took fewer three-point shots 
(7) after the halftime break and shot 
54.5 percent in the second half.
Guard KeVaughn Allen was 5 of 
9 from the field with 13 points, and 
all but one of his baskets (a contested 
three-pointer in the first half) were ei-
ther layups or mid-range jumpers.
Center Kevarrius Hayes and for-
ward Keyontae Johnson were also ef-
ficient in the post. Hayes scored six of 
his nine points in the paint, and John-
son notched a 14-point, 13-rebound 
double-double.
The Gators’ ability to both push in 
transition and attack the rim contrib-
uted to them outscoring the Tide 6-0 
in fastbreak points and 36-24 in points 
in the paint.
The first UF transition score was 
just three minutes into the game. 
Nembhard stole the ball from Ala-Gators finding inside game at critical point of season
BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
A warm February afternoon in Gainesville 
featured some chilly bats.
Sophomore Jack Leftwich, UF’s Sunday 
starter, made light work of LBSU’s lineup, 
only allowing five hits and one earned run 
through six innings.
The Dirtbags got to the Orlando native 
early, however. 
Aidan Malm homered out to deep left-cen-
ter to give Long Beach State a 1-0 lead in the 
second inning.
Leftwich settled in nicely after that, not al-
lowing another run to help lead UF to a 3-1 
victory at McKethan Stadium.
Leftwich showcased a calm demeanor in 
his first start of 2019 to go along with impres-
sive control. He struck out five batters while 
not giving up a single walk on the day.
“I felt really good right away today,” Left-
wich said. “I was just trying to attack and keep everything consistent.”
Relief pitcher Hunter Ruth — returning 
from Tommy John surgery — made his first 
appearance as a Gator, replacing Leftwich in 
the top of the seventh.
He pitched two scoreless innings, retiring 
six of the seven batters he faced.
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan was asked 
about his redshirt freshman’s first appearance 
after the game.
“It was really good to get Hunter (Ruth) 
out there,” O’Sullivan said. “I thought his 
stuff was darting...He’s going to be a huge 
piece moving forward, for sure.”
At the plate, Florida’s bats mustered just 
enough juice to support the pitching staff, 
scoring three runs on six hits.
The Gators primarily got to LBSU fresh-
man starter Alfredo Ruiz in the third and 
fourth innings.
UF loaded the bases with two outs to give 
freshman Jud Fabian an opportunity to get UF secures opening-series sweep 
behind strong outing from LeftwichAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Andrew Nembhard scored nine points against Vanderbilt on Wednesday. He 
scored a career-high 21 points on 9-for-9 shooting against Alabama on Saturday.
Nothing But Nettuno / Opinion
Six games remain in the 
regular season for the Gators’ 
men’s basketball team.
Six more opportunities 
to prove its worth to a com-
mittee of people tasked with 
choosing which 68 of the 
more than 350 Division I col-
lege basketball teams deserve 
to make the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
The idea that Florida still stands a 
chance of being one of those 68 programs 
eludes most UF fans. But in their 71-53 
takedown of Alabama, a likely tourna-
ment team that beat now-No. 5 Kentucky 
on Jan. 5, the Gators showed that they 
are still very much in the race for a slot in 
March Madness.
But what’s it going to take to get there?
Sitting at 14-11 overall with a 6-6 re-
cord in the SEC, the situation isn’t great. 
But despite the questionable record, UF 
is ranked 40th in the NCAA’s NET rank-ings. It can thank a schedule 
that rarely puts it up against 
poor opponents for that. 
Florida played 11 “Quad-
rant 1” games, tied for the 
11th-most in the nation. 
For those unfamiliar with 
the NCAA lexicon, that cor-
responds to games against 
teams ranked in the top 30 of 
the NET when the game is at 
home, teams in the top 50 when its on a 
neutral court or teams in the top 75 when 
the game is on the road.
Unfortunately for the Gators, they are 
2-9 in these games. Only the Alabama 
win and a victory over Arkansas on Jan. 
9 count as high-quality wins, according 
to the NCAA’s metrics.
Still, UF has given tournament-caliber 
teams like Michigan State, Kentucky and 
Tennessee late-game anxiety. These per-
formances, along with a lack of disas-What Florida needs to do to 
make the NCAA Tournament
Tyler Nettuno
Twitter: @TylerNettuno
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Normality.
It’s a principle that Florida gymnastics 
coach Jenny Rowland has drilled into her 
team from the very beginning of the year. 
Time and time again, UF’s gymnasts have at-
tested that the key to  their success is to go 
into the meet and do exactly what they have 
done in practice: be normal.
With their win in Tuscaloosa on Friday 
against No. 9 Alabama, every SEC team 
knows by now that the Gators’ “normal” is 
anything but.
UF’s average score across all of its meets 
so far this year is a 197.670. That score is 
higher than the best score from seven of the 
other top-10 teams in the nation, along with 
every other SEC team. 
The Gators are undefeated in conference 
play thus far and have taken down two of 
the SEC’s three other top-10 squads in LSU 
and Alabama. With two more SEC meets to 
go, it isn’t just a possibility that the Gators 
go undefeated in their conference for the first 
time since 2007, it’s extremely likely.
Florida’s next meet is against No. 7 Geor-
gia, and although they’re a top-10 team, they 
could be outclassed when they step into the 
O’Connell Center next week. 
On top of the home-meet advantage UF 
will have, Georgia has lost to two teams that 
the Gators have beaten this year in Auburn 
and Alabama, the latter in the Bulldogs’ own 
arena. Georgia fell to Oklahoma by over 2.5 
points, a matchup that Florida kept within .300. 
All of this coupled with the fact Georgia 
has only hit at or above the 197 mark in 
three of its eight meets gives a fairly steep 
advantage to the Gators.
After the Bulldogs, Florida takes on No. 
21 Arkansas. 
Despite being ranked in the top 25, the 
Razorbacks are a staggering 1-5.  They have 
yet to win a meet in conference play, with 
their only victory coming against No. 25 Ari-
zona. 
Their highest score of the season is 
196.175 against the Bulldogs, and that was 
one of only two times they were able to crack 
the 196 mark. Should the Gators defeat Geor-
gia in Gainesville, it’s almost a certainty that 
they’ll complete their sweep of the SEC when 
they travel to Fayetteville, Arkansas, in two 
weeks.
If Florida does win out in SEC competi-
tion, it will have accomplished a feat not 
even its three consecutive 2013-15 national 
championship squads could do. It is certain-
ly no easy task, and UF’s gymnasts speak 
often of how the conference’s high level of 
competition forges a better team.
“Luckily, we’re in one of the best confer-
ences, and we get to compete against the 
best teams,” sophomore Alyssa Baumann 
said before the meet against Alabama. “Each 
time we go against an SEC team, it’s a big 
deal, and you want to come away with that 
win.” 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgThe SEC may not have an answer for Florida after Tuscaloosa victory
Alligator File Photo
Florida coach Jenny Rowland hugs gymnast Alyssa Baumann after her beam routine 
during UF’s 198.15-198.125 win over Oklahoma on Jan. 26, 2018.
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
First baseman Jordan Matthews mea-
sured up a 2-2 offering from Central Mich-
igan pitcher Cloe Mallory and made explo-
sive contact. The softball soared through 
the desert air and landed over the red 
fence. 
The home run tacked two runs onto 
the board, giving the Florida softball team 
a critical eight-run lead heading into the 
fifth inning. 
The margin was just enough to run-rule 
the Chippewas (4-6), as Matthews’ home 
run punctuated a 76-minute, four-and-a-
half inning UF victory, 8-0. 
The win completed an undefeated ef-
fort for Florida at the Littlewood Classic 
in Tempe, Arizona, which improved to 
11-0 to start the 2019 campaign. It was the 
third run-rule victory by the Gators in two 
days. 
The UF offense started with a lead-off 
blast by designated player Jordan Roberts 
in the bottom of the second inning and 
ended on the two-run homer. Matthews 
and Roberts led the team offensively with 
two hits, two RBIs and two runs apiece.
Florida also reaped plenty of benefits 
from the Chippewas’ blunders. Each of 
Central Michigan’s three errors directly 
led to a run. 
Second baseman Hannah Adams 
knocked a ground ball to Central Michi-
gan second baseman Rachel Vieira, who let the ball squirt into the outfield and al-
lowed Roberts to score from second. 
Aggressive baserunning by pinch run-
ner Amanda Beane caused two more er-
rors in the fourth. The freshman stole 
second, advanced to third on a throwing 
error by the catcher and took home after 
a throw from center field flew into the 
Florida dugout. 
The Chippewas were no match on of-
fense for the pitching of senior Kelly Barn-
hill and sophomore Natalie Lugo. Barnhill 
started and improved to 6-0 on the season, 
while Lugo came in to close out the game. 
Barnhill allowed one walk and one hit 
in four innings of action. The two-time All 
American struck out eight batters, two in 
each inning. She improved her earned-run 
average to 0.88 and her WHIP (walks and 
hits per innings pitched) to 0.56. Barnhill 
already has 54 strikeouts in 32 innings 
pitched. 
Lugo allowed a single to start the fifth 
inning to Central Michigan’s Tala Dean, 
who made it to third on a wild pitch and 
stolen base. But the UF reliever fanned the 
next three batters. She has 24 strikeouts in 
21.2 innings of work. 
The scoreless inning dropped Lugo’s 
earned-run average under one (0.97), and 
her WHIP moved to 0.42, the lowest on 
the Gators’ pitching staff. 
@mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.org 
 UF earns third run-rule win of weekend, stays undefeated
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida first baseman Jordan Matthews compiled two hits, two RBIs and two runs 
scored in UF’s 8-0 win over Central Michigan on Sunday. 
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2019
trous losses, leave Florida squarely 
in the hunt for a tournament berth.
Of the Gators’ six remaining SEC 
matchups, two — road bouts with 
Kentucky and LSU — are not likely 
to go their way. They must win the 
other four.
That includes beating the Tigers, 
as well as Missouri and Georgia, 
when they come to Gainesville. It 
would also require beating Vander-
bilt in Nashville, a feat Florida 
hasn’t accomplished since 2014.
The Gators could be favored in 
all of those games, as they’ve al-
ready beaten Vandy at home and 
the Bulldogs in Athens, Georgia. 
If UF wants to dance come March, 
they can’t afford to drop these con-
tests.
It’s hard to deny Florida’s im-
provement in recent wins over Ole 
Miss, Vanderbilt and Alabama, but 
it may be coming too late in the sea-
son. Coach Mike White knows that 
missing the tournament this year 
will only turn up the pressure that 
has mounted over the course of the 
season.
However, if the Gators can avoid 
causing further damage to their re-
sume over the final weeks of the 
season, they should hear their name 
called on Selection Sunday. 
Tyler Nettuno is a sports writer 
for the Alligator. Follow him on Twit-
ter @TylerNettuno or contact him at 
tnettuno@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
bama guard Dazon Ingram and drove to the 
basket for an easy layup.
He followed that up midway through 
the first half with another transition layup. 
That time, Allen found Nembhard on the 
fastbreak after guard Jalen Hudson came 
up with the ball off an Alabama turnover.There were several plays like that, 
where the Gators’ aggression on defense 
led to points on the offensive end (they 
scored 11 points off turnovers). 
They would’ve normally pulled up from 
deep in those situations, 
But in a game where its defense cre-
ated numerous opportunities for its of-
fense, Florida made the smart plays. And 
those plays ultimately allowed it to reach its highest point total since Jan. 30, when 
it scored 90 in an overtime win over Ole 
Miss.
Florida’s performance comes at a piv-
otal point in the year as postseason impli-
cations make each game more and more 
important.
NCAA Tournament projections have the 
Gators outside the top 68. But most brack-
etology experts still give Florida a slight chance to make the tournament.
ESPN Bracketology expert Joe Lunardi 
has Florida as the top team in his “First 
Four Out.”
But UF’s convincing win over Alabama, 
a team that is pegged to make the tourna-
ment, certainly helped its resume. 
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14The Gators scored 11 points off turnovers against Alabamathe team on the board.
Fabian stayed patient at the plate, getting 
the count to 3-2 before forcing a walk to al-
low sophomore  shortstop Brady McConnell 
to trot in from third base.
The next at-bat, freshman Roberto Pena — 
making his first start as a Gator — hit a line 
drive to LBSU third baseman Tanner Carlson 
that he couldn’t gather, allowing designated 
hitter Nelson Maldonado to score from third.
The fourth inning featured doubles from 
both catcher Santino Miozzi and McConnell.
McConnell’s shot down the left-field line 
scored Miozzi, giving the Gators a 3-1 lead.
He went 3 for 4 on the day, adding two 
singles to go along with his RBI double.
“Obviously it’s exciting to me,” McCon-
nell said, referring to his five-hit series this 
weekend. “I’m just glad we’re winning ball 
games, that’s what’s most important. If it’s 
me that’s helping, then cool.”
The Gators sent out closer Nolan Crisp 
once again to secure his second save in as 
many tries.
The freshman gave up a leadoff double 
in the ninth but retired three-straight LBSU 
batters afterwards to complete the sweep for 
Florida.
The youth of this team was a worry of 
O’Sullivan’s going into the season, but they 
showed an ability to stay composed on Sun-
day.
“You look out there late in the game, and you have a freshman at second, a redshirt 
freshman at short, you have a freshman at 
first, a high school senior at center, and a 
high school kid on the mound,” O’Sullivan 
said. “It wasn’t by design, but in a two-run game, they kept it together, and that was im-
pressive.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14McConnell went 3 for 4 off two singles and an RBI double
Alligator File Photo
Florida coach Kevin O'Sullivan went with redshirt freshman Hunter Ruth, who returned 
from T ommy John surgery, in relief of Sunday starter Jack Leftwich. 
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
Cam Newbauer just looked down in the 
post-game press conference. The typically 
optimistic coach was quiet after his team 
gave up over 90 points for a second-straight 
game. 
The offense clicked, but numerous times 
South Carolina rushed down the court and 
had wide-open shots while UF players still 
celebrated their points.
“Our defense has definitely got to get bet-
ter,” Newbauer said. “It starts with transition 
defense. Have to get better in that area.”
No. 11 South Carolina used its fast-paced 
play to defeat the Florida women’s basket-
ball team 96-77 Sunday at the O’Connell 
Center. The loss was UF’s seventh in its last 
eight games and the 10th straight against the 
Gamecocks.
South Carolina came into the matchup 
having won six of its last seven games, but 
Florida (6-19, 2-10 SEC) did not look intimi-dated. Donning their bright pink jerseys for 
the annual Play4Kay Pink Game, the Gators 
used strong drives and excellent passing to 
go on an 18-2 run in the opening quarter. 
Guards Danielle Rainey and Kiara Smith led 
the way, combining for 13 points and three 
rebounds. 
But once South Carolina settled in, the 
momentum began to shift.
The Gamecocks (19-6, 11-1 SEC) quickly 
stole the lead back in the second quarter. 
Florida’s transition defense was exposed 
when South Carolina began to effectively use 
its up-tempo offense. The consequence was 
a 16-2 South Carolina run and an eight-point 
deficit heading into the halftime break. 
Guards Bianca Cuevas-Moore and Des-
tanni Henderson commanded the offense, 
combining for 28 points (14 each) and four 
rebounds in the half. 
South Carolina continued its surge in the 
second half when forward Alexis Jennings 
began to impose herself by using her huge, 
6-foot-3 frame against Florida’s smaller in-terior defense. UF forward Zada Williams 
struggled to guard her in the post for much 
of the game and received little help defense 
from her teammates, allowing Jennings to 
bully her way to a 17-point third quarter and 
a 22-point game on 8-for-11 shooting. 
“She’s a good player,” Williams said after 
the game. “She was closing hard, posting re-
ally deep. I have to give her credit. She really 
busted her tail to get the ball, and that’s what 
happened.” 
Jennings’ performance broke the game 
open, and South Carolina extended its lead 
with seemingly every possession. The Game-
cocks shot over 60 percent from the field in 
the second half, and five players finished 
with nine or more points. 
Florida tried to match South Carolina shot 
for shot, but the Gamecocks' defense adjust-
ed well after giving up 25 points in the first 
quarter. The Gamecocks closed out well on 
the perimeter and contested every attempt.
The Gators had five players with 10 or 
more points but made just 39 percent of their shots after the opening quarter, including a 
dreadful 16 percent from three-point range. 
“Us being stagnant when they went to 
zone (defense) kind of hurt us,” Williams 
said. “Not really moving on weak sides. Not 
really finding open people. We have to work 
on our offense against that zone defense.”
Florida will need to find confidence on 
both sides of the ball before it travels to Ba-
ton Rouge, Louisiana, on Thursday to play 
LSU. Newbauer said he hopes that his play-
ers don’t get too discouraged after losing to 
one of the best teams in the SEC. 
“We talk a lot about passion and pur-
pose,” Newbauer said. “Losing is not fun. 
It steals your passion when you get beat up 
sometimes…I’m just proud that even though 
we didn’t get the outcome we wanted, they 
keep clawing and keep sticking together.”
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.orgFlorida swept in season series against South CarolinaWOMEN'S BASKETBALL