We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaper
HE PREVIOUSL Y SAID 
HE WOULD NOT 
RUN AGAIN
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer
A recent poll shows that Re-
publican voters favor Congress-
man Ted Yoho despite his pledge 
to serve for only eight years. 
Meer Research, a ﬁ  rm that of-fers polling in 
the political sec-
tor, completed 
the research poll 
Nov. 20 with a 
sample size of 
534 people. Ac-
cording to the 
poll, about 66 
percent of Republican voters in 
Florida’s Third Congressional 
District, which Yoho represents, 
have a very favorable opinion of him. 
When Yoho ﬁ  rst ran for Con-
gress in 2012, he said in a politi-
cal advertisement that he’ll “come 
home” after eight years in Wash-
ington D.C. However, he has ﬁ  led 
a Federal Election Commission 
statement of candidacy form for 
the 2020 elections but has not an-
nounced if he is running. 
About 29 percent of Repub-
lican voters said they would be 
more likely to vote for him if he broke his pledge to serve four 
terms, according to the poll.
Alex Patton, owner of Meer Re-
search, said the data shows how 
well-liked Yoho is by constituents 
of the Republican party.
“Obviously, the voters are say-
ing, ‘Don’t go, Yoho,’” he said. 
Yoho’s spokesperson Kat Cam-
mack did not reply to The Alliga-
tor when asked to comment on 
the poll as of Sunday evening. 
Jarrod Rodriguez, UF College Republicans treasurer, said Re-
publicans support Yoho because 
“he does a good job and delivers 
on what they’re looking for.” 
The 20-year-old political sci-
ence junior said it would be a 
safe bet for Yoho to be reelected 
instead of introducing a new rep-
resentative to take his seat. 
“I think he’s one of the good 
guys,” Rodriguez said.  
@lina_ruiz48 
lruiz@alligator.org 
Climate strike planned outside Tigert Hall
The group protests for more sustainable energy, pg 4
Student balances school and motherhood
UF student brings baby to class, pg 5UF moves to 5-2
A big win over Florida A&M helped the 
Gators end a two-game losing streak, pg 12
have a very favorable opinion of 
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 41
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Gators quarterback Feleipe 
Franks is leaving the football 
team, the redshirt junior an-
nounced on his Instagram page 
Sunday afternoon.
Franks said he will “explore 
his options” regarding the NFL 
Draft or landing at another 
school as a graduate transfer 
with immediate eligibility. 
“It has been my dream to 
play at the University of Flori-
da,” the post said. “I have been 
so fortunate to meet as many 
amazing people as I have while 
being here. Coaches, players, 
and fans as well.”
The passer joined the pro-
gram in spring 2016 as a four-
star recruit and the No. 5 pro-
style quarterback in the nation 
according to the 247Sports 
composite. Franks redshirted his ﬁ  rst sea-
son and was 
a two-year 
starter from 
2017-18.
He began 
the 2019 sea-
son as Flori-
da’s starting 
quarterback, throwing for 698 
yards, ﬁ  ve touchdowns and 
three picks before he suffered 
a season-ending ankle injury 
against Kentucky on Sept. 14.
His best year came last sea-
son, when he threw for 2,457 
yards, 31 total touchdowns (24 
through the air and seven on 
the ground) and only six inter-
ceptions. He led the Gators to 
a 41-15  Peach Bowl win over 
Michigan last December.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgFranks to leave Florida
Franks
Yoho
8-FOOT-6-INCH 
SCULPTURE TO 
BE ILLUMINATED
By Eli Rosen
Alligator Contributing Writer
An alligator will be lit up in 
front of the University Audito-
rium on Tuesday. 
But no animals will be 
harmed. 
UF administration is hosting 
its inaugural “Lighting of the Gator” event, illuminating a re-
usable steel Gator sculpture that 
will stand at 8 feet tall and 8 feet 
6 inches in diameter. 
The event will celebrate the 
changing seasons, holidays and 
the end of Fall on the lawn of 
the University Auditorium, on 
the corner of Newell Drive and 
Union Road, UF President Kent 
Fuchs wrote in an email. 
Students and faculty can 
watch the Gator shine bright in 
the center of UF campus with 
cookies, hot chocolate and hot apple cider from 5 to 6 p.m.
The lighting of the sculpture is 
a reflection of the theme of light, 
uniting students who may cel-
ebrate different holidays through 
a symbol they all resonate with: 
a gator, said Leslie Tharp, a UF 
College of the Arts alumna and 
local Gainesville metal artist 
who created the sculpture, in an 
email.
“The theme lends well to the 
changing of the seasons, the 
lightness of celebration and to 
the lighting as an event to gather and celebrate together,” Tharp 
said. “It seems brilliant to me 
and very inclusive to gather to 
celebrate light.”
Tharp and a team of sculptors 
and metalworkers used metal 
artmaking techniques includ-
ing forging, bending, welding 
and grinding metal to create the 
sculpture, she said. 
Initially, the Gator sculpture 
was only to be used for a holiday 
video from the president’s of-
fice, Fuchs said. However, after 
further discussion with Tharp, they decided the unveiling of the 
erected Gator would be better 
suited as a community event.
Fuchs said it’s important not 
only for students but for faculty 
and staff to have fun during fi-
nals, which tend to bring stress 
and anxiety toward the end of 
the semester.
“We hope this whimsical 
sculpture, with its light shining 
in the evenings, will add some 
cheer,” Fuchs wrote in an email. UF to light up alligator sculpture for end of semester  
Poll: Republicans back Yoho despite unknown candidacy 
UF VS. FSU
Samantha Harrison/ Alligator Staff
The Gators celebrate during their 40-17 blowout of Florida State on Saturday. Read the story on page 11.
SEE SCULPTURE,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  59° LOW  31°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Correction: SG Senate Adviser 
James Tyger never disclosed 
whether he agreed with judi-
ciary committee's decision to 
fail the resolution to impeach 
Michael Murphy. The Alligator 
reported differently. 
Correction: In regard to the story 
on the plastic straw policy, 
The Alligator reported the 
Gainesville city commission 
is waiting to ban the straws, 
but the commission already 
banned plastic straws, it's just 
not enforced until Jan. 1, 2020. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING
BSA Winter Charity Gala
When: Thursday, 7 p.m.
Where: Corry Village, 278 Corry 
Village
What: This year, the Bangladeshi 
Student Association teamed up 
with the JAAGO Through the Arts 
to raise funds to educate children 
in Bangladesh, provide a first aid 
clinic, weekly meals for children, 
women's empowerment and 
improve many other facets of the 
impoverished life cycle with their 
annual Winter Charity Gala. For 
a small donation, guests can eat a meal full of traditional Bengali 
food. There will be music, games 
and dancing as well. Additionally, 
there will be a photobooth to 
capture all the fun. Girls are 
asked to dress in traditional desi 
attire (or anything else you’d like 
to wear). To purchase a ticket, 
please pay Samiha Sayed with 
Venmo (@samihasayed14) or 
cash. Ticket prices will be $5 in 
advance and $7 at the door.
Youth Climate Strike 
Gainesville
When: Friday, Noon to 3 p.m.
Where: UF Tigert Hall
What: A list of demands for the 
University of Florida will be read, 
along with a general kickoff of 
the event. From there, the march 
will proceed to City Hall where a 
rally with speakers, performances 
and chants will occur. This march 
between the two significant 
buildings is intended to symbolize 
the connection between UF and 
the Gainesville city government.
Generation Sketch Comedy: 
“We Got HOT”
When: Friday, 8:30 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom West
What: Gainesville's Longest -Running Sketch Comedy Troupe 
is back with their Fall show. 
Generation Sketch Comedy has 
been providing laughs to the 
UF and Gainesville community 
since Spring 2006. Admission is a 
donation of your choice, but the 
recommended amount is $2. 
Little Run on the Prairie 5K
When: Saturday, 7 a.m. to Noon
Where: Alachua County 4-H, 
2800 NE 39th Ave.
What: The Little Run on the 
Prairie 5K is a trail run through 
Paynes Prairie. The money raised 
through the event goes towards 
4-H summer camp scholarships 
for special interest, residential 
and county day camps. Dogs on a 
leash are also welcome.
GLAM Craft Show
When: Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Company, 1220 SE Veitch St.
What: Mark your calendars for 
the 11th annual winter edition of 
GLAM Craft Show. The free event 
will feature crafty gifts, street 
food and local beer for sale.
The Yule Ball
When: Dec.21, 8 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Co., 1220 SE Veitch St.
What: First Magnitude Brewing 
invites all muggles and magical 
beings alike to a formal evening 
affair. Guests are encouraged 
to come in formal wear, dresses 
and dress robes are strongly 
encouraged. Happy hour will go 
from 7 to 8 p.m. with discounts 
for anyone in formal dress or 
dress robes.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 41
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeChloe Greenberg, Lonnie Numa, Danny Khor, 
Manny Rea, Allessandra Inzinna, Rachel Kelsey, 
Samia Lagmis, Ashlyn JonesMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Viel, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019NEW DEPARTMENTS TO 
MAKE CLASSES, MAJORS 
MORE SPECIFIC
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
This semester, students can 
pursue more specialized degrees 
in the College of Health and Hu-
man Performance. 
UF’s new Department of Tour-
ism, Hospitality and Event Man-
agement and Department of Sport 
Management were established in 
August and opened to students 
this semester. The previous de-
partment, Tourism, Recreation 
and Sport Management, split up to create the two new depart-
ments, said Doug DeMichele, 
master lecturer, internship coor-
dinator and undergraduate co-
ordinator of the Department of 
Sport Management.
“One of the goals of the pro-
gram is for the students to benefit 
from this,” DeMichele said. “The 
future looks really good for our 
students.”
He also said the goal of the de-
partments is to help UF rise to the 
top five of the U.S. News & World 
Report national public university 
rankings. 
Brijesh Thapa, a professor 
and undergraduate coordinator 
for the Department of Tourism, Hospitality and Event Manage-
ment said this new department 
is important because the industry 
is growing, especially in Florida, 
and students will gain experience 
through internships, field trips 
and guest speakers. 
“There’s a need to get more 
graduates out in terms of meet-
ing the demands of the industry,” 
Thapa said. “There’s quite a lot 
of jobs out there in the market-
place.” 
Sport Management offers 
many career paths as well, in-
cluding work as athletic directors 
or in fitness centers, DeMichele 
said. These career paths can lead 
to jobs with institutions such as NASCAR or USGA.
The Department of Tourism, 
Hospitality and Event Manage-
ment offers a minor in event man-
agement, undergraduate degrees 
in tourism, event and recreation 
management, on-campus and on-
line graduate degrees in tourism 
and recreation management and 
a doctorate degree in recreation, 
parks and tourism. 
The Department of Sport Man-
agement offers undergraduate, 
graduate and doctorate degrees in 
sport management and a certifi-
cate in sport management.
Both departments are current-
ly searching for program chairs 
and hope to have one by July 1. Nicole Abis, a 22-year-old UF 
event management senior, said 
the split allowed professors to di-
versify the curriculum according 
to the various industries includ-
ed in the departments. Abis also 
likes the smaller class sizes and 
the ability to build better relation-
ships with her professors.
“The industry is so wide, 
there’s so many different events,” 
Abis said. “I think it’s important 
that in our undergrad we can get 
as specific as possible.”
 
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org
ORGANIZERS WILL 
MARCH TO CITY HALL 
By Zachary Huber
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will demand UF ad-
ministration and Gainesville City 
Hall to change their climate poli-
cies Friday. 
Climate Action Gator is host-
ing a Youth Climate Strike, which 
will begin at noon at Tigert Hall 
on Southwest 13th Street. The 
protesters will march to City Hall 
where a rally will take place. The 
protest is estimated to end around 
3 p.m, said Anton Kernohan, the 
vice president of Climate Action 
Gator and a 20-year-old UF politi-
cal science sophomore.                                              
This march will be the third 
climate strike to be held at City 
Hall, but this is the first time pro-
tests will start at Tigert Hall and 
direct demands toward UF admin-
istration, Kernohan said.
Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old Swedish climate activist, sparked 
the global climate movement after 
she protested in front of Sweden’s 
parliament a year and a half ago, 
according to the Associated Press. 
Climate Action Gator partici-
pated in Sept. 20’s Global Youth 
Climate Strike, which urged UF, 
Gainesville and federal leaders to 
institute more sustainable energy 
practices.
“We feel that now, we have 
grown a base of youth support-
ers and there are so many young 
people who are educated on the 
issue that we are going to keep it 
all youth speakers for this one,” 
Kernohan said. 
Once the march arrives at City 
Hall, protesters will hold a subse-
quent rally with speakers, chants 
and performances. Kernohan 
said he’s impressed with young 
people’s education on the climate 
crisis. 
He said he helped organize 
the second strike with the help of 
Climate Action Gator where the attendance rose to 300 people. 
Kernohan said they expect 750 
participants on Friday, based on 
the number of people who inter-
acted with the protest’s Facebook 
event page.
The organizers created de-
mands and a resolution for UF 
which will be announced at the 
strike, he said. They also want 
to show UF’s connection to 
Gainesville and the university’s 
responsibility in helping the city 
pursue action to address climate 
change. 
“At the time, I had no knowl-
edge about climate. It wasn’t a 
concern for me,” Kernohan said. 
”After speaking at that event, I 
began doing more research and 
looking more into it and genuine-
ly fell in love with the movement 
and also realized how impending 
this crisis was.”
Hannah Hopper, a 20-year-old 
UF sustainability studies sopho-
more, said she plans to go to the 
event because she believes in en-vironmental activism and wants 
to pursue environmental law. 
“It’s already happening with 
the floods there [in Coconut 
Creek, Florida],” Hopper said. 
“The roads started to flood from 
the beach and stuff, so it’s al-
ready happening and just think-
ing about that getting worse and 
seeing it firsthand.”She said climate change is the 
biggest problem in the world. 
Hopper added she thinks the way 
the world lives is not sustainable 
and people need to be prepared 
for it. 
“I want to take the next step 
and actually participate in some-
thing,” Hopper said.Dept of Tourism, Recreation and Sport Management splits
UF climate change group to host strike outside Tigert“The sculpture unveiling, the 
music, and the food should be 
an enjoyable break from stud-
ies.”
The sculpture will be re-
moved from the auditorium’s 
lawn before UF closes for the 
holidays, Fuchs said.
Joey Plotkin, a 20-year-old 
UF sport management junior, 
said he plans to attend with 
classmates and be part of what 
he hopes will become a UF tra-
dition.
“This event will definitely 
reduce my stress levels with fi-
nals coming up,” he said. “I fi-
nally will be able to take a step 
back and just enjoy what’s 
happening on campus.”SCULPTURE,  from pg. 1Students, faculty will be served hot chocolate, cookies, hot cider
Courtesy to The Alligator
Leslie Tharp,  UF College of the Arts alumna, and local Gainesville metal artist created the alligator sculpture that will be lit up on Tuesday afternoon. 
Climate facts, according to WIRED UK :
Summers and winters keep getting warmer
Average wildlife populations have dropped by 60 percent in 
just over 40 years
There is more carbon dioxide in our atmosphere than any 
time in human history
Two-thirds of extreme weather events in the last 20 years 
were influenced by humans
Carbon emissions from energy use are rising at the fastest 
rate since 2011MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
POLITICIANS, STATE 
INFLUENCERS DISCUSSED 
POLICY DURING SUMMIT 
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer 
When it comes to improving 
healthcare, the cellphone in your 
pocket might just be one of the keys 
to progress — or it could act as a 
bandage covering the real problem. 
More than 30 business people, 
education leaders, public adminis-
trators and other state inﬂ  uencers 
met Nov. 18 at the University of Mi-
ami to discuss state issues, including 
healthcare, at the Florida Priorities 
Summit, hosted by the Miami Her-
ald. Their recommendations will be submitted to the Florida Legislature 
once the new legislative session be-
gins Jan. 14.
The second annual Florida Pri-
orities Summit healthcare panel ad-
vised the legislature to focus on com-
munication about existing resources. 
Three methods include developing 
video chat or telephone-facilitated 
healthcare, public service announce-
ments for cheap medicine and medi-
cal resource directories instead of 
medicare.
But experts in Alachua County 
don’t think these new measures will 
do much to help those with inade-
quate or no health insurance in the 
area. 
Victoria Kasdan, panel member 
and former executive director of 
the free healthcare organization We 
Care Manatee in Manatee, Florida, said focusing on these measures is a 
more realistic approach due to their 
lower costs and political pressure.
“It’s easier than trying to get them 
to pass a law,” she said. “Expand 
Medicaid? They’re not going to do 
that, so we’re not even talking about 
it.” 
Grant Harrell, medical director of 
UF’s Mobile Outreach Clinic, said he 
disagrees with the claims that Medic-
aid doesn’t need to expand. The mo-
bile clinic is a large bus with medical 
examination rooms and a lab that 
drives around Alachua County to 
provide healthcare to nearly 3,000 
patients a year for free.
“That’s basically us trying to 
do our best with the dysfunctional 
health system that we have,” he 
said. “But that’s not a way of solving 
the problem.”Out of those under 65, about 10 
percent of America’s population 
is uninsured. That number is 11.9 
percent in Alachua County and 16 
percent statewide, according to U.S. 
Census Bureau data.
Alachua County has tried some of 
the Florida Priorities Summit’s pro-
posed solutions before. Laura Guyer, 
UF gender, sexuality and women’s 
studies professor and a former hos-
pital nutritionist, spearheaded the 
Alachua County Community Health 
and Social Service Resource Guide in 
2016. 
While the guide helps the unin-
sured or underinsured ﬁ  nd existing 
resources, it doesn’t erase the fact 
that those resources aren’t always 
enough, she said.
Alachua County has more than 
10 clinics that provide low-income people with more affordable health-
care. However, these clinics are of-
ten dependent on grant money that 
is given on a shaky year-to-year ba-
sis. 
One recent victim is The Alachua 
County Organization for Rural Needs 
(ACORN) Clinic. Guyer, who is also 
the board’s vice president, said it 
stopped offering healthcare in Sep-
tember due to budget cuts. It had 
been open for 45 years. 
“Those folks who are so un-
willing to examine this issue, I just 
wonder if they’ve ever had a family 
member unable to ﬁ  nd a dentist or a 
doctor,” she said. “It’s just cruel to 
make laws that make it unable for 
people to access care.”
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgFOR SOME MOMS, 
BREASTFEEDING IS 
ANYTHING BUT PRIVATE
By Samantha Leon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Marah Malleck would often look 
into her daughter’s eyes while sit-
ting in class, ﬁ  nding comfort in the 
baby she brought to campus at just 
2 weeks old. 
In those moments, she found the 
courage to ward off her peers’ judg-
ment.
For some moms, breastfeeding is 
anything but private. About 2.7 mil-
lion mothers are attending college 
while they raise their children, ac-
cording to a 2019 study from the In-
stitute for Women’s Policy Research.
Although professors and class-
mates created a supportive environ-
ment for the 24-year-old UF political 
science doctoral student, Malleck, a 
ﬁ  rst-time mother, said her mind was 
overﬂ  owing with questions and con-
cerns.
“I had a lot of moments where I 
thought, ‘If she starts getting fussy, I 
need to somehow get a nipple in her mouth before she actually cries be-
cause that would be embarrassing, 
but I have to do it without squirting 
milk everywhere,’” she said. “I don’t 
really know what I’m doing yet.”
While her daughter, Josephine, 
was a happy surprise, Malleck said 
she was determined to breastfeed 
despite being in school. Between 
the endorphins released and the 
emotional connection, breastfeeding 
eventually helped Malleck stay calm 
and collected when she played the 
roles of parent and student simulta-
neously.
With time, she said she became 
more comfortable with breastfeeding 
among classmates and professors, 
after reminding herself that it was 
natural. Josephine didn’t want to 
be covered, and Malleck was alright 
with that.
“I wanted to be courageous and 
normalize this...” Malleck said. “The 
more conﬁ  dent I became, I didn’t re-
ally care who was watching or who 
had an opinion because I was going 
to nurse her. That was just the end 
of it.”
Many graduate students have 
families, so she did not feel as much 
in the spotlight as she thought she would, she said. But with a baby at 
her side, Malleck sometimes found 
it difﬁ  cult to focus on classroom dis-
cussions.
“It’s unrealistic to expect anybody 
to nurse and not be at all distracted 
with what they’re doing otherwise,” 
she said. 
Malleck, now in the dissertation 
phase of her political science Ph.D. 
program, breastfed Josephine for 
17 months, growing as a mother 
throughout classes, meetings and 
tests.
Josephine turned 2 in September, 
and the two ended their breastfeed-
ing adventure after Malleck’s second 
comprehensive exam.
“I just told her, ‘OK, Josephine, 
tonight is the very last time that 
Mama’s going to have any milk, and 
after that, it’s all gone,’” she said.
While breastfeeding, Malleck 
found it refreshing to connect with 
other breastfeeding moms, she said. 
She attended La Leche League meet-
ings before giving birth so she could 
confront her worries in an uplifting 
environment.
La Leche League USA helps par-
ents and communities learn about 
breastfeeding through parent-to-parent support, and there are local 
groups in every state.
The Gainesville La Leche League 
group hosts two meetings each 
month in which mothers discuss ex-
periences, ask questions and build 
relationships. 
Justine Hirsch, the 35-year-old 
leader of the Gainesville La Leche 
League group, said meetings provide 
a safe and welcoming learning envi-
ronment. Hirsch said members often 
ask how they can help group mem-
bers who are struggling and need ex-
tra encouragement.
Hirsch, who is a mother of two, 
said she thinks it is wonderful when 
moms consider bringing breastfeed-
ing babies to campus, and she empa-
thizes with the challenges.
“Little babies are so portable,” 
she said. “When they’re nursing, it’s 
almost easier than trying to pump 
and leave bottles because when a 
baby’s happily nursing, they’re quiet 
and they’re not bothering anyone.”
Biologically, the hormones re-
leased while nursing makes the baby 
feel sleepy, and they’ll often nap af-
ter a breastfeeding session, Hirsch 
said.
Everyone’s breastfeeding story is different, but it was important for 
Malleck to own the space and not let 
others dictate her journey, she said.
“If you are in the classroom and 
you’re breastfeeding your baby, you 
are a superstar — you are a rock-
star,” Malleck said. “You are crush-
ing this motherhood thing.”
Proposed Florida healthcare solutions won’t work for GainesvilleDoctoral student extends motherhood to the classroom
Courtesy to The Alligator
Marah Malleck feeds her child.
FLORIDA PRIORITIES SUMMITMONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
It’s time for a ranked-choice
Column
Pets are great if you know how to take care of them
Getting a pet in college is a great 
idea. Any dog, cat, fish or chicken 
would make a great companion. 
We all need some animal affec-
tion in college, especially as finals 
approach. Kitten snuggles or puppy kisses 
might be exactly what you need at this time 
of year. Plus, they provide great emotional 
support. I recommend that every respon-
sible college student have a pet, but think 
carefully before you add a tail-wagging pal to your fam-
ily. If you do decide to get a furry, feathered or scaly 
companion, be conscious of where you are getting them 
from, and be certain that you are prepared to commit to 
this creature for the rest of its life.  
I know this message may seem overdone, but it is so 
important to adopt a pet from a local shelter rather than 
purchase an expensive, inbred animal from a breeder. 
Rescue animals are less likely to have congenital defects 
and are therefore typically healthier animals. Shelter 
pets are obviously in need of a loving home, and no in-
nocent creature deserves to spend the rest of their life 
in a jail cell all alone. If you’re on a broke-college-stu-
dent budget, it will be reassuring to know that adoption 
fees at rescue shelters are far cheaper than breeder fees. 
Everyone deserves a second chance at life. All animals 
should have the chance to sleep in a warm bed with par-
ents that love them. Our generation has the ability to put 
an end to the breeding of designer dogs and promote the 
well-being of all animals through pet rescue. 
It is also important to take into consideration the 
responsibility of pet ownership before you adopt your fluffy best friend. If you don’t have time for 
a dog, try a low-maintenance cat or even a 
fish. If you’re hesitant about your ability to 
ensure the well-being of a living creature you 
shouldn’t get one. It is utterly inhumane to 
return a pet to a shelter because you realized 
you couldn’t devote enough time to care for 
it. Imagine being rescued from a dismal situ-
ation, only to be returned months later. Don’t 
get a kitten for the sake of a “promposal,” 
and don’t return your dog when your schedule gets too 
busy. You knew about their 15-year lifespan when you 
adopted, so you don’t get to just give up on your pet 
when you’re tired of it. 
If you discover that you do have some free time in 
your schedule and your home can accommodate a four-
legged best friend, your next step is to determine an ap-
propriate adoption agency. No-kill shelters are a great 
place to adopt from because you can avoid inadvertently 
funding euthanasia of innocent animals with your pur-
chase. 
The question is: How do I pick an animal to adopt? 
Consider adopting a senior pet. It breaks my heart to 
hear that many older animals die alone in shelters, as 
people generally prefer younger pets. As I said earlier, 
everyone deserves a second chance at life. 
Having a pet in college is a great idea, but first make 
sure that you have the time to care for one, and be con-
scious that you are supporting an animal-friendly agency 
when you do decide to adopt your next best friend. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English junior.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Hannah Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgRepresentative democracy is founded upon the idea 
that citizens can confidently waive their direct voice 
in governmental affairs to elected legislators who will 
serve their best interests. This assumption is strong, 
and it often does not hold very well in practice.
According to the election results for Spring 2019, in Stu-
dent Government, only about one-fifth of the Student Body 
participated in elections. Unfortunately, these numbers are 
par for the course. With voter turnout this low, it is hard to 
believe that our elected representatives carry any legitimacy 
in the eyes of students.  
Among those who do vote, many feel forced to strategi-
cally pick between one of two viable parties in order to ensure 
that their vote is not wasted. This underlying “winner-takes-
all” dynamic compels those who do not feel fully represented 
by either of the established parties to hold their nose and 
forego their ideal preference to defeat the perceived “lesser 
of two evils.” It also creates a climate in which Inspire Party 
leadership felt within their right to pressure several indepen-
dent candidates in the recent Fall campaign to drop out or 
otherwise fall in line, so as not to risk “vote-splitting” on Elec-
tion Day.
Unsurprisingly, bipartisan legislatures like our Student 
Senate often result in gridlock and obstructionism. A recent 
Alligator article noted that zero pieces of legislation were 
passed between the Fall election and the article’s publishing 
date. 
This is obviously problematic.
In many other advanced democracies, representatives 
are elected differently. In Germany, for example, parties are 
awarded seats based on the proportion of support they re-
ceived in the previous election. Other countries, states, mu-
nicipalities and even colleges (including Harvard University, 
Stanford University and Santa Fe College) have shifted toward 
a process called ranked-choice voting, or RCV, which allows 
voters to list as many candidates on their ballot as they wish 
in order of their highest preference.
Data has shown that RCV empowers voters to choose 
their ideal candidates without feeling like they are wasting 
their votes. It also motivates candidates to campaign more 
inclusively as they seek out second- and third- choice votes. 
Additionally, proportional representation has been causally 
linked to higher voter turnout in countries that utilize it, and 
it would effectively abolish gerrymandering as we know it.
These systems would stimulate greater ideological diver-
sity in the form of independent candidates and new politi-
cal parties that can represent more refined interests, creating 
more choices for the student body as a result. These choices 
would not exist feebly as they have in the past; Rather, inde-
pendent candidates and new political parties would become 
truly viable options for voters to consider in SG elections.
Once elected, these more diverse voices will foster an en-
vironment in which nuance, substance and policy will be dis-
cussed, uplifting the discourse beyond typical partisan bicker-
ing. So, how can we reasonably expect to implement these 
bold ideas?
Many of you may not know this, but the Constitution Re-
vision Commission has been convening for much of the past 
year. This body exists only once per decade, and I happen to 
be one of its current members.
This presents an extraordinary opportunity for us to re-
structure our democracy. My priority has been to advocate for 
amendments that would enfranchise more students into the 
political process. 
I truly believe that under RCV and/or proportional repre-
sentation, students will be better represented by and, in turn, 
more confident in their elected officials.
If you agree with these sentiments, please consider coming 
to our final public hearing this Tuesday to vocalize your sup-
port. Together, we can create an SG that serves us all and not 
just those with the right networks and connections.
William Zelin is a UF political science and statistics senior.MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
2-MEDIUM
2-Topping Pizzas
$599
3605 SW Archer RD
352-336-PAPA
(352-336-7272)4220 NW 16th Blvd Ste A
352-375-PAPA
(352-375-7272)
each*
*minimum purchase of two
COUPON CODE: OP599Last week saw the repetition of what is 
now a tradition in the U.S.’ consumer 
culture: Black Friday. We all know what 
Black Friday looks like: mobs of people 
in a store rushing for extraordinary 
deals, people camping outside to get ﬁ  rst dibs 
on a cheap TV or appliance and poor employ-
ees enduring all the madness. However, while 
this chaotic scene may have once had some 
appeal, time, the evolution of the Internet and 
our growing awareness of environmental and 
consumer issues is making Black Friday an ir-
relevant celebration. It’s time to acknowledge 
that.
In the past, Black Friday had great practical 
and symbolic importance. Black Friday was 
traditionally the start of the Christmas shop-
ping season, with stores offering their ﬁ  rst 
holiday special deals. And at the time, there 
was no place better to shop for Christmas gifts and supplies than your local depart-
ment store or mall. 
Black Friday was once a mo-
mentous milestone, but no longer. 
Shopping for Christmas is shifting 
away from in-person retail to online 
shopping, which either offers deals 
throughout the weekend or on Cy-
ber Monday. Black Friday deals 
aren’t as extraordinary, and the 
start of the Christmas shopping sea-
son? Don’t make me laugh! Compa-
nies now begin Christmas advertising earlier, 
stores play Christmas jingles sooner and some 
retailers don’t even wait until after Halloween 
to put up Christmas merchandise, let alone af-
ter Thanksgiving.
In addition, there are societal repercus-
sions to Black Friday. Recently, environ-
mental activists have seen Black Friday as a symbol of the U.S.’ culture of con-
sumption. On Black Friday, the 
hashtag #BuyNothingDay was pop-
ular on Twitter. Black Friday critics 
explained the hashtag represented 
their “environmental concerns, 
unwillingness to support multina-
tional retailers, and disillusionment 
with consumerism” according to 
Business Insider. While some might 
argue that not buying anything on 
Black Friday would be a bit ex-
treme, the broader point remains: Black Fri-
day is a consumerist event that reinforces the 
power of multinational corporations which 
have been at the center of much controversy 
in recent years. 
So for next year, I’d like to propose alter-
natives to Black Friday shopping. If you’re 
uncomfortable with corporate retailers, don’t like the environmental impact of Black Friday 
or are simply annoyed with how Black Friday 
has been diluted, consider looking to small 
businesses. Instead of going to Starbucks for a 
coffee and buying a product at Walmart, stop 
in your local coffeehouse and then buy a craft 
from a family-owned store. Alternatively, buy 
items used (such as clothing from Goodwill 
or another thrift store) instead of purchasing 
objects new; you’ll be saving money and s the 
planet! 
Lastly, experiences are often more valuable 
than products. Instead of buying your cousin a 
fancy gaming console or a shiny toy, take him 
to a state park or local festival. Even a more 
commercial experience like a day at the arcade 
can create lasting memories. In the end, Black 
Friday shouldn’t be about getting the best deals 
or beating the crowd. It should be about enjoy-
ing yourself and creating positive experiences 
in a healthy and sustainable way.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.
Underneath your success, impos-
ter syndrome loves to roam. It 
transforms your achievements 
into bundles of doubts. It belittles 
all those hours of hard work into 
luck that you don’t deserve. 
According to Harvard Business Re-
view, imposter syndrome is a “collection 
of feelings of inadequacy that persist de-
spite evident success.” It makes you feel 
like a fraud. That your sparkling resume 
is invalid. That it all came down to luck.
With ﬁ  nals closing in and internship 
applications looming above our heads, imposter 
syndrome may feel more present than ever. And, 
you’re probably not alone. Researchers in 2011 
found that about 70 percent of people will experi-
ence imposter syndrome at least once in their lives. 
However, it is tied with success, especially for 
women. 
Imposter syndrome was originally termed by 
psychologists Pauline Clance and Suzanne Imes, 
who studied why high-achieving women often 
credited their success to luck instead of hard work. 
Nowadays, imposter syndrome doesn’t seem to dis-
criminate. But, this study conﬁ  rmed that those with 
imposter syndrome already have lots to be proud 
of. 
Instead of celebrating your success, imposter 
syndrome can drive you into a panic to make your 
supposed fraudulent credentials feel more real than 
they actually are or add some extra padding to 
make our act seem more convincing. As someone 
who praises a “fake it till you make it” mentality, imposter syndrome may seem a little more nerve 
racking. But the problem is, when does it end? 
There’s no concrete answer to why imposter 
syndrome occurs. But, once you start to under-
stand what it is, it becomes a little easier 
to combat it. Imposter syndrome lies next 
to toxic comparison and while you can’t 
necessarily just “stop thinking about it,” 
you can limit your social media expo-
sure. It’s easier to limit comparison when 
you’re not looking through job-listing In-
stagram bios or impressive LinkedIn an-
nouncements.
Reframe your thoughts. Imposter syn-
drome turns achievements to ﬂ  ickers of 
self-doubt. In order for it to occur it has to 
mean you deﬁ  nitely have some achieve-
ments strapped under your belt. Most importantly, 
remember to talk to someone. Reach out and share 
your doubts. You’ll be more than likely to talk to 
someone experiencing the same thing, especially in 
a competitive college like UF. 
No one can take your success away from you, 
no matter how big or small. They are yours to keep. 
Never belittle them. While it may be beneﬁ  cial to 
use imposter syndrome to motivate yourself to be-
come the person you’re trying to be, you need to 
acknowledge your successes along the way. 
Be proud of yourself for every small win you’ve 
achieved. It can be as small as waking up on time 
for your 7:30 a.m. lecture or cleaning your room for 
the ﬁ  rst time in too long.
Be kind to yourself. You’re probably doing a lot 
better than you think. After all, you could be a stu-
dent at FSU. 
Lauren Rousseau is a UF journalism sophomore.Black Friday deals are outdated and come with a cost
Imposter SyndromeColumn
Column
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.org
Lauren 
Rousseau
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
On not living up to expectations
This is something that’s 
been on my mind 
a lot lately. Stand-
ing at the end of the 
semester now, there 
are great obstacles to face 
over the next few weeks, but 
there are even more behind 
us. You may have overcome 
some of those obstacles suc-
cessfully and failed to over-
come others. And, while I’m conﬁ  dent 
we’ll all face our upcoming challenges to 
the best of our ability, it’s possible we 
might not live up to the expectations 
we’ve set for ourselves. But falling short 
of them is not just okay, it’s normal. 
It would be easy to say that failure 
is the biggest learning opportunity, we 
should revel in it and take every lesson 
it brings, but I know how hollow that 
sounds. The truth is, for most of us, 
failure sucks. It feels bad, and it won’t 
always bring life lessons with it. What 
did I learn from forgetting my lines in 
that elementary school winter play?  I’m 
a horrible actor and that’s about it. But 
it made me think, ‘Why did I want to do 
well in the play in the ﬁ  rst place?’. 
When I miss the mark or fail a quiz, 
whose target am I aiming at? It’s my 
own. Sure, there are others who depend 
on me and mentors that I’d love to im-press, but at the end of the 
day, I’m seeking approval 
from myself. I think that the 
worst thing about under-
achieving is the idea that I 
expect too much from my-
self. There’s a lot said about 
the external pressures that 
play into standards and ex-
pectations, and they do play 
a massive role, but I’ve heard 
less about the internal pressures we set 
for ourselves. Things like social media 
or parents and guardians can lessen or 
magnify our expectations, but innately, 
most people just want to succeed. We 
want to feel like we’re on track towards 
something. Not living up to expectations 
can feel like we’ve fallen off track and it 
often ﬁ  lls us with self-doubt. What’s left 
is simple: We need to forgive ourselves. 
Not every failure has a moral, and not 
every play has competent actors. But it’s 
not our failures that will deﬁ  ne us. Don’t 
worry; You’ll graduate, you’ll ﬁ  nd a job, 
you’ll ﬁ  nd love. You’re navigating an 
entire life. Dust yourself off after those 
pitfalls and take your time doing so. 
Happy Holidays, friends.
Matthew Diaz is UF political science 
senior
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
★ ★ ★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★ ★ ★
Native Southern Red Cedar & Arizona 
Cypress. Table-top to 30 gal/10' tall. Open 
Nov 29, wkends thru Dec 22. 10am - 6pm. 
Kettle Corn popped on site for sale. Free 
pecans & sugarcane w/purchase 20926 NW 
75th St. Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-
1885 www.bkcedars.com     12-4-6-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12DThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D1For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Adam Vincent
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/02/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/02/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, December 2, 2019
ACROSS
1 Peruvian home
5 German 
philosopher 
who wrote “The 
Phenomenology 
of Spirit”
10 Microsoft Surface 
competitor
14 Chopped down
15 Amazon assistant
16 Italia’s capital
17 Imperfection
18 *Lucrative 
business
20 Mai __: cocktail
22 Hard to erase, as 
markers
23 *Medieval 
entertainer
26 Ave. and tpk.
27 Hard to believe
28 Word with York or 
Jersey
30 In shape
31 Forgetful moment
35 First part of a play
39 Doing as told, in 
the military ... or 
what the starts of 
the answers to 
starred clues can 
literally have?
43 Mario Kart 
console, initially
44 “__, but no cigar”
45 Pencil eraser, 
e.g.
46 Christen, as a 
knight
49 Hurry up
51 ISP option
54 *Hostel audience?
58 How chops or 
ribs are served
60 That girl
61 *Comedian’s 
suppliers
63 Modern in-flight 
amenity
66 Earl __ tea
67 Etsy’s biz, e.g.
68 Supply-and-
demand sci.
69 Cravings
70 With a long face
71 Stink
DOWN
1 Campus eatery, 
for short
2 Guns N’ Roses 
frontman Rose3 Slow-moving 
coastal critter
4 Bothersome 
browser apps
5 __ and eggs
6 Slip out to tie the 
knot
7 Heredity units
8 Apply, as 
pressure
9 Joes who aren’t 
pros
10 Persia, now
11 Rod for stirring 
a fire
12 Change for the 
better
13 Pub game
19 Former filly
21 Prefix for 
Venice’s country
23 Perp’s  
restraints
24 Bagel flavoring
25 “The Hunger 
Games” star, to 
fans
29 Roll of bills
32 Insta upload
33 NBC late-night 
weekend staple, 
familiarly
34 Freudian focus
36 Heart of the rink37 More faithful
38 13-digit pub. 
codes
40 ’60s hallucinogen
41 Org. providing 
workplace safety 
posters
42 Attain
47 Lyft competitor
48 Bottle-fed tykes
50 Backyard chef’s 
stick
51 Pooch, to a tyke52 Drum type
53 Three-star mil. 
officer
55 Panna __: Italian 
dessert
56 Work with dough
57 Danger
59 “I-” rds., e.g.
62 Crafty
64 Hardly a friend
65 Confident 
crossword 
solver’s choice
By Kurt Krauss
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/26/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/26/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 26, 2019
ACROSS
1 Cigar residue
4 “West Side Story” 
sides
9 Cul-__: dead-end 
street
14 Versatile truck, 
for short
15 Head off
16 Oven emanation
17 Transmission 
specification
19 Divided island of 
Southeast Asia
20 Fielder’s mishap
21 Irish watering 
hole
23 Trucker on a 
radio
24 Catch one’s 
breath
25 Stockholm-born 
three-time Best 
Actress nominee
28 Barfly
29 Run out of juice
30 Weekend show 
with Aidy Bryant, 
to fans
31 “Dig in!”
32 Actress Berry
34 Real estate units
36 Longtime New 
Year’s Eve 
bandleader
39 Dalmatian marks
41 Skin irritations
42 PC key near Z
43 Partners for mas
46 Terminate
47 Suffix with 
Brooklyn
50 Video game 
series with a 
Warriors of Rock 
edition
53 Dashing style
54 Escape key 
function
55 Comfy footwear
56 Leave the chair
57 Secret Service 
role
59 Leave the house 
... and a literal 
feature of 17-, 
25-, 36- and 
50-Across
62 Rodeo rope
63 Bring together
64 Gp. that isn’t 
gun-shy
65 Welles  
on-screen
66 Hall of Fame 
pitcher Ryan
67 Corn servingDOWN
1 Hole-making 
tools
2 Den music 
system
3 San Simeon 
castle builder
4 Teri of “Young 
Frankenstein”
5 Gardner of the 
silver screen
6 Badminton 
divider
7 Beef
8 Strong ales
9 Not dis?
10 CNN journalist 
Hill
11 Mariachi’s hat
12 One-celled 
swimmers
13 Orange veggies
18 Hogwash
22 Keep out
25 Fish organ
26 Move, in realty 
ads
27 Shone with a 
nearly blinding 
light
29 Pampering  
place
32 Simple shelter
33 Ambulance 
letters
35 S&L offerings36 Looked through a 
home remodeling 
magazine, 
perhaps
37 Transvaal settler
38 Florence’s river
39 Arizona cactus
40 Tool that unclogs 
using suction
44 Chair part for 
elbow resting
45 Feudal Japanese 
military ruler
47 “Seinfeld” regular48 Former Justice 
__ Day O’Connor
49 Make beloved
51 Lone Ranger’s 
pal
52 Affordable, in 
brand names
53 Sci-fi beings
56 British firearm 
acronym
58 Color like khaki
60 Black gold
61 Hagen of 
Broadway
11/25/19
MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Learn how to make an
extra $500 per week
doing surveys as a student!
Go to: www.collegeopportunity.site
12-4-2-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an 
ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange -
ments or show off your bus and shuttle 
service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND. Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"14 Help Wanted 19 Connections
1. Bob Gibson, in 1969.
2. Walter Johnson (A.L.) and Grover 
Cleveland Alexander (N.L.).
3. It was 1996. 
4. Sam Mitchell, with 156 victories 
(2004-09).
5. The Bruins did it from the 1970-71 sea -
son through the 1973-74 season.
6. Norway (1995).
7. Two fights.1.     Martin, Marvin
2.     Salon, Talon
3.     Whist, Wrist
4.     Strike, Strive
5.     Branch, Brunch6.     Alone, Atone
7.     Rocket, Socket
8.     Train, Trail
9.     London, Lyndon
10.   Month, Mouth1. Who was the last pitcher before 
Arizona’s Zack Greinke in 2018 to 
have a hit, an RBI and a stolen base in 
at least two games in a season?
2. Name either of the major-league 
pitchers who led his respective league 
in shutouts a record seven times.
3. When was the last time before 2018 
that Army’s football team was ranked in 
The Associated Press Top 25 poll?
4. Dwane Casey holds the record for 
most career regular-season victories 
(320) as coach of the Toronto Raptors. 
Who is second?
5. When was the last time the Boston 
Bruins won 50 or more games in con-
secutive NHL seasons?
6. The U.S. women’s soccer team 
set a Women’s World Cup group stage 
scoring record in 2019 with 18 goals 
in three games. What country had held 
the record with 17 goals?
7. How many fights did former 
heavyweight boxing champion Joe 
Frazier have after losing to Muham-
mad Ali in the Philippines in 1975?
Answers
1. Bob Gibson, in 1969.
2. Walter Johnson (A.L.) and Grover 
Cleveland Alexander (N.L.).
3. It was 1996. 
4. Sam Mitchell, with 156 victories 
(2004-09).
5. The Bruins did it from the 1970-71 
season through the 1973-74 season.
6. Norway (1995).
7. Two fights.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
November 25, 2019King Features Weekly Service
1. Who was the last pitcher be -
fore Arizona's Zack Greinke in 
2018 to have a hit, an RBI and a 
stolen base in at least two games 
in a season?
2. Name either of the major-
league pitchers who led his re -
spective league in shutouts a re -
cord seven times.
3. When was the last time before 
2018 that Army's football team 
was ranked in The Associated 
Press Top 25 poll?
4. Dwane Casey holds the record 
for most career regular-season 
victories (320) as coach of the 
Toronto Raptors. Who is second?
5. When was the last time the Bos -
ton Bruins won 50 or more games 
in consecutive NHL seasons?
6. The U.S. women's soccer team 
set a Women's World Cup group 
stage scoring record in 2019 with 
18 goals in three games. What 
country had held the record with 
17 goals?
7. How many fights did former 
heavyweight boxing champion 
Joe Frazier have after losing to 
Muhammad Ali in the Philippines 
in 1975?
answers below
answers below
Sports Quiz
answersEven Exchange
answersPUZZLE SOLUTIONS10  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Redshirt junior tight end Lucas 
Krull announced on his Twitter 
account Sunday that he will be 
entering the transfer portal 
following Florida's bowl game.Mullen's second season marks a first for the program
Coach Dan Mullen became the first coach in Gators history to win at least 
10 games his first two seasons Saturday night by beating FSU. Florida went 
10-3 last year and currently has a 10-2 record.FOOTBALL
FEATUREBy Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida football team ended the regular season the same 
way it began: beating an in-state rival.
But other than bookend victories against Miami in Week 0 
and a 40-17 win against Florida State Saturday, not much re-
mained the same from Aug. 24 up until this point for the Gators.
A new quarterback took over a revolutionized offense, and 
in the face of a slew of injuries on both sides of the ball, UF still 
improved on last season’s regular season campaign.
In Dan Mullen’s first year with the program, Florida went 
10-3 and won a New Year’s Six Bowl, which was a monumental 
improvement from the four-win 2017 season.
“I think you look at how this team won, how we won big 
games, had a tough schedule,” Mullen said. “To go play some 
tough road games, we had to play, and how we competed, I 
thought they took a huge step forward.”
Mullen vouched for his team’s body of work after the game Saturday night.
“I think we have a pretty solid resume to be a top-10 team,” 
he said.
The AP Poll voters responded Sunday afternoon, moving UF 
up to No. 7 in the poll. But it remains to be seen if the College 
Football Playoff Committee agrees. Florida was No. 11 in the 
latest CFP rankings released last Tuesday.
Mullen took a jab at the committee for moving Baylor up 
several spots in the rankings last week after a win over Texas.
“Hopefully we did enough to get a New Year’s Six Bowl, 
maybe even more,” he said. “I saw, right, Baylor beat a six-win 
team last week and jumped up five spots. We did the same 
thing today, pretty handily, so we’ll see how that is.”
Snide remarks aside, Florida’s only losses this season came 
to No. 1 LSU on the road and No. 4 Georgia at a neutral site by 
a combined 21 points. The Gators also beat six bowl-eligible 
teams this season (it would be seven if not for Missouri’s post-
season ban).
ESPN’s FPI numbers also display UF in a favorable light. Florida has the fifth-best strength of record, which is a reflec-
tion of how likely an average top-25 team would have a team’s 
record or better given the schedule.
The Gators team efficiencies were also all in the top 25. The 
offense was No. 13, the defense was No. 10 and special teams 
were No. 21. Overall, the team efficiency was No. 9 in the na-
tion.
Now, Florida will wait and see its place in the CFP rank-
ings after last weekend’s events (Alabama losing) and champi-
onship weekend (Georgia and LSU playing for the conference 
title). Depending on how the committee ranks Florida, it could 
be representing the SEC in a second-consecutive New Year’s 
Six Bowl.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org
By Jordan Perez
Sports Writer
Marina Escobar Domingo knows that at 16 
years old, playing in a golf tournament among 
Spain’s best, including her idol, was quite a 
feat.
Watching Marta Perez win the 2018 Span-
ish Ladies Amateur Championship while Ma-
rina claimed a top-10 finish was also remark-
able. 
Unknown to Marina, Marta had her scout-
ing eye on the younger golfer — a player she 
had met only a few times.
Three weeks later, Marina found herself 
competing beside Marta again in the 2018 Brit-ish Ladies Amateur Championship.
But it was a different Gator who took first 
place this time — now redshirt junior Elin Es-
born — but Marina had an unforgettable week-
end of her own.
It began with Marta approaching her in a 
conversation mid-tournament that led to the 
beginning of her journey as a Florida Gator and 
an unbreakable bond.
The end result would be a lasting friendship 
through life and sports.
The Florida women’s golf team boasts one 
of the most internationally decorated rosters on 
campus. Over half of the women’s golf team is 
based out of Europe.
Marta and Marina call Spain home. Esborn 
is from Sweden and sophomore Clara Manza-
lini and senior Carlotta Ricolfi originate from 
Italy.
Head coach Emily Glaser and assistant 
coach Janice Olivencia aren’t new to develop-
ing foreign talent. In the eight seasons they’ve 
coached together, the program has boasted 
LPGA and Ladies European Tour members 
such as Maria Torres, Sarah Schober and Ursa 
Orehek.
Marina’s quick five-month recruitment 
wasn’t surprising to Olivencia, who followed 
Marta’s advice to bring her to Gainesville. Flor-
ida reached out to Marina in June 2018, she 
verbally committed that August, and signed 
her letter of intent the following November.
“Sometimes it happens that way,” Oliven-
cia said. “Marina is all around what every pro-
gram is trying to look for.”
Olivencia had been trying to get Marta’s ap-
proval to bring in another Spaniard since her 
freshman year. Marta was reluctant, but said 
her feelings changed immediately upon meet-
ing Marina.
“She was awesomely normal,” the senior said. “For me, normal is a really great compli-
ment, because I’ve met a lot of weird people 
lately.”
It didn’t take long for Marina to gel with her 
teammates.
Initially quiet, she communicated on the 
golf course and made quite an impression with 
her rhythm off of the tee.
“Her swing is beautiful,” Olivencia said. 
“(She has a) great tempo.”
Marta was drawn by her iron play and ball 
striking.
“She hits the ball so straight,” Marta said.
Marta is the proper authority on talent, hav-
ing played among the world’s best female ama-
teur golfers at the inaugural Augusta National 
Women’s Amateur. Before collegiate golf, both 
she and Marina attended IES Ortega y Gasset, 
a two-year college preparatory program in Ma-
drid that combines sports and studies, similar 
to Florida’s famed IMG Academy. 
Among IES Ortega y Gasset’s alumni in-
cludes the current No. 1-ranked European 
golfer, Jon Rahm.
Although the program gave Marina a taste 
of living away from home, attending a univer-
sity in the United States required many addi-
tional adjustments.
From more freedom to diving deeper into 
the English language, chasing her dream has 
come with its challenges — which might sound 
surprising for a student-athlete who routinely 
had 14 hour-days at IES Ortega y Gasset.
“Here, you have to manage your own 
time,” Marina said. “Here, you choose when 
you have to play, when you want to practice 
and how much you want to practice.”
Marina traded the comfort of European golf 
courses for taking her game to the next level. 
Pursuing a college education while playing a 
sport is not a possibility in Spain, but it’s a step she knew she had to take since she first picked 
up a golf club at six years old.
“The golf courses are different, like, they’re 
longer here,” Marina said. “And I see them 
tougher compared to what’s in Spain.”
But Olivencia knew Marina was built to 
compete among the best.
Word traveled fast, and after earning Mar-
ta’s approval, Olivencia sent Marina an email 
to indicate Florida’s interest while she com-
peted beside two Gators at the British Ladies 
Amateur Championship in late June 2018.
An excited Marina was shy and initially 
kept the email to herself, but Marta mentioned 
the contact to the new recruit in anticipation — 
a gesture reflective of Spanish culture.
“I thought she was quiet, but I’m also three 
years older than her,” Marta said. “In Spain, 
our culture is kind of like you respect older 
people a lot; so you don’t really talk to them 
that much.” 
In August 2018, Olivencia and head coach 
Glaser traveled to Northern Ireland to watch 
the recruit play at a cold and windy R&A Girls 
Amateur Championship.
“In tough conditions… it didn’t matter what 
was up front,” Olivencia said. “It does not faze 
her. She is up for the challenge every single 
time she tees it up, and that’s always some-
thing fun to watch.”
That day, Olivencia and Glaser earned Ma-
rina’s verbal commitment, and three months 
later, she signed her letter of intent to the UF 
women’s golf program.
Read the rest online at 
www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida improves on regular season win total, vies for NY6 Bowl
Learning from her hero: How 2 teammates became fast friends
Alligator File Photo
Senior Marta Perez has been a mentor 
to freshman Marina Escobar Domingo.
•   •   ••   •   •
•   •   •12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019
VOLLEYBALL
WOMEN’S BASKETBALLBy Mari Faiello
Sports Writer 
Saturday’s five-set win over the 
Texas A&M Aggies was memorable in 
more ways than one.
It gave Florida’s four seniors a prop-
er sendoff on their home court, capped 
off with a share of the SEC title with the 
Kentucky Wildcats. 
With the win, the Gators notched 
their 24th conference title, all of which 
have been claimed under coach Mary 
Wise. The program now has the sec-
ond-most SEC championships at the 
University of Florida, behind women’s 
tennis. 
Florida’s win put the team in a 
prime position for this year’s NCAA 
Tournament, which was announced 
Sunday evening.
The No. 10 Gators (25-4) will host 
the first round of the NCAA Tourna-
ment on Friday with Alabama State, UCF and FSU also in the pool of four. 
Florida State will take on Central Flor-
ida at 4:30 p.m. followed by Florida’s 
matchup against Alabama State (17-21) 
at 7 p.m.
Three of Florida’s players were also 
named to All-SEC Honors: sophomore 
outside hitter Thayer Hall, junior out-
side hitter Paige Hammons and senior 
middle blocker Rachael Kramer, who 
was also named SEC Scholar-Athlete of 
the Year. 
Kramer’s recognition marks the 
fourth time in her collegiate career that 
she has claimed SEC honors. She has 
racked up a top-5 ranking in three cat-
egories in the program’s history: hitting 
percentage (fifth at .406), blocks (also 
fifth at 458) and block assists (fourth 
at 409). 
The 6-foot-8 middle blocker posted 
double-figure kills in 10 matches this 
season while also logging a .400 hitting 
percentage (or higher) in 15 matches.Hammons’ SEC honor is the second 
recognition she has had in her career. 
The junior has played a pivotal role in 
stabilizing Florida’s offense, notching 
nine double-figure kill matches and 
coming in at third on the team’s roster 
with 241 kills on the year.
Hall notched her second SEC rec-
ognition in as many years Sunday. She 
ranks first on the squad in kills (398), 
second in digs (263) and service aces 
(33) and fourth in blocks (55). She 
logged 12 double-doubles this season, 
too.
Hall is the cornerstone of this Flori-
da squad, and she’ll likely continue to 
do so in the years to come. 
But in the meantime, the Gators will 
shift their focus to Round 1 and anoth-
er shot at an NCAA Championship title. 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Florida guard Ariel Johnson was in 
transition. Florida A&M’s defense wasn’t 
all the way back down the court yet. But 
Florida forward Zada Williams was. 
Johnson drew a defender towards the 
three-point line, which left Williams by 
herself in the paint. Johnson swung it to 
her teammate, who caught it just under 
the basket. She layed it up just as a strag-
gling defender caught up to slap her on 
the arm mid-shot. 
Count it. And one. 
Those were the first two points of 
Williams’ dominant, career-high 22-point 
scoring performance in Florida’s 84-40 
victory over Florida A&M on Sunday af-
ternoon in the O’Connell Center. It was 
a victory to water a two-game losing 
drought and improved the Gators’ over-
all record to 5-2 on the season.
“I had no idea what she was doing 
until somebody on the bench said some-
thing,” coach Cam Newbauer said. “She 
went 11 for 13 (shooting), which is some-
thing she’s been very consistent (at)”.
But Williams did not completely dom-inate until later in the game. Early on, the 
outside shooting put the Gators ahead. A 
combined 4 for 8 from behind the three-
point line from guards Lavender Briggs 
and Kiara Smith forced the Rattlers to 
play a more stretched out defense. And 
without the size to guard Williams with 
just one body, a career day ensued. 
Briggs (17) and Johnson (14), along 
with Williams, accounted for 53 of 
UF’s 84 points. The Gators have shown 
through the young season that when 
those two guards, along with Smith — 
who added 10 more are shooting effi-
ciently — and Williams can be isolated 
inside, Florida is difficult to defend. 
Another area of strength for Williams 
tonight was rebounding. She collected a 
career-high 19 boards on her way to a 
double-double. 
“I’ve wanted to see more out of her in 
rebounding, just pursuing the ball out of 
her area a little more,” Newbauer said. 
“So, for her to get 19 tonight was great, 
especially the offensive rebounds.”
Perhaps the most intriguing aspect of 
her performance was the fact that she 
did all of this in only 25 minutes of play. 
She scored three fewer points than she 
played minutes and collected six fewer rebounds. 
For the entire team, one theme stood 
out to Newbauer: cleanliness. 
“We knew that Florida A&M was a 
tough, scrappy bunch that was going 
to attack really hard,” Newbauer said. 
“They’re averaging 22 free throws a 
game, and they only shot eight today.”
The Gators played a clean defensive 
game and dominated that end. FAMU 
only scored three points in the entire 
fourth quarter. 
This game marked the end of a six-
game homestand. A stretch in which 
Florida went 4-2, only losing to two top-
25 teams in the country in Indiana and 
Florida State. The Gators will travel to 
Prairie View, Texas, to face Prairie View 
A&M on Thursday before facing Kansas 
the following week in the Big 12/SEC 
Challenge. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgFlorida shares 2019 conference title with Kentucky 
UF routs Florida A&M, improves to 5-2 on yearSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Rachael Kramer claimed All-SEC honors for the fourth time.
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Forward Zada Williams scored a career-high 22 points 
and 19 rebounds against Florida A&M on Sunday.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The charity stripe has been an 
oasis for Florida.
It’s where the Gators take their 
free throws after being fouled by 
an opposing team down a mere 
two or three points at the very end 
of the game. It’s where they can 
breathe a sigh of relief and know 
that they’ve survived a comeback 
surge in the final seconds once 
again.
Towson. St. Joseph’s. Xavier. 
Marshall.
Escaping arenas with a win in 
the vein of Indiana Jones narrowly outrunning a rolling boulder has 
been the modus operandi of UF 
for almost its entire season (save 
Miami and North Florida). When 
the Thundering Herd came to 
Gainesville last Friday, the Gators 
once again finished the game at 
the free throw line, surviving Mar-
shall 73-67.
Florida shot 9 for 30 from the 
field in the first half of the game. It 
shot from beyond the arc 10 times, 
and it missed all of them.
The slow starts are nothing 
new.
Against Towson, it shot just 
37.5 percent from the field in the 
first half. During that Towson game, UF also shot 16.7 percent 
from three.
But even when Florida plays 
well in the first half, it can let 
its lead slip. The Xavier game on 
Nov. 24 is the best example.
Florida shot an excellent 64 
percent from the field in the first 
half of that game, and the Gators 
hit 42.9 percent of their three-
point attempts. They led Xavier 
by 10 points at the half, but the 
Gators let it falter in the second.
Xavier outscored UF 36-31 in 
the second half of that game as it 
inched closer and closer to Flori-
da. St. Joseph’s, too, had a 37-29 
advantage in the second half of the game it dropped to the Gators.
It all comes down to defense.
Every team that UF has staved 
off a comeback against has im-
proved its production in the en-
suing half. St. Joseph’s field goal 
percentage shot up from 26.3 in 
the first half to 46.4 in the sec-
ond. Xavier jumped from 42.9 to 
46.2, and last Friday, Marshall im-
proved its percentage from 38.7 to 
41.9. While Towson’s overall field 
goal percentage didn’t go up, its 
three-point percentage did (28.6 
to 33.3).
Simply put, UF lets up when it 
has a lead, and its close win over 
Marshall wasn’t the only time it has done so. If the Gators plan on 
winning more games, they’ll have 
to come out strong in the first half 
and finish the game without al-
lowing teams to breathe as they 
have been in the past few weeks.
The charity stripe in the final 
seconds has been UF’s oasis, but 
if it isn’t careful, the Gators could 
find it running dry far quicker 
than they’d like it to.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGators need more consistency to compete moving forward