We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
The SG candidates without a party
Meet the Independent students running for SG Senate, pg 5
VP’s press secretary stole newspapers at UF
She stole about 200 Alligator copies as a UF student, pg 3Gators impress against Vols
Florida looked the part of a top-10 team against 
T ennessee. Can that play continue against 
tougher competition? Pg 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 14
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Emma Turner, an 18-year-old UF horticulture student, cheers during a speech Friday at 
City Hall for the Global Youth Climate Strike. Turner, a coordinator for the organization 
Young Leaders for Wild Florida, was one of about 300 people to attend.ABOUT 300 PEOPLE 
PROTESTED
 OUTSIDE CITY HALL 
By Chasity Maynard, 
Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writers
Children with marker-
stained hands, teenagers in 
black leather jackets and 
retirees with specks of gray 
hair stood shoulder to shoul-
der in front of Gainesville 
City Hall Friday. 
About 300 locals gath-
ered for Gainesville’s Global 
Youth Climate Strike, which 
urged UF, Gainesville and 
federal leaders to institute 
more sustainable energy 
practices. Protesters partici-
pated in the strike in prepara-
tion for the UN Climate Sum-
mit in New York City today. 
The chants led by strike 
organizer Anton Kernohan 
echoed the voices of those 
from Miami to Tokyo. “What do we do when 
our planet is under attack?” 
Kernohan said. 
“Stand up, ﬁ  ght back!” 
the crowd shouted.
Kernohan, a 20-year-old 
UF political science sopho-
more, and 16 other speakers 
speciﬁ  cally demanded a stop 
to the burning of fossil fuels, 
a Green New Deal and a 100 
percent renewable economy.
“People need to realize 
that we have a deadline and 
that we need to take action 
to save our planet and our 
world,” Kernohan said. 
Although the strike 
took place during school 
hours around the globe, the 
Gainesville strike started at 
5 p.m. because Kernohan 
wanted it to be an intergen-
erational event, he said. He 
wanted adults from local 
environmental organizations 
to promote their groups to 
Gainesville’s youth. 
Kernohan enlisted Cli-
mate Action Gators and the Alachua County Branch of 
the NAACP Environmental 
and Climate Justice Program 
to help plan the event. He 
said the number of people in 
attendance increased six-fold 
compared to the previous 
Global Youth Climate Strike 
in March, surpassing his ex-
pectations.
City Commissioner David 
Arreola said Friday’s strike 
was the largest gathering 
of young people in front of 
Gainesville City Hall he has 
seen. He spoke about the 
urgency to act now and to 
implement a federal Green 
New Deal. 
“The only way we’re go-
ing to save our environment 
is if we save our democracy,” 
Arreola said. 
Greta Thunberg, a 
16-year-old Swedish climate 
activist, sparked the global 
climate movement after she 
protested in front of Swe-Youth bring heat 
to global climate strike
GPD HAS  WARRANT FOR 
KHALIL REED’S ARREST
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are looking to arrest a 
UF student on four counts of attempted mur-
der after a shooting at Butler North Walmart 
Sept. 15.
On Friday morning, police announced 
warrants for Robert Duthill Jr., 19, Patrick 
Abbott, 20, and Austin Fletcher, 20, for 
armed robbery, according to a release. Khalil 
Reed, 24, a UF family, youth and community 
science senior, who was ﬁ  rst arrested for 
possession of marijuana on Sept. 15 is now 
facing four counts of attempted murder.
Reed was released from the Alachua 
County Jail Sept. 16, according to police. 
Fletcher turned himself in Thursday. 
Abbott’s whereabouts are known but Duthill 
and Reed are still at large.
Fletcher remains in the Alachua County 
Jail as of Sunday night with no bond, 
according to county records.The Alligator called and texted Reed after 
his release to comment. He did not respond.
Duthill, Fletcher, Abott and another 
person (who was not charged) met Reed in 
the Walmart parking lot to buy marijuana, 
according to a sworn complaint afﬁ  davit. The 
four men planned to rob Reed beforehand.
During the deal, Duthill pretended to buy 
the marijuana, but while doing so, Fletcher 
came up to the driver’s side window, pointed 
a gun at Reed and told him to give up his 
drugs, police wrote. Duthill then grabbed a 
bag ﬁ  lled with two pounds of marijuana, a 
book and UF course paperwork and jumped 
out of Reed’s car.
Reed then ﬁ  red about 15 rounds into and 
around the other car, hitting Abott, Duthill 
and Fletcher while they tried to escape, 
according to the afﬁ  davit.
The three shot men were taken to UF 
Health Shands, according to police in a Sept. 
16 release. Fletcher, Duthill and the fourth 
person, who was not arrested, later told 
police what happened.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF student charged with four 
counts of attempted murder
UF SCHOOL OF 
THEATRE AND 
DANCE OFFICIALS 
RESPONDED ONLINE
By Tranelle Maner
Alligator Staff Writer
After a year of “feeling 
marginalized, alienated 
and unheard,” a black UF 
student said he had enough 
with racism at the School 
of Theatre and Dance.
So, he sat at his laptop 
Tuesday and got to writing.
Wildlin Pierrevil, a 
21-year-old UF musical 
theatre senior, wrote a 
lengthy Facebook post de-
tailing how his past social 
media posts, letters and 
meetings about racism at 
the school have cost him 
roles, awards and a voice 
within the school. The post received more than 500 re-
actions and was shared 220 
times.
Friday night, his college 
responded.
The UF Director of the 
School of Theatre and 
Dance and the Dean of the 
College of the Arts released 
statements on Facebook 
addressing the claims. Nei-
ther statement mentions 
Pierrevil by name.
Pierrevil said in his 
post, to his surprise, he 
would not be in the annual 
musical production despite 
being a senior, who are 
usually guaranteed a part.
Along with a racist pro-
duction and scholarship 
refusal, the denial of a 
role was the third incident 
Pierrevil experienced that 
shows the “double stan-
dard that exists” within the 
college. In statements addressed 
to “the School of Theatre 
and Dance Community,” 
both Director Peter Carpen-
ter and Dean Onye Ozuzu 
wrote letters to discuss the 
post about “experiencing 
systemic racism.”
Carpenter called Pierre-
vil’s claims a “passionate 
critique of institutionalized 
racism within the School 
of Theatre and Dance.” In 
Ozuzu’s letter, she apolo-
gized to the student for be-
ing “failed by the system in 
multiple ways.”
In December, Pierrevil 
posted on a SoTD-afﬁ  liated 
Facebook page about his 
concerns about the disre-
gard for students of color 
in the production of “Peter 
and the Sprinkles.” 
The student-written Facebook post calls out racism 
in UF college, admin respondsSEE CLIMATE,  PAGE 4
SEE SOTD,  PAGE 4
CLIMATE STRIKET oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  62°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
Correction: Adam Kozloski is 
the chair of Chomp the Vote. 
The voter registration drive is 
Tuesday.  
The Alligator reported 
differently. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Fall Radical Rush 
When: Monday to Wednesday, 
11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: Santa Fe College 
Oak Grove & UF Plaza of the 
Americas
What: The Civic Media Center 
will be hosting Fall 2019 
Radical Rush for three days, 
beginning Monday. Radical 
Rush is an organizational fair 
which introduces students 
to progressive, radical and 
alternative groups in Gainesville. 
The Rush is presented in the 
form of a collaborative tabling 
event at both of Gainesville’s 
college campuses. The CMC, 
as well as several community 
organizations, will set up at Oak 
Grove at Santa Fe College on 
Monday and on the Plaza of the 
Americas at UF on Tuesday and 
Wednesday. 
Engaging the World Through 
the Fulbright Program with 
Dr. Christopher Silver
When: Tuesday, 3 p.m.
Where: 140 Rinker Hall
What: The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee is pleased to invite 
the UF community to a lecture by 
Christopher Silver, Ph.D., FAICP. 
Silver is a professor of urban and 
regional planning and former 
dean of the UF College of Design. 
Earlier this year, Silver served 
as a Fulbright Senior Scholar in 
the Department of Architecture 
at the University of Indonesia, 
teaching courses on urban 
sustainability. Light refreshments 
will be served after the lecture. 
For more information, please 
contact Claire Anumba at 
canumba@ufic.ufl.edu. RPB Presents: Nicole Byer
When: Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
Where: J. Wayne Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom
What: RPB is happy to present 
hilarious stand-up comedian 
Nicole Byer. Known best as 
the host of Netflix's "Nailed It" 
and for her guest appearances 
on shows like "Brookyln 99" 
and "The Good Place," Nicole 
promises to deliver a show 
you don't want to miss. This 
event was originally planned 
to occur on Aug. 21, but due to 
scheduling conflicts, it is now 
rescheduled for Sept. 25. The 
event is free for UF students with 
a valid Gator 1 ID, no tickets 
required.
Tobacco Free Alachua 
Quarterly Meeting
When:  Wednesday , 3:30 p.m.
Where:  UF Health Street, 2401 
SW Archer Road
What:  Join Tobacco Free 
Alachua for a discussion of 
the upcoming local Alachua 
County Tobacco 21 policy 
implementation, which will 
occur Oct. 23. This meeting is 
free and open to the public, all 
are encouraged to attend.
Boss up: Beauties in Business 
Brunch
When: Saturday, 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Ballroom
What: Hello Beautiful is 
hosting its annual women’s 
empowerment brunch. The 
brunch will include a panel 
of five women sharing their 
journeys through life and 
development of their brands 
and businesses. Tickets to 
register are available now at 
hellobeautifulempo.wixsite.com. 
October
Tom Petty Birhday Bash 
When: Oct. 18-20, 9 p.m.Where: Depot Park, 200 SE Depot 
Ave.
What: Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
is a free music festival for people 
to celebrate the Gainesville 
native and music legend. Over 
20 local and national bands will 
perform on two stages at Depot 
Park. While tickets are free, 
interested guests  can upgrade 
their experience with the Petty 
For The People Packages to 
receive additional merchandise 
and support the local nonprofit 
program, UF Health Shands Arts 
in Medicine. 
2019 Fall Art Show 
Submissions
When: Submissions displayed 
Oct. 19-20
Where: Alachua County Library, 
401 E University Ave. in Meeting 
Room A.
What: The Alachua County 
Library District invites teen 
artists ages 12 to 15 to submit 
works for the 2019 Fall Art Show 
through Oct. 11. Works will be 
judged by professionals including 
staff members from UF’s College 
of the Arts and the Harn Museum 
of Art on Oct. 18. Winners will 
be announced on Saturday at 1 
p.m. at the Headquarters Branch. 
Submissions can be made at any 
Alachua County Library District 
Branch. Prizes will be awarded 
for first through third place. For 
more details or to schedule an 
interview, please contact Rachel 
Cook at 352-334-3909. 
Friends of the Library Alachua 
County Library District
When: Oct. 19-23, 9 a.m. to 6 
p.m.
Where: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County, 430 N Main St
What: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County is hosting the 
Friends of the Library Sale. 
In addition to books the sale 
will include art, comic books, 
manga, DVDs, CDs, vinyl 
records and more. Most items 
are priced between 25 cents and 
$4. Tuesday everything will be 
marked half-off and Wednesday 
everything will be 10 cents. All 
proceeds support the Alachua 
County Library District and area 
literacy projects. Sale hours are 
Saturday, Oct. 19  from 9 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. and noon to 6 p.m. 
Sunday through Wednesday. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 14
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
STARTSTHE VISION FOR YOUR
RIGHT HERE .FUTURE
Ready to put your ambition to work?
It all starts at ALDI. We’re one of America’s favorite grocery stores, and we’re 
expanding at an unprecedented rate. In fact, we’re planning to open over 
one hundred new stores a year, and we need people like you to guide our 
growth. As a District Manager, you’ll oversee operations for your district 
and lead and inspire your teams, all while managing millions in revenue. 
It’s a tremendous responsibility that requires a solid understanding of how 
we operate our business. That’s why we provide our District Managers with 
an award-winning 51-week training program and ongoing support. We 
also believe in rewarding our employees with great benefits and pay. Our 
District Manager positions start at $80K per year and quickly advance 
to $110K after five years. Take charge of your future with a company 
that’s committed to offering you More.
 ALDI IS  AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.Learn more: careers.aldi.us
STUDY
ABROADUNDERGRADUATE
SCHOOLGRADUATE
SCHOOLSHORT TERM
PROGRAMSDOCTORAL 
PROGRAMSReady to embark on the journey of a lifetime in a city 
where ancient history meets cutting-edge innovation? 
Join us! INTERNATIONAL.TAU.AC.IL
STUDY IN 
ENGLISH
AT TEL AVIV 
UNIVERSITY
REGISTRATION FORMS 
DON’T MATCH CURRENT 
LEADERSHIP
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
Is Emily Dunson Gator Party’s 
presidential candidate, or is it Danielle 
Grosse? 
Campaign materials say one name, 
and registration forms say another.  
Public records show Gator 
Party’s ofﬁ  cial Aug. 22 registration 
forms name Grosse, a former 
Impact afﬁ  liated Senate president, 
as president of the new party and 
Dunson as treasurer. 
Documents also show an additional 
Aug. 27 registration form that names 
Grosse as Gator Party’s president and 
Richard Doan as treasurer, without 
mention of Dunson. 
The SG Election Codes don’t 
explicitly state whether a party can 
change its treasurer after registration. 
SG elections are Tuesday and 
Wednesday.
On Aug. 27, the party submitted 
a Letter to the Editor to The Alligator announcing its establishment at 
7:24 p.m. The letter named Dunson 
as president, Wynton White as 
spokesperson and Doan as treasurer. 
“Welcome to the Gator Party,” the 
letter said. “Today, we are so excited 
to share our vision for the future of 
this university with you.”
Stephanie Siler, the SG supervisor 
of elections, received an updated 
registration for Gator Party on Aug. 
27 with Doan as the party’s treasurer, 
she wrote in an email.
She said she received an email 
from Grosse that same day at 7:33 
p.m. stating Dunson would serve as 
Gator Party’s president. 
The party’s Facebook 
announcement on Aug. 28 and all 
subsequent campaign materials refer 
to Dunson as president.
The Alligator emailed, called and 
texted Dunson and Grosse asking for 
clariﬁ  cation on why the change was 
made. They did not respond.
White declined to comment. 
Doan wrote in a text message, 
“On Aug. 27th, an additional form 
was submitted as an update to the 
previous Aug. 22nd form. The form submitted on Aug. 27th registers me, 
Richard Doan, as the party treasurer. 
With regards to the party president, 
Danielle transferred the party 
president title to Emily through the 
Supervisor of Elections via email on 
Aug. 27th.” 
Doan didn’t respond to follow-up 
questions.
Leadership positions are not the 
only changes on these forms. 
Public records show Grosse and 
Dunson registered as president and 
treasurer for nine parties on forms 
from Aug. 22: Ascend, Florida, 
Gator, Revive, Believe, Generation, 
Generate, Vision and Passion. 
All nine forms were approved 
Aug. 22 and registered Aug. 23.  
Inspire Party shared a Facebook 
post Friday late afternoon about the  
registration documents, which said 
students “don’t deserve to be lied to.”
“I’m afraid that students may 
be unaware of the dishonesty of 
Gator Party with respect to their 
leadership,” Inspire Party President 
Zachary Amrose said.
@EmmaMcAvoy
emcavoy@alligator.orgGator Party registered diﬀ  erent leaders 
SHE STOLE ABOUT 200 
ALLIGATOR COPIES IN 
2012 AS UF SG SENATOR
By Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writer
Vice President Mike Pence’s 
new press secretary is a UF 
alumna. She is also known for 
helping steal more than 200 
copies of The Alligator. 
When Katie Waldman was 
a UF student, she served as 
a UF Student Government 
senator and held a position as 
chairwoman of the allocations 
committee. Waldman will 
begin her new position Oct. 1. 
At UF, Waldman was 
associated with Unite Party. 
On Feb. 20, 2012, the night 
before the Spring SG elections, 
she was seen throwing away 
copies of the paper alongside 
former Senate President Pro-
Tempore Jason Tiemeier, 
according to the Student 
Press Law Center. The paper 
featured an endorsement from head football coach Will 
Muschamp for a student of an 
opposing party. 
So, the pair threw away 268 
copies. 
“Contrary to any 
implication, I didn’t do it,” 
Waldman said during a March 
2012 SG Senate meeting. “I 
counseled Jason not to do it. 
He agreed. I thought I acted 
very responsibly.”
Tiemeier initially dismissed 
accusations of being involved 
in throwing away the papers. 
On March 12, 2012, Tiemeier 
wrote a guest column in The 
Alligator apologizing to the 
Student Body for stealing the 
papers with Waldman. 
Pence’s chief of staff Marc 
Short told NBC News that 
they are excited to welcome 
Waldman to the team, saying 
he believes she will be a “great 
ﬁ  t in our ofﬁ  ce.”
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.orgVP staﬀ  er stole papers4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019production featured “a song 
performed by a full cast of my 
white peers singing and dancing in 
Klu Klux Klan cloaks and hoods.” 
This came after the school closed 
their production of “Hairspray,” a 
musical about racial integration in 
the ‘60s.
Weeks after his post about the 
production, Pierrevil said he wrote 
about his negative experiences in 
his SoTD scholarship application, which is an award given to students 
in each department. 
He said he was denied despite 
being the only applicant.
When no one received the 
scholarship, Pierrevil said he had 
a meeting with the musical theatre 
faculty in August. 
“The response by the head of 
the program was defensiveness, 
deflection and denial,” he said. 
His post on Tuesday was made 
to demonstrate a pattern. 
“I just needed someone in this to 
see what I’m seeing and be there for me,” he told The Alligator. 
Carpenter wrote his proposed 
resolution to the issue is an open 
discussion with students, alumni, 
faculty and staff. 
Pierrevil said he felt validated 
and relieved when he saw the 
responses. 
“It was nice to be relieved of 
the pressure of whether this was 
something in my mind or not,” he 
said. 
Other SoTD students and alumni 
supported his post and wanted 
the school to act on what many 
described as years of racism. 
Reginald Wilson, a masters of 
fine arts acting alumnus, posted a comment under Carpenter’s letter 
to students and said that he “went 
through hell while at UF.”
“I was told by the staff that I 
would have a hard time because of 
my skin tone,” he wrote.
Wilson, 43, graduated from the 
School of Theatre and Dance in 
2011. He said from the moment he 
was recruited to UF’s fellowship 
graduate program, he was attacked 
for his color. 
“The first semester is when they 
try to get you out of here,” Wilson 
said. “When I got my offer from UF, 
they told me my acceptance into 
the program was contingent upon 
cutting my dreads.At the end of Carpenter’s 
statement, he denied racism 
persisting throughout the school 
and said the incident was instead 
“a systemic breakdown.” 
Perrevil said while he 
understands what Carpenter is 
saying, he still sees a problem that 
needs to be addressed in the school. 
“I don’t think anyone in faculty 
is going out of their way to oppress 
students,” Perrevil said. “I think 
that the oppression exists, and 
they’ve been going out of their way 
to do little about it.”
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgSOTD,  from pg. 1Alumni support PierrevilSweden’s parliament a year and a 
half ago, according to the Associated 
Press. She called Congress to action 
Wednesday, according to the New 
York Times.
Caroline Pope, a 21-year-old UF 
sociology fourth-year and student 
speaker, said climate change dispro-
portionately affects women. She said 
83 percent of single mothers were dis-
placed by Hurricane Katrina in 2005, 
according to a video by the Natural 
Resources Defense Council.
“Women pave the way in so many 
different social issues,” Pope said. “So why don’t we start prioritizing the one 
that affects every single human on the 
planet?”
Damon Veras, an 18-year-old UF 
political science freshman, stood 
among the crowd while holding a 
cardboard sign which read in green 
and black lettering, “Keep the world 
clean, it’s not Uranus.”
“I came out because I believe that 
climate change is the issue of our 
generation -- is the issue of now,” he 
said. “Not enough people are talking 
about it or taking it seriously.”
@chasitymaynard0, @lina_ruiz48
cmaynard@alligator.org, lruiz@alligator.org CLIMATE,  from pg. 1‘Stand up, fight back!’
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Michael Granto, a 17-year-old Santa Fe High School student, shouts Friday during the climate 
protest. Granto is in dual enrollment at Santa Fe College and is a member of Santa Fe Sustainability 
Club. Granto said he attended the protest because “obviously the world is on fire. ”
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
A young girl holds up a sign during the climate protest Friday at City 
Hall. About 300 people attended the protest to demand stronger 
action to combat global climate change.
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Molly Coburn, a 21-year-old Santa Fe zoology student, Stephanie Nathasingh, an 18-year-old Santa 
Fe student, and Sian Armstrong, a 20-year-old Santa Fe environmental science student, watch a 
speech at City Hall Friday during the climate protest. The three women are members of Santa Fe 
Sustainability Club. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
FIVE STUDENTS ARE 
INDEPENDENTS 
By Emma McAvoy, Tien Le 
Alligator Staff Writers
Inspire Party and Gator Party 
candidates grapple for students’ 
votes with T-shirts, posters and 
elaborate campaigns. 
Meanwhile, ﬁ  ve independent 
candidates want to bring 
individualism to UF Student 
Government. The Alligator 
interviewed the ﬁ  ve Independent 
candidates to see their platforms 
and understand their reason for 
running.  
The Fall SG elections will occur 
Tuesday and Wednesday from 
8:30 a.m. to  8:30 p.m. 
Responses were edited for 
brevity and clarity. Read the full 
interviews at alligator.org.Who is running as an Independent in the SG elections?  
Polling Locations: 
• Broward Hall - Broward 
Rec Room
• Health Science Center - 
BITS Library Computer 
Lab
• Jennings Hall - Library
• Levin College of Law 
- Bruton Geer Hall 
Student Commons
• Marston Science Library 
• Murphree Area - 
Meeting Room
• Norman Hall - Education 
Library Computer Lab
• Reitz Union - SG Print 
Lab
• Southwest Rec Center- 
Social Lounge
• Springs Complex - Area 
Ofﬁ  ce C202
• Stuzin Hall - Room 200Alfredo Ortiz
19-year-old philosophy sophomore running for 
District D 
What do you think the biggest issue UF students face 
is?
Student Government, to me, is supposed to be a rep-
resentative of student interests…. We saw over the Sum-
mer these ﬁ  nance codes revisions…. That completely 
sabotaged student life on campus…. It put the Senate in 
a tough situation. We didn’t know what the demands of the lawsuit were…. 
It’s not a problem just of diversity in SG, but a diversity that is willing to 
actually ﬁ  ght for their interests.
What is your ﬁ  rst goal if elected?  
The ﬁ  rst thing I will do is inform people that Student Government is not 
separate from the Student Body... We’re going to mobilize the Student Body 
around issues they care about... We’re going to talk to the different student 
organizations that have a stake and have something they want to pursue 
beyond just UF. 
Why are you the best candidate for the job? 
I believe I’m the best candidate because I believe I’m the only candidate 
that has demonstrated that they can mobilize the Student Body….. I’m the 
only candidate who has effectively brought to attention within the Senate 
issues such as imperialism…. I know how to use resolutions as a tool of the 
Student Government to represent the interests of the Student Body.  Christopher Stansel
23-year-old political science 
junior running for District C 
What do you think the biggest 
issue UF students face is?
Overall, I think it’s college 
costs. I feel like Student Govern-
ment can only do so much to 
remedy that, but I do think there 
are things Student Government can do to help. 
What is your ﬁ  rst goal if elected? 
The structure of the government is what I would 
want to focus on: passing new transparency laws 
and passing new laws that promote voter registra-
tion. I think it’s the structural fundamental changes 
that Student Government needs to better implement 
better change for UF students. 
Why are you the best candidate for the job? 
I’ve been passionate about working with people 
and local organizations since I started my career at 
college. I think it’s important to have independent 
voices… I’m going to try to get direct opinions of UF 
students... I think it’s important to have voices in 
the Senate so there is a direct connection between 
candidate and student.Ethan Lomio
18-year-old aerospace engineering 
freshman running for Hume
What do you think the biggest 
issue UF students face is?
The Student Government as a 
whole is the biggest problem... The 
whole idea is that it’s supposed to 
be self correcting: a problem will 
bubble up, and the Student Government will jump right 
on that… There’s too many problems to name one right 
now.
What is your ﬁ  rst goal if elected? 
Well, my ﬁ  rst goal is to get some blue lights on Frat 
Row and maybe cuss out a few senators along the way. 
My understanding is that would be an incredible use of 
money, a use of an incredibly large amount of money, 
but it needs to be done quite frankly. It’s long overdue.
Why are you the best candidate for the job?
I am the best candidate because I don’t bring any 
prejudices to the table…. I’m ready to point out the 
ﬂ  aws in everyone and everything, including myself. 
And I’m ready to try to ﬁ  x those no matter what it takes. 
I have no alliances, no enemies. I’m just me. Sienna Hagan
18-year-old political 
science freshman running 
for Jennings
What do you think 
the biggest issue UF 
students face is?
I think the worst issue 
is parking. I feel like it 
should be more affordable, more available 
and convenient parking for students.
What is your ﬁ  rst goal if elected? 
I’d like to advocate for extending 
free printing to convenient locations like 
Marston Library. 
Why are you the best candidate for the 
job? 
Well, I’m the best candidate because 
unlike my other opponents, I put in the 
dedication. 
I love UF. I love Jennings. I’m very 
dedicated, and put forth 100 percent into 
everything I do. I want this more than 
anything. 
Mark Merwitzer
19-year-old political science sophomore running for 
District A
What do you think the biggest issue UF students face 
is?
At the end of the day, no matter who’s in Senate, 
there’s just not enough advocacy, there’s not enough orga-
nizing, there’s not enough involvement outside of Senate.
What is your ﬁ  rst goal if elected? 
Of course, the blue lights. It’s going to be something I will push for, and 
my secondary goal is to push for a SNAP expansion. 
A lot of people cite the university Uber Safe Rides as a great program, but, 
unfortunately, it just does not serve enough areas. In my opinion, I’m not 
a fan of Uber as a company to work with... I think it’s not only going to do 
a lot for students who usually go out at night, I think it’s going to be really 
useful for students who don’t own a car or can’t really get from one point in 
Gainesville to another. 
Why are you the best candidate for this job?
I have long standing experience in advocacy. If you want to see my track 
record, I’ve essentially advocated for a state-wide law that has affected over 
20 million people on the road and the hundreds of millions of visitors... 
I’m also very good at organizing and getting people involved in Senate, 
and I really hope to be that voice for them.Merwitzer
 Ortiz
Lomio
 Hagan
 Stansel
EditorialMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.For the love of 
democracy, 
just vote
If a stranger told you what to do, you wouldn’t stand 
for it. Most people would never let a complete stranger 
control their future and their livelihood, but the 
unfortunate reality is that thousands of students let this 
happen when they don’t vote in UF Student Government 
elections. 
Even in the 2016 national election, about 56 percent of 
registered voters cast ballots. It’s not surprising that SG has 
even less of a turnout. In Spring 2018, only about 8,388 of 
UF’s 50,000 student population voted for a Student Body 
presidential candidate. UF’s turnout is abysmal.
And yet, small, local elections suffer a worse fate. The 
New York Times reported that only 27 percent of eligible 
voters vote in municipal elections. Less importance is put on 
lower-level elections because most people don’t understand 
the importance of lower-level officials. This, unfortunately, 
is very apparent in UF elections as well. For example, the 
current education senator won her seat with 75 percent of 
the vote — or 33 students. There is very little voter turnout 
for positions that have a huge effect on what’s done in SG. 
But this isn’t completely the fault of the masses. 
Students don’t know who they are voting for. It’s dif-
ficult to place members of SG into categories, as there are 
no clear lines indicating general parties to give students a 
sense of what policies they are supporting. Like our federal 
government, SG has two major parties that tend to take up 
the majority of the vote. For the past few semesters, it’s 
been Impact Party versus Inspire Party. However, the goals 
of each party are unknown by the average student. In fact, 
not even the faces of all the senators appear on the SG web-
site. This just proves you should be nice to your classmates 
— any one of them could be making life-altering decisions.
Luckily, it seems like students are starting to care more 
about important issues. On Sept. 19, about 200 protesters 
marched on Fraternity Row, demanding that blue lights be 
placed there.  The amount of people who showed up in 
support of this protest is overwhelming, but what’s even 
more inspiring is the fact that about 300 people showed up 
in support of the Youth Global Climate Strike and the Green 
New Deal. 
On the other hand, people may have a reason not to 
show up. Many people argue that protests are not an effec-
tive way to initiate policy change, as in many cases nothing 
gets done afterward.
So why should we protest? The answer is simple: it’s im-
portant for the people in power to know that we are aware 
of what they’re doing and that we’re not happy about it. 
Don’t overlook your future. Don’t overlook SG. Their 
elections may seem unimportant, but the people we elect 
have control over our money and quality of life. Even if 
it may seem unclear, different parties have different agen-
das, and it’s important to research them — even the non-
presidential candidates.  Activism is needed on our campus 
in order to enact change, and it starts within the voting 
booths. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORLetter to the Editor
 Gator Party’s hidden campaign platform
As we head to the polls tomorrow and Wednesday, I 
have to make it known to you: all is not as it seems 
with Gator Party.
During UF Student Government elections, there 
is relatively little substantive discourse on policy 
points, so I wanted to give a fair warning to the public about 
Gator Party’s snake oil campaign platform.
First, I wanted to talk about the platform point of wanting 
to “secure funding for a veterans success center on campus.”  
Notice the sleight of hand that Gator Party does when us-
ing “a” instead of “the.” Some people would be surprised to 
know that we already have the Collegiate Veterans Success 
Center on campus. If Gator Party wants a new one (discus-
sions on that are already happening with or without Gator 
Party), they could easily have tossed the word “new” in. I 
don’t quite understand why they put in vague wording that 
lends itself to confusion.
Gator Party also wants to “collaborate with the Career 
Connections Center to publish editable resume templates.” 
The CCC already publishes resume samples on its website 
that are tailored to each college. To my knowledge, those 
samples are supposed to be visual aids because you are sup-
posed to just make your own resume. If you really wanted to 
edit them, all you would have to do is download them and 
open them up in Microsoft Word.
So, technically the CCC already does have editable re-
sume templates on their website, which is why I’m not too 
excited about this platform point.
I’m not just cherry-picking here. Their entire platform is 
littered with half-baked initiatives that may or may not al-
ready be happening on campus. Green Dot Bystander Inter-
vention training? That’s already happening. President Fuchs 
asked GatorWell to help come up with different ways to com-
bat sexual assault back in 2018, which is why the program 
is already being rolled out. Gator Party is just trying to ride 
off of coattails here by virtue of “collaboration.” Having mul-
ticultural events at GatorNights? That happens all the time 
already.
The most earnest platform point, in my opinion, is per-
haps the ramp from Marston Science Library breezeway 
to the Reitz Union north lawn. It is truly the most original 
yet still perhaps a little misguided. Why design and install a ramp when you can just get rid of the stairs? We should 
remove barriers to accessibility instead of accommodating 
ableist design.
But now, let’s talk briefly about the people who ideally 
would be carrying out the platform, as that is perhaps the 
greatest cause of concern.
As Gator Party’s candidates started to update their pro-
file pictures on Facebook, I noticed that most of the captions 
seemed to be rather bland, vague and generic. Of the 27 I’ve 
read so far, only three people have used their Facebook to 
actually talk about different ways in which they would make 
the areas they would directly represent any better. This is 
important because if you don’t make any promises, your 
constituents can’t hold you accountable for failing to deliver.
I also object to Gator Party candidate Tyler Kendrick de-
scribing homeless folks as plaguing District A. In my own 
life, I try not to use disease-related terms when talking about 
homeless people because I find it to be a little rude.
Similarly, I find it concerning that none of the Gator Party 
candidates who previously served in Senate talked about 
what they did as senators to make your life better. Only two 
candidates briefly acknowledged serving previously as a 
senator. 
Why might this be the case? Well, if I had to guess, it 
would be because these people were completely unremark-
able senators and didn’t actually accomplish much at all. Ad-
ditionally, because some of the Gator Party folks running for 
reelection had a hand in causing the current SG budget crisis, 
there is a reason for those individuals to conveniently omit 
their past “service.”
Did they hold a nice-sounding leadership position? Yes. 
Did they actually make your life better? No. Some of them 
made your life worse.
It is hard to make change on our campus. I know that 
from personal experience. But just because it’s not easy to 
make UF a better place doesn’t mean you should vote for 
people who will hardly make the effort to try — especially 
with a platform perfectly suited for people who sit on their 
hands.
Zachariah Chou is the Inspire Party candidate for the 
Murphree Area Senate seat.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Walking down UF Fraternity 
Row, one might take note 
of the tall facades of three 
identical southern-style 
mansions facing out toward 
the street or the surprising presence 
of ample parking, an all-too-precious 
commodity on such a crowded campus. 
What’s the most remarkable feature? The 
noticeable lack of emergency blue lights 
– the stationary police hotlines equipped 
with cameras which seem ever-present on the rest 
of campus. This information is truly disconcerting 
when it is taken into account that an approximate 
33 percent of the campus’s sexual assaults take 
place here and 58 percent take place in nearby 
dorms, according to a report from The Tab.
Thanks to the efforts of multiple survivors and 
activists, a bill that would increase the number of 
emergency blue lights and place them on Fraternity 
Row moved through UF Student Government this 
past April. That motion, unfortunately, failed by a 
37-36 vote. And it’s not like this kind of action is 
unprecedented — it’s common sense. The University 
of Central Florida and the University of South 
Florida both have about four of these emergency 
stations surrounding their Greek housing, and UCF 
is in the process of building even more.
To be fair, critics argue that these emergency 
stations are becoming obsolete, and they’re not 
entirely incorrect. Students have cell phones, and 
cell phones have emergency apps. More often 
than not, students use their personal devices to 
call the authorities instead of using these stations, 
which can cost around $200 a year for each one’s 
individual upkeep. However, it would be misleading to say that these lights are completely 
ineffective as they do make students feel 
safer and work as a deterrent for malign 
behavior in their vicinity.
On Tuesday, a protest was held 
on Fraternity Row pleading for the 
installation of these stations and for a 
readmission of April’s failed bill. UF 
Inspire Party president Zachary Amrose, 
the author of the aforementioned bill, said 
it was frustrating that the conversation 
surrounding the bill focused so deeply 
on what the fraternities wanted instead 
of the safety of the students in question. 
However, since the events of April, the 
UF Interfraternity Council has released a statement 
saying that none of the fraternities oppose the 
installation of new blue lights anywhere on campus. 
Following the protests, installation has the public 
support of University Police and UF administration.
The fact that all of this comes on the heels of an 
attempted sexual battery case at UF seems to beg for 
immediate action. On Aug. 25, 21-year-old resident 
assistant Ian Milaski attempted to sexually batter a 
female student. According to police reports, as she 
attempted to leave, he “grabbed her and physically 
picked her up off the ground and positioned himself 
on top of her… he kept trying to ﬁ  nger her and 
refused to let her go despite her cries to stop.”
He was originally charged with battery and 
false imprisonment and pleaded not guilty. He 
was released in early September after his attorney 
argued that he was a “high-achieving student.” 
Yet again, society’s willingness to protect young 
men from their “mistakes” has trumped the rule of 
justice in a court of law.
Myles Gibbs is a UF journalism junior.Blue lights and rape cultureColumn
As I write this column, 19 Demo-
crats and four Republicans (includ-
ing incumbent President Donald 
Trump) are running to be their 
party’s nominee for president of 
the United States. Each candidate has out-
lined their policies and platforms and are 
giving speeches telling voters what they’d 
do if elected. This is all well and good, but 
there’s one group that could make much of 
those plans meaningless: the United States Senate.
Right now, the Democrats have a majority in the 
House, while the Republicans have a majority in the 
Senate. This is and has been a recipe for problems.  
Roll Call explained how the divided Congress of 2011-
2014 (when Democrats controlled the Senate and 
Republicans the House) passed the fewest bills of any 
Congress in modern history. In an era of heightened 
partisanship, it can be nearly impossible for the two 
parties to come together and compromise — leading to 
gridlock and all major congressional business coming 
to a standstill.
This gridlock is also bad news for the president. 
It’s Congress’ job to pass laws, and while executive 
orders that only require the president’s signature can 
have broad scope, broader reforms still require a law 
by Congress. More importantly, executive orders can 
also be both enacted and repealed by a single signature. 
A Democratic president could attempt to sidestep 
Congress with an executive order, but even if it held up 
in court, that order can just as easily be overturned by 
the next president.
This has major implications for all of the 2020 can-
didates. On the campaign trail, many Democrats have 
talked about big ideas like universal healthcare, gun 
control and free college. However,  those ideas would 
require congressional support. If a Democratic candi-
date becomes president but the Republicans retain the 
Senate, most (important) Democratic proposals will likely be dead on arrival. Barring an unex-
pected change, the Senate Republicans will 
be led by a new Senate Majority Leader in 
2021. Mitch McConnell, who has prided 
himself as being a legislative “grim reaper,”  
does not plan on letting any bill he calls “so-
cialist” pass. Not only can McConnell do this 
by making sure his party doesn’t vote for 
those bills, he also has the power as Senate 
Majority Leader to not schedule those bills 
for a Senate vote at all — a power he has used frequent-
ly in the past and will surely continue to use in the fu-
ture. Any Democrat hoping to pass Medicare for All or 
college debt forgiveness will face a huge roadblock in 
the form of Mitch McConnell and a Republican Senate.
But it doesn’t have to be that way. Single-party con-
gresses with a president from the same party can be 
quite productive, as was the case from 2017 to 2019 
when a Republican Congress and the president signed 
into law the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017. If a Demo-
cratic president wants to enact similar changes they’ll 
need a Democratic Senate. Is this likely? Maybe not. 
Democrats would need to pick up 3-4 seats while also 
not losing any of their own seats, and tenuous seats like 
Doug Jones of Alabama put Democrats’ majority hopes 
in peril. Is it still possible? Certainly. 
This is why those watching politics shouldn’t just 
be watching the presidency. They should also keep a 
close eye on the Senate. Without a Democratic Senate 
(and retaining a Democratic House), any Democratic 
president’s legislative agenda will be stalled and unable 
to achieve many of their campaign pledges. The Senate 
is arguably a more important contest to watch than 
the presidency. Whether you plan to get involved in a 
campaign or are just spectating, the presidency isn’t the 
only game in town. Keep an eye on Congress as well.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.Watch out for the U.S. Senate Column
Myles Gibbs
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgIn the world 
of journalism, 
maintaining  
respect for 
sources is of the 
utmost importance. 
It is necessary to spell 
each name correctly 
and to double-check 
the dates, ages and all 
of the facts. 
Use the pronouns “she/her” 
to refer to a boy, and he will get 
insulted. Use the pronouns “he/him” 
with a girl, and she will get insulted. 
Use the pronouns “she/her” or “he/
him” for a nonbinary person who 
uses “they/them,” they will get 
insulted. 
Seems simple. Still, for some 
reason, this concept is confusing. 
British singer Sam Smith recently 
announced their pronouns as they/
them. Smith began identifying as 
nonbinary last March but kept the 
pronouns he/him until Sept. 13.
 In an interview with “The Good 
Place” actress Jameela Jamil, Smith 
said, “Nonbinary/genderqueer is 
that you do not identify in a gender.”
Major news outlets covered 
the news illuminating nonbinary’s 
presence in society. It brought 
awareness to the identiﬁ  cation. 
Smith’s declaration was a chance to 
educate people on the subject. 
“I understand there will be many 
mistakes and misgendering, but all I 
ask is you please please try,” Smith 
wrote on Twitter. 
Unfortunately, the Associated 
Press did not try hard enough. 
The esteemed publication wrote 
an article misgendering Smith 
throughout with the pronouns he/
him. It later issued a correction, 
rightfully changing the pronouns to 
they/them. But when the makers of 
the AP Stylebook, which is known as 
the “bible of journalism,” misgender 
the center of their story, it is a loss for journalism, especially 
on a subject centering 
on gender and 
pronouns. 
Reporting ethically 
and with accuracy 
is ingrained in the 
minds of journalists. 
It is the responsibility 
of journalists to 
respect people’s 
genders, sexualities and races. It is 
the responsibility of journalists to 
write with sensitivity. To write with 
accuracy. 
Merriam-Webster dictionary 
released a series of new deﬁ  nitions 
to its collection on Sept. 17. This 
includes the reference of they/them 
“to a single person whose gender is 
nonbinary.”  
Language evolves. Critics 
complain that the concept of using 
they/them in the singular sense is 
too confusing or awkward. However, 
the pronouns they/them have been 
used in the singular sense in casual 
conversations for a while now. The 
Merriam-Webster wrote that the new 
deﬁ  nition was added to “address the 
complex ways we view ourselves 
and others and how we all ﬁ  t in.” 
Journalists write to reﬂ  ect people. 
Society is constantly changing 
and evolving. Journalism is taking 
steps to become more inclusive. 
To expand boundaries, our writing 
needs to reﬂ  ect that. 
Yes, we are all human. As Smith 
said, we make mistakes. And like 
they said, we need to try. 
Words are power, they have 
meaning and we need to use them 
carefully. 
Lauren Rousseau is a UF 
journalism sophomore.Journalists are responsible 
for respecting pronounsColumn
Lauren Rousseau 
opinions@alligator.org
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR WEBSITE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
● YAMAHA P350  Turntable, cartridge & new 
stylus $100; ● YAMAHA 3-way NS8 speak-
ers $150; ● KLH 4-way 9915 speakers $150. 
OBO Call 724-816-6244    9-27-19-4-8
Another Monday night without a date? Read 
The Alligator.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYUnload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Available Immediately
Blocks away from Univ & shopping. 2BR unit 
& rooms for rent. Call Brenda 352-672-8657    
9-25-19-15-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1.  Took in, deserved
1.  Take over5.  Rank, score
2.  Nuclear ____6.  Characteristic 
3.  Ritzy7.  King, for one
4.  ____ snakeENEDRA
GNEGAEEDGAR
TIRTA
TCRRAEO
TNLEGEAERWTIR
EAGRRTANSWERS: 1A-Earned  5A-Grade  6A-Trait  7A-Writer
1D-Engage  2D-Reactor  3D-Elegant  4D-Garter  B-Gatorade9-23-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This was developed in 1965 by researchers 
at the University of Florida.
BONUS1. ANATOMY: What is a more com-
mon name for the condition called 
podobromhidrosis?
2. MUSIC: Which famous rock sing-
er was born with first and middle name 
Michael Phillip?
3. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the mountain featured in “The 
Hobbit”?
4. TELEVISION: Which 1960s 
animated show included a character 
called Sweet Polly Purebred?
5. ENTERTAINERS: Which swash-
buckling actor penned an autobiography 
titled “My Wicked, Wicked Ways”?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was 
President Richard Nixon’s Secret Ser -
vice code name?
7. MOVIES: On which planet did 
Luke Skywalker grow up in the “Star 
Wars” series?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which island nation sometimes is 
referred to poetically as Inisfail?
9. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of porcupines called?
10. LANGUAGE: What does the 
word “zorro” mean in Spanish?
Answers
1. Stinky feet
2. Mick Jagger
3. Lonely Mountain
4. “Underdog”
5. Errol Flynn
6. Searchlight
7. Tatooine
8. Ireland
9. A prickle
10. Fox
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 23, 2019King Features Weekly Service
Answers on pg. 9
 Answers on pg. 9MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Seth Bisen-Hersh
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Bowler’s 
challenge
6 River in western 
Belgium
10 “Quite contrary” 
gardener
14 Dog guide
15 Paris currency
16 Singer Adams
17 Bert’s Muppet 
roommate
18 Tiny bit of a min.
19 “Bob’s Burgers” 
daughter
20 *Zero degrees, 
on a compass
22 Looks for
23 *Fiduciary entity 
whose holdings 
are unknown to 
its beneficiaries
26 Deli hanger
31 Rivière contents
32 Sun-dried brick
33 Campus housing
35 Ceremonial 
shoulder-to-hip 
band
39 *Life insurance 
clause specifying 
twice the 
payment for 
certain situations
42 “¿Cómo __ 
usted?”
43 Pre-holiday 
nights
44 Helped
45 Exist
46 Opulent home
47 *Wet wooded 
region
53 Early stage
54 “I’m there!” ... 
and hint to the 
first part of the 
answers to 
starred clues
60 Lab vessel
61 Therefore
63 Radamès in 
36-Down, e.g.
64 And others, in 
Lat.
65 Author Roald
66 Wild West film
67 Provocative
68 French “head”
69 Newspapers, 
collectively
DOWN
1 Snow glider
2 Lima is its capital3 Fictional reporter 
Lois
4 “The doctor __”
5 “God” prefix
6 Film in which 
Streisand plays a 
yeshiva boy
7 Japanese rolls
8 Before, in verse
9 Mythical big bird
10 Usage measurer
11 French farewell
12 Ice show venues
13 Baker’s dough 
raiser
21 Sac fly stat
22 “The Simpsons” 
disco guy
24 Geeky-sounding 
candy
25 Knight’s lady
26 “Smooth 
Operator” singer
27 Kerfuffles
28 Lummox
29 __ The Museum: 
Stockholm 
exhibit honoring 
a pop group
30 Singer Tormé
33 Sunken ship 
explorer
34 __ of a kind
35 Peevish state
36 Verdi opera37 Editor’s “never 
mind that 
change”
38 Jekyll’s alter ego
40 Gateway Arch 
designer Saarinen
41 More, for Miguel
45 Rearward at sea
46 Many “Star Trek” 
extras
47 Mars explorer
48 Friend of Maria 
in “West Side 
Story”49 Author Asimov
50 Singer Furtado
51 Octet count
52 Swiped
55 Resting upon
56 Honey 
alternative
57 Pot starter
58 Ballerinas dance 
on them
59 Makes a mistake
61 NYC summer 
hrs.
62 Actress Charlotte
By Evan Kalish
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/21/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/21/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, September 21, 2019
ACROSS
1 Prepared for a 
shot
8 It dropped 
“Western” from 
its name in 1997
13 By design
16 Basic
17 Come to one’s 
senses
18 Not level
19 Department 
store section
20 Pacific resort, 
popularly
22 Some years ago
23 Like
24 Westernmost 
African capital
25 Hardly Mr. Cool
26 Commonly 
crumbled fare
29 Word on Italian 
street signs
30 Competition 
involving 
pictures
33 Hometown folks
34 Portmanteau 
coin
35 Longtime 
Warner Bros. 
output
39 __ player
40 Calm
41 Legendary Asian
43 “War on Peace” 
author __  
Farrow
44 Network for 
cinema lovers
47 Homecoming 
figure
48 Headline
49 Pinky __
51 Completely lost
53 Waiting line
55 Imply
56 Some of Nixon’s 
Plumbers, 
formerly
57 Simpson of 
fashion
58 “Aha!”
DOWN
1 Puccini 3-Down
2 Magic star of the 
’90s3 See 1-Down
4 Member of an 
Iraqi minority
5 “Wonder 
Woman” (2017) 
villain
6 Microbrew 
option
7 Asti wine grape
8 Pampering 
place
9 Brown on the 
Food Network
10 Ring 
centerpiece
11 Cause of many 
’70s lines
12 Come before
14 Really absorb
15 With all judges 
present, as at a 
Circuit Court
21 Lower-calorie 
cookie since 
2015
24 Hardly 
Hollywood’s 
most wanted
26 Filter target
27 World record?
28 High-and-mighty 
sort30 Exchanged for 
an equivalent
31 Pucker inducer
32 Revolutionary-
era loyalist
33 Super Bowl LI 
performer
36 Hot
37 View from 
Anchorage
38 Warn, 
watchdog-style42 Utopian
44 Many  
Beliebers
45 Cuban hero 
José
46 Peak
49 Dreamcast 
maker
50 Sharpen
52 Had
54 “What a terrible 
idea!”
09/20/19
1. Waiter, Writer
2. Tense, Terse
3. Former, Farmer
4. Crowd, Crown
5. Venus, Menus6. Homer, Hover
7. Garnet, Garret
8. Phony, Phone
9. Jacket, Packet
10. Minor, MinerEven Exchange Answers1. ANATOMY: What is a more com-
mon name for the condition called 
podobromhidrosis?
2. MUSIC: Which famous rock sing-
er was born with first and middle name 
Michael Phillip?
3. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the mountain featured in “The 
Hobbit”?
4. TELEVISION: Which 1960s 
animated show included a character 
called Sweet Polly Purebred?
5. ENTERTAINERS: Which swash-
buckling actor penned an autobiography 
titled “My Wicked, Wicked Ways”?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was 
President Richard Nixon’s Secret Ser -
vice code name?
7. MOVIES: On which planet did 
Luke Skywalker grow up in the “Star 
Wars” series?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which island nation sometimes is 
referred to poetically as Inisfail?
9. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of porcupines called?
10. LANGUAGE: What does the 
word “zorro” mean in Spanish?
Answers
1. Stinky feet
2. Mick Jagger
3. Lonely Mountain
4. “Underdog”
5. Errol Flynn
6. Searchlight
7. Tatooine
8. Ireland
9. A prickle
10. Fox
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 23, 2019King Features Weekly Service
Trivia Test AnswersPuzzle Solutions
Answers on pg. 9The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Small law office with network of approx 10 
computers seeking PT tech for troubleshoot -
ing software/hardware, general IT. Flexible 
hours, competitive pay. Send resume to 
resume@rothsteinforjustice.com    9-23-19-
10-14D
Experienced horse person for weekend 
feeding and cleaning of barn. Must have own 
transportation, farm in NW Marion County. 
Call (352) 591-2121 to arrange an interview.    
10-7-19-8-14IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 5:00 
- 7:00 p.m. on 9/23 - 9/26.  Verbal on M&W, 
Math on T&R.   To register and learn the 
room location, go to the TC website www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on “Study 
Skills" then "Workshops.”       9-23-19-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HELP WANTED: 
Provide care for my daughter. Must assist 
with oral hygiene. Mon - Fri, 9:30 - 2:30. 5 
hrs per day. Must have car. Please call 352-
339-2798    9-30-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
SHARED NANNY in a family home. I have 2 
full time spots available. Providing exceptional 
& loving care for children of busy profession-
als. Bilingual. Small groups. FT or PT. Over 25 
yrs exp. FHdaycare.com 352-213-5375    10-
2-19-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Looking for professional and affordable 
Homemaker and companion services?
Contact us @ 800-727-1559
email: Divinehealth1@ymail.com     9-23-19-
4-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Florida safety Keanu 
Neal is believed to have torn 
his Achilles late in the second 
quarter of the Falcons-Colts 
game Sunday afternoon. HBO will start ﬁ  lming Gators this week for new show
HBO's "24/7 College Football" will start ﬁ  lming on campus this week ahead 
of Florida's home matchup against T owson on Sept. 28. I understand the temptation. 
I really do.
The Gators checked 
every box in their 34-3 
blowout of Tennessee. Nat-
urally, fans want to draw con-
clusions from that.
Quarterback Kyle Trask was 
sharp in his ﬁ  rst start. He held 
onto the ball a little too long at 
times, but he made good reads 
and delivered accurate passes. Champion-
ing him as the future of the program and 
assuming the Gators won’t miss a beat with 
Feleipe Franks’ absence may seem like the 
logical next step to take.
But I urge you: Resist that inclination.
The Volunteers are bad. Really bad.
Granted, that shouldn’t be a surprise. 
We knew going into the game that UF was 
facing a Tennessee team in dire straits. After all, good teams don’t give up 38 
points and 352 yards in home 
losses to Georgia State.
But the Vols are a disaster. 
There’s really no other way to 
put it. 
Their defense let Florida 
have as much success as it 
could handle, and veteran 
quarterback Jarrett Guarantano 
still looks like a deer in the 
headlights facing pressure from SEC 
defenses.
Considering the only remaining game on 
the schedule that looks winnable is a Nov. 2 
bout against a good UAB team, 2-10 seems 
like the best case scenario for UT.
Basically, Florida did what it was 
supposed to in a game that, despite being 
a rivalry, shouldn’t have been competitive.Auburn game will answer all QsNothing But Nettuno
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Kyle Trask played well against the Volunteers, but will be tested when 
the Gators play Auburn on Oct. 5. 
FOOTBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Florida's football team 
has been favored in every 
game this season. And it 
has won every game this 
season.
Some of those wins, 
however, were more 
convincing than others.
The win over Miami 
was ugly. The beatdown 
of Tennessee-Martin was 
scripted. The win against 
Kentucky was eked out. 
But the blowout of 
Tennessee was dominant 
and the kind of win Florida 
was looking for.
There has been plenty 
to dissect about the team’s 
play through four games. 
Suspect play at the running 
back position, turning 
the ball over too often, 
not generating enough 
turnovers. Virtually all of 
that criticism is valid.
But No. 9 Florida left 
little room for critique in 
its 34-3 win against the 
Volunteers on Saturday.
UF’s game score of 85 
against UT was its best 
of the season, according 
to ESPN’s Football Power 
Index. Game score is “a measure of game 
performance including 
how well the team 
controlled the game along 
with the final result, 
accounting for site and 
opponent strength.” The 
scoring system goes from 
0-100.
Tennessee being the 
lowest-ranked FBS team 
Florida has played based 
on FPI and that game being 
played at home shows just 
how dominant of a win it 
was for the Gators.
Kyle Trask threw for 
293 yards in his first 
career start and Emory 
Jones added 20 totaling 
313, a season-high for 
Florida. Running back 
Lamical Perine ran for 
a season-high 62 yards. 
And the defense held the 
Volunteers to three points, 
under 250 yards of offense 
and created four turnovers 
without two of its best 
defensive players in C.J. 
Henderson and Jabari 
Zuniga.
Linebacker Jonathan 
Greenard praised his 
team’s defense against 
the Volunteers, but hinted 
there’s still room for 
improvement.“The crazy part is we’re 
only scratching the surface 
of what we really can do,” 
he said. “I’m excited about 
where we are right now.”
The Gators looked 
the part of a top-10 team 
against Tennessee.
Now it has to play 
three of them in a four-
game span after Towson, 
starting with No. 7 Auburn 
in two weeks.
In another tuneup 
game for UF against FCS 
opponent Towson, it must 
work on establishing the 
run, avoid any major 
injuries and get healthy.
Two weeks ago against 
UT-Martin, Florida lost 
cornerback Henderson and 
receiver Kadarius Toney 
to injury. Luckily for the 
Gators, neither will likely 
be missed against the 
Tigers. But it must avoid 
losing more impact players 
on both sides of the ball 
this week.
Another player whom 
UF will need back against 
Auburn is defensive end 
Jabari Zuniga. He missed 
the Tennessee game with 
an ankle injury, but the Florida played up to ranking ahead of tough stretch
Tyler Nettuno
Twitter: @TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 12Chris King / Alligator Staff
Jonathan Greenard notched three tackles against the Volunteers, one of them a 
sack for a loss of two yards. That brings his total to 3.5 on the season. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Sophomore outside hitter Thayer Hall was named the MVP of the 
Gators Invitational after notching a 33-kill weekend. 
Alligator File Photo
Men’s golf coach J.C. Deacon said he was pleased with the way his 
team is trending and scoring this season. 
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Florida’s weekend went as ex-
pected, coming out of the Gators 
Invitational with three wins. 
But what wasn’t expected was 
the fact that not one of those games 
finished with a set loss for UF as 
the team swept all three of its op-
ponents in Liberty, Northern Ari-
zona and Louisiana.
“To play the back-to-back 
matches and not drop a set was 
pretty good,” coach Mary Wise 
said after Friday’s double-header. 
“There’s a lot of good things 
happening on the offense and 
defense.”
It’s a difficult feat to come out 
of a tournament without dropping 
a set no matter who you’re playing, 
but it’s even more difficult when 
you’re rotating in players off the 
bench.
Let’s take a look at who stood 
out the most for the Gators this 
weekend overall:
 
Sophomore outside hitter Thay-
er Hall, First star
There’s little to question why 
Thayer Hall was named tourna-
ment MVP this weekend.
The sophomore outside hitter 
tallied 33 kills on three matches 
and 83 swings, only logging 12 er-
rors in the process.
Since Hall put on her orange-and-blue jersey last season, she 
has played an integral role on this 
Gators roster and will continue to 
do so as the team enters conference 
play Friday against Auburn at 
home.
“The connection with Marlie 
(Monserez) has gotten even closer 
than it was last year,” Hall said 
after Friday night’s match against 
Northern Arizona. “She’s really 
taken control of our offense.”
Wise singled out Hall’s incred-
ible play on Friday, which had 
her hitting .388 on the nighttime 
match.
“You usually see that from a 
middle, not an outside hitter,” 
Wise said. “It just tells you how 
well she’s controlling the ball and 
what a great job Marlie (Monserez) 
is doing in delivering it.”
 
Sophomore middle blocker Lau-
ren Dooley, Second star
Rachael Kramer loves playing 
the role of “mama” to her fellow 
middle, sophomore Lauren Dooley.
“It makes me so proud,” Kramer 
said. “You see it every day in the 
gym, because I see how hard all 
of us work and we’re such a close 
middle family, so to see your 
friends do well on the court is 
the greatest thing in the world…
and having it be the people you’re 
trying to mentor and teach makes it 
that much sweeter.”
Dooley logged playing time in eight of Florida’s nine sets, this 
weekend notching eight kills on 26 
swings.
Wise said earlier in the week 
that the team is really seeing 
Dooley’s play come to life with her 
confidence.
The 6-foot-6 middle blocker is 
expected to play a major role as the 
Gators enter SEC play, and many 
got to see just what Dooley could 
bring to the court this weekend.
 
Senior libero Allie Gregory, 
Third star
Most people don’t see the gritty 
aspects of defense like they do in 
any kind of offense, but you can’t 
ignore senior libero Allie Gregory’s 
level of play this weekend.
The defensive specialist logged 
45 digs in three matches over a 
two-day span. She notched a ca-
reer-high 24 digs against Louisiana 
on Saturday, two more than she 
logged against Minnesota on Sept. 
7.
Gregory anchored the defense, 
only missing three passes on serve 
receive.
And she’ll continue to lead the 
charge in the back row with help 
from defensive specialists Paula 
Cerame, Riley Fischer and Chanelle 
Hargreaves in SEC play at the end 
of this week.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org3 stars from the weekend
MEN’S GOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
The Gators were never 
supposed to seriously 
contend this weekend.
After a lukewarm 
performance to open the 
season earlier this month 
in Dalton, Georgia — and 
three freshmen earning 
spots in the starting 
lineup this weekend 
— Florida’s young 
core seemed to stand 
little chance competing 
against collegiate golf’s 
crème of the crop at 
an esteemed major 
championship venue.
But the No. 25 Gators 
played consistent golf 
all weekend and left 
Chicago on Sunday with 
something they had yet 
to see so early on in 
their revenge season: 
progress.
Florida finished in 
a respectable seventh 
place at 20 over out 
of 15 programs this 
past weekend at the 
OFCC/Fighting Illini Invitational. The young 
squad can return to 
Gainesville with a 
validated confidence that 
it can contend with the 
nation’s best.
At the close of Fri-
day’s first round, the 
Gators were in eighth 
place, carried by a one-
under 69 from freshman 
Quentin Debove and an 
even 70 from junior John 
Axelsen. The results 
served as gratification 
for coach J.C. Deacon.
“I love the way our 
team is trending,” the 
sixth-year coach said in a 
release following the first 
day of play. “Our scores 
are getting closer to what 
we are seeing at home.”
Deacon’s words were 
affirmed over the final 36 
holes, when the historic 
North Course at Olympia 
Fields showed its 
championship prowess 
amid 25 mile-per-hour 
gusts.
His Florida squad 
managed to hold its own 
in Saturday’s second-round action, firing a 
294 and staying tied 
for eighth on a day that 
witnessed several elite 
teams and individuals 
stumble down the 
leaderboard. Axelsen 
was again brilliant, 
finishing with a second-
consecutive two birdie, 
two bogey loop around 
the North Course.
The final round 
proved to be no less 
difficult. The winds re-
turned, and so did the 
high scores across the 
board. Yet, Florida pro-
duced its best 18-hole 
total of the week (281), 
tying No. 3 Georgia Tech 
and No. 14 Texas A&M 
for the lowest of the day.
Freshman Ricky 
Castillo, who struggled 
to get anything going 
across the first 36 holes, 
found a spark en route 
to a career-best 2-under 
68 to crack the top 25 
individually. Axelsen 
finally made more putts, 
posting a final-round 
67 that earned him a runner-up finish overall.
Given that 10 of the 
15 teams in the field this 
past week were ranked, 
including three of the 
top five according to 
the Bushnell Golfweek 
Preseason Coaches’ Poll, 
the Gators fared well 
among their elite peers. 
Florida’s squad, which 
featured three freshmen, 
finished higher than 
No. 1 Texas and No. 4 
Oklahoma State, among 
others.
Not bad for a team 
that couldn’t advance 
past NCAA regional play 
four months ago.
“We have so much 
room to improve and our 
freshmen are learning 
those lessons fast,” 
Deacon said. “We are 
only going to get tougher, 
more comfortable and 
more confident going 
forward.”
 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgAxelsen, Gators finish strong in tournament12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019
FREE Relationship Workshops
Come join our FREE, FUN relationship strengthening workshops
where University of Florida trained instructors will teach effective and proven skills to in -
crease positive communication, manage stress, set financial goals, deal with differences, 
and maintain a happy and healthy friendship bond. Pre-registration is REQUIRED.
Workshops will be held once a week for 5 weeks in the evenings at University of Flor -
ida, McCarty Hall B (1676 McCarty Dr.), 3rd Floor, Room 3096, Gainesville, FL 32611. 
Option 1: Weds. Oct. 2, Oct. 9, Oct. 16, Oct. 23, Oct. 30
Option 2: Thurs. Oct. 3, Oct. 10, Oct. 17, Oct. 24, Oct. 31
A FREE light MEAL will be served at each class and you may also be eligible for 
GIFT CARDS. PARKING is FREE.
To register, go to Classes at www.smartcouples.org or contact Jaime 
Haynes at j.haynes@ufl.edu/352-273-3539 or Stephanie Norman at snorman06@ufl.
edu/352-273-3499.
Funding for this project is provided by the United States Department Health and Human Services, Admin-
istration for Children and Families, Grant: #90FM0079. These services are available to all eligible Persons, 
regardless of race, gender, age, disability or religion. 
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Questions still surround UF 
four weeks into the season. Those 
questions will remain until No. 7 
Auburn comes to town in two weeks.
The Volunteers’ porous defense 
let Florida receivers get open all 
afternoon on Saturday. Trask still 
had to make the right decisions to 
get the ball to those receivers, but 
UT certainly made his job easier with 
lackluster coverage.
Auburn, on the other hand, 
possesses a much stiffer defense. 
The Tigers held a solid Texas A&M 
offense to just three points in the ﬁ  rst 
three quarters on Saturday. Their 
defensive line — featuring NFL Draft 
talent like Derrick Brown and Marlon 
Davidson — could pose the toughest 
test up front for Florida’s offensive 
line this season.
The o-line gave Trask a relatively 
clean pocket on Saturday, only 
allowing him to be sacked twice. 
Against Auburn, that number could 
increase signiﬁ  cantly.
We don’t know what Kyle Trask 
looks like under pressure. He didn’t 
face it in the fourth quarter against 
a Kentucky team that refused to 
bring the blitz, and he didn’t face it 
on Saturday in a game that felt like it was out of hand after Florida’s 
opening touchdown drive.
UF’s defense looks legit, though. 
Through four games, its tied for ﬁ  rst 
in the nation with 20 sacks and is 
ranked No. 23 in total defense. That’s 
why, despite the quarterback change, 
writing off the Gators in the national 
conversation feels premature.
Auburn’s true freshman 
quarterback Bo Nix hasn’t been 
asked to do much, but running back 
JaTarvious Whitlow — one of the best 
backs in the conference — already 
has 408 yards and four touchdowns. 
He’s on track to obliterate his 
season totals of 787 yards and six 
touchdowns in 2018.
The Gators have already struggled 
to contain the talented running backs 
they’ve faced in Miami’s DeeJay Dal-
las and Kentucky’s Kavosiey Smoke, 
and Whitlow could be the best of the 
bunch.
So, do yourself a favor and wait to 
formulate your hot takes until after 
that all-important matchup against 
the Tigers on Oct. 5 has come and 
gone.
One way or another, it should 
bring the answer to all those 
questions.COLUMN,  from pg. 10Don't jump to conclusions Sports Meme of the W eekdefensive line still turned in a 
dominant performance without 
him, totaling four sacks and 
eight tackles for loss.
The Gators’ run game showed 
signs of improvement against 
Tennessee in the second half. 
But those garbage-time yards 
came when the game was all but 
already decided.
UF needs to work on 
establishing the run game earlier with Perine and Dameon Pierce, 
rather than just pounding the 
ball with them at the end of 
games when it already has a 
lead. That won’t always be the 
case, especially against Auburn, 
LSU and Georgia.
Coach Dan Mullen 
downplayed the team’s rushing 
struggles on Saturday.
“Yeah, I love running the ball, 
but hey, the benefit of it, if the 
run game is going to take some 
time, it’s a good thing we have some really good receivers,” he 
said.
The team has a chance 
against Towson to further tweak 
its rushing attack. 
Florida has one last 
opportunity for a dominant win 
and to figure things out before 
one of the toughest stretches in 
the nation for any team.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 10Florida showed growth vs. Vols
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Amari Burney (30) forced two turnovers against 
T ennessee, one fumble recovery and a sideline interception. 
River Wells
