We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Showcasing a Gainesville icon
The life of Rock & Roll Hall of Famer Bo Diddley will be on dis -
play at Smathers Library,  pg. 4
Coming in second...
Alachua County came in second for one STI in Florida,  pg. 5Gators travel to Oregon for NCAA regional
Alicia Boren and UF gymnastics will compete at Oregon State 
for a spot in the NCAA semifinals,  pg. 14By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Ninety-six.
That’s how many faces made 
their way onto the marbled white 
floor of the Florida State Capitol 
building Wednesday afternoon.
They formed a line on both 
sides of the House of Representa -tives’ door. Each with a name, lo -
cation and age.
Cynthia Watson. Sebring, Flor -
ida. 65. Light blonde hair frames 
a round, peach-toned face. She 
smiles softly, wrinkling the corner 
of her eyes.
But she wasn’t standing in the 
Capitol. She was shot and killed in 
a Suntrust Bank in January.Her and 95 others’ images were 
those of Floridians killed by gun 
violence.
Lauren Herwitz, an 18-year-
old UF health science and theater 
freshman, held a picture of Watson 
in front of her chest.
She stood in silence with a 
straight face, seemingly emotion -FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 77
FEATURE FRIDAY
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Michelle Bui knows pork bel -
ly should be buttery, crispy and 
made with care. She has eaten it 
her whole life with her family. 
Bui, a Vietnamese 18-year-
old UF business administration 
freshman, remembered eating 
the dish at UF’s Chinese New 
Year show in February produced 
by the Asian American Student 
Union. It tasted different then.
“It tasted very bland and 
nothing like actual Chinese 
food,” Bui said. “They just used 
some random, gentrified recipe.”
Richard Doan, a Vietnamese 
18-year-old UF business admin -
istration and telecommunica -
tion freshman, said the Chinese 
American Student Association 
can’t prepare its own food for the 
events hosted at the Reitz Union 
each year. Instead, it provides its 
recipes to a contracted caterer.
Representation on campus for 
Asian American students con -
sists of a small office on the third 
floor of the Reitz Union, five 
cultural organizations under the 
Asian American Student Union 
funded by Student Government 
and an Asian American studies minor within the English Depart -
ment that some feel struggles to 
stay alive. 
The Asian American popula -
tion at UF makes up 7 percent of 
the total student body. The ma -
jority of Asian Americans who 
come to Gainesville are here to 
work or study at UF.
They find a community with -
in organizations like the Asian 
American Student Union but still 
feel like they aren’t fully repre -
sented; they are seeking a per -
manent way to preserve their 
traditions. 
Letters from the president
At a time when the U.S. re -
stricted Chinese labor immigra -
tion, UF welcomed two students: 
Hsiu Sheng Hua and Len B. Tan.
Letters dated from November 
1921 to February 1922 between 
President Albert A. Murphree 
and the students solidified a pos -
itive relationship with Chinese 
students. Murphree wrote them 
letters of recommendations, re -
ferring to Tan as a “bright young 
man” and “gifted as a public 
speaker.”
Murphree had a personal re -
lationship with the students. He 
would ask how their health was. The past, present and 
future of UF’s Asian 
American community
Dana Cassidy / Alligator Staff
Lauren Herwitz (center), an 18-year-old UF Health Science and theater freshman and March For Our 
Lives Gainesville member, protests arming classroom teachers in case of an active shooter Wednesday 
afternoon. “I’m almost in tears. This is just incredibly powerful and emotional, ” she said.
THE BOARD WILL CON -
SIST OF 10 VOLUNTARY 
POSITIONS
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Victims of sexual misconduct 
will soon have a support system 
on campus comprised solely of 
students. 
The UF Office of Title IX Com -pliance is creating a student advi -
sory board, said Russell Froman, 
the UF Title IX coordinator. The 
board will start off with 10 UF stu -
dents appointed annually. 
Title IX is a federal mandate for 
all federally funded institutions to 
set up a support system for vic -
tims of sexual misconduct, Fro -
man said. It provides prevention 
education programs, support and 
investigations to lead to the elimi -
nation of sexual assault. “The purpose of why I created 
[the board] was to get students in -
volved in the process, to include 
their voice and how we can meet 
their needs better,” he said.
The positions are unpaid be -
cause they are voluntary, Froman 
said. 
Froman said he started think -
ing about creating this board 
about two months ago. About 40 
students applied to the board.
The office is interviewing stu -dents, who include members from 
the upcoming freshman class to 
graduate students. 
“I realized we could use more 
student feedback on how we can 
make reporting easier and how 
we could provide more support,” 
Froman said. “And who could 
best tell us that than the students 
themselves?”
Duties of the student advisory 
board will include offering advice 
and guidance to students using Title IX resources in order to make 
them more comfortable, Froman 
said. Members of the board will 
also present ideas on how to make 
information easier to access and 
work on outreach events. 
“The ultimate goal is to complete -
ly eliminate sexual misconduct,” he 
said. “If we can ever get there, that’d 
be a happy day. I hope this board 
helps us to continue to provide better UF to create sexual misconduct student advisory board ‘You fight for how you want to live’: 
UF students protest in Tallahassee
SEE MFOL,  PAGE 8
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 3
SEE TITLE IX,  PAGE 8FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer         Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a 
summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position 
your advertisements for the local market.All ads receive a 
10% discount
Deadline: Wednesday, April 17
Run Date: Wednesday, April 24
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are 
getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your 
exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester 
and reach students and Gainesville locals.In 1922, Hua and Tan were the 
only Chinese students at UF.
Phillip Cheng attended UF in 
2008 and was involved with the 
Chinese American Student Asso -
ciation. The current president of 
the UF Association of Asian Alum -
ni said he found the letters while 
studying for his master’s in Asian 
American studies at San Francisco 
State University. He researches 
Chinese student immigrants who 
attended UF in the early 1900s. 
The letters stood out to him be -
cause the country shunned Chi -
nese immigrants at the time they 
were written.
“There’s something special 
about the way the University of 
Florida treated these students as 
opposed to other universities,” 
Phillip Cheng said. 
Murphree and the Chinese stu -
dents wrote letters over a period 
of months like they were good 
friends, Phillip Cheng said. The 
aged, typewritten letters are still in 
the George A. Smathers Library to -
day among hundreds of other let -
ters Murphree wrote to students.
Phillip Cheng said he felt closer 
to his identity when he discovered 
the letters. They seemed to be a 
link to his own cultural history af -
ter a university archivist told him 
information about Asian American 
student life wasn’t accessible. 
“If you know that information, 
it gives you a stronger sense of 
belonging at UF,” Phillip Cheng 
said.”
‘It felt I could be attacked for 
being Asian American’
Justin Ho, a Vietnamese 
20-year-old UF psychology junior, 
sat among about 50 attendees as he learned the Vietnamese word 
of the day at the Avengers-themed 
Vietnamese Student Organization 
meeting. 
He repeated the Vietnam -
ese words “anh hùng” and “siêu 
nhân,” which translate to heroes 
and superhero. 
At every meeting, students learn 
a Vietnamese word and a piece of 
Vietnamese culture. Ho carries the 
words he learns with him as a way 
to feel closer to his culture.
Ho grew up in Fort Myers, Flor -
ida, and did not feel welcomed as 
an Asian American student at first 
because of campus guest speaker 
events, like Richard Spencer’s talk 
in October 2017. But he said he 
found a sense of belonging after 
joining the Asian American Stu -
dent Union.
“With Richard Spencer coming 
to UF, it felt I could be attacked 
for being Asian American and 
Vietnamese,” Ho said. “But that’s 
why I turned to VSO and the Asian 
American Student Union commu -
nity here because they provide me 
with a sense of security and com -
fort knowing that I’m not alone.”
Sarah Liu, a Chinese 18-year-
old UF psychology freshman, said 
the cultural organizations on cam -
pus give Asian cultures needed 
representation. 
Liu and her family moved 
from Memphis, Tennessee, to 
Gainesville nine months ago after 
she was accepted to UF. 
Her mother, Haiyan Xu, a UF 
biological scientist, volunteers ev -
ery Friday at the Gainesville Chi -
nese Christian Church, at 2850 NW 
23rd Blvd., to teach youth Bible 
classes. 
Xu said she spends teaches 
the younger generation of Chi -
nese Americans and passes on her Christian faith and Chinese culture 
through Bible study. 
Liu said she couldn’t relate to 
her peers because she had differ -
ent interests when she attended 
her first Chinese American Student 
Association event. Students who 
come from ethnic backgrounds 
sometimes feel pressure to join 
different cultural organizations on 
campus, she said.
“If it doesn’t click, then don’t 
push it. You can love your culture 
and not be a part of the organiza -
tions,” Liu said.
Seeking more for the commu -
nity
The Asian American Student 
Union office is nestled in the back 
of the Department of Student Ac -
tivities and Involvement on the 
third floor of the Reitz Union.
Nine years ago, the union’s for -
mer president Megan Vu wrote a 
letter to the Reitz Union Facilities 
Program Committee asking for a 
multicultural space. Today, it ex -
ists. But Cheyenne Cheng said 
there’s still more work to be done.
Cheyenne Cheng, a Filipina 
Chinese 22-year-old UF psychol -
ogy senior, is involved in a task 
force recruiting students to ensure 
an array of Asian cultures are rep -
resented in an Asian institute. She 
said the building will be similar 
to La Casita or the Black Student 
Union building and will be used 
to express their culture and host 
events.
“Compared to other communi -
ties of color, Asian American Stu -
dent Union doesn’t have as much 
resources,” Cheyenne Cheng said. 
“I think about how many Asian 
professors I’ve had — I can only 
think of one or two.”
Cheyenne Cheng said she 
wants more for her community than a line on a budget. The over -
all amount given to student organi -
zations was $1,031,930. The Asian 
American Student Union was giv -
en $122,485. The Hispanic Student 
Association was given $128,582. 
The Black Student Union was giv -
en $105,305 and has its own build -
ings.
To her, an Asian institute would 
mean the university cares about 
her culture, she said. 
‘It’s my food, man’
Richard Doan found a com -
munity of people that shared his 
traditions in the Asian American 
Student Union. Growing up in 
Parkland, Florida, Doan said most 
of the people in the white subur -
ban area did not look like him.
Doan remembered that in el -
ementary school he would pull out 
his bánh mì, a Vietnamese sand -
wich with pickled radishes and carrots, that his mother packed for 
him for lunch. 
“Everyone has that ‘lunchbox 
moment’ when you come to school 
and you take your food out, and 
kids would ask what that smell 
was or what is that,” Doan said. 
“It’s my food, man!” 
Doan said growing up he didn’t 
have multicultural student organi -
zations to become involved with.  
“No matter what your back -
ground is, you can find something 
that you like to do,” Doan said.
“In terms of multicultural or -
ganizations, there’s pretty much 
every ethnicity represented at UF, 
but in terms of funding and re -
sources, it’s not all the same.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1A UF president wrote letters to 2 Asian students
TIMELINE OF UF’S ASIAN AMERICAN STUDENT HISTORY
1948  - Chinese Club is founded
1973  - The Vietnamese Student Organization (VSO) is founded
Early 1980s  - The Indian Student Association (ISA) is founded
1987  - The Filipino Student Association (FSA) is founded
1991  - The Chinese Club is renamed the Chinese American Student Associa -
tion (CASA)
1993  -  The Asian Student Union is created
1995  - The Korean Undergraduate Student Association (KUSA) is founded
1996 - The Pakistani Student Association (PSA) is founded
Early 2000s - Health Educated Asian Leaders (HEAL) is founded
2004  - The Asian Student Union becomes the Asian American Student 
Union (AASU)
2011  - Association of Asian Alumni (AAA) is officially recognized
Asian Demographics by College
AGRICULTURAL AND LIFE SCIENCES 6.4% 
ARTS 4.46%
BUSINESS, WARRINGTON COLLEGE 6.9%
DENTISTRY 14.88%
DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND PLANNING 4.82% 
EDUCATION 2.74%
ENGINEERING, HERBERT WERTHEIM COLLEGE 7.5%
HEALTH AND HUMAN PERFORMANCE 5.17%
JOURNALISM AND COMMUNICATIONS 3.45% 
LAW, LEVIN COLLEGE 4.33% 
LIBERAL ARTS AND SCIENCES 8.48%
MEDICINE 12.23% 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
services for students and support for 
students around Title IX issues.”
Education Secretary Betsy De -
Vos has proposed major changes 
to Title IX that would restore due 
process protections for students 
accused of sexual assault, accord -
ing to the Associated Press.
When Title IX passed in Con -
gress in 1972, it prohibited dis -
crimination on the basis of sex. 
Since then, Title IX has been ref -
erenced in lawsuits that have ex -panded its protections, including 
protecting individuals from sexual 
harassment.  
The proposed changes have 
been met with controversy from 
victim advocacy groups, Demo -
cratic politicians and the Ameri -
can Civil Liberties Union, accord -
ing to AP. 
Hayliy Johnson, a 21-year-old 
UF senior, said the new student 
advisory board sounds like a good 
idea based on the climate of the 
last couple years. She also thinks 
it could be problematic because the students may not be fully ob -
jective. 
“I think having a student ad -
visory board would be helpful in 
that you get to see things from a 
student,” she said. “But, depend -
ing on how the student advisory 
board is picked, they might have 
certain biases that may not be 
beneficial for the whole Student 
Body.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgTITLE IX,  from pg. 1The effort comes after the US education secretary proposed Title IX changesless. But this was a facade.
“I’m almost in tears,” she said with a ner -
vous sigh. “I’m standing in chills right now.”
About 20 people took a two-hour bus ride 
with the Gainesville chapter of March For 
Our Lives to Tallahassee to participate in a 
Day of Action, which included a rally, press 
conference and demonstration to oppose 
Senate Bill 7030 and House Bill 7093. 
The Senate Bill and the House Bill would 
both allow classroom teachers to volunteer 
for training from local law enforcement to 
carry guns in schools to respond to active 
shooters as “Guardians.”
These bills build upon the Marjory Stone -
man Douglas High School Public Safety Act, 
passed after last year’s mass shooting at Mar -
jory Stoneman Douglas High School in Park -
land, Florida, where 17 people were killed 
and 17 others injured. The Public Safety Act 
introduced the new program to arm school 
“Guardians.” A school guardian does not 
have the authority to act as law enforcement 
besides stopping an active shooter on school 
grounds.
In the original bill, school employees 
whose main duties lie outside of the class -
room would be able to become guardians. 
Districts could choose if they want to partake 
in the guardian program. 
The House Bill was temporarily post -
poned and a date was not specified as to 
when it would be readdressed.
Senate Bill 7030 was set to potentially be 
heard by a committee on Wednesday, but it 
was postponed.
March For Our Lives Gainesville will re -
turn to Tallahassee to protest on April 10.
This is the first political protest March 
for Our Lives Gainesville has participated in, 
as previous events focused on gun violence 
awareness, said Alyson Moriarty, an execu -
tive board member of the chapter. The or -
ganization received $8,000 funded by grants 
from March For Our Lives Orlando to use for 
the Day of Action.
The 20-year-old UF behavioral and cog -
nitive neuroscience sophomore said she 
doesn’t consider herself a political person.
It wasn’t until the Parkland community, 
which is 10 minutes down the road from her 
hometown of Coconut Creek, Florida, was 
attacked that she said she opened her eyes to 
the consequences of guns.
“You never know when your life can be 
impacted directly or how your family can 
be impacted. You fight for how you want to 
live,” Moriarty said. “So if I don’t want to live in fear of being shot, then I’m going to 
fight for that.”
There was supposed to be a second line-
up outside the chambers at 3 p.m. when the 
session ended, but it ended at about 2:15 
p.m. The senators did not walk out through 
the main entrance where protestors would 
be, Moriarty said.
Republican State Senator Keith Perry, who 
represents Alachua County, said Wednesday 
he plans on voting for the Senate Bill’s cur -
rent form.
He said he didn’t have appointments set 
up with the protestors nor did he know they 
were coming, but he enjoys seeing students 
get involved.
After the mass shooting at MSD, the Pub -
lic Safety Act was one of the quickest pieces 
of legislation he’s seen passed.
Decisions like these are complicated, Per -
ry said. 
“We’ve just got to have dialogue and be 
willing to sit down and talk,” Perry said.  
•   •   •
At 9 a.m., the dull, gray concrete contrast -
ed the vibrant blue “March For Our Lives” 
shirts. The group of about 20 students and 
active community members emitted excited, 
yet nervous, energy.
Standing amid the crowd waiting for the 
large, yellow commercial bus was Maggie 
MacDonald, 74, of Gainesville, eager to get 
to the Capitol.
She believes teachers shouldn’t be armed 
but rather that guns should be taken away. 
As a retired linguistics professor of 25 
years at an Ohio state university, she said she 
would be petrified to see some of her former 
colleagues armed in class.
“It’s horrifying. It’s not the way you solve 
the problem,” she said. “The world that we 
are leaving our children, people who have 
grandchildren — it’s obscene.”
There’s a dawning of awareness in college 
students, MacDonald said. For a long time, 
she’s noticed a passive attitude within the 
younger generation, and it’s taken something 
as dramatic as mass shootings to see more 
activism.
She said it does her heart good to see stu -
dents fight for a change because they are the 
future.
“I’m so tired of seeing the same color hair 
as mine in control,” she said while pointing 
at her own short, white hair. “Unfortunately, 
the future is determined by old white men 
who don’t seem to care about their grandchil -
dren.”
As the group boarded the bus, excited 
chatter settled down as the protestors took their seats.
The bus ride to Tallahassee was quiet, 
with murmured conversations about diffi -
cult classes, the slow but heavy breathing of 
those able to sleep and thumbs that scrolled 
on glowing smartphones screens. Some sat 
silently with their eyes fixated on the rapid 
movement of blurry green forestry and white 
trucks outside the window. 
Blocking the sun on the bright, shining 
day, the monumental structure that is the 
Florida State Capitol building towered over 
the blue dots of students who made their way 
inside.
Meeting up with those blue dots was Ni -
colette Springer, a member and legislative 
advocate for the Florida League of Women 
Voters. The league partnered with the Florida 
Coalition to Prevent Gun Violence to host the 
Day of Action with the March for Our Lives 
chapter.
“Our No. 1 objective is to keep firearms 
out of our classrooms,” Springer said.
After the activists waited about an hour, 
the sessions finished with no mention of the 
bills.
The press conference that followed was 
emotionally fueled as each speaker discussed 
the dangers of arming teachers, how the bill 
could put minority students at risk and the 
fear it brings MSD alumni.
There were about nine speakers, each pas -
sionately negating the bill.
“No student should have to hide under -
neath their classmate’s body, but I had to 
do that,” said 18-year-old Aliyah Eastman, a 
senior at MSD and a survivor of last year’s 
shooting.
She and Zion Kelly, 18, a March For Our 
Lives activist and Florida Agricultural and 
Mechanical University business administra -
tion freshman, are both black students who spoke about how the bill could unfairly target 
minorities, as law enforcement tends to sta -
tistically target more people of color. 
They said they fear that school may be -
come another location for law enforcement 
to continue these patterns.
Toward the end of the press conference, 
Democratic Florida State Rep. Carlos Guill -
ermo Smith, who represents part of Orange 
County, discussed what he called the ele -
phant in the room.
“The bill is temporarily postponed, but 
we’ll be back,” Guillermo Smith said.
Students and supporters amplified in vol -
ume with sounds of clapping and cheering, 
“We’ll be back.”
The group departed for Gainesville as the 
workday came to an end. The protestors sat 
in silence once again. The air conditioning 
hummed softly, and the paved road rumbled 
under the bus as the sky changed from bright 
blue to an ombré of orange and pinks.
Maia Hebron, an MSD alumna and shoot -
ing survivor and 18-year-old UF communica -
tions science and disorders freshman, said 
she believes the legislators’ decision not to 
address the bill in front of the group shows 
how much power her and other students 
have.
Fighting for the safety for those such as 
her little sister, who also survived the shoot -
ing last year, motivates her to prevent any -
thing like that from happening again, she 
said.
Hebron says she plans to continue to fight 
against the bills and anything related to them.
“There’s a reason why we’re here,” she 
said. “We need to make a change.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMFOL,  from pg. 1‘Our No. 1 objective is to keep firearms out of our classrooms’
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS SINCE THE MARJORY STONEMAN 
DOUGLAS MASS SHOOTING:
• Hundreds of thousands of people came to the March for Our Lives political 
demonstration in Washington, D.C.
• A record of about 800,000 people registered to vote on National Voter 
Registration day on Sept. 25
• The Marjory Stoneman Douglas Public High School Act banned bump stocks, 
which allow an assault rifle to release a volley of bullets with the pull of the 
trigger.
— Increased the minimum age to buy an AR-15 to 21
— Required one armed security guard at every public school in Florida
— SB 7030 was filed, which was supported by the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Public 
High School Public Safety Commission
Who does Title IX apply to?  
Students and employees
What does Title IX address? 
Sexual harassment, sexual violence or any gender-
based discrimination that may deny a person access to 
educational benefits and opportunities
What does Title IX do?  
Provides support, investigates instances and provides 
education on prevention of sexual harassment and 
discriminationT oday’s Weather
TODAY
Florida Museum Spring Plant 
Sale
When:  10 a.m. to 5 p.m. today 
to Sunday
Where:  Florida Museum of 
Natural History, at 3215 Hull 
Road 
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History will host a large 
sale with more than 150 species 
of difficult-to-find and pollina -
tor-friendly plants. They will be 
available for purchase with pro -
ceeds benefiting the museum’s 
Butterfly Rainforest exhibit. For 
more information, visit florida -
museum.ufl.edu/event/spring-
plant-sale or call 352-273-2057.
Crime, Justice and Equity
When:  8:30 a.m. to noon
Where:  UF Levin College 
of Law Campus, Martin H. 
Levin Advocacy Center, Main 
Courtroom
What:  A discussion of issues 
regarding individual rights and 
public safety that are raised 
and addressed by data analyt -
ics, which predict the likelihood 
that someone may become in -
volved in criminal activity.
Untitled (unpaid)
When:  7-9 p.m.
Where:  4Most Gallery and 
Studio, at 534 SW Fourth Ave. 
What:  This will be a conversa -
tion on labor and intersecting 
activism hosted by Divest UF, 
a group of students, faculty and 
community members who want 
to divest the university from 
fossil fuels, the arms trade and 
prisons. The show seeks to cri -
tique prison labor practices and 
subsequent entanglement with 
the prison industrial complex 
contracted by UF. There will 
be a panel of activists from the 
Gainesville community on the 
intersections of art and social 
justice movements. Through a 
video installation and subverted 
signs, viewers are prompted to 
challenge the familiarity and 
ethicality of the tools associated 
with laborers.
GatorNights - Knights of the 
Reitz Table
When:  7:30 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Where:  Reitz Union
What: Expect a fencing demo 
with UF Fencing Club, do-it-
yourself headbands, flower 
crowns and a stained glass sun -
catcher. Someone will also be there to create a personal wire 
writing piece. At the lower level 
Arts and Crafts Center, people 
can paint their own dragon, 
princess or horse ceramics. 
There will also be a jousting 
challenge, giant games, food 
at a Shakespeare Wings and 
Snacks station, a painting class 
and a gold pageant by fraternity 
Alpha Phi Alpha. This week’s 
movie, along with free popcorn 
and soda, is “The Favourite” at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. There 
will be free bowling and bil -
liards in the Game Room. The 
Global Coffeehouse will be open 
and midnight munchies will be 
a pasta bar. GatorNights is free 
for UF students with their Gator 
1 Card and students can bring 
one guest with them. 
SATURDAY
The Great Inflatable Race 
Gainesville
When:  9 a.m. to noon
Where:  Alachua County 
Fairgrounds, at 3100 NE 39th 
Ave.
What:  With obstacles for 
bouncing, bumping and sliding, 
attendees can be one with the 
community and take place in 
the race. Attendees of all ages 
can compete. 
The 12th Annual Arabic Ball
When:  6:30-10:30 p.m. 
Where:  Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium, Touchdown Terrace
What:  This will be a celebration 
of Arab culture at UF. This for -
mal seated event will have mu -
sic, an open dance floor and a 
full course Arab meal. Contact 
Ibrahim Ragab at 732-673-7484 
or other executive members of 
the Arab Students’ Association 
UF for tickets. An $11 donation 
is requested for UF students and 
a $15 donation for non-UF stu -
dents. 
SUNDAY
JCPenney Suit-Up Event
When:  6:30-9:30 p.m.
Where:  JCPenney Store, at 
6481 Newberry Road
What:  All students are invited 
to attend the JCPenney Suit-Up 
Event, which will give an extra 
40% off men’s and women’s ca -
reer dress apparel, accessories 
and shoes to stock up on cloth -
ing for an interview or a job. 
There will be prizes throughout the evening. Sephora will also 
provide mini makeovers and 
the salon will offer free consul -
tations and discount coupons 
for future visits. The store will 
be closed to the public.
UF Out of the Darkness Campus 
Walk
When:  9 a.m. to noon
Where:  Flavet Field
What: The campus walk is 
the American Foundation for 
Suicide Prevention’s student 
fundraising series, which is de -
signed to engage people in pre -
venting suicide and change the 
conversation on mental health. 
Online registration closes at 
noon Friday, but anyone who 
wants to participate in the walk 
can register from when check-in 
starts at 8 a.m. to the beginning 
of the walk at 9 a.m. People 
can register to donate here: 
afsp.donordrive.com/index.
cfm?fuseaction=donorDrive.
event&eventID=6251
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  65°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org . 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis -
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format -
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION:
In an article titled “UF pro -
fessor placed on leave after 
‘sexting’ accusation” that was 
published in Monday’s edi -
tion, former UF West African 
dance professor Mohamed 
DaCosta’s last day on paid 
leave was Oct. 29, and his 
last day of employment was 
Nov. 21. DaCosta’s pay as of 
Fall 2018 was $62,898. The 
Alligator reported differently.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger,  jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 77FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer         Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a 
summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position 
your advertisements for the local market.All ads receive a 
10% discount
Deadline: Wednesday, April 17
Run Date: Wednesday, April 24
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are 
getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your 
exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester 
and reach students and Gainesville locals.In 1922, Hua and Tan were the 
only Chinese students at UF.
Phillip Cheng attended UF in 
2008 and was involved with the 
Chinese American Student Asso -
ciation. The current president of 
the UF Association of Asian Alum -
ni said he found the letters while 
studying for his master’s in Asian 
American studies at San Francisco 
State University. He researches 
Chinese student immigrants who 
attended UF in the early 1900s. 
The letters stood out to him be -
cause the country shunned Chi -
nese immigrants at the time they 
were written.
“There’s something special 
about the way the University of 
Florida treated these students as 
opposed to other universities,” 
Phillip Cheng said. 
Murphree and the Chinese stu -
dents wrote letters over a period 
of months like they were good 
friends, Phillip Cheng said. The 
aged, typewritten letters are still in 
the George A. Smathers Library to -
day among hundreds of other let -
ters Murphree wrote to students.
Phillip Cheng said he felt closer 
to his identity when he discovered 
the letters. They seemed to be a 
link to his own cultural history af -
ter a university archivist told him 
information about Asian American 
student life wasn’t accessible. 
“If you know that information, 
it gives you a stronger sense of 
belonging at UF,” Phillip Cheng 
said.”
‘It felt I could be attacked for 
being Asian American’
Justin Ho, a Vietnamese 
20-year-old UF psychology junior, 
sat among about 50 attendees as he learned the Vietnamese word 
of the day at the Avengers-themed 
Vietnamese Student Organization 
meeting. 
He repeated the Vietnam -
ese words “anh hùng” and “siêu 
nhân,” which translate to heroes 
and superhero. 
At every meeting, students learn 
a Vietnamese word and a piece of 
Vietnamese culture. Ho carries the 
words he learns with him as a way 
to feel closer to his culture.
Ho grew up in Fort Myers, Flor -
ida, and did not feel welcomed as 
an Asian American student at first 
because of campus guest speaker 
events, like Richard Spencer’s talk 
in October 2017. But he said he 
found a sense of belonging after 
joining the Asian American Stu -
dent Union.
“With Richard Spencer coming 
to UF, it felt I could be attacked 
for being Asian American and 
Vietnamese,” Ho said. “But that’s 
why I turned to VSO and the Asian 
American Student Union commu -
nity here because they provide me 
with a sense of security and com -
fort knowing that I’m not alone.”
Sarah Liu, a Chinese 18-year-
old UF psychology freshman, said 
the cultural organizations on cam -
pus give Asian cultures needed 
representation. 
Liu and her family moved 
from Memphis, Tennessee, to 
Gainesville nine months ago after 
she was accepted to UF. 
Her mother, Haiyan Xu, a UF 
biological scientist, volunteers ev -
ery Friday at the Gainesville Chi -
nese Christian Church, at 2850 NW 
23rd Blvd., to teach youth Bible 
classes. 
Xu said she spends teaches 
the younger generation of Chi -
nese Americans and passes on her Christian faith and Chinese culture 
through Bible study. 
Liu said she couldn’t relate to 
her peers because she had differ -
ent interests when she attended 
her first Chinese American Student 
Association event. Students who 
come from ethnic backgrounds 
sometimes feel pressure to join 
different cultural organizations on 
campus, she said.
“If it doesn’t click, then don’t 
push it. You can love your culture 
and not be a part of the organiza -
tions,” Liu said.
Seeking more for the commu -
nity
The Asian American Student 
Union office is nestled in the back 
of the Department of Student Ac -
tivities and Involvement on the 
third floor of the Reitz Union.
Nine years ago, the union’s for -
mer president Megan Vu wrote a 
letter to the Reitz Union Facilities 
Program Committee asking for a 
multicultural space. Today, it ex -
ists. But Cheyenne Cheng said 
there’s still more work to be done.
Cheyenne Cheng, a Filipina 
Chinese 22-year-old UF psychol -
ogy senior, is involved in a task 
force recruiting students to ensure 
an array of Asian cultures are rep -
resented in an Asian institute. She 
said the building will be similar 
to La Casita or the Black Student 
Union building and will be used 
to express their culture and host 
events.
“Compared to other communi -
ties of color, Asian American Stu -
dent Union doesn’t have as much 
resources,” Cheyenne Cheng said. 
“I think about how many Asian 
professors I’ve had — I can only 
think of one or two.”
Cheyenne Cheng said she 
wants more for her community than a line on a budget. The over -
all amount given to student organi -
zations was $1,031,930. The Asian 
American Student Union was giv -
en $122,485. The Hispanic Student 
Association was given $128,582. 
The Black Student Union was giv -
en $105,305 and has its own build -
ings.
To her, an Asian institute would 
mean the university cares about 
her culture, she said. 
‘It’s my food, man’
Richard Doan found a com -
munity of people that shared his 
traditions in the Asian American 
Student Union. Growing up in 
Parkland, Florida, Doan said most 
of the people in the white subur -
ban area did not look like him.
Doan remembered that in el -
ementary school he would pull out 
his bánh mì, a Vietnamese sand -
wich with pickled radishes and carrots, that his mother packed for 
him for lunch. 
“Everyone has that ‘lunchbox 
moment’ when you come to school 
and you take your food out, and 
kids would ask what that smell 
was or what is that,” Doan said. 
“It’s my food, man!” 
Doan said growing up he didn’t 
have multicultural student organi -
zations to become involved with.  
“No matter what your back -
ground is, you can find something 
that you like to do,” Doan said.
“In terms of multicultural or -
ganizations, there’s pretty much 
every ethnicity represented at UF, 
but in terms of funding and re -
sources, it’s not all the same.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1A UF president wrote letters to 2 Asian students
TIMELINE OF UF’S ASIAN AMERICAN STUDENT HISTORY
1948  - Chinese Club is founded
1973  - The Vietnamese Student Organization (VSO) is founded
Early 1980s  - The Indian Student Association (ISA) is founded
1987  - The Filipino Student Association (FSA) is founded
1991  - The Chinese Club is renamed the Chinese American Student Associa -
tion (CASA)
1993  -  The Asian Student Union is created
1995  - The Korean Undergraduate Student Association (KUSA) is founded
1996 - The Pakistani Student Association (PSA) is founded
Early 2000s - Health Educated Asian Leaders (HEAL) is founded
2004  - The Asian Student Union becomes the Asian American Student 
Union (AASU)
2011  - Association of Asian Alumni (AAA) is officially recognized
Asian Demographics by College
AGRICULTURAL AND LIFE SCIENCES 6.4% 
ARTS 4.46%
BUSINESS, WARRINGTON COLLEGE 6.9%
DENTISTRY 14.88%
DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND PLANNING 4.82% 
EDUCATION 2.74%
ENGINEERING, HERBERT WERTHEIM COLLEGE 7.5%
HEALTH AND HUMAN PERFORMANCE 5.17%
JOURNALISM AND COMMUNICATIONS 3.45% 
LAW, LEVIN COLLEGE 4.33% 
LIBERAL ARTS AND SCIENCES 8.48%
MEDICINE 12.23% 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
THE COLLECTION HAS 
MORE THAN 500 ITEMS 
FROM THE ARTIST
By Kasamba Kokayi
Alligator Contributing Writer
Researchers, UF students and 
the public will be able to take a peek 
into a Gainesville legend and Rock 
& Roll Hall of Famer’s life.
The George A. Smathers Library 
opened the Ellas B. McDaniel col -
lection last week. McDaniel is better known by his stage name Bo Did -
dley.
The collection, which showcas -
es Bo Diddley’s items, will have a 
grand opening Tuesday. It is one of 
the library’s largest collections, said 
James Liversidge, one of the two ex -
hibit creators. 
Bo Diddley was known as the 
“Originator” and influenced many 
artists such as Elvis Presley, Buddy 
Holly, The Who and The Beatles, Li -
versidge said. He was also inducted 
into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.At 2 p.m., the exhibit will open 
to the public and Marty Jourard will 
give a talk on Bo Diddley, said Flor -
ence Turcotte, the other exhibit cu -
rator. Jourard knew Bo Diddley and 
his family and is also a member of 
the band The Motels.
“We want to attract people who 
are interested in performing arts or 
Bo Diddley’s career,” Turcotte said. 
The exhibit has more than 500 
items on display on the second 
floor east wing of the library, Tur -
cotte said. Some items include eight boxes of handbills, 21 costumes, 
awards, instruments and posters.
Bo Diddley was both an innova -
tor and an inventor, Liversidge said. 
He built his own home studio and 
created a form of guitar that doesn’t 
have strings and functioned as a 
one-man band instrument.
Bo Diddley died in 2008 and 
spent the last years of his life in 
Archer, Liversidge said. Bo Diddley 
Plaza, at 111 E University Ave., 
was named after him the year he 
died, and he also received a key to Gainesville, which is in the exhibit.
Hakeem Abdul Malik, a 22-year-
old Santa Fe sophomore who stud -
ies computer programming, said 
although he doesn’t know much 
about Bo Diddley other than the 
plaza, he does recognize the signifi -
cance of the collection.
“It’s important for someone like 
Bo Diddley to have left behind arti -
facts of his legacy for other people 
to know that they can also leave a 
legacy behind that is as official and 
as inspiring,” Malik said.Smathers Library exhibit showcases Bo Diddley collection
By Naomi Cruz 
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are taking new 
steps to prioritize the safety of 
runners after sundown.
On Thursday, the UF Despite 
the Dark chapter, a group dedi -
cated to encouraging the safety of 
women who run at night, held its 
first run. The runners started at the 
Reitz Union outdoor amphitheater 
at 7:30 p.m. and ran around cam -pus to Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
The group of 18 students, male 
and female, chanted, “We run de -
spite the dark. We run together,” 
before heading off. 
To accommodate for all fitness 
levels, there was a walking group 
and a running group. 
Gabriella Torres, a 22-year-old 
UF advertising senior who found -
ed the chapter, said she was one 
of the four Despite the Dark in -
terns who started the campaign. She and the other interns were 
angry about not feeling safe while 
running at night. 
“We shouldn’t feel like we 
can’t do something just because 
it’s dark outside. It’s not that 
we’re afraid of the dark, but we’re 
afraid of our surroundings,” Tor -
res said. 
Despite the Dark started in 
Chicago last summer as an intern 
project at Cramer-Krasselt, the 
second largest independent adver -tising agency in the U.S.  
The campaign became a suc -
cess in Chicago with about 15 to 30 
people showing up to the monthly 
events, Torres said. The campaign 
was also able to gain support from 
local organizations and introduce 
self-defense classes. Chapters then 
spread to Sacramento and Balti -
more. 
Wanting to bring the same sup -
port system to UF, Torres started 
a chapter with her three close friends, Mia Stagliano, Genaveve 
Henson and Lauren Westphal. 
In the Fall, the group hopes to 
have monthly events and partner -
ships with other clubs and orga -
nizations. 
Gracie Johnson, a  21-year-old UF 
microbiology junior, said she usually 
runs alone at night after studying or 
a stressful day. 
“For me, if I’m at that level of 
stress, I have to just release en -
ergy. So it’s nice to have a group 
of girls to do that with,” Johnson 
said. UF students shine light on the safety of running at night
Despite the Dark held its first event Thursday nightFRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
Grab your condoms and dental dams.
Alachua County has one of the highest 
rates of chlamydia in Florida. 
The county is the second highest, ac -
cording to a 2019 report by County Health 
Rankings and Roadmaps. The program 
provides snapshots of health statistics in 
counties in the United States on its web -
site, said Ericka Burroughs-Girardi, the 
program’s action learning coach. 
Alachua County was beaten by Leon 
County, home of Florida State University, 
for the highest chlamydia rate in Florida. 
As of January, there are about 860 di -
agnosed cases of chlamydia per 100,000 
people in Alachua County, according to 
the report. The data is provided by the 
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepa -titis, STD, and TB Prevention, Burroughs-
Girardi said. 
“Health is local,” she said. “Where you 
live matters to your health and matters to 
how long and how well you live.” 
There is a trend of counties with large 
student bodies having higher rates of sexu -
ally transmitted diseases, she said. Alach -
ua County is getting worse in this statistic.
Chlamydia is a bacterial STD that is con -
tracted through vaginal, anal or oral sex, 
said Gay Koehler-Sides, a program man -
ager for the Florida Department of Health 
in Alachua County. Symptoms usually do 
not present themselves to those who are 
infected. 
“People assume they don’t have any -
thing,” she said. “I think they unknowingly 
pass this on.” 
When symptoms are present, there can 
be discharge from the penis or vagina, and there can be pain or burning during urina -
tion or sex, she said. It is treatable with 
antibiotics, and it can be contracted more 
than once. 
Alachua County has had high chlamydia 
rates for the last five to 10 years, and the 
southeastern U.S. tends to have the highest 
rates, said Robert L. Cook, a UF professor 
of epidemiology and medicine.
“Alachua County, in general, is more 
like the deep South than other parts of 
Florida in terms of culture,” Cook said.
Cook said he has researched STDs for 
almost 30 years. He said students aren’t 
necessarily the reason for Alachua Coun -
ty’s high chlamydia rate, and that women 
do get tested more than men do.
“It could be that we need to test the 
guys and get them treated more if we’re 
going to solve the problem,” he said. 
Andrew Wunderlich, an 18-year-old UF finance freshman, said it was alarming but 
not surprising to hear the statistic. 
“The majority of people probably aren’t 
as educated on it as they could be,” Wun -
derlich said. “I know they have resources 
here, but I think you also should research 
it for yourself.”
@Lina_Ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgAlachua County has second highest chlamydia rate in Florida
Leon County, home of FSU, has the highest rate of chlamydia cases 
CENTER PROJECTED TO RECEIVE 
$73,000 LESS THAN EXPECTED
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Editor’s Note: Ouida M. declined to 
give her full last name out of fear of dis -
crimination by future employers due to 
her mental illnesses.
Four years ago, Ouida M. was house -
bound. She worked from home, paid peo -
ple to deliver her groceries and stopped 
insuring her car because she would not 
drive it. 
She said her post-traumatic stress disor -
der, bipolar disorder and an anxiety disor -
der kept her locked away from the world 
for so long. 
Now, she leaves her home regularly for 
her job at the Gainesville Opportunity Cen -
ter, a mental health rehabilitation center, 
to which she attributes her transformation.
“The truth is, my anxiety isn’t worse, 
and it isn’t better either, but at least I’m 
getting out and doing something,” she said.
But the center that changed Ouida’s life 
may not receive the additional funding ad -ministration says it needs. 
At the end of March, the Florida De -
partment of Children and Families an -
nounced that the center would receive 
about $73,000 less than the amount it was 
initially projected to receive. This could 
significantly impact the number of people 
the center can help, said Brett Buell, the 
center’s director. 
The center is one of Florida’s 11 club -
houses, which are places where people can 
participate in work-related activities and 
interact with others to rebuild their lives. 
To change more lives, there needs to be a 
clubhouse in every county, Buell said. 
The 11 clubhouses are funded by the 
Florida Department of Children and Fami -
lies, Buell said. Officials were expecting 
to receive an extra $1.5 million during the 
2019-2020 fiscal year. 
However, at the end of March, this 
amount dropped to $700,000, he said.
This means that each clubhouse would 
receive an extra $63,000 instead of the pro -
jected $136,000.
While the additional funding will help 
the center, it will not allow it to reach as 
many people as it would like to, Buell said. The center will be unable to hire at least 
one additional employee because of the 
smaller amount.
Each staff member works with about 
seven or eight people a day, and this will 
result in these people not receiving the 
help they need, he said.
The center does not use medication to 
treat mental illnesses but rather provides 
people with the opportunity to participate 
in meaningful work-related activities, Buell 
said. These activities are designed to build 
confidence, skills and independence to 
help them adjust to a work environment.
“There is no pill that is going to take the 
place of you doing something meaningful,” 
Buell said. 
One of the most common characteristics 
of mental illness is the tendency of a per -
son to isolate themselves, Buell said. But 
the Gainesville Opportunity Center does 
not further isolate these people in the way 
the medical model often does. 
It has them participate in activities such 
as cooking food, cleaning and working in 
the garden, he said. The quality of the job 
isn’t the goal, it’s the idea of positive pro -
ductivity.It prevents people from returning to a 
toxic environment and gives them the op -
portunity to turn their lives around, Buell 
said.
“In this system, you often become your 
mental illness,” he said. “Here, you are a 
person.”Gainesville Opportunity Center struggles with funding
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville has seen four dog 
attacks in the last six months. A 
woman was mauled in one and a 
Gainesville Police officer had to 
shoot a dog in another.
The Gainesville City Commis -
sion addressed the concern of 
deadly dog attacks during Thurs -
day’s meeting. 
The commissioners said they 
understood this is a safety issue 
and wants to ensure that the pub -
lic safety agencies involved are doing everything they can to pre -
vent these issues.
“What I hope for today is that 
we can make sure that everyone 
within the city system is charged 
with keeping folks safe,” Com -
missioner Harvey Ward said. 
The attacks began in Septem -
ber when three pit bulls killed 
Bella, the beagle-labrador mix. 
In December, Fred the pug-
beagle mix was killed by a dog. 
In February, Tico the chihua -
hua was killed by two pit bulls. 
In March, five pit bulls escaped 
from the yard of their home and attacked a woman and her dog. 
One of the pit bulls was shot 
by police.
Alachua County Animal Ser -
vices investigated these incidents 
and responded to them with 
Gainesville Police.
Animal Services hopes to cre -
ate an irresponsible owner clause 
and update other ordinances to 
help prevent future incidents. The 
clause would flag owners whose 
dogs have gotten loose or have 
been involved in attacks. Ani -
mal services would then monitor 
those owners.Mark Sexton, an Alachua 
County spokesperson, spoke on 
Animal Services’ behalf at the 
meeting.
Sexton told the commission 
there are reports of dog bites 
every day that are not as the in -
cidents seen over the past few 
months. 
The Alachua County Commis -
sion will address the ordinance 
at Tuesday’s meeting, and a com -
munity meeting on the issue will 
be planned soon. 
Chris Carney, 49, attended the 
meeting to talk about the recent dog attacks in the city. He said he 
has fostered hundreds of animals 
over the years until they found a 
permanent home.
“It’s traumatizing. A lot of 
times when something like this 
happens, there’s a rush to judg -
ment,” Carney said. “We do some -
thing that sounds like an easy fix 
on the surface, but we don’t see 
the repercussions that it could 
have to others in the community 
that are causing problems.”
@karina_elwood 
kelwood@alligator.orgCity Commission addresses string of deadly dog attacks
Alachua County Commission will discuss a possible ordinance on TuesdayTHE CENTER’S RESOURCES  
• Opportunities to participate in 
work-based activities
• Help with job interviews
• Offers a National Alliance on 
Mental Illness peer-to-peer 
course, which is a 10-week course 
for anyone with a mental illness 
looking to maintain wellness
• Provides free medical and dental 
care in Alachua County
• T eaches classes including a 
technology skill-building class and 
a job readiness courseCHLAMYDIA RISK FACTORS
1. Being sexually active before age 25
2. Multiple sex partners within past year 
3. Not using a condom consistently
4. Prior sexually transmitted infectionsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsThis week we’re starting with Mr. Worldwide himself. 
Pitbull will be performing at the Florida Central Fair -
grounds, at 6 p.m. June 1. Pitbull will play a free con -
cert in honor of Orlando police officer Kevin Valencia, 
who was shot and seriously wounded while respond -
ing to a domestic violence call. The concert is being put on by 
local Orlando attorney Dan Newlin, who is also a former law 
enforcement officer. A laurel  goes out to everyone involved 
in the free concert, which is meant to be a show of support for 
Valencia and his family. 
The New York Times published an extensive article out -
lining the reemergence of measles in countries across the 
globe. Beginning around 2000, there has been a worldwide 
effort to stop the spread of measles and its rising death toll. 
From 2000 to 2016, this effort was largely successful, with 
an 80% decrease in measles globally. However, two years 
ago, measles cases unexpectedly rose with a 30% increase 
in one year. We have to give out a dart to those around the 
globe who have spread false rumors about vaccines; how -
ever, there are a number of other factors that has attributed 
to an increase in measles, The New York Times writes. 
In Chicago, we would like to offer a laurel  to the city’s 
newest mayor, Lori Lightfoot. Lightfoot will be the first 
black woman and first openly gay person to take on the 
role. The former federal prosecutor was named victorious 
in a runoff election on Tuesday. Either way, the election 
would have been historic, as Toni Preckwinkle, Lightfoot’s 
opponent, was also a black woman, ensuring Chicago’s first 
black woman mayor. We offer our congratulations to both 
Lightfoot and Chicago for this historic race. 
Finally, back in Florida, we’d like to offer a laurel  to all 
the protesters who made their way to Tallahassee by the 
busloads on Wednesday. The protesters, mostly students, 
were there to protest a bill that would allow teachers to be 
trained and armed. The bill was supposed to be decided 
upon by the House of Representatives. However, the con -
troversial bill was taken off of the agenda for that day. Stu -
dents still lined up in the lobby where the House meets, 
holding photos of people who died by gun violence. The end of the semester is in sight, and the promise of 
summer is only growing sweeter. The air is warmer, and 
the days are longer. You decide to take advantage and make 
your way to Paynes Prairie to watch the sunset. You’ve 
been in the library all day struggling to get ahead before 
final exams and projects consume your life. 
You jump into your car with your windows open and 
make your way down 13th Street. You blast your speakers 
and let the rest of your semester worries melt away. You 
make it to the stretch of road on 441 surrounded by Paynes 
Prairie. You park your car on the side of the road and get 
outside. There are others who have also gotten out of their 
cars and are looking through the swampy water in hopes of 
spotting an alligator. You make your way over to the fence 
to take in the scenery. 
You hear a splash to your left. Others begin to gather 
near where the sound came from. You look over the edge 
and see something in the water. You and everyone else 
wait to see what the mysterious thing will do next. Then, 
it emerges again in a big leap out of the water, and you in -
stantly realize what it is. It’s your weekly dose of… 
Darts & Laurels
Our roommates teach us to grow as people
We’ve all heard the horror stories of 
the drug dealers, the womanizers, 
the slobs, the weird pet owners and 
the thieves. Roommates are like 
snowflakes; they come in all shapes 
and sizes. Unlike snowflakes, however, room -
mates get a bad rap and aren’t always viewed 
as special and valuable. This column is going 
to dispute the negative outlook most people 
have toward their roommate or roommates, in 
general. Even if you end up hating your room -
mate, there is no denying roommates teach you valuable 
lessons. They’re essential to the college experience, and 
everyone should have at least one roommate during their 
undergraduate years. 
I’ll start with the first argument people make against 
roommates: “We don’t get along.” OK, yes, I know living 
with another person is hard, especially when you don’t ex -
actly click. I’m not here to say that having a roommate is a 
sunshine fairytale experience. It can be miserable for a lot 
of people, but that’s important. Having a roommate teaches 
you patience, tolerance and endurance. You have to learn to 
work with another person’s schedule and lifestyle when you 
sleep 4 feet away from them in a dorm. Patience is an invalu -
able skill. Some lucky souls are born with patience, but for 
the most part, people have to learn patience and constantly 
practice it. Living with a person you don’t get along with, if 
nothing else, teaches and reinforces patience in one of the 
most personal ways possible. 
The most important lesson a roommate can teach, 
though, is cleanliness. People in college are generally slobs. 
Yes, attending a top 10 public university is demanding. Bal -
ancing your social life, education, work and extracurriculars 
can be a challenge. However, there is no excuse for the mess 
people seem to create and reside within in their bedrooms 
and homes. I’ll admit I have a Type A personality and am 
a bit of a neat freak, so I’ve got a small prejudice toward 
disorganization. I was blessed with the cleanest and most organized roommate to walk the planet. Luckily, 
I haven’t had to share a room with mold and 
stinky socks all year. Many people, however, 
are stuck with roommates who don’t know that 
trash doesn’t take itself out or that laundry needs 
to be washed. Living with another person usu -
ally forces people to grow up and clean up after 
themselves, either from shame or fear of retali -
ation.
Living with another person prepares you for 
your future, too. Some of us are too scared to 
admit it, others are too hopeless to believe it, but most peo -
ple move in with their partner or spouse in their 20s or 30s. 
That step in our lives feels far away now, but it’s coming a 
lot sooner than people realize. Learning to live with another 
person before moving in with your partner is an invaluable 
skill. You’ll already know how to compromise, be consider -
ate and communicate when you have a roommate, and you 
can reuse those skills with your loved one someday. 
Some people may say they don’t need to have a room -
mate in college because they had siblings growing up whom 
they shared a room with or dealt with often enough. They 
just want their personal space. I know personal space is 
important, and I totally understand wanting that freedom. I 
would still urge these people to room with someone they’re 
not related to for at least one year, though. Living with some -
one who isn’t a part of your family is different. It teaches you 
how to coexist with someone new.
I am one of the lucky ones because I learned a lot more 
than how to coexist with someone this year. We may tease 
and annoy each other incessantly, but when it comes down 
to it, my roommate Lauren and I have each other’s backs. 
Sharing a room with a stranger ended up teaching me about 
patience and cleanliness, but the most important lesson it 
taught me, or rather, gave me, is a real friendship. 
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism freshman. Her col -
umn appears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7 
Letter to the EditorThere is an important petition by Global 
Vote that has been filed for the recon -
sideration of a UF Student Government 
Supreme Court ruling. If successful, it 
would restore online voting to the Stu -
dent Body constitution, along with other popu -
lar reforms. However, the Global Vote petition 
for reconsideration is not only a fight for online 
voting and other amendments, but it is also a 
fight for democracy in SG.
The Global Vote petition challenges the in -
famous June 25, 2016, which was when UF SG 
Supreme Court ruled on the interpretation of 
the UF constitution: Section 4 of Article VIII.  
The court established that in order for a con -
stitutional amendment to be ratified, it must 
be approved by three-fifths of the entire active 
Spring electorate. This means that abstentions 
are effectively counted as votes against an 
amendment.
The argument presented in the Global Vote 
petition is based on Article VIII of the UF con -
stitution, which claims SG is subordinate to 
the constitution and laws of Florida. Therefore, because Florida does not count abstentions 
as votes against a proposed amendment, the 
Supreme Court acted unconstitutionally when 
it rescinded the online voting amendment by 
retroactively counting abstentions as votes 
against it.
However, when this was brought forth to 
the SG Supreme Court in “UF Student Tribu -
nals’ & UF Student Committees’ Application of 
State and Federal Law” the Supreme Court de -
cided neither the U. S. Constitution, the Florida 
Constitution nor Florida laws were binding to 
SG. This means that by interpreting the Florida 
Constitution and Florida laws as non-binding, 
the SG Supreme Court was able to uphold its 
own decision to retroactively fail online voting 
and the other amendments.
This functionally canceled Article VIII, Sec -
tion 4 of the Student Body constitution, which 
expressly affirms that the Student Body con -
stitution is “governed by and subordinate to” 
the Florida Constitution and Florida laws. By 
canceling Article VIII, the SG Supreme Court 
gave itself the power to ignore the Florida Con -stitution and Florida laws, which allowed it to 
remove parts of the constitution that the court 
believed inconvenient, such as online voting.
Furthermore, the SG Supreme Court re -
moved all checks to its ruling. In its response 
to “Petition regarding whether the UF Su -
preme Court can interpret Senate rules and 
procedures,” the court established its power 
to interpret the effect and constitutionality of 
laws, meaning it will also have the power to 
determine whether something is law in the first 
place.
This is a euphemism for the usurpation 
of the legislative powers of the Student Sen -
ate and the executive powers of the president, 
which together decide whether something is 
law by writing and then signing a law into ex -
istence. It is a judicial overreach for the court 
to decide if something is a law, which is the 
shared duty of the legislative and executive 
branches. 
Unfortunately, when the SG Supreme Court 
granted itself this power, it gave itself the au -
thority to decide whether certain constitutional amendments were law. In other words, it gave 
itself the authority to decide whether parts of 
the constitution are constitutional.
However, this is also not the power of the 
SG Supreme Court. According to Article III, 
Section 6 (e) of the constitution, the Senate is 
meant to be the only judge of the validity of 
election results. Therefore, because amend -
ments are passed by ratification elections, it 
is supposed to be the Senate which decides 
whether an amendment to the constitution 
ever became part of the constitution.
Thus, the judicial dictatorship of SG was es -
tablished by a series of rulings that cancel parts 
of the constitution in order to dismiss state law 
and usurp the powers of other branches of gov -
ernment. The SG Supreme Court has assaulted 
the constitution, which members have sworn 
to uphold in their rulings. It has rejected the 
constitution rather than invoked it, and in do -
ing so, showed there are no laws that cannot 
be undone at its pleasure.
Alfredo Ortiz is a UF philosophy freshman.
The best part about joining clubs or 
groups is the different personalities you 
come in contact with. A visual arts stu -
dent and a business student can be on 
the same soccer team. An engineering 
student and a philosophy student can both 
be members of a knitting group. Everyone is 
surrounded by people whose individual lives 
and interests can be nuanced beyond what we 
see on the surface level. There is an incredible 
amount of freedom in having friend groups or 
gatherings where everyone has different inter -
ests, but the one underlying character I have 
difficulty dealing with is the “hustler” of any 
group.
I am a player of a trading card game called 
“Magic: The Gathering.” Within the commu -
nity of Magic, players are different “types” of 
players who play the game: “Spikes,” who are 
competitive no holds barred players looking for 
wins, “Johnnies,” who might not care to win 
right away but love to go through their favor -
ite interactions and loops with carefully crafted engines, and “Timmies,” who just 
want to play big spells and big crea -
tures and have fun.
 Everyone has a bit of each of 
these players in them, but the 
“hustler” of the Magic community 
is someone who might not even 
play the game. With anything col -
lectible like trading cards, there is 
a secondary market for cards for 
people who not only collect but use 
those cards to play. Some local game shops 
and larger game companies may have cards in 
stock to sell cards to the customers searching 
for them, but hustlers only care about what the 
overall market thinks and how they can flip a 
quick buck. If the new cards coming out seem 
like they can be competitively viable, hustlers 
will preorder them in bulk and then sell them 
to other consumers for marginal or even expo -
nential profits. This not only hurts competitive 
players in local scenes, but even casual players 
who may be interested in the game can be shut out due to high prices.
And like I said, the hustler isn’t 
unique to just “Magic: The Gather -
ing.” There are hustlers for mer -
chandise ranging from soccer club 
jerseys and clothing to small toys, 
such as Funko Pops and even Hot 
Wheels. This mentality has gone 
from normal collectibles and has 
made a splash in all kinds of mar -
kets. Sneakers went from normal 
fashion to a multimillion-dollar market that has 
made shoes into collectibles themselves. This is 
not out of producer intention but through con -
sumer demand. We create mythologies behind 
items, and those cultural stories drive not only 
human interest but human money. Old Nike 
Jordans might only be popular with a niche 
collector, but the shoes Michael Jordan wore 
while playing with the flu went for more than 
$100,000 in 2013. Are those shoes, for what 
they are made of, actually worth $100,000, or 
is the story attached with those shoes what’s worth that auction price tag?
We love making stories up. Stories make us 
feel like we are a part of something larger than 
ourselves and can make something so normal 
like shoes, cardboard playing cards or even the 
game-winning jersey worth their weight in sto -
rytelling gold. I’ll still buy shoes and occasion -
ally want to get a nice pair of sneakers. I might 
want to open a brand-new pack of Magic cards 
and hope to get the rare card every competitive 
player is salivating over, but our stories should 
not act as gatekeepers. Players shouldn’t be 
abandoned because they won’t buy cards 
that could be artificially inflated in price. Buy -
ers shouldn’t feel left out of the conversation 
because the new sneaker was bought within 
minutes of release. We can have our cake, but 
we should be wary of eating all of it ourselves 
instead of sharing the slice.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism sopho -
more. His column appears on Fridays.Putting a price on what makes people happy leads to excluding othersColumnThe judicial branch of our Student Government has become a dictatorship
“We found Ian Green does not 
come off as a leader and ap -
pears to speak only when 
spoken to. Moreover, he has 
a presence that is, to be frank, 
unimpressive and lackluster.”
The Alligator’s Editorial Board doesn’t al -
ways breathe fire on people, but when it did 
in Spring 2018 during its Student Government 
elections endorsement, I was in awe.
Unfortunately, it appears that its words ring 
true, especially in light of Green’s performance 
at the recent Board of Trustees meeting.
It’s flashback time! Think back to the presi -
dential debate that Black Student Union hosted.
On stage, Green proclaimed: “Student Gov -
ernment and the university need to do more to 
get black students here and keep them here. 
I plan on making sure that when I walk into 
those Board of Trustees meetings, they don’t 
just know I represent the Student Body, but I 
represent the black Student Body.”
In response to the question of how he would 
advocate for black students before the Board of 
Trustees, Green said, “We need someone that 
can not only sit at that table but actually be able to speak for our community 
and convince people to listen to our 
community.”
In his closing statement, Green 
said, “Ultimately, what matters 
most is who of us will keep our 
word and who will deliver on those 
promises … Our community de -
serves more than meaningless rhet -
oric and empty promises.”
Now, let’s look at his track re -
cord as a trustee of this great uni -
versity.
I looked at every single copy of minutes 
posted on the Board of Trustees website dur -
ing Green’s term. Here’s what I found:
In the Summer set of meetings, Green ap -
pears to take the strong but silent approach. 
His name appears in the attendance section 
of the minutes, when he seconds a single mo -
tion and when he delivers his regular “Student 
Body President Update.” Perhaps Green was 
auditioning for a role in the movie “A Quiet 
Place.” Green was also absent from a board 
conference call later in Summer.
In the Fall, Green was absent from another conference call. He is listed as be -
ing in attendance for several more 
meetings, seconding another mo -
tion, giving his regular SG update 
and asking a question on the topic 
of “Risk Assessment and Train -
ing." I know minutes don’t capture 
everything in a meeting, but from 
these documents, I really don’t be -
lieve Green was out there fighting 
the good fight.
This Spring, I did not attend two 
“pre-meetings” for committees Green is a part 
of, and unfortunately, the minutes have yet to 
be published. If the trend continues, he prob -
ably didn’t do anything noteworthy.
Last week, I was able to observe Green dur -
ing the two days of Board of Trustees meetings 
at Emerson Alumni Hall. According to my per -
sonal tally, he asked three questions this time. 
None of the information gained appears to 
have trickled down to the Student Body, sadly. 
He gave his traditional lackluster report and 
also mentioned reaching out to prospective 
UF admits in Atlanta. Toward the end of the 
meeting, Green was presented with a framed proclamation thanking him for his “service.”
It is sad to say, but I have never seen or 
read of Green advocating for anything or any -
one in these meetings. He could have eas -
ily done so when Divest UF came to this past 
meeting or when Puerto Rican UF students af -
fected by Hurricane Maria asked SG for help, 
but he didn’t.
Was he really out there advocating for the 
black community to the Board of Trustees? It’s 
hard to say, but I haven’t seen it. I mean, hon -
estly, I’ve barely seen him open his mouth.
I would have to agree with the Spring 2018 
Alligator Editorial Board’s assertion that his 
presence was truly unimpressive and lacklus -
ter. I think that’s a crying shame, especially 
when we really need advocates for communi -
ties of color.
During an admissions update, the Board of 
Trustees learned that underrepresented minor -
ity admits to UF dropped from 27%down to 
23% this year.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
junior and Murphree Area senator. His column 
appears on Fridays.Student Body President Ian Green and his broken promises to studentsColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
services for students and support for 
students around Title IX issues.”
Education Secretary Betsy De -
Vos has proposed major changes 
to Title IX that would restore due 
process protections for students 
accused of sexual assault, accord -
ing to the Associated Press.
When Title IX passed in Con -
gress in 1972, it prohibited dis -
crimination on the basis of sex. 
Since then, Title IX has been ref -
erenced in lawsuits that have ex -panded its protections, including 
protecting individuals from sexual 
harassment.  
The proposed changes have 
been met with controversy from 
victim advocacy groups, Demo -
cratic politicians and the Ameri -
can Civil Liberties Union, accord -
ing to AP. 
Hayliy Johnson, a 21-year-old 
UF senior, said the new student 
advisory board sounds like a good 
idea based on the climate of the 
last couple years. She also thinks 
it could be problematic because the students may not be fully ob -
jective. 
“I think having a student ad -
visory board would be helpful in 
that you get to see things from a 
student,” she said. “But, depend -
ing on how the student advisory 
board is picked, they might have 
certain biases that may not be 
beneficial for the whole Student 
Body.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgTITLE IX,  from pg. 1The effort comes after the US education secretary proposed Title IX changesless. But this was a facade.
“I’m almost in tears,” she said with a ner -
vous sigh. “I’m standing in chills right now.”
About 20 people took a two-hour bus ride 
with the Gainesville chapter of March For 
Our Lives to Tallahassee to participate in a 
Day of Action, which included a rally, press 
conference and demonstration to oppose 
Senate Bill 7030 and House Bill 7093. 
The Senate Bill and the House Bill would 
both allow classroom teachers to volunteer 
for training from local law enforcement to 
carry guns in schools to respond to active 
shooters as “Guardians.”
These bills build upon the Marjory Stone -
man Douglas High School Public Safety Act, 
passed after last year’s mass shooting at Mar -
jory Stoneman Douglas High School in Park -
land, Florida, where 17 people were killed 
and 17 others injured. The Public Safety Act 
introduced the new program to arm school 
“Guardians.” A school guardian does not 
have the authority to act as law enforcement 
besides stopping an active shooter on school 
grounds.
In the original bill, school employees 
whose main duties lie outside of the class -
room would be able to become guardians. 
Districts could choose if they want to partake 
in the guardian program. 
The House Bill was temporarily post -
poned and a date was not specified as to 
when it would be readdressed.
Senate Bill 7030 was set to potentially be 
heard by a committee on Wednesday, but it 
was postponed.
March For Our Lives Gainesville will re -
turn to Tallahassee to protest on April 10.
This is the first political protest March 
for Our Lives Gainesville has participated in, 
as previous events focused on gun violence 
awareness, said Alyson Moriarty, an execu -
tive board member of the chapter. The or -
ganization received $8,000 funded by grants 
from March For Our Lives Orlando to use for 
the Day of Action.
The 20-year-old UF behavioral and cog -
nitive neuroscience sophomore said she 
doesn’t consider herself a political person.
It wasn’t until the Parkland community, 
which is 10 minutes down the road from her 
hometown of Coconut Creek, Florida, was 
attacked that she said she opened her eyes to 
the consequences of guns.
“You never know when your life can be 
impacted directly or how your family can 
be impacted. You fight for how you want to 
live,” Moriarty said. “So if I don’t want to live in fear of being shot, then I’m going to 
fight for that.”
There was supposed to be a second line-
up outside the chambers at 3 p.m. when the 
session ended, but it ended at about 2:15 
p.m. The senators did not walk out through 
the main entrance where protestors would 
be, Moriarty said.
Republican State Senator Keith Perry, who 
represents Alachua County, said Wednesday 
he plans on voting for the Senate Bill’s cur -
rent form.
He said he didn’t have appointments set 
up with the protestors nor did he know they 
were coming, but he enjoys seeing students 
get involved.
After the mass shooting at MSD, the Pub -
lic Safety Act was one of the quickest pieces 
of legislation he’s seen passed.
Decisions like these are complicated, Per -
ry said. 
“We’ve just got to have dialogue and be 
willing to sit down and talk,” Perry said.  
•   •   •
At 9 a.m., the dull, gray concrete contrast -
ed the vibrant blue “March For Our Lives” 
shirts. The group of about 20 students and 
active community members emitted excited, 
yet nervous, energy.
Standing amid the crowd waiting for the 
large, yellow commercial bus was Maggie 
MacDonald, 74, of Gainesville, eager to get 
to the Capitol.
She believes teachers shouldn’t be armed 
but rather that guns should be taken away. 
As a retired linguistics professor of 25 
years at an Ohio state university, she said she 
would be petrified to see some of her former 
colleagues armed in class.
“It’s horrifying. It’s not the way you solve 
the problem,” she said. “The world that we 
are leaving our children, people who have 
grandchildren — it’s obscene.”
There’s a dawning of awareness in college 
students, MacDonald said. For a long time, 
she’s noticed a passive attitude within the 
younger generation, and it’s taken something 
as dramatic as mass shootings to see more 
activism.
She said it does her heart good to see stu -
dents fight for a change because they are the 
future.
“I’m so tired of seeing the same color hair 
as mine in control,” she said while pointing 
at her own short, white hair. “Unfortunately, 
the future is determined by old white men 
who don’t seem to care about their grandchil -
dren.”
As the group boarded the bus, excited 
chatter settled down as the protestors took their seats.
The bus ride to Tallahassee was quiet, 
with murmured conversations about diffi -
cult classes, the slow but heavy breathing of 
those able to sleep and thumbs that scrolled 
on glowing smartphones screens. Some sat 
silently with their eyes fixated on the rapid 
movement of blurry green forestry and white 
trucks outside the window. 
Blocking the sun on the bright, shining 
day, the monumental structure that is the 
Florida State Capitol building towered over 
the blue dots of students who made their way 
inside.
Meeting up with those blue dots was Ni -
colette Springer, a member and legislative 
advocate for the Florida League of Women 
Voters. The league partnered with the Florida 
Coalition to Prevent Gun Violence to host the 
Day of Action with the March for Our Lives 
chapter.
“Our No. 1 objective is to keep firearms 
out of our classrooms,” Springer said.
After the activists waited about an hour, 
the sessions finished with no mention of the 
bills.
The press conference that followed was 
emotionally fueled as each speaker discussed 
the dangers of arming teachers, how the bill 
could put minority students at risk and the 
fear it brings MSD alumni.
There were about nine speakers, each pas -
sionately negating the bill.
“No student should have to hide under -
neath their classmate’s body, but I had to 
do that,” said 18-year-old Aliyah Eastman, a 
senior at MSD and a survivor of last year’s 
shooting.
She and Zion Kelly, 18, a March For Our 
Lives activist and Florida Agricultural and 
Mechanical University business administra -
tion freshman, are both black students who spoke about how the bill could unfairly target 
minorities, as law enforcement tends to sta -
tistically target more people of color. 
They said they fear that school may be -
come another location for law enforcement 
to continue these patterns.
Toward the end of the press conference, 
Democratic Florida State Rep. Carlos Guill -
ermo Smith, who represents part of Orange 
County, discussed what he called the ele -
phant in the room.
“The bill is temporarily postponed, but 
we’ll be back,” Guillermo Smith said.
Students and supporters amplified in vol -
ume with sounds of clapping and cheering, 
“We’ll be back.”
The group departed for Gainesville as the 
workday came to an end. The protestors sat 
in silence once again. The air conditioning 
hummed softly, and the paved road rumbled 
under the bus as the sky changed from bright 
blue to an ombré of orange and pinks.
Maia Hebron, an MSD alumna and shoot -
ing survivor and 18-year-old UF communica -
tions science and disorders freshman, said 
she believes the legislators’ decision not to 
address the bill in front of the group shows 
how much power her and other students 
have.
Fighting for the safety for those such as 
her little sister, who also survived the shoot -
ing last year, motivates her to prevent any -
thing like that from happening again, she 
said.
Hebron says she plans to continue to fight 
against the bills and anything related to them.
“There’s a reason why we’re here,” she 
said. “We need to make a change.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMFOL,  from pg. 1‘Our No. 1 objective is to keep firearms out of our classrooms’
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS SINCE THE MARJORY STONEMAN 
DOUGLAS MASS SHOOTING:
• Hundreds of thousands of people came to the March for Our Lives political 
demonstration in Washington, D.C.
• A record of about 800,000 people registered to vote on National Voter 
Registration day on Sept. 25
• The Marjory Stoneman Douglas Public High School Act banned bump stocks, 
which allow an assault rifle to release a volley of bullets with the pull of the 
trigger.
— Increased the minimum age to buy an AR-15 to 21
— Required one armed security guard at every public school in Florida
— SB 7030 was filed, which was supported by the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Public 
High School Public Safety Commission
Who does Title IX apply to?  
Students and employees
What does Title IX address? 
Sexual harassment, sexual violence or any gender-
based discrimination that may deny a person access to 
educational benefits and opportunities
What does Title IX do?  
Provides support, investigates instances and provides 
education on prevention of sexual harassment and 
discriminationFRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
215 N Main StreetGainesville Masonic Lodge No. 41
Come out and get to know us.
OPEN HOUSE
Saturday, April 6
10 am - 4 pmABOUT 100 PEOPLE  
ATTENDED THE RALL Y
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Aylee Collins was nearly brought to tears as she 
heard sexual assault victims open up on Wednesday 
evening.
As a woman, the 18-year-old UF psychology fresh -
man said she doesn’t believe anybody is entitled to 
her or anyone else’s bodies.
“When something tragic happens, it doesn’t de -
fine them,” she said. “It doesn’t make them any less 
of a person. It isn’t their fault.”
About 100 people gathered on Plaza of the Ameri -
cas for the annual “Take Back the Night: March and 
Rally to end Sexual Violence” event. 
They chanted in solidarity and held handwritten 
signs that read, “Being sexy is not a crime. Sexual 
assault is,” and “Sex should be selfless, not selfish.”  
People who came wrote love notes for survivors.
Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education 
UF hosted the event, said Megan Johnson, a Gator -
Well health promotions specialist.
“We want survivors in our community to feel sup -
ported,” Johnson said.
Keynote speaker Maddy Coy, a UF professor who 
teaches a class called Violence Against Women kick -
started the evening’s discussion by emphasizing that 
the voices of survivors should be heard. 
The participants marched a one-mile route around 
campus, toward 13th Street and down West Univer -
sity Avenue. 
After participants returned to the plaza, STRIVE 
opened the stage for an open discussion, where stu -
dents and community members spoke about their 
experiences. Ten people volunteered to tell their sto -
ries. 
One male speaker urged people to ask for help if 
their trauma ever overcame their mental health. As a 
boy, he was sexually abused by an older male family 
member, which he kept a secret. 
“My family didn’t believe me,” he said. “‘What do 
you know?’ They’d say. You’re just a kid.” 
He said he held onto the secret for years and al -
most died by suicide twice. 
“I still have the scars on my neck,” he said. 
After hearing survivors speak about their experi -
ences, Matthew Fuentes, a 22-year-old UF sociology 
senior, said he was at a loss for words.
“It makes me angry that we have to have these 
discussions because I feel like we should know that 
these things are wrong,” Fuentes said.UF students ‘Take Back the Night’ for sexual assault survivors
Courtesy to The Alligator
About 100 people attended the “T ake Back the Night: March and Rally to end Sexual Violence, ” to fight sexual assault and stand up 
for survivors of it. The group marched from Plaza of the Americas toward 13th Street and down West University Avenue.
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
FISHING FUN
Cornelius Bright, a 63-year-old Gainesville resident, and his wife, Linda Bright, fish on Thursday while looking 
out over Paynes Prairie on the side of U.S. Route 441. Bright and his wife are retired and go to the prairie often 
to fish for bluegill, catfish and bass. 
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE SAYS THE ALLEGATIONS  
ARE FALSE
A man accused of breaking into his 
foreclosed home and changing locks was 
arrested Tuesday.
Sometime between March 19 and Mon -
day, Steven Edward Tillman, 52, of Alach -
ua, entered a house near the 18000 block 
of Northwest 46th Avenue, and changed 
the locks on the doors, according to an Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office arrest report. 
The property, which 
he used to own, was 
foreclosed in 2017, Till -
man told The Alligator. 
He has been trying to re -
peal it since.
Tillman also placed a 
“no trespassing sign” inside on the win -
dow sill above the front door, the report said. His phone number was listed on the 
sign. 
A deputy called Tillman on Monday 
and told him to call him back, the report 
said. Tillman called the day after to report 
the home had been broken into. 
The deputy met Tillman at the home 
and told him the residence was no longer 
his, the report said. Tillman disagreed and 
told the deputy that he did have the locks 
to the residence changed. Tillman was charged with unarmed 
burglary of an unoccupied dwelling and 
grand theft of more than $100, less than 
$300 of a dwelling, the report said.
Tillman told The Alligator that the al -
legations are false. 
“Everyone who knows me will assure 
you I’m no burglar or thief,” he said.
He was released from the Alachua 
County Jail Wednesday on his own recog -
nizance.
Two men accused of 
driving with about 200 
grams of meth were ar -
rested Wednesday. 
At about 7:45 p.m., po -
lice stopped Mark Chris -
topher Menendez, 41, of 
Gainesville, for speeding 
and driving too close to 
another car on State Road 93, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report. Ronnie Ray Lewis Jr., 38, of Deltona, 
was in the passenger seat. 
While writing a warn -
ing, the officer saw 
Menendez trying to hide 
something, the report 
said. Police searched 
Menendez and found a 
baggie of 5.2 grams of 
meth in his pocket. 
The officer searched the car and found two sandwich-sized bags containing 192.02 
grams of meth, another bag containing 1 
gram of meth, two scales with meth residue 
on them, a pipe and needles, the report said. 
Later that night, police searched Menen -
dez’s apartment and found 16.2 grams of 
meth and a meth pipe, the report said. 
Lewis told police he rents Menendez’s 
cars to transport drugs and drives him to sell 
drugs, the report said. They live together. 
Menendez and Lewis were charged with possession of drug paraphernalia and traf -
ficking meth, the report said.
On March 20, Menendez was accused 
of driving without a license and having 8.2 
grams of meth and drug paraphernalia, ac -
cording to court records. Menendez pleaded 
not guilty to the charges Thursday. 
They both remained in the Alachua 
County Jail Thursday in lieu of a $51,000 
bond each. 
Before the handcuffs 
went on, a woman intro -
duced herself as Tequila, 
deputies said. 
Canvas Lashes Morris, 
36, of Gainesville, was ar -
rested on a warrant Tues -
day, according to Alachua 
County Court records. At 
about 4:30 p.m. on March 21, a deputy saw her park at a playground on the 7100 block 
of Southwest 19th Place, according to an 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office sworn com -
plaint affidavit. 
The deputy approached her, and Mor -
ris told him she did not have a  license and 
wanted to leave, the report said. She told the 
deputy her name was Tequila.
While the deputy was announcing a traf -
fic stop via radio, Morris started to drive, the report said. The deputy told her to stop, but 
she drove away on Southwest 75th Street.
The deputy started to chase her, the re -
port said. She drove on opposite lanes, be -
tween cars and passed through a stop sign 
and a red light.
The deputy stopped driving because he 
felt continuing the chase would lead to Mor -
ris crashing, the report said. He then drove 
to Morris’ home and found the car she was driving, car keys in the grass and her cell -
phone inside the car. 
The deputy was not able to find her, the 
report said.
Morris was later arrested on a warrant.
Morris was charged with fleeing a deputy 
with lights and sirens active, the report said. 
She remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Thursday in lieu of a $25,000 bond. Man accused of breaking into his foreclosed house
Gainesville Police accuse men of trafficking meth
Woman accused of telling cops her name is Tequila, driving awayAll Stories By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez  |   Alligator Staff Writer
Tillman
Morris
Menendez
 Lewis Jr.
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org | Twitter: @katwf98BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYOak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in -
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. 
Must be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, 
love motorsports and basic car skills bonus. 
Management@GoRally.com to apply. NO 
CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM learn more before 
applying.     4-17-19-10-14
Cashiers, Gate Attendants and Grounds 
Staff (High Springs) Ginnie Springs 
Outdoors  Applicants must be outgoing and 
enjoy working with the public. High energy 
and low drama is a must! Must be at least 18 
years old. Must have your own transportation 
and availability to work nights, holidays and 
weekends. Seasonal employment. Apply 
in person ONLY 9am - 4pm weekdays. NO 
phone calls! GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th 
Ave. High Springs, Florida 32643     4-8-19-
5-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
EARN $250-$1000 WEEKLY:
Financial Freedom offers legit work 
from home jobs.  No exp req'd, training 
provide, easy sign-up.  Free info:  www.
earncashweekly.site 815-977-5383    4-5-
19-3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      4-5-
1-15
MEDICAL OFFICE TRAINING PROGRAM!
Online training for
Medical Billing & Coding career!
NO PRIOR TRAINING IS REQUIRED!
CTI can have you trained &amp; ready!
1-88-471-3711 AskCTI.com          4-5-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
and Not Divorced or Bankrupt
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-9-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1.  ____ tax
1.  Trauma, affliction 5.  Blue ____
2.  House6.  Deteriorate 
3.  Got wrong7.  Trip
4.  Unassuming MOIENC
IRUYNJENSAJ
DEERO
ATCAUHE
OSMIKTOTEUNJK
EDOTSMANSWERS: 1A-Income  5A-Jeans  6A-Erode  7A-Junket
1D-Injury  2D-Chateau  3D-Mistook  4D-Modest  B-James Joyce4-5-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was 9 years old when his 
first piece of writing was published.
BONUS
By Robert and Marlea Ellis
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/05/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/05/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, April 5, 2019
ACROSS
1 Triumphant 
exclamation
5 Illusion
11 “The good is __ 
interred with their 
bones”: “Julius 
Caesar”
14 Ostrich relatives
15 Payday lender, 
perhaps
16 Extract with effort
17 Suffers
18 Make some  
cote residents 
angry?
20 Singer Etheridge
22 One no longer 
working
23 Enjoy at a 
leisurely pace
24 Pikelike fish
25 Nihilistic art 
movement
26 Calf roper’s 
target?
31 Put away
32 Young one
33 Storm 
components?
37 Ranking suit
40 Giant Mel
42 Fund
43 2019 Grammy 
Awards host 
Keys
45 40-Acr. is in it
47 Savings plan 
acronym
48 Birdwatcher’s 
journal entry?
52 “Frozen” sister
55 “Live __”: Taco 
Bell slogan
56 Prop for Palmer
57 Valley element?
59 Embezzlers, e.g.
63 Borden, in the 
1870s?
65 Cloud of gloom
66 Golden __
67 Singer Grande
68 Biblical twin
69 Risk
70 Identified
71 Editor’s notation
DOWN
1 Group of 
playmates
2 Parisian love
3 Hardly inspiring4 Good 
Samaritan’s offer
5 Persnickety one
6 “The Thin Man” 
canine
7 Help in the 
theater
8 Biblical mount
9 Unfavorable 
mark
10 In the past, in the 
past
11 Adams’ “Nixon in 
China,” e.g.
12 Let go
13 Far from  
laid-back
19 Out of sight
21 Work for parents
24 Juicy tidbit  
lead-in
26 Greek salad 
topper
27 Bowling great __ 
Anthony
28 Sewing case
29 “I can’t get no 
satisfaction!”
30 Farm mom
34 First name in 
the cast of “The 
Sopranos”
35 Sped36 Christmas song 
swimmer
38 2008 presidential 
candidate
39 Actress Zadora
41 Heavy weight
44 Bedroom piece
46 Dimwit
49 Polish seaport, in 
Germany
50 Welcoming gift
51 Leaked slowly
52 Founded: Abbr.53 Feudal subject
54 Reason for 
closed schools, 
perhaps
58 Show 
appreciation
59 Stabber
60 Still-life standard
61 Airline known for 
tight security
62 Turn on an axis
64 Half a slalom 
segment
By Kevin Salat
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/04/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/04/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, April 4, 2019
ACROSS
1 “High” places?
5 Flag down
9 Caller ID?
14 El __, Texas
15 Actor Idris who 
plays Heimdall in 
“Thor” films
16 Mozart wrote a lot 
of them
17 Dungeness 
delicacies
19 Omni rival
20 One reviewing 
challenges
22 Fish eggs
23 Brooding genre
24 One who’s got 
you covered
32 Pig’s sniffer
33 Weep for
34 See 27-Down
35 Sch. near the 
U.S.-Mexico 
border
36 Law school 
subject
37 Put on the cloud, 
say
38 Writer Deighton
39 “It Wasn’t All 
Velvet” memoirist
40 Asks
41 One seen in a 
Hanes catalog
44 Aromatic 
necklace
45 “How We Do 
(Party)” British 
singer Rita __
46 Predictable work 
... and, in a way, 
what the other 
three longest 
answers are?
54 Implied
55 Chain used by 
many contractors
56 Courtroom pro
57 Take testimony 
from
58 Depend
59 “The Ant and the 
Grasshopper” 
storyteller
60 Philosophies
61 Fort SSW of 
Louisville
DOWN
1 Shelter gp.
2 Big name in 
Tombstone3 “By yesterday!”
4 Sleeps it off
5 Physician, 
ideally
6 Commercial word 
with Seltzer
7 “Oh, suuure”
8 Cut with a beam
9 Cruel
10 Papillon, e.g.
11 Deer sir
12 Dole (out)
13 Ballpark fig.
18 Influence
21 Ballpark 
opinions, at times
24 One-__ chance
25 Incessantly
26 “When the moon 
hits your eye” 
feeling
27 With 34-Across, 
Sally Field film
28 More adorable
29 Make blank
30 Piercing site, 
perhaps
31 Scottish center?
32 Sci-fi navigator
36 Specifically
37 Float fixer
39 Place with a 
bird’s-eye view40 Went carefully 
(over)
42 Nickname of 
golfer Sergio 
García, who 
turned pro at 
age 19
43 Shakers’ 
relatives?
46 “Mom” actor 
Corddry
47 Treats, as a 
sprain48 Surprised 
greeting
49 They’re not on 
the same page
50 Religious scholar
51 Premiere
52 Simple tie
53 Where Achilles 
was dipped for 
invincibility
54 Org. operating 
full-body 
scanners14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
T ennis teams back in action with weekend contests
The Florida men's tennis team is traveling to Alabama to face the Crimson 
Tide on Friday at 7 p.m. and Auburn on Sunday at 1 p.m. The women's team is 
hosting Alabama on Friday at 3 p.m. and Auburn on Sunday at 1 p.m.UF golfer Sierra Brooks  
(pictured) is two strokes off the 
leader in a tie for third place at 
the Augusta National Women's 
Amateur. Marta Perez  is tied 
for 11th, six strokes behind.BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball program rarely 
loses a series. When it does, it is almost 
always competitive.
Two weeks ago in Nashville, Ten -
nessee, that wasn’t the case.
The Gators were soundly swept by 
Vanderbilt in their first SEC road series 
of the season. UF was outscored by the 
Commodores 34-6 and hit just .174 for 
the weekend.
Now, No. 21 Florida is in a similar 
situation, facing a ranked conference 
opponent on the road in No. 18 Ole 
Miss.
The Rebels (20-10, 5-4 SEC) will see 
a completely different UF team from 
what the Commodores saw. Since get -
ting swept, the Gators (21-10, 4-5 SEC) 
have rattled off a season-high five 
straight wins, including a sweep of Ala -
bama and a win over rival Florida State.
“Honestly, we just got our tails 
handed to us at Vanderbilt and kind of 
found out that some things needed to 
change,” left fielder Austin Langworthy 
said. ”Especially us older guys needed 
to start hitting, and that includes my -
self, so we just kinda turned it around.”Juniors Wil Dalton and Langworthy 
struggled to begin the season  in par -
ticular and were even benched for a 
game against Vanderbilt. But both have 
found their way at the plate since then. 
Langworthy went 5 for 12 against 
Alabama and followed that up with a 
three-hit performance against Florida 
A&M on Tuesday. Dalton hit 4 for 12 
against the Crimson Tide, and he and 
Langworthy both had a home run in 
the series.
During its current win streak, Flor -
ida is outscoring its opponents 37-10.
But not everything is perfect in 
Gainesville. RHP Jack Leftwich (4-2) 
was pulled from his start early on Sun -
day due to a blister on his throwing 
hand, and his status for the Ole Miss 
series remains in question.
“These young pitchers are going 
to have to help us on the road on the 
weekend,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
said, mentioning SEC Freshman of the 
Week Christian Scott, Nolan Crisp, 
Hunter Ruth and David Luethje, all un -
derclassmen.
Freshman center fielder Jud Fabian 
is also dealing with a hand injury. After 
taking a pitch to the hand on Friday, Gators search for consistency in second SEC road series
Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF left fielder Austin Langworthy went 5 for 12 against Alabama, then had three hits against 
Florida A&M on Tuesday at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium.
GYMNASTICS SOFTBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
There will be no more second chances.
The Florida gymnastics team may have 
missed out on first place at the SEC Cham -
pionships in March, but on Friday, the 
Gators will be one of 36 teams vying for the 
NCAA’s ultimate title.
The NCAA Women’s Gymnastics Cham -
pionships has a brand-new format for the 
2019 season. Eventually, eight teams will 
make their way to Fort Worth, Texas, for the 
semi-finals. In previous years, six of them 
would compete in the final round (formerly 
known as the “Super Six”). The new regu -
lations call for only four (the “Four on the 
Floor”).
Here’s what UF can expect from the three 
other teams blocking its road to Fort Worth:
 
Hawkeyes, Beavers and Cardinal, oh 
my! 
Florida received a bye week for region -als, so it’ll enter the competition in Corval -
lis, Oregon, during the semifinal round of 
the regionals.
The Gators are guaranteed to face off 
against two top-25 opponents in the hosting 
No. 15 Oregon State and No. 25 Stanford.
The Beavers, who amassed a 7-3 record 
during the regular season, are led by sopho -
more standout Kaitlyn Yanish. As well as 
earning first-team honors on the Pac-12 All-
Conference team, Yanish was also awarded 
Second-Team WGCA All-American honors 
for her efforts on the floor this season. Aside 
from Yanish, Oregon State also boasts some 
firepower from freshman Madi Dagen and 
junior Isis Lowery, who both earned Sec -
ond-Team Pac-12 All-Conference bids.
The Cardinal, meanwhile, doesn’t pride 
itself in any individual gymnast.
“We don’t have any superstars,” Stan -
ford coach Tabitha Yim said in a release 
after its loss to UCLA in March. “It’s 100 
percent team effort. Everyone has to step up By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Florida’s softball team walks into its 
home series against No. 14 Arkansas on a 
three-game losing streak after being shut 
out by rival No. 3 Florida State and having 
lost its first three SEC series of the season. 
The No. 8 Gators (29-9, 3-6 SEC) have 
struggled offensively throughout the sea -
son, and that was on full display in front 
of a national audience against the Semi -
noles. 
FSU starter Meghan King navigated 
through the Gators’ batting order with 
ease Wednesday night in a complete-
game shutout where Florida managed just 
six hits and only two runners in scoring 
position. 
Pitcher Kelly Barnhill staved off Florida 
State after a rocky first two innings and 
limited the third-best scoring offense in 
the nation to only two runs. 
Florida still has some other concerns surrounding the team, such as who it can 
rely on in the circle other than Barnhill, 
but none are bigger than the team’s in -
ability to consistently produce runs. 
UF has scored more than five runs in 
an SEC game just once this season, and 
its offense ranks in the bottom half of the 
conference in batting average (.287, 12th), 
slugging percentage (.461, 10th), on-base 
percentage (.402, eighth) and runs scored 
(198, ninth). 
“When you’ve got good count, you’ve 
got to go,” coach Tim Walton said after 
Wednesday’s loss. “Take chances, guess 
every once in a while, try to hit a home 
run, do things like that if that’s who you 
are.”
The good news for the Gators is that 
they’re facing a Razorbacks squad with 
some of the same problems. 
Arkansas (26-11, 6-6 SEC) has strug -
gled to produce runs, and it relies on 
its two-deep rotation of junior Autumn UF eyes deep postseason run 
with strong start at regionalsFlorida stumbles into series vs 
Arkansas after loss to No. 3 FSU
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15 
BY THE NUMBERS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Is the curse of Tim Tebow real?
It sure seems like it. The Florida football team 
hasn’t had a consistently good quarterback since 
Tebow graduated in 2009. That’s nearly a decade 
of low-quality play from the signal caller, arguably 
the most important position on the field. 
There have been 11 starting quarterbacks in 
the past nine seasons, and three different coaches 
have taken the helm during that span. 
Things might be turning around, however.
Current quarterback Feleipe Franks is fresh 
off a successful season where he led UF to a 41-
15 Peach Bowl win over Michigan. He threw for 
2,457 yards and 24 touchdowns, numbers Florida 
hasn’t seen in a while. 
Is that enough to determine if Franks beat the 
Tebow curse?
In this edition of alligatorSports’ “By the Num -
bers,” we looked into every Gators starting quar -
terback since Tebow to determine who has been 
the best over the past nine years.
Question: Is Franks the best quarterback 
since Tim Tebow?
If we base it off one season, then maybe. 
Franks struggled in his first season as the start -
er, throwing for 1,438 yards, nine touchdowns and 
eight interceptions in 11 games. That’s over 1,000 
yards less than what he threw for this year.
Compare that to Tebow’s numbers and it’s not 
even close. He had over 3,286 yards in his first 
season as the starter, followed by over 2,500-yard 
campaigns the next two years.
Franks could do better next season and put up 
Tebow-style numbers, but that will be tough to 
replicate.
Answer: Franks isn’t. Will Grier is
It’s hard to give Will Grier the title of best since 
Tebow, but hear me out on this.What Grier did on the field in six games was 
remarkable. He didn’t lose, edging out teams like 
then-No. 3 Ole Miss, Kentucky and Tennessee. 
In those six games, he threw for 1,202 yards, 10 
touchdowns and three interceptions.
Because of his one-year suspension due to PED 
usage, we will never know what Grier could have 
done while he was at Florida. But we can project 
it.
Grier averaged 200.3 yards per game. He had 
eight more games to play in, and for the case of 
this hypothetical, we will assume he would have 
stayed on that yards-per-game projection. He 
would have finished the season with 2,804 yards, 
which would have been the most in a single sea -
son since Tebow threw over 3,000 yards in 2007.
As for touchdowns, Grier was on pace to have 
13 more in his first season with the Gators, which 
would have brought his total up to 23.
Grier could have been special at Florida if he 
stayed for three years. He was UF’s best quarter -
back since Tebow.
Looking Forward: Franks has the potential 
to surpass Grier
Where Grier is full of uncertainty, Franks is not. 
We have to project Grier’s stats to determine how 
good he could have been. Realistically, he would 
have had a hard time against LSU, Florida State 
and Alabama in the SEC Championship Game. 
His stats probably would have been below pro -
jections.
Where Franks has the edge is he is still at 
Florida and still playing. We know exactly where 
Franks will be at the end of next season, which 
could easily be his best yet.
He is keeping all his weapons on offense and 
has a stacked running-back corps. The only thing 
hindering him is an inexperienced offensive line. 
We will see if Franks can do even better this 
year than he did last season.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgIs Feleipe Franks the best Florida quarterback since Tim Tebow?
LACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s lacrosse team has had 
difficulty playing at home this season.
It came out victorious only once in five 
games at Donald R. Dizney Stadium, compared 
to five wins out of seven on the road.
But the No. 19 Gators have a chance to im -
prove their underwhelming home record when 
they host Vanderbilt on Saturday at noon.
“We’ve had a lot of really competitive 
games at home,” sophomore attacker Grace 
Haus said. “We’ve played really good teams, 
and we fought with them.”
UF (6-6, 1-0 American Athletic Conference) 
has competed against No. 2 Maryland, then-
No. 3 North Carolina, then-No. 4 Syracuse and 
then-No. 10 Princeton in the friendly confines 
of its own stadium, losing to each of them.
Although unranked, the Commodores (9-2, 
1-0 AAC) still pose a tough task for Florida.
“Across the board, their offense is very 
strong,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. “Defen -
sively, they play a man-to-man and a zone, so 
they can go in and out of both.”
Vandy, who ranks first in offense among 
teams in the AAC (15.18 goals per game), has a well-balanced attack.
It has nine players who have scored double-
digit goals, with attacker Sophie Furlong lead -
ing the team (22).
On the defensive side of the ball, Vanderbilt 
allows only 8.92 goals per game, the best mark 
in the conference.
It leads the AAC in caused turnovers per 
game (13.36) and sports the best save percent -
age in the conference (.457).
In order to win the game, the Gators will 
need to have a good performance in the draw 
circle, according to junior midfielder Brianna 
Harris.
Harris posted a career-high 10 draw controls 
in UF’s 22-11 victory over Brown on March 26.
“I think the draw circle is really important, 
whether it’s the first possession of the game 
or the last possession of the game,” she said. 
“That sets the tone with how well we’re going 
to do.”
The Commodores rank second in the AAC 
in draw controls per game with 14.27, and 
Florida is third with 14.
Sophomore defender Sabrina Cristodero, 
senior attacker Lindsey Ronbeck and Harris 
have helped sophomore midfielder Shannon 
Kavanagh (the primary draw taker) in the draw circle, with 53, 28 and 25 draw controls, 
respectively.
In the last meeting between both teams on 
March 18, 2018, the Gators squeaked out an 
11-10 win over Vandy, and O’Leary expects 
another close game on Saturday.“Vanderbilt is always fun to play,” she said. 
“It’s just a team that comes out and competes 
really hard.”
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators continue conference play against Vanderbilt at homeT otal number of yards Tim T ebow, Will Grier and Feleipe Franks had during 
their time at UF. Grier played in only six games, T ebow in 55 and Franks in 25.
Yards per game for T ebow, Grier and Franks. While T ebow played in more 
contests, Grier had more yards per game, even though he had a much 
smaller sample size.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF attacker Grace Haus scored four goals in Florida’s 15-8 win over T emple on Saturday.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!and fulfill their roles.”
If the Cardinal doesn’t have superstars, 
then its next best thing is sophomore Kyla 
Bryant. Bryant is Stanford’s only gymnast 
to make an appearance on the Pac-12 All-
Conference team, with second-team honors 
for the all-around and floor.
The Gators’ final opponent will be No, 
32 Iowa, who defeated No. 33 Arizona to 
move into the semi-final round. 
 
Swamping the Competition
If you’re a team outside the top 10, you 
have good reason to fear the Gators.
UF’s only losses on the year have come 
at the hands of No. 1 Oklahoma, No. 8 
Georgia and No. 3 LSU. 
Should the Gators emerge victorious, 
they’ll be one step closer to experiencing 
the new postseason format for themselves, 
a prospect coach Jenny Rowland is greatly looking forward to.
“To have Four on the Floor, from a spec -
tator’s standpoint, I think is wonderful,” 
Rowland said in a release. “It’ll work much 
better as far as TV and getting more view -
ers.”
Rowland and her squad have every rea -
son to be confident. On top of its undefeated 
status against teams outside the top 10, UF 
boasts four All-Americans in freshman Trin -
ity Thomas, senior Alicia Boren and sopho -
mores Alyssa Baumann and Megan Skaggs. 
The rest of the semi-final field combined 
has just one. In addition, Florida’s average 
score across all its meets is better than any 
of its opponents’ season high.
UF could use a boost of confidence after 
its defeat at SECs, and with a weaker field 
to kick off NCAAs, it may just find it on 
Friday.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14No team outside the top 10 has defeated Florida this season
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Alicia Boren became a 10-time NACGC All-American after earning 
the honor in floor and the all-around this season.
he sat out two of the past three 
games. But O’Sullivan said he will 
be available against the Rebels 
and could have played against 
FAMU on Tuesday.
Ole Miss may have lost four of 
its last eight games, but the two 
teams are statistically very simi -
lar. Both have 56 doubles and 35 
home runs, while UF holds a slight 
edge in batting average (.288 to 
.285), and Ole Miss has a small 
advantage in ERA (4.04 to 4.14).
Florida will have to monitor the Rebels on the basepaths. They 
are fourth in the SEC in stolen 
bases with 56 and five different 
players have at least five steals. 
Junior Dillard Thomas provides 
the speed and the power for Ole 
Miss. He leads the team in steals 
(12) and home runs (9).
Junior Will Ethridge (4-2) 
leads the Rebels' rotation with a 
1.78 ERA, the eighth-best in the 
conference.
Ole Miss recently won 2-of-3 
games in a series at No. 14 Arkan -
sas but dropped a game on Tues -
day at home to first-year Division-I program North Alabama.
Florida has struggled on the 
road this season (1-4) while, the 
Rebels have performed well at 
home (14-4).
“We obviously didn’t play 
very well up in Nashville, and 
Oxford traditionally has not been 
an easy place to play, so we’ll 
see how we respond,” O’Sullivan 
said. “I think the biggest thing 
right now is trying to find some 
consistency.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Thomas leads Ole Miss in 
steals (12) and home runs (9)
Storms and sophomore Mary Haff. 
Arkansas’ rotation is seventh in 
the SEC in ERA and has allowed 
the fewest walks in the confer -
ence. Storms and Haff are in the top 
three in the SEC in both strikeouts 
and innings pitched. The two have 
struggled against SEC competition, 
though. Arkansas has allowed five 
or more runs six times against con -
ference foes.  
It has been an offensive night -
mare for the Razorbacks this sea -son. Arkansas has scored the sec -
ond-fewest runs in the SEC, and 
only five hitters who have started at 
least 30 games hit above .300. 
The Razorbacks are led offen -
sively by sophomore Danielle Gib -
son and senior Ashley Diaz. Gibson 
leads the team in home runs with 
nine and has the highest batting av -
erage on the team (.365). Diaz and 
sophomore Hannah McEwen have 
the best on-base percentage (.429), 
and Diaz has slugged six home runs. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14Arkansas has the second-fewest 
runs in the SEC this season