We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators fall to FAU in midweek matchup
Designated hitter Nelson Maldonado and the 
UF baseball team put up 11 runs, but it wasn’t 
enough to best the Owls, pg.14Stories behind the headstones
A reporter proﬁ  led some of those who are buried in the Ever-
green Cemetery, pg. 19
Killer bird up for auction
The large bird can be purchased Saturday, pg. 3WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 85
TURLINGTON HALL 
RECEIVED NAME IN ’80 s
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
With a Gator blanket laid across 
his nursing home bed, Ralph D. Tur-
lington has decided he is going to 
make it to 100.
He can add it to his list of ac-
complishments with achievements 
like establishing UF Health Shands 
Hospital and the Florida Lottery and becoming the longest-serving repre-
sentative in Florida.
“He’s so goal-oriented,” his 
daughter, Katherine, joked.
As students walk across Turling-
ton Plaza and take classes in Turl-
ington Hall, they may not know the 
man the structures are named after 
is still alive at 98-and-a-half years old 
(he is proud of the half). His paint-
ing hangs inside the hall’s lobby, 
showing him younger with thinning 
brown hair.
Turlington’s story may not be 
well-known when compared to other UF legacy namesakes like J. Wayne 
Reitz or Stephen C. O’Connell, pos-
sibly due to a lack of political contro-
versies surrounding his name.
In recent years, several student 
groups have called for the renaming 
of the J. Wayne Reitz Student Union 
because the former UF president 
had allowed dozens of university 
employees and students to be dis-
charged or expelled for homosexual 
conduct.
Others look at the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center because he over-
saw the arrest of 66 black student civil rights protestors and threatened 
their expulsion. 
Turlington, instead, pointed to-
ward the direction of integration and 
acceptance.
Katherine, now 64, remembered 
as a child telling her grandmother 
about the ﬁ  rst black student to join 
her class, she said. Don’t be her 
friend, her grandmother said.
When Katherine went home to 
her father, he quickly dismissed it.
He told her to just be fair to ev-
eryone.Ralph Turlington, born in 1920, 
grew up milking cows and rais-
ing chickens at his home where 
Gainesville High School now stands.
The UF and Harvard University 
alumnus went on to be a Democrat-
ic state representative for Alachua 
County, a speaker of the House and 
then the state’s education commis-
sioner, which was an elected Cabi-
net-level position that oversaw the 
operations of the education depart-
ment.Ralph D. Turlington: The man behind the building
MORE STUDENTS SOUGHT 
OUT COUNSELING THIS YEAR 
THAN LAST
By Kelly Hayes 
and Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writers
Lizzie Lunior’s ﬁ  rst time at the UF 
Counseling and Wellness Center was 
positive. Her counselor was a good ﬁ  t.  The second time, things were differ-
ent. About two years later, a traumatic 
memory resurfaced, and Lunior started 
to become depressed. 
As UF moves up in the rankings, 
there has been a rise in student mental 
health concerns, said Ernesto Escoto, the 
director of the Counseling and Wellness 
Center. 
When Lunior went to the center coun-
selors for help again, they told her they couldn’t help her, she said. Her prob-
lems were too big for the center, and 
she had to wait two weeks to be referred 
elsewhere. 
She said she felt betrayed by the ones 
who helped her before. 
“I’m spiraling downward into deep 
depression and losing all functionality 
that I had really taken for granted,” said 
Lunior, a 26-year-old counselor educa-Mental health concern increases as UF moves up By Josephine Fuller and T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writers
Teachers are closer to being able to carry a gun 
in classrooms after the Florida Senate passed a bill 
Tuesday. 
The “school guardian” bill, SB 7030, passed 22-
17. The bill would expand the Coach Aaron Feis 
Guardian program, allowing in-classroom teachers 
to join the list of those who can volunteer to be 
trained to have a gun on school campuses. The bill 
still needs to be approved by the House before it 
moves to the governor to be signed into law. 
State Sen. Keith Perry, whose district includes 
Alachua County, voted yes on the bill and said 
much of the opposition comes from a misunder-
standing of the bill. 
“It just allows ﬂ  exibility for school districts to 
take this opportunity if they’d like,” he said.
The last action of the connected House of Rep-
resentatives bill, HB 7093, was postponed April 3.
The guardian program allows teachers who 
work outside of the classroom, such as physical 
education teachers, to be armed if trained. 
School districts can opt out of the program, but 
if they decide to participate, then teachers who vol-
unteer will have to undergo psychological evalua-
tions and be trained by their local sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
Last year, when the original school guardian 
bill, SB 7026, was passed, Alachua County Public 
School board members opted out of the program.
The school district will still not participate in the 
program if teachers are allowed to carry a gun, said 
Jackie Johnson, the school district spokesperson.
“It’s a burden they didn’t sign up for,” Johnson 
said.
jfuller@alligator.org 
tgirtman@alligator.orgFlorida Senate 
passes bill to 
arm teachers
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
Getting to Work
Tristan Ross (left), a 21-year-old UF natural resource conservation junior and work study employee at the Kanapaha 
Botanical Gardens, and Gage T oledo (right), a 25-year-old groundskeeper at Kanapaha Botanical Gardens, cuts away 
at a fallen sugar berry tree Tuesday that fell during a severe thunderstorm that struck Gainesville last Friday. T oledo 
has been working at the gardens for about a year, and he loves nature and the park. 
SEE CWC,  PAGE 3SEE TURLINGTON,  PAGE 3•   •   •
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  58°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 85WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer 
The large flightless bird that 
killed an Alachua man will be up 
for auction along with the rest of 
his exotic and rare animals Satur-
day. 
The sale will be held at noon 
by Gulf Coast Livestock Auction 
at 3856 State Road 53 S. Madison, Florida, which is just south of the 
Florida-Georgia border, according 
to a Gulf Coast Livestock Auction 
Facebook post.  
The auction will include about 
100 animals that will be auc-
tioned, including two cassowar-
ies, macaws, lemurs, emu chicks 
and zebu bulls, the post said.
Marvin Hajos, 75, was killed 
April 12 by his cassowary bird af-ter he may have tried to get one of 
the eggs out of its cage.
Cassowaries are native to Aus-
tralia and New Guinea. The San 
Diego Zoo calls the cassowary the 
world’s most dangerous bird. 
The livestock auction declined 
to comment, saying Hajos’ fam-
ily asked for the organization not 
to speak to the media. The group 
said it will find new homes for all the animals. 
Most of the 
animals require 
a permit to own 
them in Florida, 
said John Cole, 
Florida Fish and 
Wildlife Conser-
vation Commis-
sion operations specialist. Any-
one purchasing an animal must 
present the proper permits or li-
censes.Hajos had all the proper per-
mits to own the animals, Cole 
said. He also said that auctioning 
off animals after the owner dies is 
common.
“It’s just a messed up situation 
how it happened,” Cole said. “It’s 
never planned to happen, but it 
can happen.” 
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCassowary that killed Alachua man to be auctioned
About 100 animals will be auctioned 
This was no surprise to his fam-
ily, who heard him announce as an 
elementary schooler that he would 
be kind to his classmates because 
they may vote for him someday. Or 
again when he took his first elected 
office as the senior class president 
of P.K. Yonge Laboratory School, 
which is now named P.K. Yonge De-
velopmental Research School.
Turlington graduated and went 
on to UF, getting perfect grades 
while joining the Student Council as 
the Business Manager of the Florida 
Alligator, UF’s student paper at the 
time.
He was elected into the Florida 
Blue Key, UF’s prestigious leadership 
honorary fraternity.
He graduated in 1942 with plans 
to stay in Gainesville for law school, 
but WWII changed things for every-
one.
He went to Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts, to study at Harvard Univer-
sity’s business school where he was 
in the advanced ROTC program. In 
1943, he graduated with his master’s 
and was also commissioned as a sec-
ond lieutenant in the U.S. Army.
Later that year, he went to Eng-
land and became a first lieutenant. 
He operated as an officer at a north-
ern France gasoline supply com-
pany, where he watched over more 
than 100 black soldiers.
His son, Don, said he thinks that 
may be part of the reason his father 
had such a progressive view of peo-
ple of color.
Turlington was set to go to the 
Pacific, but Japan surrendered as he 
was on a boat toward the Panama 
Canal. 
In late 1945, he was ordered to 
Atlanta, where he met Ann Geller-
stedt, his future wife. He and Ann married in October of the next year 
and moved to Gainesville soon after. 
His mind still lingered on politics, 
and his family name had roots in the 
small North Central Florida city.  
He pounced at the opportunity 
to run after a local legislator decided 
not to run for re-election. He dropped 
his job as a university business in-
structor because UF had a policy that 
professors could not serve in politi-
cal office.
Turlington and Ann had their first 
child, Ralph Donald “Don” Turling-
ton Jr., in 1948. His first campaign 
for the Alachua County house repre-
sentative seat kicked off in late 1949, 
which was his most competitive 
and only run-off race. His children 
recalled how he loved debating his 
opponents on the issues.
He was always a strong liberal 
Democrat. He told a joke to his 
daughter that he once thought about 
being a Republican, but then took up 
reading.
Don said he remembered his fa-
ther telling him how political rallies 
were segregated between whites and blacks, and his dad was one of the 
only politicians to go to the black ral-
lies and talk with potential voters.
“Dad has always been pro-civil 
rights, even when it wasn’t popu-
lar,” Don said.
In Tallahassee, Ralph Turlington 
landed spots in prominent commit-
tees. He did not make many ene-
mies. He always kept his composure.
His colleagues knew him for be-
ing level-headed and picking out 
arguments with detective-like ques-
tions, so much so that the state’s 
first Republican governor since 
Reconstruction, Claude R. Kirk Jr., 
landed the nickname “Kirk the Jerk” 
in Forbes magazine after arguments 
with Turlington as House speaker.
“He was very well liked, persua-
sive, smart, had a way of asking very 
good questions in a Columbo-like 
way,” said Jon Mills, a former speak-
er of the House after Turlington and 
former UF law school dean.
“He was a shining example — 
someone with integrity and princi-
pal commitment to education that I 
could look up to,” Mills said.Turlington was part of pivotal 
changes in Florida’s history. He was 
a member of the Constitutional Re-
vision Commission that drafted the 
state’s new constitution because 
the former one was riddled with 
Jim Crow-era laws. He also helped 
amend the new Constitution in 1970 
to include a corporate income tax, 
despite political opposition.
He later became the state’s com-
missioner of education. He was first 
appointed to the position by the 
governor after the one before him 
resigned following political scandals.
When it came for the election, 
he won against three others with-
out a runoff. He was reelected two 
more times, serving for more than 
12 years.
One of his proudest achievements 
was in 1975 when a Miami Herald 
reporter investigated the murder 
conviction of two black men named 
Freddie Pitts and Wilbert Lee. The 
reporter concluded that the two were 
likely innocent.
Their conviction occurred in the 
panhandle, where racial tensions were strong, and most assumed they 
were guilty.
Racially charged protests from 
the area erupted over it as the Flori-
da Cabinet voted to pardon Pitts and 
Lee.
Ralph cast the final vote to set 
them free.
Despite his efforts to better Flori-
da, some ridiculed him.
Some colleagues snickered nick-
names like “Harvard egghead” or the 
“Do-gooder.”
Turlington never drank or 
smoked. Lobbyists had to put him in 
his own category because he could 
not be swayed over an alcohol-influ-
enced perspective, Katherine said.
But he always looked at himself 
as just any other legislator who did 
his job well, his daughter said. He 
had always been “such a good egg.”
“He wasn’t as present as my 
mother, but he was certainly the joy 
who made you think life was worth 
living,” she said. “You always want-
ed to be with dad.”
Don recognized his father’s ethics 
at about 13-years-old, he said. Like 
most of the other representatives’ 
children at the time, Don asked his 
father to help him get a job as a page 
in the Tallahassee Capitol building.
Turlington agreed to help his son. 
Don looked forward to getting an of-
ficial check with the Florida seal.
When he went to pick up his pay-
check, he noticed that it was the only 
one full of cash.
His father never told him, but he 
later realized his dad put the cash in 
his envelope instead of having tax-
payers pay him.
“I couldn’t have had a better fa-
ther,” he said. “Dad was always a 
straight, honest guy, which wasn’t 
a standard for politics at his time. 
Needless to say, I love him more 
than anyone else.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  TURLINGTON,  from pg. 1‘He was a shining example — someone with integrity’
Courtesy to The Alligator
Ralph D. Turlington, 98, is the namesake of UF’s Turlington Hall. He was a Florida representative. tion doctoral student. “And then 
they’re telling me, ‘Oh, we can’t 
help you because you told us the 
truth.’”
As of April 17, the center has 
seen 5,394 students is from July 
2018 to June 2019, Escoto said. 
The previous year, the center saw 
5,340 students. Escoto said the rise in student 
mental health can be attributed 
to more high-achieving students 
coming to UF. 
Students with gifted abilities 
are at greater risk for severe men-
tal illness, and the competition 
created from performing well in 
the classroom can be isolating.
U.S. News and World Report 
compiles a list of the best public institutions in the country based 
on factors. UF first cracked the 
list in 2017. As of September, UF 
is ranked eighth in the country. 
As of April 17, about 1,200 stu-
dents had gone to the center with 
some form of suicidal thoughts or 
plans. There have been five sui-
cides this year, and three suicides 
from 2017 to 2018.
If students come to the center with an emergency, such as sui-
cidal thoughts, Escoto said they 
will be seen that day. Less imme-
diate issues will result in an aver-
age of 16 days until an appoint-
ment.
By the start of Fall 2019, Es-
coto said he hopes to have 46 
counselors on staff. There are 36 
counselors currently. 
The Alligator reached out to 
six other top 10 public schools to 
discuss its counseling programs, 
but they could not be reached for 
comment.Although Lunior understands 
the situation the center is in, she 
said they can do more.
“I really had to fight,” she 
said. “I really had to gain a lot of 
my own personal wisdom, and re-
ally deepen my sense of intuition, 
and realize that the systems that 
are supposedly there to help me 
really left me out to dry.”
hbeatty@aligator.org
khayes@alligator.orgCWC,  from pg. 1Students with gifted abilities at higher riskCasaurius casaurius
•   •   •4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
HE HAS AN $800,000 BOND
Police arrested a third 
man on Tuesday in-
volved in a shootout at a 
Gainesville store parking 
lot, police said. 
John Willis, 21, of 
Gainesville, was the third 
person arrested for the 
March 31 shooting at 
Rose Food Store, at 1631 
NE 16th Ave., according to a Gainesville Po-
lice press release.
Willis and Artavis Mallary, 35, of Gainesville, wanted to get back at Quinten 
Golston, 32, of Gainesville, for stealing mon-
ey from Mallary, according to a Gainesville 
Police sworn complaint afﬁ  davit. 
Willis and Mallary had plans to ﬁ  nd and 
shoot Golston after a police report was ﬁ  led  
March 29 against Golston for stealing from 
Mallary, the report said. 
On March 31, Mallary was driving with 
Willis in a sedan when they spotted Golston 
at the Rose Food Store, the report said. Mal-
lary parked the car, and they both went up 
to Golston. 
Mallary pointed at Golston, and Wil-
lis pulled out a gun and started ﬁ  ring at Golston, the report said. Golston was stand-
ing next to a car with two passengers inside. 
Golston pulled out a gun and tried to ﬁ  re 
back, the report said. No one was injured, 
but a car near Golston with two passengers 
was hit multiple times. 
On April 9, police released video surveil-
lance footage from the store and asked the 
public to help identify the men, according to 
a Gainesville Police press release. 
Police also received surveillance footage 
from Mallary’s apartment complex of Mal-
lary and Willis before the shooting, the re-
port said. In the video, they got into a sedan 
with the same clothing shown in the store’s surveillance footage. 
Willis was arrested on a warrant for at-
tempted murder and two counts of aggra-
vated assault, the release said. 
On April 18, police arrested Mallary on 
a warrant for attempted murder and two 
counts of aggravated assault, according to 
court records. On April 22, Golston was ar-
rested on a warrant for possession of a ﬁ  re-
arm while being a convicted felon. 
Golston, Mallary and Willis remain in the 
Alachua County Jail. Golston has a $100,000 
bond. Mallary has a $2 million bond. Willis 
has an $800,000 bond. Police arrest third man involved in Rose Food Store shooting
HE WAS CHARGED WITH 
HOMICIDE
Deputies arrested a Gainesville man Mon-
day in connection to a February Micanopy 
murder. 
Jeremy Buckner, 28, of Gainesville, was 
arrested on a warrant for the murder of 
20-year-old Daniel Schweitzer, according to 
an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest re-
port. 
Schweitzer was reported missing Feb. 3. 
On Feb. 25, deputies found his body un-
derneath palm fronds on the side of County 
Road 234 in Micanopy. 
His body was decomposing near a blue 
blanket, the report said. Medical examin-
ers found metal fragments in Schweitzer’s 
head and determined he died from a gunshot 
wound.
Two days later, detectives found the car 
Schweitzer drove in the Cedar Ridge and Holly Heights neighbor-
hood near the 6000 block 
of Southwest Sixth Place, 
the report said. Detec-
tives searched the car and 
found a GPS. 
The GPS’s data discov-
ered Schweitzer had driv-
en to Buckner’s home on 
Jan. 9, the report said. It 
also showed he was there 
for one minute and then 
drove toward Newberry 
Road and Tower Road. 
Between Feb. 3 and 
4, geolocation data from 
Snapchat and Google 
showed that Schweitzer’s 
phone was in Buckner’s 
home, the report said. 
When Buckner was arrested on April 17, 
he told deputies that Schweitzer was at his home on Feb. 3 to watch the Super Bowl, but 
Buckner did not have cable and had no plans 
to watch the game, the report said. 
Schweitzer’s Snapchat location showed 
he was at Buckner’s home at about 10:20 
p.m. and went to Jonesville, Florida, the re-
port said. He returned about an hour later. 
A witness told deputies that on Feb. 3, 
they smoked marijuana with Buckner and 
Schweitzer, the report said. The witness then 
went to the master bedroom to watch Netﬂ  ix. 
They later heard a pop and went into the 
living room, the report said. They saw Sch-
weitzer’s body laying on the ﬂ  oor and his 
head covered with a trash bag. 
Buckner told the witness, “We have to 
do something fast,” the report said. The wit-
ness told Buckner to go to Walmart and buy 
a blanket to carry Schweitzer. 
After buying the blanket, they used it to 
carry Schweitzer to the trunk of the witness’ 
car, the report said. The witness drove with Buckner to Micanopy and left Schweitzer’s 
body on the side of the road.
The witness told deputies that Schweitzer 
had stolen drugs and money from Buckner’s 
home the night before, but they were not sure 
if that is why Buckner killed him, the report 
said.  
On April 17, deputies stopped Buckner’s 
ﬁ  ancee, told her they were going to execute 
a search warrant on Buckner and asked if 
anyone was at his home, the report said. She 
called Buckner and he left the home locked 
with his ﬁ  ancee’s 4-year-old daughter inside. 
Detectives found the wall and ﬂ  oor of 
his home tested positive for the presence of 
blood, the report said. 
Buckner was charged with child neglect 
without great bodily harm, mishandling hu-
man body remains, tampering with evidence 
and ﬁ  rst-degree murder. 
Buckner remains in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $40,000 bond.ACSO: Man arrested for shooting 20-year-old, hiding body in Micanopy
A UF football employee threatened to 
blow up his former girlfriend’s car, depu-
ties said. 
Otis Yelverton, 51, football Gators as-
sistant director of player personnel, was 
arrested Monday, according to an Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. 
Yelverton assisted in recruiting for the 
team and was placed on leave, said Steve 
McClain, the Gators senior associate athlet-
ics director. Yelverton was hired in Janu-ary 2018.
On April 14, his for-
mer girlfriend ended 
their year-long relation-
ship, the report said. On 
Sunday, she told him to 
stop contacting her. That 
same day, he left her a 
voicemail saying he was 
going to blow up her car. 
Yelverton called, texted and messaged her on Facebook more than 40 times, the 
report said. Most of the messages were sent 
after she told him to stop contacting her. 
He also sent multiple messages with 
“vulgarities and demeaning language,” 
the report said. She made a report to the 
sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce to request Yelverton to stop 
contacting her, the report said. They took 
photos of the messages and recorded the 
voicemail he sent on Sunday. 
She said the messages caused her emo-tional distress, the report said. 
Yelverton was charged with aggravated 
stalking. He was released from the Alachua 
County Jail Tuesday on his own recogni-
zance. 
Yelverton referred The Alligator to his 
attorney, Ron Kozlowski, who said there is 
still information not released to the public.
“Nothing I’ve seen to this point from 
the police report shows me aggravated 
stalking,” Kozlowski said.UF football employee accused of threatening womanWillis
Buckner
Yelverton
Schweitzer
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
A lawsuit to bring Spanish in 
Florida voting booths may achieve 
its goal thanks to the governor.
On April 11, Florida Gov. Ron 
DeSantis ordered the Department of 
State to implement Spanish-language 
ballots and voting assistance in Flori-
da counties by the 2020 general elec-
tion.
This order comes amid a lawsuit 
ﬁ  led against 32 Florida counties dur-
ing the November 2018 midterm elections. It focused on Puerto Rican 
voters who came to Florida after 
Hurricane Maria hit in September 
2017. 
The class-action lawsuit was ﬁ  led 
Aug. 16 against Ken Detzner, the 
Florida Secretary of State, and the 
Supervisor of Elections in 32 Florida 
counties who violated the Voting 
Rights Act of 1965. The act prohibits 
discriminatory voting practices. 
The lawsuit was ﬁ  led by voter 
Marta Valentina Rivera Madera, 70, 
and the following groups: Faith in 
Florida, Hispanic Federation, Mi Fa-milia Vota Education Fund, Unido-
sUS and Vamos4PR. 
“Florida has a signiﬁ  cant Spanish-
speaking population, and our state is 
home to many Puerto Ricans who 
moved here after the devastation of 
Hurricane Maria,” DeSantis said in 
a statement. “These fellow citizens 
should be able to fully participate in 
our democracy.”
In September 2018, Chief U.S. 
District Judge Mark Walker required 
counties to provide sample ballots in 
Spanish, but not actual ballots, citing 
a lack of time before the elections. Alachua County was one of 32 
counties that violated the Voting 
Rights Act in the November elec-
tions. The county and its Supervisor 
of Elections Kim A. Barton and were 
targeted in the lawsuit. 
Miranda Galindo, a counsel at 
Demos, a political advocacy group 
involved in the lawsuit, said the 
group is pleased about the steps De-
Santis took for 2020.
“Florida is at a big disadvantage 
not having those voices fully inte-
grated in the democratic process,” 
Galindo said. 
Manager of Mi Apá Latin Café, 
Paola Riza, 28, moved to Gainesville from Venezuela in 2014 and attend-
ed UF to learn English.
She has never voted before be-
cause she has to live in the U.S. for 
ﬁ  ve years to become a citizen. 
The Spanish speaker said when 
she is able to vote, having a ballot 
in her language would make her feel 
like she is a part of the country. 
“Everywhere I go, I listen to 
people and they speak Spanish and 
they’re from another country and 
they’re coming here to Gainesville,” 
Riza said. “It’s going to be good for 
us.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgGov. Ron DeSantis orders Spanish-language ballots for 2020
Alachua County is one of 32 counties in lawsuit
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·All Stories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez  |   Alligator Staff Writer
 kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org    |  Twitter: @katwf98  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
The following is a paid advertisementThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsMost of us can agree climate change is a problem, and 
the Earth is facing a crisis, but unfortunately, there 
are also a lot of people who don’t agree. Recently, 
you may have seen a little video called “Earth” by 
Lil Dicky which, as we’re writing this, has 26 million 
views in just four days. The video is a modern day “We Are the 
People,” with famous singers like Ariana Grande, Justin Bieber, 
Snoop Dogg and many more singing about saving the planet. 
The video features cute animated animals and bold colors, but 
the message behind it is serious: If we don’t start doing more 
for the environment now, climate change will become irrevers-
ible. We’d say things are getting pretty serious if an artist named 
Lil Dicky has become one of our greatest environmental propo-
nents. 
However, there is some good news for us to share. The num-
ber of people who don’t believe in climate change is shrink-
ing. There has been a 10 percent increase from 2015 to 2018 in 
the number of Americans who believe in climate change, up to 
73 percent, according to a study done by Yale University and 
George Mason University. The study also found more than six 
in 10 Americans now believe humans are the cause of climate 
change. These are all great statistics in terms of awareness, but 
how does it help the planet? 
Without action, knowledge means nothing. In another study 
done by The Associated Press only 28 percent of people would 
be in support of a $10 per month tax to help the environment. 
This shows us that people acknowledge the seriousness of cli-
mate change, but they don’t want to pay to fix it. And the reality 
is, there are people in the U.S. who can’t afford to give up $10 
because that will pay for their next meal. Climate change isn’t 
just a problem in the U.S. It’s everywhere, and it’s now, as Lil 
Dicky says. So the question is, who’s going to save the Earth? 
No, it’s not Lil Dicky, or rather, not just Lil Dicky. It’s every-
one who has the ability to. What Lil Dicky has done is brought 
climate change to the forefront, just in time for Earth Day. It’s 
taken this country far too long to come to a majority consensus 
that climate change is real and happening, and now we don’t 
have time to waste to reverse it. However, there are little things 
and there are big things we can do to help the planet. 
Currently, we are under a presidency that doesn’t believe 
in climate change, but we still live in a democracy. If you are 
active and vocal that you want more environmental changes 
in this country or in your county, you have representatives to 
call, and trust us, they want to keep their jobs. They have to 
listen to the majority, or they’re going to get voted out. So make 
your thoughts on environmental issues heard, and they have to 
implement those changes.
You can also make daily changes in your life we are sure 
you’ve already heard about, like reusable grocery bags, metal 
straws and reusable water bottles. And now, you can watch 
Lil Dicky’s music video, because the more money it makes, the 
more money will go toward environmental causes. 
Companies are also pledging to help the environment. Eco-
sia, a search engine, plants trees for people who use its plat-
form. Herbal Essence, a hair care brand, is now packaging some 
of its products in eco-friendly bottles. And other companies are 
being built on the concept of sustainability, like Reformation, 
a clothing brand made from recycled clothing. The idea of be-
ing environmentally friendly is “trendy” now, and companies 
know it’ll get them more sales. When you buy these sustain-
able products, you’re encouraging more companies to switch to 
more sustainable practices. 
If Lil Dicky has taught us anything, it’s that the battle to save 
our planet involves everyone and it starts now. Can Lil Dicky save 
the planet?
Rules: Ignore the wall to win the game. Ready? Begin.
You could’ve done this better. 
Why didn’t you think of this? Why 
didn’t you change that? 
You’re failing your staff. You’re 
failing the paper. You could be doing 
better. 
Why don’t you just do better? 
The questions riddle off like a checklist when 
I go to bed at 2 a.m. after giving the final approv-
al to send The Alligator to the printer. It doesn’t 
matter how good or bad the design, words and 
photos look. I keep telling myself to improve. I’m 
probably not even going to be satisfied with how this column 
turns out. 
Truth is, when you’ve been pushing yourself forward for 
six semesters at one college job — foregoing your friendships 
and even meals to meet deadlines — you may hit a wall. And 
I slammed into that f------ wall. 
My relationship with The Alligator has lasted longer than 
any of my real relationships, but it started like many of them: 
with me way too eager to begin and way too willing to sacri-
fice myself for it. 
Don’t get me wrong. The wall wasn’t always so close. I 
used to be able to see it, but it was a safe distance away. 
Statistically, I shouldn’t have been accepted into UF. I 
didn’t even have the ACT scores to get Bright Futures (sorry, 
again, mom and dad). The university put me into its first 
Pathway to Campus Enrollment or PaCE class, which basical-
ly meant I had to do my first year online. I stayed at home my 
freshman year, folding clothes part-time and clicking through 
gen-eds. It was a setback, I told myself. That’s fine. I’m going 
to make up for it, even if it means getting closer to the wall.
I had a simple goal once I got to Gainesville: join The Al-
ligator and work my way up to editor-in-chief. Ignore the wall 
as it approaches. 
It bewilders me when older generations ask why college 
students are so stressed. I’d say it’s from the productivity cul-
ture we’ve built up and imposed upon ourselves. Our lives 
aren’t about happiness. They’re about survival. They’re about 
being the best. If I’m not working every second of the day, stay-
ing up late and outperforming my colleagues, then 
I’d better pack my bags. I’m not going to make it, 
I tell myself.
When I was a staff writer, the editor-in-chief 
pulled me aside to tell me that others thought I was 
being arrogant because, well, I was. I thought I was 
winning. 
But this wasn’t a game. I didn’t need to beat 
the other writers in story counts or quality, but I 
thought I did. 
I love journalism and The Alligator more than 
anything, but it also tore me apart because I gave it my every-
thing. I didn’t take breaks. The wall kept coming closer. But I 
told myself I needed to get better internships every summer, 
better internships than everyone else. I was envious when 
others got an edge on me. 
I had to beat it. Get to the end game. Keep ignoring the 
wall. 
Overall, working at The Alligator has been one of the most 
rewarding experiences of my life. It’s defined my college era 
and most of my journalism education. So thank you to the 
editors and co-workers who have helped me. I know I wasn’t 
always the easiest to deal with, but you taught me better, 
anyway.
I’m definitely not the best editor-in-chief to ever lead this 
paper, even though I really wanted to be when I started as an 
overzealous staff writer. I can tell you that I’m not even the 
best reporter or editor in this newsroom. I’m finally realizing 
that’s OK. I’m doing my best, and that’s OK. I hope I still left 
my mark. 
What’s more valuable than winning is that I’ve learned 
how to face that wall. I can work toward my bigger picture 
without running myself into it full force. I can finally ac-
knowledge the wall. 
Here it is. The credits are rolling. 
Play again?
Paige Fry is a UF journalism senior. She was the Spring 
2019 Alligator editor-in-chief. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Paige Fry
editor@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
All my childhood, I 
wanted pinstraight 
hair. The hair that 
grows out of my head 
is the exact opposite, 
curly like the corkscrew you 
use to open a bottle of wine. 
It’s hard for me to remember 
one classmate growing up 
who had curly hair. There 
was no one to share the trials 
and tribulations of having a hair type that 
requires half a bottle of conditioner. In 
high school, I abused my curls via over-
shampooing, over-brushing and tugging 
on them to calm them down. It wasn’t 
until a few years ago that I realized my 
hair wasn’t the problem, but my brain — 
all thanks to the beauty and supportive 
nature of the curly hair community. 
Now, the curly hair revolution is 
among us. On social media platforms 
and YouTube exists an entire commu-
nity dedicated to curly-haired humans. 
Product reviews, daily hair routines and 
strange styling techniques all try to make 
a method to the madness that is our un-
predictable hair. 
The beauty of this community is the 
understanding nature that comes from 
the almost unanimous shared experience 
of having a “curly hair journey.” Most 
journeys start off the same with religious 
straightening or use of sulfate-ﬁ  lled 
shampoo (both sacrilegious practices in 
the curly community). Then, something 
switches and the transition begins: cue 
throwing out the straightener and a com-
plete switch-up in hair products. How-
ever, it’s not that simple; it takes time 
for the hair to get used to being mistreat-
ed for so long and then suddenly cared 
for properly. For some, results are seen 
overnight. For others, it takes years for 
the damage to be undone. Whichever 
the case, everyone’s curly hair journey 
is different because everyone’s curls are 
different. 
A few hair types include 2A, 3B and 
4C out of the nine curly hair types. With 
type 1 being straight, each of the three curly hair groups (wavy, 
curly and coily/kinky) has a 
subgroup denoted by a letter 
that describes the diameter of 
the curls. But not everyone 
ﬁ  ts perfectly into each sub-
group. My curl pattern ranges 
from 3A to 3B (even though 
the photo of me in the circle 
says otherwise, I was having 
a ﬂ  at hair day, forgive me). 
Those in the curly hair community use 
these curl patterns as a guide for whose 
advice to follow. Just as there are so 
many curl types, a curl guru exists for 
each one. 
It used to be that curly heads had to 
ﬁ  gure it out for themselves or use the 
wisdom passed down from curly-haired  
men and women before them. Basically, 
our Bible, Lorraine Massey’s “Curly Girl: 
The Handbook,” introduced the world to 
the secrets of healthy hair in 2001. Since 
then, an increase in curly hair pride, 
products and representation hopefully 
inspire the next generation of curly heads 
to experience an easier time dealing with 
their hair. 
Thanks to the online curly hair com-
munity, a limitless amount of informa-
tion is available to ﬁ  x any of our hair-re-
lated problems. Hopefully, girls and boys 
with curls know the things they need to 
take care of their intrinsically different 
hair (the curly hair holy trinity: condi-
tioner, diffuser and scrunching curls up 
and down).
I used to resent my curly hair. It made 
me stick out when all I wanted to do was 
ﬁ  t in. It may have taken years of combing 
my hair “in the dark,” but the ﬁ  nal stage 
in my curly hair journey is worth every 
trial and error. There’s nothing as satis-
fying as doing every meticulous step of 
my hair routine and the end product be-
ing hair that I’m proud of — even when 
all my life I tried to hide it. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism ju-
nior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.The curly hair revolution is happening Column
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org Moving on from high 
school can be one of the 
ﬁ  rst big changes some-
one experiences in life. 
No matter how many 
times you have pictured yourself 
away from home or visited your fu-
ture college, nothing beats actually 
being there and seeing it ﬁ  rsthand. 
Either way, a few tricks and tips 
can’t hurt. Here are a few things I 
wish I knew when I was ﬁ  rst mak-
ing my way to Gainesville.
First of all, pack your rain boots, baby 
Gators! You are headed straight to the swamp, 
and it’s muggy out here. They don’t call it 
Rainesville for no reason. If you are starting 
school this summer, expect to arrive damp to 
class, whether it be from the daily afternoon 
showers or unavoidable dripping sweat. Steer 
clear of sleeves if you’re not into the pit stain 
look. Bring an umbrella with you everywhere 
because it can go from sunny to rainy in a 
matter of minutes.
Now that you are ofﬁ  cially a part of the 
Gator Nation, you have permission to join 
one of the most elite college Facebook meme 
groups. Swampy UF memes for top ten public 
teens is one of my favorite ways to get news 
(and procrastinate). The memes on the page 
are speciﬁ  c to UF students, and they make you 
feel like you are a part of a community here. 
The memes help students bond over common 
campus experiences and, also, bring up con-
troversies in a comical way. The entire page 
is a great forum for discourse among UF stu-
dents, and I highly recommend everyone joins 
it.
Speaking of controversy, brace yourself for 
a lot of opinions to be thrown at you whenever 
you walk through campus. Turlington Hall's 
plaza area, one of UF's free speech areas, is 
ﬁ  lled with students promoting, publicizing 
and preaching on any given day. Most days 
are pretty calm, and dodging campaigners is 
as simple as walking quickly and avoiding eye 
contact. However, other days can get a little wilder. This year, I watched more 
than 100 students boycott Wen-
dy’s, I saw men with fake blood 
stains on their crotches yelling 
about circumcision and I tried not 
to look at gruesome posters of fe-
tuses put up by pro-life advocates. 
Regardless of whether you agree 
with whatever is being promoted, 
having free speech areas is one of 
the best parts of being on a univer-
sity campus. UF is a space that you 
can use to make a change on a larger scale.
You should also never be afraid to ask 
questions. Freshmen are really only bullied in 
the movies. Everyone remembers what it was 
like when they ﬁ  rst arrived and weren’t able 
to ﬁ  gure out where anything was. No need 
to struggle with Google Maps when someone 
could point you in the right direction. The best 
way to get involved is to ask someone with 
your similar interests about their involvement. 
Making friends and forming connections be-
comes a top priority.
Gainesville is an underrated place, and 
the most beautiful days come when you least 
expect them. The sunsets here paint the sky 
bright pink and orange. School gets stressful, 
and living in a college town can be vastly dif-
ferent than where you lived before. It is im-
portant to take in the breezy days with the 
clear skies when you can and to make a con-
scious effort to appreciate the Spanish moss 
that canopies above the campus. You made a 
great choice by deciding to join us over here in 
North Central Florida.
You can attempt to prepare yourself with 
advice from older students and can get all of 
the perfect dorm accessories from Bed Bath 
and Beyond, but this transition is one that has 
to be taken one day at a time. In no time, you 
will have your routine ﬁ  gured out, and you 
will know campus like the back of your hand. 
See you soon, UF Class of ‘23!
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sopho-
more. Her column appears on Wednesdays.A few last-minute notes for UF’s Class of 
2023 from the perspective of a UF studen tColumn
The idea of binging shows and the cul-
ture around streaming consumption 
has become harder to understand. 
They spread as more people come 
out to speak their hearts and minds in 
written, spoken or visually recorded means. 
Streaming platforms like Netﬂ  ix, YouTube 
Premium and Hulu, in addition to regu-
lar cable TV, are oversaturating the public. 
This new, vast generation of streaming sites 
makes it hard to ﬁ  nd those shows that bring 
us together. 
Everyone in our generation can remember 
the cult classics of television and the many 
series we enjoyed after school. You had the 
Nickelodeon kids, the Cartoon Network kids 
and the Disney kids. Everyone was a fan of 
“Toy Story,” or had at least seen it, and “Lilo 
and Stitch” still brings back waves of nostal-
gia. In today’s media climate, it’s more dif-
ﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd things that bring people closer 
together.You have the media titans of 
today, like HBO and Disney, com-
ing out with new series and com-
peting for coveted time slots and 
attention. That battle between 
Goliaths may be proﬁ  table for 
them, but for years I have found 
myself entrenched in YouTube for 
more hours than TV shows.
While companies may be suc-
ceeding and proﬁ  ting off of col-
lecting our time on their platforms, what do 
we get out of companies who try to cast such 
a wide net? Everyone might have a Netﬂ  ix ac-
count or somebody else’s they share. There 
is neutral ground on sharing passwords. 
There are many different platforms now for 
different shows and movies, which means 
there is a fracturing of attention. We don’t 
have another “Game of Thrones” to bring 
us all together after it is over because we no 
longer are all watching the same platforms and watching the same shows.
We could all say TV shows like 
“That 70’s Show” or “Friends” 
may have deﬁ  ned a generation, 
but what shows deﬁ  ne our gen-
eration is up in the air. “Queer 
Eye,” “Stranger Things,” “Game 
of Thrones” and “The Walking 
Dead” are shows that have cap-
tured our hearts and minds. Some 
people may be casual enjoyers of 
everything or die-hard fanatics of a single 
show to the beratement of all the others. We 
have started to merge our favorite shows 
with our identity, and that is both a wonder-
ful but scary thing.
If your favorite show is in its ﬁ  nal season, 
you may be feeling a lot of emotions. There 
may be some euphoria of knowing your fa-
vorite character’s arc is coming to an end. 
You may be heartbroken to not have viewing 
parties every Sunday night with your friends or bittersweet you will now have to ﬁ  nd 
something new to attach yourself to. In the 
end, it’s hard letting go of a show that has 
become a conversation starter or an actual 
personality trait. As these era-deﬁ  ning shows 
come to an end, it’ll be harder to ﬁ  nd con-
nections with people. Our streaming sphere 
is so vast, making our interests more varied 
and less narrow. We no longer all care about 
the same shows and movies because our at-
tention is divided on different platforms. As 
Netﬂ  ix and Hulu continue to grow and pro-
duce new shows every week, our interests 
will continue to splinter. Or maybe YouTube 
is the only thing grabbing your attention 
anymore. Regardless, as streaming services 
grow, we are losing the connections we pre-
viously had. 
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism soph-
omore. His column normally appears on 
Fridays.As streaming websites grow, we continue to grow further apartColumn
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Arts and Mental Health
Read about how students can use art to cope, pg. 10Sex in the Samp: Camgirls
Find out about the new ﬁ  eld in the sex work industry, pg. 9SIX HOURS OF MUSIC YOU 
CAN’T MISS
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
Swamp Records will hold its an-
nual showcase featuring local and 
out-of-state artists on Thursday.
The night will be headlined by 
Hardcastle and Jet Black Alley Cat. 
They will be preceded by popular 
local artists, including ﬂ  ipturn, The 
Forum, Glass House Point, Run-
ner’s High and Laney. The show will run from 6 p.m. until 12 a.m. 
at Heartwood Soundstage.
“We are really proud of this 
lineup that it is curated for a more 
speciﬁ  c genre,” said Matt Fowler, 
president of Swamp Records and 
22-year-old UF economics and 
English senior. 
Before Joe Wilkinson knew he 
would be in a band, he often sang 
in the shower. 
The 27-year old singer of the 
ﬁ  ve-member pop rock band Jet 
Black Alley Cat admired *NSYNC 
as a kid - so much so that Wilkin-
son would perm his hair like Justin Timberlake. In his senior year of 
high school, he discovered punk 
rock — which he said was his gate-
way to truly loving and appreciat-
ing music. While attending Middle 
Tennessee State University, he met 
the friends who would become his 
bandmates. They quit school in 
2012, moved to Nashville and pro-
duced their ﬁ  rst song, “Poison.”
One of Jet Black’s songs in-
cludes “Miami Baby,” which is in-
spired by the party culture and ﬂ  at 
neon walls that Wilkinson and his 
band experienced while on tour a 
couple of times in the city.Tanner Ropp, a 20-year-old UF 
computer science sophomore, is a 
bassist for the band Driveaway. 
He started the four-person band 
in 2016 with his brother Trenton 
Ropp, the lead singer and guitar-
ist. They have shifted genres over 
time, from rock and blues to dance 
rock and indie pop. Driveaway re-
cently released a new single, “Sit-
com,” on Spotify.
“We’re looking forward to new 
experiences and to be more in-
grained in the indie community,” 
said Tanner Ropp.
Driveaway’s songs are about 
love, transitions and experiences 
that are often hidden. “Northside” 
is an example of this, as it deals with mental health and being in a 
positive headspace.
A lot of the songs they write 
about champion self-love and tak-
ing care of yourself and others, 
Tanner Ropp said.
Food trucks and vendors will be 
at the event, including Soul Spice, 
Dank Cakes, Chick-ﬁ  l-A and Lar-
ry’s Giant Subs.
“I hope people look forward 
to seeing the bands they already 
know, but more than that, to dis-
cover new artists,” said Fowler.
Tickets are $10.50 in advance at 
the Heartwood Soundstage website 
and at the door.
@sarahan921
shan@alligator.orgSixth Annual Swamp Records Showcase at Heartwood Thursday
MUSIC
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Madeline Jarman plays bass for popular local band, ﬂ  ipturn, 
which will embark on a tour of the Northeast this summer.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Trenton Ropp, the lead singer and guitarist, sings the chorus 
of “Sitcom, ” Driveaway’s new single.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
T anner Ropp plays bass for 
Driveaway at High Dive.
By Rosemary Izaguirre
Avenue Contributing Writer
Lisa Pinero opens Tinder and looks 
through the proﬁ  les on her screen. After swip-
ing through a few, she bores of the task. She 
closes the app, feeling her time was wasted.
Pinero is not the only Tinder user who has 
experienced this feeling.
In 2017, Charles Jekel noticed that it takes 
a lot of time for the average user to review 
Tinder proﬁ  les. Unless someone upgrades to 
Tinder Gold, he or she may swipe dozens of 
proﬁ  les before ﬁ  nding a match.
Jekel, a UF mechanical engineering doc-
toral student, decided to build a model to 
make a Tinder user’s experience faster. He 
presented his idea to the supervisor of his research group, Raphael T. Haftka. Haftka 
oversees Jekel’s structural optimization 
group which focuses on ﬁ  nding material 
model parameters.
“He really enjoyed the concept of ﬁ  tting a 
model to assist my online dating experience,” 
said Jekel. “He gave me a few points I should 
consider,” Haftka said.
By the end of that year, Jekel released Tin-
detheus, a model that detects patterns in a 
Tinder user’s preferences through facial rec-
ognition and can like or dislike proﬁ  les for 
the user. Jekel presented the model to his re-
search group and they received it well.
Jekel reviewed 8,545 proﬁ  les — which 
equates to about 85 hours of swiping — to 
train his model. He initially aimed to review 
10,000 proﬁ  les, but a new addition changed his plans: Jekel met his girlfriend.
The couple met on Tinder about three 
weeks after Jekel began collecting data for his 
model. Jekel said he had to keep swiping be-
cause he was determined to ﬁ  nish his model.
 “I told her about the project maybe a 
month into dating, and she got a big laugh 
out of it,” Jekel said.
Jekel said that a person interested in using 
the model could train the program by review-
ing 20 proﬁ  les. The only requirement is that 
the person gives the model samples of both 
likes and dislikes.
Even though Jekel’s model would make 
browsing Tinder faster, Pinero, a 21-year-old 
UF biology junior, said she would not want to 
use a program that does the swiping for her.
 “I just feel that a program can learn what I prefer, but ultimately, it can’t determine 
whether I’m going to like a person enough 
to establish a connection with them,” Pinero 
said.
Jekel said the Github page for the model 
has received around 300 downloads. Some 
have used it, but most people are just inter-
ested in how it works.
“My cousin has used it,” Jekel said. “I 
think every time he gets on Tinder, he realiz-
es that he doesn’t have time for a girlfriend.”
Jekel said there’s room for improvement 
in his work, including the prediction accu-
racy. 
He is uninterested in commercial develop-
ment for the model but can see potential for 
apps.Less swipes, less problems: UF student makes Tinder easy WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
BOOK SALE
APRIL 27 –– MAY 1, 2019
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, 
DVDS, VINYL RECORDS 
COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!CASH OR CHECKS ONLY
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
 Download the FREE   
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
‘We’re selling a service’: It’s more than sex
SEX 
CAMGIRLS: VLOGGING, 
BUT SEXY
By Jackie De Freitas
Avenue Staff Writer 
“There’s this great misconcep-
tion that when you are a sex work-
er that you’re selling your body,” 
A.G. said. “Selling a body is human 
trafﬁ  cking, and that’s slavery. Sex 
workers aren’t enslaved. We’re 
selling a service.” 
The service A.G. sells is a dance, 
an experience, a fantasy. She is cur-
rently an 18-year-old college stu-
dent in Florida, but will drop out 
soon to pursue her dream of being 
a rapper in New York City. She is 
able to do so because of the income 
she gains from being a camgirl.
By the end of the year, A.G. ex-
pects to have at least 100,000 sub-
scribers and to make six ﬁ  gures.
Omegle, Chatroulette and AOL 
all walked so that camgirls could 
run. 
Using livestream and chat sec-tions, webcam models - known 
sometimes as cammodel, camgirl 
or camboy - sell a sexual fantasy 
that other adults can watch via the 
internet.
Viewers not only watch cam-
models perform sexual acts, but 
also get involved through the chat 
section, which the cammodel can 
read in real time. Leaving com-
ments in praise or a special request 
provides an element of personal 
connection between the audience 
and the performer - an essential as-
pect of the practice’s success. 
A.G. has cammed since August. 
She said her viewers are not just 
spectators, but her fans. They cheer 
her on and provide support. They 
are extremely protective of her if 
any trolls make their way to her 
stream. 
A.G.’s initials are used instead 
of her full name because cammod-
els usually do not use their real 
names to protect themselves from 
potential harassment, stalking and physical harm.
Inspired by the Netﬂ  ix movie 
“Hot Girls Wanted,” A.G. antici-
pated the practice could be a valu-
able source of income and help her 
achieve her goal of moving to New 
York City. With 13,000 subscribers, 
she has managed to earn $5,000 in 
the past three months alone.
When she ﬁ  rst started, she was 
exhausted from the amount of 
viewers she had. 
“It was very overwhelming to 
receive a bunch of notiﬁ  cations 
on social media and a bunch of re-
quests to talk to me,” she said. 
She had to deal with not only 
the the masses of viewers and the 
surge of people trying to initiate 
one-on-one conversation with her, 
but also the judgement from those 
around her. 
She said she refused to let it stop 
her independence though, because 
her ﬁ  nances are more important 
than the bias she faces that stems 
from the misconceptions still cloud-ing sex work.
In her experi-
ence, camming 
has changed in 
the nine months 
since her start. 
At ﬁ  rst, her setup included a tip 
menu where viewers could request 
a service. For example, a listed op-
tion might be“ ﬂ  ash this for 60 to-
kens.” But now, her shows, as she 
describes them, are sensual and 
erotic, but she is never naked. 
“You are your own boss,” A.G. 
said. “You never have to do some-
thing that you’re uncomfortable 
with.” 
By the end of her ﬁ  rst session, 
she was uncomfortable because 
she had not yet realized this. How-
ever, by the next day, she realized 
there will always be viewers for 
what she provides.
Her viewers prefer camgirls who 
are unshaven. If she were to shave, 
A.G. said she would lose a lot of 
viewership. But it’s more than that. A.G. 
said she shares inside jokes and 
gets emotional and ﬁ  nancial sup-
port from her viewers. 
“I’ve never seen support like 
that in my life,” A.G. said. “You 
can go on, and they’re just happy 
you’re on.”
There’s a notion that camming 
is inherently vulgar or gross, but 
many times A.G. ﬁ  nds herself 
just casually vlogging for a couple 
hours to talk about her day.
She sees camming as a stepping 
stone, which allows her to pursue 
her music career. Eventually, she 
wants to invest in real estate and 
stop camming. 
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.com
MERRY MURDERESSES WILL 
SOON TAKEOVER THE STAGE
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Buchholz High School students will be stars 
as they bring “All That Jazz” to the stage with 
the high school edition of “Chicago” for the 
next two weekends. 
The performance dates are April 25-28 and 
May 2-5 It will start at 8 p.m. on Thursdays, 
Fridays and Saturdays at 7 p.m., and Sundays 
at 2 p.m.
Ticket prices for the show are $12 for gener-
al admission and $10 for students and seniors. 
The high school version is based on the play 
written in 1926 by Maurine Dallas Watkins.
Robin Lamerson, Buchholz players booster president, said the version has only been re-
leased for one year and is void of the most 
mature songs and some of the adult language 
from the original. 
“Chicago” tells the story of Roxie Hart, who 
ﬁ  nds herself on murderer’s row in the Cook 
County Jail after shooting her lover. Her attor-
ney takes her case and manipulates the press 
to make her a star.  
Mariah Banis, co-director, said the ensem-
ble has practiced “All That Jazz” the most. 
However, the most exciting number to Ba-
nis is “Hot Honey Rag,” which she said high-
lights the dance ability of the leads Miranda 
Campos (Roxie Hart) and Madeline Buckholz, 
who splits the role of Velma Kelly with Cam-
eron Varvel.
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.org‘Chicago’ at Buchholz High School
THEATER
NOW YOU CAN STAY 
DOWNTOWN ALL NIGHT
By Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
The Space UltraLounge had its grand re-
opening last Saturday at their new location, 
211 W. University Ave. 
The lounge has new business hours: 
Wednesday and Thursday from 10 p.m. to 4 
a.m. and Friday and Saturday from 10 p.m. 
to 6 a.m. The manager, Nick Jason, said they 
decided to stay open later so people can have 
a place to get sober before driving home.
“I wanted to create something for 
Gainesville and like-minded people to have a 
more relaxed atmosphere to go to and safely 
sober up,” Jason said.
“I’ve always liked their prices compared 
to other hookah lounges,” said Emily Reyn-olds, a 19-year-old Santa Fe family youth and 
community freshman. 
Reynolds said she has been going to the 
lounge since they ﬁ  rst opened and was ex-
cited about the new location.
“This club has the sweetest owner who 
walks around personally checking on every-
one making sure they’re doing good, and it’s 
awesome to see a personal touch,” she said.
The venue offers CBD edibles and smok-
able CBD products. The long-term goal for 
the lounge is for it to be the ﬁ  rst legal recre-
ational marijuana lounge, said Jason.
“As of right now, we are a smoking lounge 
that allows people who legally have either 
medical marijuana or CBD products and can 
safely smoke them within our lounge,” said 
Jason.
@AlexCamargo95
acamargo@alligator.orgSpace UltraLounge relocates
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern 
portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  Come try our 
new specials! Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this add and get 10% off 
your order!BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on 
premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, 
ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english muffin or 
bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order will be 
ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open Late
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
HOW ART CAN HELP 
STUDENTS COPE 
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
At 3 a.m. in Library West, stu-
dents sip their last drops of Starbucks 
and tremble in fear of failing exams 
and not living up to expectations. 
College students struggle with 
severe stress and anxiety. The spec-
trum for mental health is broader 
than most people realize said Jef-
frey Pufahl, Arts in Medicine faculty 
member.
The UF Center for Arts in Medi-
cine assists students by teaching 
them to use the arts to cope with 
stress and mental health issues. 
“It is everything from stress and 
anxiety to depression, and it’s impor-
tant that we as a community recog-
nize that,” Pufahl said. 
Pufahl leads programs and 
groups that use improv to help with 
stress relief, which has been proven to cause shifts, he said. 
Every day, pre-med students grit 
their teeth and “pull through” organ-
ic chemistry. Engineering students 
struggle to pass physics. Students 
across campus lose sleep and sanity 
to scrape by in their academics.
 The college takes care in encour-
aging non-arts students to retain 
their creative side, said Camilo Mu-
noz, the marketing and admissions 
coordinator for Arts in Medicine.
Faculty prioritized visting student 
classrooms to discuss the arts Mu-
noz said. 
“They’ll talk to medical students 
and encourage them not to lose 
their humanity, to not give up their 
creative spirit because a lot of med 
students get bogged down with their 
classes,” he said. 
Art is something that distinguish-
es humans from other animal spe-
cies because it involves emotion and 
psychology, Munoz said.  
“The arts are the way that we 
make meaning,” Munoz said. 
“When we make something special out of our surroundings, we are able 
to take what we can’t put into words 
and express it through art.”
The mission of the Center for Arts 
in Medicine is to make art accessible 
to all students and staff members 
at UF to beneﬁ  t from mentally and 
physically.   
“You can ﬁ  nd what speaks to 
you,” Munoz said. “It could be just 
having a bucket of paint and a gi-
ant tarp that students can just splash 
paint on.” 
One of the most positive impacts 
the arts have on mental health is the 
creation of community. 
According to Munoz, any art 
form can be tactile, and the social 
nature of the arts helps with devel-
oping stronger connections.
Pufahl said he works with the 
Center for Arts in Medicine to open 
up a theater program within the 
healthcare context. 
We have the most success work-
ing with people who have Obses-
sive-Compulsive Disorder and anxi-ety disorder Pufahl said. 
“We’ve been using theatrical sto-
rytelling with that group as a means 
to create community,” he said. “Peo-
ple come together and ﬁ  nd that com-
munity they didn’t have before.” 
According to Pufahl, the groups 
examine skills in improvisation and 
storytelling in order to explore more 
emotional realms and connect with 
humanity sources.  
Pufahl said social structures are 
formed and resilience is formed as 
a result.
Leah Vicencio, a 19-year-old UF 
theater sophomore, and Stephen 
Peters, a 21-year-old UF musical 
theater junior, recently developed a 
strong community while directing 
the Florida Players’ production of 
“Columbinus,” a documentary-style 
play depicting the Columbine school 
shooting. 
“I wanted to check in with the 
actors at the end of each week,” Pe-
ters said. “We were trying to keep 
things upbeat and funny since we were handling serious material and 
tell it as honestly and effectively as 
possible.”  
Vicencio said it was essential 
they all take time to process the seri-
ous material they were dealing with 
and supported each other when pre-
sented with delicate mental health 
situations in the play.  
Whether it be through theater, vi-
sual arts, ﬁ  lm or music, the arts are 
ever present throughout the UF com-
munity, and students have access to 
creative outlets all over campus in 
order to cope with any situation.  
“Coping is being able to have 
help from someone or something 
when you need it,” Munoz said. 
“The arts can help even in small 
ways. If you can’t call someone, pick 
up a pencil and draw. It will help, 
even if it is just a little bit.” 
@emmamcavoy1   
emcavoy@alligator.org Art impacts mental health  
ARTWEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND4 LARGE BR / 1 BA, 1 BLK TO UF Campus 
Credit Union, School of Ed, Steps to bus. 
$410 / room or $1640 / mo. Patio, wood, car-
pet throughout. Kitchen & bath renovated. 
Pvt parking avail. Call or text 352-222-4141    
5-21-19-5-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals will bring you ‘round!1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1500/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100      4-24-19-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Night Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time night shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
jbourne@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMPWant to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion Show? We need creatives to build and play this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.     4-24-18-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    4-24-17-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
●LOCAL
●TARGETED
●EFFECTIVE
●ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light bulb for three hours!Don't forget to tell them:
"I found YOU in The Alligator!"
Lonely Blues got you down? Not a single friend in town? Your telephone won’t make a sound?The Personals will bring you ‘round!UFSRC Hiring NOW!720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in-centive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
★HIRING FOR JANITORIAL CLEANERS ★.
The positions: FT & PT include both heavy& light cleaning at a commercial business.MUST have transportation. APPLY NOW!!Call 352-258-1357                 4-24-19-6-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '19
Notetakers
Editors
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-16-19-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week
-
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-19-24-15
Time to sell your Fidget Spinner? Your Zune? 
Looking to buy one? Check out the For Sale section for great results. 
1. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which U.S.
president w
as a former union leader?
2. MUSIC: In what year was the
Beatles’
 song “Yesterday” released?
3.LITERATURE: Who wrote the
novel “Doctor Zhivago”?
4. HISTORY: Who was Britain’s first 
prime minister?
5. GAMES: In the g
ame of Monop-
oly, what happens if you roll doubles 
three times in a row?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE:
What is the Dewey Decimal System used for?
7. MOVIES: What is the name of the 
teapot character in “Beauty and the Beast”?
8.
U.S. STATES: Which state is the
only one that has a Spanish motto?
9. GEOGRAPHY
: What is the capi-
tal of Nicaragua?
10. PSYCHOLOGY : What fear is
represented by the condition called chromophobia?
Answers
1. Ronald Reag
an, who was presi-
dent of the Screen Actors Guild
2. 19653. Boris Pasternak4. Sir Robert Walpole5. You go to jail.6. To classify library books7. Mrs. Potts
8. Montana (“Oro y plata” or “gold
and silv
er”)
9. Managua10. Fear of colors
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 22, 2019King Features Weekly Service
Solution on pg. 13
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 ConnectionsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019   ALLIGATOR   1 3 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read the Alligator instead!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
●LOCAL
●TARGETED
●EFFECTIVE
●ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
Another Wednesday night without a date? 
Read The Alligator.
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Time to sell your Glow Worm? Your Garbage Pail Kids? Looking to buy one? Check out the For Sale section for great results. Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Hey lazy bones... recycle this newspaper 
when you’re done reading it! Thanks.
1.Bank, often
1.Touched down5.Sounds
2.Not either one6.Stockpile
3.Face feature7.Type of flower
4.RequiredDREELN
LDDEANSNOEI
RAHDO
RENTHEI
SYELEHAHDORCI
EDNEDEANSWERS: 1A-Lender  5A-Noise  6A-Hoard  7A-Orchid
1D-Landed  2D-Neither  3D-Eyelash  4D-Needed  B-Ted Danson4-24-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
BONUSCLUE: This actor co-wrote the book “Oceana: 
Our Endangered Oceans and What 
We Can Do to Save Them.”
By Ed Sessa©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 04/24/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/24/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, April 24, 2019
ACROSS
1 Keepsake 
containers
7 Biological pouch
10 “I’m up for it!”
14 Change in a big 
way
15 Santa __ winds16 Singer Adams17 World’s largest 
peninsula
18 Antagonist in 
many le Carré novels
20 Nemesis21 Teeny-tiny 
fraction
23 “Better Call Saul” 
actress Seehorn
25 Wrigglers sought 
by snigglers
26 Demean29 Floating ice 
hazard
31 Hearing things?35 Leader of a flock: 
Abbr.
36 Remote 
precursor
38 Hooch40 Sport-__41 Oatmeal-crusted 
treat
43 12 meses44 Uproarious 
confusion
46 Places to shoot 
hoops
47 Big kahuna48 Jai __49 Places, as a bet51 Signs of the 
future
53 Those opposing 
us
55 Counting-out 
word
57 Seven-sided61 Saintly glow65 “Madame 
Bovary” subject
66 Competitive 
edge, as illustrated in the answers to starred clues from left to right
68 Steady look69 Bridal bio word70 Excitedly 
unwrapped
71 Layer over some 
cities
72 Mar.-to-Nov. hrs.73 Genesis followerDOWN
1 __ bisque
2 Mount Olympus 
queen
3 McGregor of 
“Christopher Robin”
4 Sleeps it off, with 
“up”
5 Prefix with atomic6 Circle the rink7 H.H. Munro’s 
pseudonym
8 One opening a 
can of worms?
9 *Telegraphed 
message
10 *346-piece Big 
Ben, e.g.
11 Paradise12 Salon treatment13 Meyers of “Late 
Night”
19 Have a bug22 Moroccan capital24 Gossip columnist 
Hopper
26 Dutch-speaking 
Caribbean island
27 Asian palm nut28 “Plant-powered” 
hair care brand
30 *Gray wrote 
one in a country churchyard32 Tequila source
33 Scrap34 Puts an end to37 *Post-
apocalyptic Will Smith film
39 Welles who 
played Kane
42 What “two” 
meant to Paul Revere
45 *What makes 
Guy a guy?
50 Ovid collection52 “You saved me!”54 Tipped top56 Make very  
happy
57 Fairy tale crones58 Paraffin-coated 
cheese
59 “The Godfather” 
novelist
60 Nureyev’s no62 On in years63 Tropical party64 Chooses67 Bagel topper
By Robert Fisher©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 04/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Barcelona buddy
6 Scattered, as
seeds
10 Rifle filler14 Hopeless case15 Fast-food legend
Ray
16 Enjoy a comic
book, say
17 Small plucked
instrument
19 Fall back (on)20 “__ Been
Awhile”: Staindsong
21 Columnist
Landers
22 Israeli president,
2007-2014
23 Blackjack card24 New York region,
or its narrowbodies of water
27 Petit or grand
crime
29 Docking fee30 Hog’s nose31 Objective32 Fisher-Price
product
33 Tropical tree leaf38 Busy IRS month41 Not at home42 China’s Zhou __46 Doesn’t miss a
thing
49 Forbes 
publisher Forbes
51 Fluttering pitch53 Dainty taste54 Gelatin dish55 Slugging legend
Mel
56 Canonized Fr.
female
57 Slimming surg.58 Popular necktie
knot ... and a hintto the starts of17-, 24-, 33- and51-Across
62 Cookie cooker63 Big on64 Vital heart line65 “Bill & __
ExcellentAdventure”
66 Cap’n’s 
underling
67 Wyoming’s __
RangeDOWN
1 Ten-percenter:
Abbr.
2 Native American
in a Cooper title
3 Not yet born
4 Precious stones5 Mars or Venus6 Like teenagers
in the comic strip“Zits”
7 Chimp kin8 Was victorious9 Sgt. or cpl.
10 Unpaid debt11 Kalahari
mongoose
12 Source of
machismo,perhaps
13 Epic journey18 Tylenol target22 Gaza Strip gp.23 Capp and
Capone
24 Greek cheese25 Mideast ruler26 NFL analyst
Tony
28 Trophy shape31 Toward the tiller34 Hang around35 Grand Canyon
animal36 “Little” Dickens
girl
37 Org. hacked at its
Watergate offices
38 Require much (of)
39 Lost in thought40 Signed on for
another tour
43 Skill rarely
practiced now
44 Not aligned with45 Little rascal47 Descendants48 “Best in Show”
org.
49 __ of honor50 High: Pref.52 Boxing matches56 Horse’s footwear58 Innocuous
falsehood
59 Musician Yoko60 __ King Cole61 “The Da Vinci
Code” authorBrown
20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
SIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Utility player Amanda Lorenz 
and the Gators softball team fell 
from sixth to seventh in the NFCA 
Coaches Poll after being swept by 
Alabama last weekend. Florida heads to St. Simons Island searching for SEC title
The UF men's golf team looks to win the SEC after semiﬁ  nal eliminations in 
back-to-back seasons. Read the story on pg. 16.BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Not many Florida fans were 
around to see Austin Langworthy 
take the mound in the top of the 
ninth inning.
Those who did saw the game’s 
would-be hero allow three earned 
runs in the ﬁ  nal inning, which his 
team entered with a two-run lead.
The offensive slugfest between 
the Gators and Florida Atlantic  
dragged on for nearly four hours, 
but a four-run ninth inning by the 
Owls powered them to win a game 
that Florida led most of the way.
The Gators’ six-game winning 
streak in midweek games came to 
an end with a 13-11 loss to FAU on 
Tuesday night in Gainesville.
“The little things are getting us,” 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “All 
we can do is continue to work and 
get better. I know it sounds cliché, 
but at the end of the day we have to 
ﬁ  gure it out.”
Langworthy shouldered much 
of the offensive load for the Gators. 
He ﬁ  nished a double shy of the 
cycle and had a career-high six 
RBIs, in part due to a grand slam he 
smashed in the second inning.“(He’s) swinging the bat great, 
swinging the bat like we hoped he 
had swung it this year,” O’Sullivan 
said of Langworthy.
But he couldn’t close on the 
mound.
He was moved back to left ﬁ  eld 
after allowing a game-tying RBI 
triple to FAU’s third baseman Joe 
Montes. Nick Pogue — the seventh 
pitcher of the game for UF — re-
lieved Langworthy and allowed the 
go-ahead run when FAU catcher 
Pedro Pages hit a two-run single to 
left ﬁ  eld.
Langworthy led off in the ninth 
with a walk, but Florida failed to 
muster a hit and ultimately left him 
on base.
Langworthy’s second-inning 
grand slam put the Gators up 5-1, 
but Florida nearly blew the lead in 
the fourth inning off miscues.
First, the Owls (28-12) scored on 
a David Luethje balk, then a wild 
pitch and then a passed ball. When 
the inning ended, UF held just a 5-4 
lead.
The Gators (26-17) countered 
with a two-run home run by right 
ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton in the bottom of FAU’s ninth-inning comeback ends UF’s midweek win streak
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Designated hitter Nelson Maldonado hit 3 for 5 in the Gators' loss to FAU. He is batting .338 on the 
year. That mark is third best on the team among players with at least 50 at bats.
Jake’s on a Plane / Goodbye Column The Lost City of Alanis / Goodbye Column
How do you say goodbye 
to something that has 
meant so much to you?
That’s the question 
that has haunted me for 
the past week as my term as sports 
editor of the Independent Florida 
Alligator comes to an end. I’m not 
sure how to say goodbye. I don’t 
think there’s a perfect way to do 
it. You just wake up one day and 
remember that it’s time to move 
on. That’s it.
So how do you say goodbye? Do you write 
a column like I am doing now? Do you let ev-
eryone know how much they mean to you?
I just don’t know. I’m going to do all that 
anyway, but it just feels...weird. Incomplete. 
I’ve seen eight sports editors come and go 
over my time here, and every time, I question 
how they do it. How do they say goodbye to 
the place they put so much time and effort 
into?
I don’t know what they did, but I’m going to try it the only way I can. Write 
down the words as quickly as 
possible because I waited until 
the last minute like I always do.
Huge shift in the tone of the 
piece, I know, but bare with me.
If I continue writing like I’m 
about to die without being at the 
Alligator, I’ll be doing myself 
and everyone who reads this a 
huge disservice. Don’t get me 
wrong, I’m sad to go. I’m going 
to miss this place and the people who make it 
great a ton, but it would be insulting to imply 
this place didn’t prepare me for the real world. 
I won’t be corny like certain editors of the 
past and say, “I didn’t go to college at Florida, 
I went to college at the Alligator.”
I’m not going to tattoo the Alligator ‘a’ logo 
on my arm.
I’m not going to call out other journalists 
for having “no talent.”
I’m not going to preach about how you “Maybe this isn’t 
for me.” 
I’d hear the 
phrase in ev-
ery one of my 
sports journalism classes.
I listened to industry pro-
fessionals talk over the crappy 
video chats in lecture, and I’d 
think, “Can I do that? Am I 
good enough to get to where she is?”
Flipping through the pages of my AP 
Stylebook (2017 edition), my mind would 
wander. “Is this worth it? What if I don’t 
make it in the sports industry?”
Burdened with doubtful thoughts, I 
searched for something -- anything -- to con-
ﬁ  rm my waning belief that journalism was 
where I was supposed to be.
Enter the alligatorSports section.
I don’t remember who told me to check 
out the Alligator open house at the begin-
ning of the Spring 2018 semester. But I found 
myself peeking inside the small Weimer Hall 
basement space to ask about the contribut-
ing list.I didn’t even know there were 
applications for the sports sec-
tion, but it couldn’t hurt to ask.
“Oh, sports is its own thing,” I 
remember then-Freelance Editor 
Paige Fry telling me as the two 
sports editors at the time peered 
inside.
One stood rigidly upright with 
black hair curling slightly above 
his face. "I’m Dylan Dixon," he said, the 
sports editor.
The other editor stood behind him, 
slouching slightly, and a Simba-like mane 
framed his face. Jake Dreilinger. The assis-
tant sports editor.
The application process was easy 
enough. I wrote a trial essay that still makes 
me shudder with embarrassment when 
I read it. For some reason, though, it was 
good enough to earn a job as the track and 
ﬁ  eld beat writer.
“Wait, what if I’m not a good beat writ-
er? What if I can’t handle the workload?” 
There were those doubts again.Goodbyes can be difficult to do, 
so how do you do them?Stop thinking. It's overrated.
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJakeAlanis Thames
twitter: @alanisthames
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE ALANIS,  PAGE 16 SEE JAKE,  PAGE  16WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15
FEATURE
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Baseball is a game of failure. 
Austin Langworthy says it all 
the time, and he knows it all too 
well.
It’s a phrase apt to come out 
of the mouth of a player who 
has fallen short of expectations 
on a team that has done the 
same in 2019.
Langworthy, a junior left ﬁ  elder on the Florida 
baseball team, came into the season with the high-
est returning batting average of any starter (.290). 
He also had extensive experience, having played 
in two College World Series in as many years, and 
was an integral part of the Gators’ ﬁ  rst national 
championship in 2017.
However, his early season failures at the plate 
caused him to steadily drop in the batting order 
until he was temporarily removed from the lineup 
on March 22 against Vanderbilt.
He began the season in the leadoff spot but 
quickly played himself out. Langworthy went 0 for 
5 in Florida’s season opener against Long Beach 
State and ﬁ  nished the weekend 1 for 11 with four 
strikeouts.
Sophomore shortstop Brady McConnell re-
placed Langworthy in the leadoff spot seven games 
into the season. At the time, McConnell was hitting 
better than double Langworthy’s then- .130 batting 
average.
That began Langworthy’s descent down the or-
der. He hit second for a few weeks and eventually 
hit as low as eighth.
He was benched for the second game of the 
Vanderbilt series following an 0 for 3 performance 
in the ﬁ  rst game.
“I think it was because I was struggling of-
fensively, and at that point I was feeling so bad it 
wasn’t the worst thing to do, you know, give me 
a day off and a chance to clear my head,” Lang-
worthy said.
Being left out of the order sparked a second-half turnaround at the plate.
He returned to the batting order for the series 
ﬁ  nale — which capped off an embarrassing road 
sweep for the Gators — but when he saw he could 
be replaced both in the batting order and on the 
ﬁ  eld, he quickly turned it around.
“Once you get taken out of the lineup, that’s 
kind of like, ‘Okay, my spot in the lineup is not 
so safe, I’ve got to really ﬁ  gure this out and turn it 
around,’” Langworthy said.
He responded with a ﬁ  ve-game hitting streak, 
going 9 for 20 in that stretch and bringing his aver-
age up .047 points.
Since the Vanderbilt series, he has 26 hits and 
eight strikeouts, as opposed to his 17 hits and 18 
strikeouts before. 
He also reclaimed his spot in the two hole, just 
behind McConnell. He even led off against Florida 
Atlantic on Tuesday with McConnell out of the 
lineup. 
Following a 6-for-12 weekend against LSU in 
which he hit his ﬁ  fth home run of the season, he 
brought his average up to a season-high .265.
A three-hit outing against FAU brought it up 
even further to .277. He hit his ﬁ  rst career grand 
slam and had a career-high six RBIs.
“Coming into the season, I expected to hit well 
over .300,” Langworthy said.
A dismal start to the season has prevented him 
from reaching that mark so far. However, in his 
past 16 games, he is hitting an astounding .406, 
as opposed to his sub-.200 early season averages 
which he called “atrocious.”
“Nothing’s really changed for me. The work 
ethic hasn’t changed. I haven’t done anything to 
my swing or anything,” Langworthy said. “A lot of 
it early on was a lot of bad luck, you know, when 
I did hit the ball well it was right at somebody.”
Those early bouts with failure ultimately led to 
success later on.
“As of late, everything has just been kind of 
clicking for me.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgTurning the corner: Langworthy learns from his struggles
Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF left ﬁ  elder Austin Langworthy is hitting .406 with three home runs in his 
last 16 games after beginning the season with a sub- .200 average. 
Langworthy
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
“need to make the most of your college ex-
perience.”
I’m not going to tell you to never follow 
the plan you had going into college.
But I will tell you this. Find what you 
love to do and go with it. When it comes 
time for you to leave and you struggle to 
come to terms with that, you made the 
right choice. 
If you are confident you are leaving making this place the best it can be, you’ve 
done your job. I believe the sports section 
will be better once I am gone, so I am ready 
to move on.
So how do you say goodbye to some-
thing that has meant so much to you?
The answer is you don’t say it. You 
show it. 
Jake Dreilinger was the sports editor of 
The Alligator. Following him on Twitter @
DreilingerJake.JAKE,  from pg 14"How do you say goodbye to 
something that has meant so much?"GOLF
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s golf team has come 
within a match of winning the SEC Cham-
pionships for two consecutive years.
It reached the semifinals each time but 
was eliminated by Vanderbilt in 2017 and 
Alabama in 2018.
Now, the Gators have another chance 
to take home the title starting on Wednes-
day when they travel to St. Simons Island, 
Georgia.
“We’ve worked really hard this year to 
be ready for this tournament,” coach J.C. 
Deacon said in a release. “The SEC Cham-
pionship is such an exciting event.”
This year, UF will be without Andy 
Zhang and Alejandro Tosti for the confer-
ence tournament. Zhang won the SEC indi-
vidual title in 2018 before leaving Florida 
to turn professional. Tosti, who graduated 
last year, won the SEC individual title in 
2017.
This means that the Gators must rely 
on senior Gordon Neale and sophomores 
Chris Nido and John Axelsen if they are to 
claim the conference title.
The trio was part of the starting line-
up in the 2018 SEC Championships, but they all failed to shoot under par in stroke 
play. Neale tied for 21st with a score of 2 over, Nido’s score of 13 over tied him for 
59th and Axelsen tied for 16th thanks to a 1-over score.
Neale and Nido played well in the final 
round of the Robert Kepler Intercollegiate 
on Saturday. Their 3-under scores on the 
last day propelled UF to a third-place fin-
ish.
Florida will be in good position to win 
the tournament this year if Neale and Nido 
replicate their performances from this past 
weekend.
Redshirt junior Blake Dyer and fresh-
man Aden Ye round out the rest of the 
Gators’ starting lineup. They competed in 
the Robert Kepler Intercollegiate as well, 
with Dyer tying for 17th (4 over) and Ye 
tying for 33rd (8 over).
The 2019 SEC Championship will be Dy-
er’s fourth appearance of the season. 
Ye has started four times and finished in 
the top-25 on three of those.
Despite his team’s elimination from the 
past two  tournaments, Deacon is confident 
in his team’s ability to claim the 2019 title.
“We are playing the best golf we’ve 
played all year, and the timing couldn’t 
be any better,” Deacon said. “It’s time to 
shine.”
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators prepare for 2019 SEC Championship in Georgia
Alligator File Photo
Senior Gordon Neale tied for 21st at the SEC Championship last season. He finished 
tied for 11th in his last outing at the Robert Kepler Intercollegiate.
I battled those thoughts when I walked into 
the Gainesville Sun’s office for our first staff 
meeting. I battled them when I did my first in-
terview, and when I wrote my first story. 
But something changed midway through 
that first semester.
I gained more confidence with each story I 
wrote and each interview I conducted. I was no 
longer weighed down by my own doubts.
Now a year and a half later, I know this is 
for me. I know I have what it takes to be a good 
sports journalist.And that’s my message to anyone reading 
this.
Know that you’re good at what you do. 
Whatever that is. You have what it takes. Stop 
letting your thoughts control you. 
Doubt can sometimes be disguised as that 
voice in your head guiding you through life, but 
it’s OK to not listen to that voice. Take those 
chances when it tells you not to. 
And as I’ve learned in my time at the Alliga-
tor, stop thinking so much. It’s overrated. 
Alanis Thames was a sports writer and on-
line sports editor at The Alligator. Follow her on 
Twitter @alanisthames.ALANIS,  from pg 14"I know I have what it takes..."the inning to extend their lead to 7-4.
FAU rallied in the fifth inning without any 
of the help it encountered in the fourth. The 
Owls loaded the bases for designated hitter 
Bobby Morgensen, who hit a grand slam to 
right field to take an 8-7 lead.
Langworthy tied the game at 8 in the bot-
tom of the inning with an RBI triple.
Florida bagged two runs in the seventh on 
Langworthy’s RBI and a Dalton groundout and held a 10-8 lead heading into the eighth 
inning, where both teams added a run.
Outfielder Kendrick Calilao scored what 
looked like an insurance run in the eighth 
with an RBI single. 
The Owls had four more runs in them, 
however. Langworthy's three earned runs 
were the first he conceded all season long, 
albeit in limited innings.
FAU also exhausted its bullpen using 
seven pitchers of its own, and it was Zach 
Schneider, who threw the final 1.2 innings 
without allowing a run, who earned the win.
Christian Flint started in place of short-
stop Brady McConnell. O’Sullivan said Mc-
Connell’s quad was “bothering” him but the 
move to hold him out was purely precaution-
ary. Langworthy took McConnell’s place in 
the leadoff spot.
Florida outhit Florida Atlantic 21-13. 
But that ninth-inning collapse and 11 walks 
soured the offensive outburst.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14FAU’s ninth-inning comeback ends UF’s midweek win streak
Top UF performers
Austin Langworthy: 3 for 4, triple, 
grand slam, six RBIs, two runs
Jacob Young: 3 for 5, RBI, two runs
Christian Flint: 3 for 5, three runs
Wil Dalton: 2 for 5, home run, two 
RBIs, runChris King / Alligator Staff
Right fielder Wil Dalton hit his fourth home run of the year and notched his 19th and 
20th RBIs. He is now batting .246 on the 2019 season.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019   ALLIGATOR 
By Tranelle Maner
Alligator Staff Writer
The story of racism in Gainesville 
is one of two worlds experiencing 
different realities for generations of 
black families. 
A city with a large, thriving black 
community and a university ranked 
with an F in racial representation ex-
ist only miles apart.
After Gainesville desegregated in 
1969, UF students continued to deal 
with injustices and city residents 
dealt with others, neither meeting in 
the middle together. 
More than 50 years later, the rift 
persists. Here are stories from peo-
ple who lived in the midst of racial 
tension.
The White and Higgins families
Albert White enjoyed all the sim-
plicities of childhood growing up in 
east Gainesville. 
He went to lo-
cal shops and lis-
tened to the latest 
music of the ’50s 
by the jukebox. 
White and his 
friends bought 
drinks and snacks 
from his grandfa-ther’s store. Since he was one of the 
only black business owners around, 
residents preferred to shop there 
rather than the white-owned stores. 
Everybody knew everybody in 
town back then, he said. But their 
youthful ignorance blinded them 
from the harsh realities of their sur-
roundings. 
“We didn’t realize how bad 
things were back then because 
we were happy growing up,” now 
74-year-old White said. 
White’s grandfather Albert Hig-
gins opened many black staples in 
town during the ’50s, which includ-
ed four grocery stores, a barbershop 
and a restaurant, White said. People 
knew him as Mr. Al. 
White’s aunt, Barbara Higgins, 
discussed the work ethic of his 
grandfather in a 1992 interview with 
the Samuel Proctor Oral History Pro-
gram. 
Albert Higgins would keep his 
stores open as long as possible be-
cause he loved interacting with the 
community and earning his living, 
Barbara Higgins said.
“He wanted to make another 
dollar. That was his life,” she said 
in the interview. “He would never 
close up.”Later in her career, Barbara Hig-
gins became the first black profes-
sional to work in the Alachua Coun-
ty Courthouse. In 2019, the Alachua 
County Commission declared Feb. 2 
as “Barbara L. Higgins Day” in hon-
or of her community service. 
White said that while he was fin-
ishing his studies at North Carolina 
A&T State University, his wife ap-
plied for a social work job with the 
Greensboro Health Department but 
was turned away when she arrived. 
This incident made them advocates, 
and they vowed to help African 
Americans in the community who 
may face similar struggles.
White proved to be following in 
the footsteps of his aunt as a com-
munity pillar when he and his wife, 
Ora, were celebrated and given 
awards at the Springhill Baptist 
Church in 2017.
Originally, the two refused the 
honor for fear that it would over-
shadow the great work done by 
other community members.
“What we do, we don’t do it to 
be recognized. We do it because 
we care about people,” White said. 
Growing up during integration
Rodney Long grew up in the 
same community as White and the Higgins family, but his memories of 
the past are riddled with violence.
Long, born in 1956, founded the 
Florida Martin Luther King Jr. Com-
mission 35 years ago to advocate for 
the black community. He grew up 
in the Porters neighborhood behind 
Depot Park until his family moved 
to northeast Gainesville when he 
was 8.
Violence, caused by the neigh-
borhood’s own residents, plagued 
the community nightly, Long said. 
Long attended Lincoln High School 
until he was forced to integrate into 
Gainesville High School in 1970. 
“When I went from an all-black 
high school to a white high school, 
culturally, it was night and day,” 
Long said. “We didn’t understand 
their culture. They didn’t under-
stand ours. Yet, the law said that we 
needed to be together.”
Long said that the hostile envi-
ronment at school kept black stu-
dents from attending. Their educa-
tions suffered. They felt like they 
weren’t wanted, the teachers or the 
students.
“We’d rather be in town than 
there,” Long said.
When a white school got new 
textbooks, their outdated textbooks were given to the black schools, 
Long said. He added that those 
hand-me-down books prevented 
them from learning about black his-
tory. 
A major piece of history was 
missing from their books. 
The Rosewood Massacre oc-
curred in 1923 in Rosewood, Flor-
ida. Nearly 200 black people were 
murdered by KKK members in 
Gainesville and residents from the 
surrounding counties.
As a child, Long’s family never 
discussed the massacre. Long knows 
residents who were alive at the time 
of the massacre who still refuse to 
talk about it. But he is relieved that 
more people are learning about 
Gainesville’s black history, he said.
“Whenever you can begin to dis-
cuss some of the racial injustice in 
your community, it begins the heal-
ing process,” Long said. “We got to 
understand that there is a way for us 
to improve and that way for us is for 
us to be concerned about our own 
and our own survival and economic 
prosperity,” he said.
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgGainesville residents share stories of segregation, racial tensionCREATOR, STORYTELLER AND 
PHYSICIAN  
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Evergreen Cemetery’s first burial was a 
10-day-old baby. 
James and Elizabeth Thomas lost their child 
and laid her near a cedar tree. What started as 
a single grave now lies at the center of a 53-
acre cemetery in Gainesville filled with a vari-
ety of trees and memories. 
Prominent local politicians, UF faculty, vet-
erans, influential community members and 
local residents all rest in the cemetery, said 
Karen Pruss, the cemetery coordinator. As part 
of The Alligator’s yearlong Who is Gainesville? 
The project, which covered the past, present 
and future of Gainesville, we looked into Ever-
green Cemetery and some of the people buried 
there.
In 1866, James sold more than 700 acres to 
residents Watson Porter and William Cessna, 
Pruss said. The cemetery was privately owned 
by several community members until 1944 
when Gainesville purchased it. 
“It’s just a wondrous place. It’s a calm, 
peaceful, beautiful, tree-covered place,” Pruss 
said.
In addition to prominent local citizens, 
more than 1,000 veterans who served in wars 
since the 1800s lie in Evergreen Cemetery, 
Pruss said. 
Mausoleums and tombstones of various siz-
es and shapes dot the cemetery in contrast to 
the flathead stones of other cemeteries, Pruss 
said. 
Among the prominent community mem-
bers buried in Evergreen Cemetery are Thelma 
A. Boltin, Dr. James Robert Cade and Dr. Sarah 
Lucretia Robb. 
These are their stories.
Thelma A. Boltin 
Thelma A. Boltin was called Cousin Thelma 
by those who knew her. Her relationship with 
community members was close enough to be 
considered family.Boltin moved to Gainesville at about 3 years 
old and left her legacy on the area through her 
storytelling. 
She was an expert in folklore, teaching and 
performance, said Kim Rivers, a park ranger 
for Stephen Foster Folk Culture Center State 
Park.
After studying English, drama and speech 
at Emerson College, she returned to Gainesville 
and delved into local folklore like no one had 
before, Rivers said. 
“One of the things she did as a storyteller 
was not just to learn the stories and the folk-
lore, but she collected and shared them so that 
they wouldn’t die,” Rivers said. 
Boltin was a drama teacher at Gainesville 
High School and Florida’s first certified high 
school public speaking teacher, Rivers said. 
She helped found Gainesville’s Little The-
atre, where she also acted and directed. 
She organized a teen club at a recreation 
center which stayed active from 1943 to the 
1960s. It was renamed the Thelma A. Boltin 
Center in her honor. 
Boltin was the director of the Florida Folk 
Festival from 1954 to 1965. She traveled the 
state on a Greyhound bus year after year to 
find new talent for the festival, Rivers said.
“She is referred to as the queen of Florida 
folklore,” Rivers said.
Rivers knew Boltin near the end of her life 
and was recently tasked with researching Bol-
tin through archives to visually display at the 
park’s antiques, arts and collectibles event. 
Rivers remembers her white outfits, bon-
nets and distinctive laugh. 
“When they made Thelma Boltin, they 
made her unforgettable. And for that reason, 
she’s still talked about,” Rivers said. “She’s our 
legend. She’s our legacy.”
Dr. James Robert Cade
Gatorade bottles are one of the many ways 
James Robert Cade’s presence is still felt in 
Gainesville and around the world. 
The former UF renal medicine professor 
and Gatorade creator was skilled in research, 
music, invention and medicine.
Mark Segal, the chief of the Division of 
Nephrology, Hypertension and Renal Trans-plant, worked with Cade when he was tasked 
to review his research for Institutional Review 
Board approval. 
Cade brought an innovative and systematic 
approach to his work as a physician and re-
searcher, which is why The Cade Museum for 
Creativity and Innovation is named after him, 
Segal said. 
When creating Gatorade, Cade tested many 
variations so the drink would replace nutrients 
athletes deplete while exercising.  
Cade was generous both within and beyond 
UF, even when he was low on funds, Segal 
said. Early in his career at UF, he purchased 
a dialysis machine for the hospital when the 
hospital would not spend the money on it. 
“Without the money that Gatorade brings 
to the university to support research, you won-
der if UF would be what it is today without 
that Gatorade money,” Segal said. “Certainly, 
it has had a profound effect on the College of 
Medicine and our department.”
After Cade retired, many of his patients 
were passed onto Segal, who is now the J. Rob-
ert Cade professor for Medicine.
“Every day, I try to live up to the legacy that he left,” Segal said. “He was the embodiment 
of everything that we try to be as physicians 
and as division scientists.”
Dr. Sarah Lucretia Robb
Sarah Lucretia Robb was rejected by medi-
cal schools in the U.S. 
Rather than staying a nurse, she got her de-
gree in Heidelberg, Germany.
When she came to Gainesville in 1882, 
Robb was a general doctor and delivered ba-
bies. Midwifing was traditionally a female job 
without formal training but with experience, 
Sean Patrick Adams, a UF history professor, 
said. Men at the time pushed women out of the 
industry despite their lack of practical knowl-
edge. 
“Women were really limited in what they 
could do in so many ways and one of them is 
in the professions,” he said. “You had a whole 
generation of women who couldn’t achieve 
what they wanted to achieve for that reason.”
Robb saw patients in her home, which is 
now the Robb House Medical Museum and 
Alachua County Medical Society, said Florence 
Van Arnam, the museum curator. She later 
saw patients as a traveling doctor via horse 
and buggy.
Robb was active in civic and church affairs, 
Van Arnam said. She started one of the first 
private boarding schools in Gainesville. 
Robb and her husband co-authored a book 
of medicine, “Robb’s Family Physician.” In 
this book, they presented their contrasting ap-
proaches to medicine, Van Arnam said. Robb 
was a believer in a scientific approach to medi-
cine, whereas her husband supported a natural 
approach. 
“They were way ahead of their time,” Van 
Arnam said.
The Robb House Medical Museum is the 
first medical museum in Florida recognized by 
the American Museum Association. It holds as-
pects of her original household and over 1,000 
artifacts. 
“I would say she was one of the first eman-
cipated ladies,” Van Arnam said.
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgEvergreen Cemetery holds the legacies of prominent Gainesville figures
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Evergreen Cemetery had its first burial 
in 1856. The cemetery is now 53 acres 
large, and prominent local figures such as 
politicians, veterans, teachers, professors 
and community members rest there.
White
ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
$3 Mini 
Quesadillas
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail  
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week7pm – 12am
2 - 4 - 1  
Appetizers 
2 - 4 - 1  
Craft Cocktails
2 - 4 - 1 
Top Shelf  
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia 7:30pm 
Free pool @ 10pm
7pm – 12am
$6.99 Chicken 
Tenders w/ Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Budlight Bottles
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Regular, Taco or  
Buffalo Chicken )
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Select Craft 
Pints
Buzz’d 
Spelling Bee 7:30 pm NIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Cocktail  
on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts 
& Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAYBLOWOUT
MONDAYS2-4-1  
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
$5
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pmALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Josiah T. Walls fought on both sides of 
the Civil War, served as Gainesville’s mayor 
and became Florida’s first black representa-
tive.
But when he died, few heard of it.
Without a word and without a marker.
Walls might be one of the lesser-known 
black Florida leaders in the state’s history. 
He was born into slavery in 1842 in Win-
chester, Virginia. He later became the only 
person in Alachua County’s history to serve 
as the Gainesville mayor, a county commis-
sioner, a school board member, a state sena-
tor and a U.S. congressman. With that, he 
laid the groundwork for the Civil Rights era 
to come a century after him, but many today 
are surprised to learn he ever existed.
He became so obscure in the state he used 
to represent that when he died, his obituary 
was not published in a single Florida paper.
Today, no one knows exactly where he 
was buried. Most historians say he is in a 
blacks-only corner of a Tallahassee cem-
etery. Some have theories he made his way 
back to Alachua County. 
Instead of a tombstone, his name is 
now prominently displayed in downtown 
Gainesville.
In 2016, more than a century after his 
death in 1905, the County Commission de-
cided to give the building located at 515 N. 
Main St. a namesake.
It proved to be a significant moment for 
some and was a nod to a city attempting to 
redirect the attention of its history, but with 
a Confederate statue named “Old Joe” still 
sitting half a mile away.
The Josiah T. Walls Building now houses 
the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections 
Office and the Alachua County Property Ap-
praiser.
During the building dedication on Oct. 
16, 2016, just-elected incoming Supervisor of 
Elections Kim Barton was invited to unveil a 
plaque for Walls in front of the building.
Barton said she felt a connection.
He was the first African American to hold 
many significant elected positions in the 
county, and she was now the first African 
American to be its supervisor.
“It was just a proud moment for me. I 
hadn’t even taken office,” she said. “I just 
want people to know the history of this 
man.”
Before Walls made his mark in Florida, 
he was forced to fight with the Confederate 
States Army during the Civil War. He ended 
up on the Union’s side after escaping. He 
was one of few soldiers to fight on both sides of the war.
His regiment in the Union Army moved 
him to northern Florida in early 1864. He 
then met and married Helen Fergueson and 
had one daughter named Nellie.
After he was discharged a year later, he 
decided to stay in Florida. He moved to Ala-
chua County and worked at a saw mill and 
then as a teacher.
“He came to Florida after the Civil War 
for many of the same reasons that white peo-
ple came here, which is because he wanted 
to make a difference,” UF history master lec-
turer Steven Noll said.  
Gainesville was a vibrant, mostly black 
community with about 2,000 people when 
Walls arrived. He saw economic opportuni-
ties, but he also saw the opportunity to im-
prove the lives of his fellow African Ameri-
cans.
He became a prominent member of the 
city. He had his hands in black newspapers, 
black education and black businesses. He 
also practiced law for a time.
He bought a large orange grove just out-
side of Gainesville and shipped his oranges 
into the city by boat through what is now 
Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park. A man 
born a slave now had his own plantation.
Walls was one of the few educated black 
men at the time in Florida, and he was drawn 
to politics.
He benefited from the era of Reconstruc-
tion. White Southerners were disenfran-
chised after the war. The black vote had 
power for once in U.S. history.
“He’s not running for office just for him,” 
Noll said. “He’s running for office for his 
race.”
He started in state politics. First, a term in 
the House and then two in the Senate. Then, 
he decided to run for Congress, but not with-
out contention.
Walls beat out a conservative white Lake 
City man in 1870 for a congressional seat, 
but his win was narrow. Whites accused 
him of fraud. Walls served two months of 
his term before he was booted out.
This didn’t discourage him from running 
again. He campaigned and won re-election to 
a full term in 1872.
He ran a third time in 1874, beating J.J. 
Finley, a Confederate general from Jack-
sonville (who is also the namesake of an 
elementary school in Gainesville), by fewer 
than 400 votes. Finley contested the result. 
Walls got the boot again after serving for a 
year.
“It’s interesting that Gainesville remem-
bers Finley but not Walls,” Noll said.
Florida’s second African American repre-
sentative did not come until a century after Walls in the 1990s.
While serving in Congress, not only did 
Walls advocate for the rights of African 
Americans, but he also pushed for support of 
projects to benefit all Floridians, such as the 
construction to build a canal across the state. 
This helped him gain respect from white vot-
ers, who may have just seen him as out for 
black interests.
After his time in national politics, he 
stayed in Gainesville, tending to his plan-
tation and serving on the Alachua County 
Commission and as Gainesville’s mayor.
A freeze in 1894 wiped out his orange 
grove, and he moved to Tallahassee. He 
became a faculty member of what is now 
Florida Agricultural and Mechanical Univer-
sity, teaching agriculture to black college stu-
dents. He told them how to benefit from the 
industry that was forced on their parents and 
grandparents.
He died in 1905. It cannot be found in any 
major paper in Florida.
Noll said this shows the stronghold Jim Crow laws had on the state at the time and 
the disappearance of the short-lived Recon-
struction era.
The “Old Joe” statue was erected in 
Gainesville the year before Walls died, show-
ing the values of the decade.
In addition to the building, Walls’ name 
is carried on with the Josiah T. Walls Bar As-
sociation, which was established in 1977. It 
is a voluntary minority bar organization with 
about 20 members, said AuBroncee Martin, 
an attorney with the Office of Public Defend-
er with the 8th Judicial Circuit Court.
“He was a man who believed in service. 
He was a man of many talents and used his 
talents to the fullest extent that he could. He 
was a servant. A person who should use his 
talents for the betterment of the communi-
ty,” Martin said of Walls. “It’s part of this 
community’s legacy, and it’s part of a foun-
dation that greatness can be built upon.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org Forgotten obituary: Josiah T. Walls  
Courtesy from the Library of Congress
Josiah T. Walls, 1842-1905, was Florida’s first African American representative. He 
is the only person in Alachua County’s history to serve as the Gainesville mayor, a 
county commissioner, a school board member, a state senator and a U.S. congressman.
Over the past school year, The Alligator 
has  printed stories that focus on defining who 
the past, present and future of Gainesville is. 
We wanted to know Gainesville’s 
whole story. We worked to find it out.
In Fall 2018, The Independent Flor -
ida Alligator was one of nine student-run newsrooms chosen to participate in 
Poynter’s College Media Project. Each 
participating newsroom was gifted a 
$3,000 grant to pursue a yearlong news 
project. 
The Alligator decided to ask a simple 
question: Who is Gainesville?In the city’s 150th anniversary, we 
wanted to explore how Gainesville grew 
and developed over the years. We want 
to show the divides between the East 
and West sides and define the relation -
ship between the city and UF. 
Since we started the project, The Al -
ligator has published more than 30 sto -
ries, videos, features, opinion pieces and 
photographs. The Alligator also held 
a public forum about who Gainesville was, is and becoming. We’ve covered
education, homelessness, student di -
versity, culture and even pizza. 
“Who Is Gainesville?” pushed our 
staff to look beyond UF’s campus and 
to hold a mirror up to the city we live in. 
We hope you can now see its reflection.
View the project on whoisgainesville.comAbout The Alligator’s project:
A Gainesville businessman and 
Florida’s first black representative