alligator
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPD ATES
@Flo ridaAl ligator   @ TheA lligato r_   @ TheA lligator
Gators continue SEC struggles
Pitche r Tommy Mace slid to 1-3 in SEC play, 
and the UF baseball team is 4-8 after  being 
swept at Ol e Miss, pg. 14Banner vandalized
A conservativ e student group had a banner vanadalized for the 
second time this semester , pg. 4
Hang at W auburg
Students relax and climb b y Lak e W auburg,  pg. 9
the
independent
ﬂoridawednesday
april 10, 2019
volume 113, no. 19T oday’s Weather
TODAY
Florida Museum launches ‘One 
Tree, One Planet’ app
When: 6-8 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History will introduce 
a new app as part of a multi-
media experience celebrating 
life on Earth. The app will edu-
cate users on the relationships 
between humans, animals, 
plants, fungi and microbes, 
which all share the planet. 
People can interact with an 
indoor projection by artist 
Naziha Mestaoui depicting the 
tree of life. 
Saving Face
When: 6:15-8:15 p.m.
Where: Ustler Hall
What: People will discuss the 
intersectional identities an 
Asian woman holds. They will 
also explore what is known 
about sexual assault within 
the Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American communities and 
touch on familial values, the 
model minority myth and how 
exoticism impacts it. This will 
deepen a discussion through a 
racial and gender power analy-
sis, which analyzes how sexual 
assault affects and has been af-
fected by systemic oppression. 
The conversation will close 
with a group session that will 
address sexual assault within 
communities and on campus. 
CASA: Cuban Heritage Week 2019
When: 10 a.m. Monday to 3 
p.m. Friday 
Where: UF campus
What: On the first day of Cuban 
Heritage Week, the Cuban 
American Student Association 
will sell croquetas and pasteli-
tos and deliver them. People 
can sign up for orders through 
a Google link on the organi-
zation's Facebook event. On 
Tuesday, a 1995 comedy mov-
ie about the struggles in Cuba 
called “Guantanamera” will 
play in the Computer Science 
Engineering Room E221 at 7:30 
p.m. There will be popcorn 
and water. On Wednesday, 
there will be a kickboxing class 
at the Southwest Recreation 
Center Activity Room 2. The 
class will begin at 8 p.m. On 
Thursday, there will be a trivia 
night with questions ranging from Cuba’s history to facts 
about the Cuban American 
Student Association execu-
tive board members. Doors 
open at 8 p.m., and the trivia 
game will begin at 9 p.m. The 
event will be held at a board 
member’s apartment at The 
Enclave Apartments, so there 
is a limited space of 20 mem-
bers. The link can be found on 
the organization's Facebook 
event. A Cuban carnival will 
end the week. The event will 
be held Friday on Plaza of the 
Americas from 1-3 p.m. There 
will be salsa lessons, tie-dying 
and more. 
THURSDAY
ACCENT Speakers Bureau 
Presents: Hasan Minhaj
When: 8-9 p.m.
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: Hasan Minhaj, a come-
dian, host and creator of the 
weekly comedy show “Patriot 
Act with Hasan Minhaj” will 
speak in a moderated conver-
sation. A 15-minute Q&A will 
follow. Minhaj also has a one-
hour Netflix comedy special 
“Hasan Minhaj: Homecoming 
King” and earned a Peabody 
Award in 2018 for his per-
formance at the 2017 White 
House Correspondents' 
Association dinner. Students 
can pick up free tickets at the 
Student Government suite in 
the Reitz Union on Tuesday 
and Wednesday from 10 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Remaining tickets 
will be distributed Thursday 
from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the 
same location. 
The Supreme Court of the 
United States (SCOTUS)
When: 6-7 p.m.
Where: Bob Graham Center 
for Public Service 
What: UF alumni Robert 
Barnes has been a Washington 
Post reporter and editor since 
1987 and has covered the U.S. 
Supreme Court since November 
2006. With a 5-4 conservative 
majority, Barnes will talk about 
what the court could likely face 
regarding immigration poli-
cies, LGBTQ+ rights, asylum 
and citizenship and possibly 
the Affordable Care Act. From 
the Brett Kavanaugh hearings 
to the health of Ruth Bader 
Ginsburg, Barnes will offer an inside look at the court. 
FRIDAY
Becoming a Woman of Influence 
When: 9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Where: Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom 
What: This will be the 
fifth annual half-day lead-
ership symposium featur-
ing successful alumni of the 
College of Journalism and 
Communications. This is de-
signed to inspire students and 
emerging professionals to en-
ter the workforce with confi-
dence and impact. Speakers 
include Erin Cigich, the CEO 
of Clickbooth, Karen Irwin, 
the president and CEO of 
Universal Studios Hollywood, 
Jasmine Johnson, a personal 
brand strategist and founder 
of The J. Chanelle Group and 
Annelie Schmittel, the vice 
president of player develop-
ment for the Philadelphia 
76ers. Participation for the 
event is limited to the first 
120 people who register by 
the Tuesday deadline here: 
https://bit.ly/2YCQbeS.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Correction:  In an article titled 
“Dance Marathon hits new 
record” that ran in Monday’s 
edition, the child who the 
American Medical Student 
Association was raising money 
for was named Beckett. The 
Alligator reported differently.
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  69°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 78MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
www.usa.edu Campuses in St. Augustine and MiamiLET YOUR 
PASSION 
POWER 
YOUR 
FUTURE
Take the next step. 
Discover how our innovative programs 
can help set you apart as a licensed 
occupational therapist.
Schedule a tour today at usa.edu4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019THE VANDAL IS UNKNOWN
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
It only took 12 days for a UF conservative student orga-
nization’s banner reading “Come and take it” to be vandal-
ized. 
The banner was put up on the Plaza of Americas on 
March 25 by UF’s chapter of Young Americans for Freedom.
Dylan Finucan, a member of the organization, found the 
banner vandalized with red spray paint. It had the words 
“Go away” and “Antifa” with the communist hammer and 
sickle symbol painted.
The local antifa group, Gainesville anti-fascists, said the 
graffiti on the banner was not organized by the group. The 
group declined to answer further questions.
“I think this was antifa just trying to start problems, but 
there are a lot more people in antifa than just a--hats with 
spray paint,” Finucan said.
YAF put up the banner to advocate for second amend-
ment right, Finucan said. The banner also had an assault 
rifle painted on top of the phrase, “Come and take it.”
Several YAF members have filed a police report with Uni-
versity Police, Finucan said.
In February, a similar incident occurred involving a 
“Build the Wall” banner hung up by YAF on Plaza of the 
Americas. The banner was cut down three times in two 
days.
It is unknown whether cameras in the area caught the 
action, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. YAF held the 
proper permit from the UF Student Activities and Involve-
ment Division of Student Affairs to hang their banner.
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgConservative banner promoting gun rights vandalized
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF’s Young Americans for Freedom gun rights banner hangs on the Plaza of the Americas Saturday morning after 
being spray painted with the words “Go away” by an unknown vandalist.
gram. 
Wasserman said Visent made 
a sweet first impression on her. 
The two became close when they 
watched episodes of “Jane the Vir-
gin” together in the Beaty Towers 
common room their sophomore 
year.
When they were together, they 
enjoyed going to Rockeys Dueling 
Piano Bar to sing along with “Vi-
vir Mi Vida” by Marc Anthony or 
going to Latin Night at Felipe’s to 
dance cumbia. 
When they weren’t together, 
Wasserman said Visent would tag 
her in memes on the Swampy UF 
memes for top ten public teens Facebook group. 
Stephanie Duno, a 21-year-old 
UF animal science senior, who met 
Visent through the Member Lead-
ership Program, said Visent was 
the type of person who you would 
go out of your way to see if you 
spotted her across campus.
Duno said Visent was honest 
about her mental health with oth-
ers, Duno said. 
Duno, who also struggles with 
mental health, said they would 
discuss resources and getting 
help. She said their Hispanic back-
grounds placed a stigma around 
mental illness. 
“She was suffering,” Duno said. 
“She really tried to look for the 
good in things.”Duno said she thinks UF didn’t 
do enough to help Visent. Visent 
tried to go to the Counseling and 
Wellness Center but was stopped 
by issues with insurance or avail-
ability of counselors. 
“Sophia’s dying has to be the 
reason that maybe UF contem-
plates actually looking at this,” 
Duno said. 
The UF Dean of Students Heath-
er White declined to comment for 
this story and directed The Alliga-
tor to UF spokesperson Steve Or-
lando.
“Students who may find they 
need help and support, especially 
as the end of the semester and fi-
nals are approaching, have a num-
ber of resources available through Student Affairs, including U Mat-
ter, We Care, GatorWell and the 
Counseling and Wellness Center,” 
Orlando said. 
A GoFundMe page was set 
up by Visent’s sister’s boyfriend, 
Chris Burgos. The page is asking 
for $15,000 to pay for her funeral 
expenses. As of Sunday night, the 
page raised more than $4,500. 
No one from Visent’s fam-
ily could immediately be reached 
comment. 
Hoffen said she wants Visent’s 
legacy to be her hopes, dreams and plans. 
Visent wanted to graduate. She 
hoped to walk across the stage in 
May 2020. 
Duno said she and Visent’s 
friends would like to get an honor-
ary degree for Visent. 
“I promise that I will live for 
both of us now,” Duno said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.org
Staff writer Lakshmi Gomez 
contributed to this report. OBIT,  from pg. 1She was to graduate in May 2020
If you or someone you know is in distress, here are some 24/7 resources: 
The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255. 
A 24/7 chat with a counselor:  suicidepreventionlifeline.org/
The UF Counseling and Wellness Center hotline: 352-392-1575
The Alachua County Crisis Center: 352-264-6789By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer 
National Library Week will be celebrated 
at UF in a new way this year: through “spicy,” 
“fresh” memes.
From Sunday to Saturday, George A. 
Smathers Libraries is holding the first an-
nual meme contest in the Facebook group 
Swampy UF memes for top ten public teens 
for students to submit their best library-relat-
ed content for a chance to win various prizes.Lisa Campbell, the Smathers’ instruction 
and outreach librarian, came up with the idea 
for the contest after being a frequent member 
of the Swampy memes page. 
After pitching the idea for the contest to 
the Library West creative team, Campbell 
said she knew it was a great way to showcase 
student creativity and humor while maintain-
ing relevance.
“There are other librarians who are also 
on Swampy memes,” Campbell said. “We 
find it interesting to understand what our students are sharing to better connect with 
them.”
Submissions will close Friday, and top en-
tries will be featured on the Smathers Librar-
ies’ social media pages. The first place win-
ner, who will be announced on Saturday, will 
receive a $25 gift card, funded by library staff 
donations and “bragging rights,” Campbell 
said. Memes are judged by contest staff and 
are based on criteria like humor and fresh-
ness.
Caroline Bradley, an 18-year-old UF in-ternational studies freshman, said she al-
ready submitted a meme to the contest at her 
friends’ suggestions. 
“While a part of me kind of thinks of it as 
a grandfather trying to relate to his teenage 
grandkids, it’s important to acknowledge cre-
ativity on campus,” Bradley said,
Christian Bedwell, a 21-year-old UF civil 
engineering junior, said that he plans to sub-
mit a meme inspired by the Duolingo owl 
meme format. 
“Anytime someone can make me feel 
more like a member of The Gator Nation in 
a fun and unique way, that’s what makes a 
fresh meme,” he said. Smathers Libraries hosts first social media meme contest 
The first place winner will receive a $25 gift cardMONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
HE HAS A $150,000 BOND 
By Katherine Wallace-
Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A man allegedly threatened to 
rape a woman after running from 
police and forcing his way into her 
apartment Friday. At about mid-
night, deputies 
saw Tyree Cor-
tez Oliver, 20, of 
Gainesville, at The 
Crossing at Santa 
Fe Apartments, at 
3205 NW 83rd St., 
trying to open a 
car, according to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. Oliver 
saw them and ran.
At about 6 p.m., a deputy was 
patrolling at Santa Fe Oaks Apart-
ments, at 8203 NW 31st Ave., when 
a woman said Oliver threatened her, 
the report said.
She told deputies she was outside 
her apartment when Oliver offered 
her $100 to hide him. When she de-clined, Oliver went in the apartment, 
the report said. 
Oliver told her to bandage his 
wounds and threatend to rape her 
if she didn’t hide him, the report 
said. When someone knocked on 
the door, he ran out and went inside 
someone’s storage room where dep-
uties found him.
He admitted he stole a car the night before at a Circle K, at 9303 
NW 39th Ave., the report said.
Oliver was charged with un-
armed burglary of a dwelling, grand 
theft of a motor vehicle and burglary 
with assault, the report said.
Oliver remained in the Alach-
ua County Jail Sunday in lieu of a 
$150,000 bond. 
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgMan accused of stealing car, running away from deputies
Oliver
HE IS BEING PAID $3,000
By Emma Davis
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF will be looking back at America’s ven-
tures to the cosmos 50 years after the ﬁ  rst 
manned lunar landing.
Historian and author Douglas Brinkley, 58, 
will give a lecture on the history of the space 
program at 6 p.m. April 19 in the Buddy & Anne MacKay Auditorium 
in Pugh Hall, said Cynthia 
Barnett, an Environmental 
Fellow in Residence with 
the Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service.
Brinkley’s speech will 
focus on the history of the 
ﬁ  rst moon landing and 
Florida’s and the Kennedy Space Center’s in-
ﬂ  uence on space travel, Barnett said. There will be a book signing of “American Moonshot: 
John F. Kennedy and the Great Space Race.”
The speech will cost the university about 
$3,000 and was funded in part by the Bob Gra-
ham Center for Public Service, Barnett said.
Brinkley said most of his book research took 
place in Florida and that the space program 
“put the central Florida coast on the map.” 
Stories of exploration always fascinated  
Brinkley. People spent years looking up at the 
moon and wondering what it was like, he said.“The thought that, in my lifetime, we left 
the shackles of Earth and explored something 
completely unknown,” he said. “To me, it’s 
unbelievable.”
Salvador Robles Luciano, a 22-year-old UF 
statistics senior, said it’s important to remem-
ber the moon landing as part of American his-
tory.
“It gives the public access to a topic Flo-
ridians will be interested in because the space 
program is in our backyard,” Luciano said.Historian and author Douglas Brinkley to speak at UFTHE COMMENCEMENT 
CEREMONY WILL BE HELD 
IN BEN HILL GRIFFIN 
STADIUM
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The UF class of 2019 will be say-
ing their goodbyes with a senior send off and Tom Petty’s tunes on May 4.
Traditionally, UF graduation cer-
emonies are held by individual col-
leges in the O’Connell Center. This 
year, seniors are gathering in Ben 
Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium to celebrate the 
end of their undergraduate careers 
with unique additions, said UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs.
After graduates sing the alma 
mater after commencement, Tom Petty’s “Won’t Back Down” will be 
played for graduates.
The song became a staple at UF 
football games after Petty died in Oc-
tober 2017.
“I hope it becomes a tradition for 
May graduations,” Fuchs said.
Kennedy Paredes, a 21-year-old 
UF education senior, said while his-
tory should be remembered, the uni-
versity should evolve with students over time.
“I think old traditions are im-
portant, but introducing new ones 
is also important,” Paredes said. “It 
creates memories for a new genera-
tion.”
Before the commencement cer-
emony, there will be a senior send-
off, dubbed “Forever Florida,” May 2 
from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Gator Walk 
Village at the Stadium, Trevor Pope, the UF senior class president, who is 
helping organize the event, wrote in 
an email. There will be free music, 
food and carnival games.
The event has been in the works 
since October and is estimated cost is 
$45,000, Pope said. 
“Commencement needed an 
event that was completely student-
focused and student-led,” Pope said.UF’ 19 to have new festivities and traditions for May graduation
Brinkley
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
World Health Day 
and what it promotes
Since 1948, April 7 has been celebrated as National World 
Health Day. This day is a celebration of the implementa-
tion of the constitution of the World Health Organization. 
It was adopted during an International Health Confer-
ence in New York, held on June 1946 and later signed by 
61 States on July 22, 1946. The constitution, which can be read 
on the organization’s website, was implemented on April 7, 1948. 
The day becomes more expansive each year, highlighting dif-
ferent issues from women’s health to mental health. However, 
it has always been a day to raise awareness about the organiza-
tion’s mission. Health, which is deﬁ  ned by the organization as 
“a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and 
not merely the absence of disease or inﬁ  rmity,” is an enormous 
undertaking. Health is a right, but it has not always been treated 
as such. In the organization’s preamble of its constitution, it says 
governments have a responsibility to their people to promote 
health and well-being. If this idea was universally adopted, our 
world would look very different than it does today. 
In a statement from the organization’s Director-General, 
Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who holds a doctorate in 
Community Health from the University of Nottingham and a 
Master’s of Science in Immunology of Infectious Diseases from 
the University of London, said half of the world’s population 
cannot access basic health care. Children die from diseases due 
to a lack of access to vaccinations and mothers die in childbirth 
because of a lack of access to trained medical ofﬁ  cials. In his 
statement, Ghebreyesus focused on the idea of universal health 
care and how even an imperfect universal health care system is 
better than nothing. 
It begs the question, if the U.S., one of the most developed 
countries in the world, has yet to implement universal health 
care, how can we expect smaller, less developed countries to do 
so? It’s a question we don’t have an answer to. However, it is 
rooted in the fundamental idea that health is a right that cannot 
be taken away based on wealth, race or ethnicity. The U.S. health 
care system has been debated for years and continues to be de-
bated. We don’t have an answer to the “perfect” system, and 
in reality, there will probably never be a system that everyone 
agrees on. What we do have is the ability to argue our heath care 
system and choose our health care system. We have a democracy 
that gives us a choice in how we access health care, but that isn’t 
the case for many impoverished nations, where there is no basic 
health care and there is no choice.
National World Health Day does raises awareness about 
health across the world. In 2019, health is an extensive issue that 
relates to malnutrition, diseases, disasters and so much more. As 
Ghebreyesus said, the fact that there are millions of people across 
the globe who don’t have access to basic health care is unaccept-
able. We can’t tell countries what to do, but we can do our best 
to promote health across the board and appreciate health care 
professionals for the work they do all over the world.
There is no one solution to global health. It’s a nuanced prob-
lem with a thousand different facets that need to be addressed. 
Even here in the U.S., we still struggle with mental health and 
clean water, among other issues. No country is perfect, but it 
matters that there are people working to remedy these issues. 
National World Health Day is a reminder that there are people 
who are still struggling with basic health necessities and that 
there are thousands of others who are advocating for the health 
of millions of people.My painted nails shouldn’t be up for discussion
The ﬁ  ckle thing I’ve learned about nail 
polish is that its drip is incredibly difﬁ  -
cult to account for. No matter the layer, 
I can always expect the slightest spill-
over onto my cuticles or ﬁ  ngertips. It 
doesn’t bother me, but instead it encourages 
me to keep a steadier hand. Luckily, there’s 
no second glances or mention of my nail col-
or as more people are accepting of different 
methods of expression. I’ve run into other 
masculine-presenting people who wear nail 
polish, earrings and makeup with eyeshadow and eye-
liner. I would dare to say this is not a new trend among 
LGBTQ+ circles. However, the broadening of gender ex-
pression through small things, like nail polish, can still 
be a big change for others.
I was confronted by my family about how I dress and 
my choice of accessories, especially in relation to my sexu-
ality. At times, there are dynamics that still don’t make 
sense to me. For example, my mother would hesitate with 
pastels and bright neon colors for my clothes and still 
questions my decision to wear a bright pink T-shirt or a 
ﬂ  oral backpack. There would often be times while shop-
ping with my mother where she would make me rework 
my outﬁ  t to how she preferred I represent myself in con-
tradiction to my own choices.
The outward expression of our genders and sexualities 
are still tightly deﬁ  ned in today’s understanding of what 
it is to be masculine and feminine. While people from all 
philosophical, critical and political views talk about the 
overall subjects of sex and gender, there has been a pileup 
of confusion over the different ways in which people of dif-
ferent sexualities and genders present themselves. I speak 
coming from a privileged position as a white-passing male 
Latinx. I would prefer not to deﬁ  ne my sexuality, as that 
is still something I grapple with. However, I do wish to at least share what I’ve learned and hopefully 
clarify some issues about this expression.
The ways in which men express their man-
hood and how they live with masculinity can 
be ﬁ  lled with confusion and fear of social ex-
clusion. In society, anything that does not im-
mediately qualify as “manly” is thought of as 
a symbol of a man’s possible queerness, espe-
cially if that man aligns himself with his as-
signed gender at birth. This can apply to more 
nuanced issues of self-hygiene and how a per-
son presents themselves, like laser hair removal, which is 
marketed toward women. Does that make it too feminine 
for men to take part in it? Is the practice of getting mani-
cures and pedicures too feminine? In relation to that, if it 
isn’t considered feminine, what is the reason for men to 
hesitate with colored nail polish?
My father recently learned I paint my nails and was 
astonished by my choice in deliberately painting them. 
“What made you think of that?” he asked, to which my 
only response was because I wanted to do something with 
my nails. I don’t wish to make any statement with my 
presentation of a generally considered feminine practice, 
and no one should be held accountable for how they wish 
to express themselves. There is a lot more to this conver-
sation of masculinity and femininity that deals with trans-
gender people, and there is an overlap when it comes to 
transitioning genders and their relationships with sexuali-
ties. I don’t wish to speak for them or their experiences, 
only my own. No one should comment on how other peo-
ple choose to express themselves unless someone chooses 
to speak about or spread awareness of their expression, 
and even then, remember to be respectful.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism sophomore. His 
column normally appears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Core ideas of the body positivity move-
ment date back to the late 1800s when 
the Victorian dress reform movement 
emerged. This movement aimed to put 
an end to the fad of corsets and tight-
lacing, to which women succumbed, conform-
ing to the societal standard of a tiny waistline. 
The movement emphasized acceptance of all 
body types, regardless of waist measurements.
Since then, body positivity has transcended 
generations. Recently, the movement found a 
home on social media platforms, such as Insta-
gram, where its modern agents challenge unre-
alistic beauty standards and unattainable body 
type expectations. As a result of the social me-
dia boom, the message of body positivity now 
thrives on a global scale. Unfortunately, as the 
movement grows, it has lost some of its sub-
stance: the overall promotion of physical health 
along with body acceptance.
Social media inﬂ  uencers often create a per-
sonal brand that makes their unwavering con-
ﬁ  dence about their bodies seem glamorous and 
fun. Body positivity should be celebrated in all shapes and forms. However, we 
have to remember how important a 
person's physical health is, as well. 
Many people have battled with their 
bodies. At least 30 million people 
of all ages and genders suffer from 
some sort of eating disorder, accord-
ing to the National Association of 
Anorexia Nervosa and Associated 
Disorders. Loving your body is im-
portant, but that also means taking 
care of it.
That being said, the body positivity move-
ment in its modern form is not bad. Further-
more, this article is not meant to attack anyone. 
If a person is extremely thin, I understand that 
there are major health risks involved, and obe-
sity should be thought of the same way. When 
a person is extremely overweight, it can be dan-
gerous to his or her health.
Deﬁ  ning obesity is also important for this 
discussion. The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention considers anyone with a body mass 
index greater than 30 to be obese. To put this in perspective, a female who is 5 feet 
4 inches tall, the average height for 
women in the U.S., would be con-
sidered obese if she weighed 174 
pounds or more. A man who stands 
at the average U.S. male height, 5 
feet 9 inches tall, would need to 
weigh 200 pounds or more to be 
classiﬁ  ed as obese. 
Obesity refers not to a body type, 
but to the serious, chronic disease 
that often results in dangerous effects on the 
systems in someone’s body. Among other com-
plications, people who are obese are at serious 
risk of developing heart disease, Type 2 diabe-
tes, bone and joint diseases and other health 
complications. Most important to note, though, 
is many people die due to complications related 
to obesity. On the other hand, if we look at other 
eating disorders related to being thin, like an-
orexia, health complications are serious and can 
be deadly.
It is also important to understand there are 
a number of factors contributing to obesity and other weight-related issues. Genetic factors can 
often contribute to obesity. You have a 25 per-
cent increased chance of being obese if one or 
more of your parents are obese, according to 
Stanford Health Care. 
The body positivity movement does a beau-
tiful job of encouraging people to love their bod-
ies. However, it should also promote a healthy 
lifestyle. The idea of body positivity is to cele-
brate the body you are in and to treat your body 
in a respectful way. As a society, we have been 
quick to judge those deemed “too thin,” and we 
educate people on the dangers of eating disor-
ders and the life-threatening results they can 
garner. We should encourage people to educate 
themselves on healthy eating habits and exer-
cise. We need to promote a culture of loving for 
our bodies in addition to encouraging people to 
nourish and nurture the bodies they were given 
to the best of their abilities.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science 
and journalism senior. Her column appears 
on Mondays.Body positivity is about loving your body and promoting healthy habitsColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
Lately, there’s been some 
discussion of something 
called “cancel culture.” 
Figures from John Oliver 
to Tucker Carlson have 
addressed the topic, with some-
times wildly differing perspec-
tives. Now, I’m diving into the 
fray.
First off, we should prob-
ably establish what exactly can-
cel culture is. Macmillan Dictionary deﬁ  nes 
cancel culture as “the practice of no longer 
supporting people, especially celebrities, or 
products that are regarded as unacceptable or 
problematic.” A person or thing that is no lon-
ger supported is thus said to be “canceled.” 
In this respect, cancel culture is nothing new, 
even if the name is. People have always debat-
ed whether they should stop their support of 
something or someone due to what may have 
been said or done, but the internet has made 
this process easier, as people’s past actions 
and words can be easily found and dissemi-
nated across the world. However, some have 
argued the culture can go too far.
For an example of cancel culture gone 
wrong, we can look at James Gunn. Gunn is 
a director who has achieved success and fame 
from helming Marvel’s “Guardians of the Gal-
axy” series. However, in July, Disney ﬁ  red 
Gunn as director of “Guardians of the Galaxy 
Vol. 3” over tweets where Gunn joked about 
molestation and pedophilia. In response to this 
decision, the cast of “Guardians of the Galaxy” 
issued a statement supporting Gunn, and a pe-
tition on Change.org to reinstate Gunn as the 
director has accumulated more than 400,000 
signatures. 
I was also inclined to support James Gunn. 
While I thought many of Gunn’s tweets were 
in poor taste at the very least, some of them 
were nearly a decade old, and more important-
ly, Gunn acknowledged these old tweets and 
apologized for him. He explained the tweets 
don’t reﬂ  ect who he is now. Eventually, Dis-
ney realized they had made a mistake. With 
popular sentiment seeming to favor Gunn, 
Disney rehired Gunn and restored him as the 
director of “Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3” 
in March.
So, what can we draw from the Gunn ex-
ample? While offensive comments should not 
be passively accepted, a person’s subsequent 
words and actions matter. If someone owns up 
to their past comments, apologizes, and can show they have changed, that person 
shouldn’t be “canceled.” Instead, we 
should save our “canceling” for the 
truly remorseless, like Fox News host 
Tucker Carlson.
In March, coincidentally less than a 
week before Gunn was rehired, the or-
ganization Media Matters for America 
released recordings from interviews 
between Tampa-based radio host 
Bubba the Love Sponge and Carlson. 
In those recordings, Carlson can be heard ex-
pressing a series of offensive views and com-
ments. Some highlights include defending a 
cult leader named Warren Jeffs who facilitated 
child marriages, describing women in general 
as “extremely primitive,” questioning whether 
sex workers can be raped and using a c-word 
to describe the daughter of Martha Stewart. 
So how did Tucker Carlson respond to this? 
Not well. In his ofﬁ  cial statement after the re-
cordings surfaced, Carlson said, “Media Mat-
ters caught me saying something naughty on 
a radio show more than a decade ago. Rather 
than express the usual ritual contrition, how 
about this: I’m on television every weeknight 
live for an hour. If you want to know what I 
think, you can watch.” If someone could tell 
me in what universe defending a cult leader’s 
child marriages is considered merely “naugh-
ty” rather than absolutely horriﬁ  c, I’d love to 
hear it. And in case you couldn’t tell, there 
was no apology, just an invitation for people 
to watch Carlson’s show. Carlson has not 
apologized. He has also parlayed his refusal to 
apologize to critique people who do apologize, 
attacking Democratic presidential candidates 
Beto O’Rourke and Pete Buttigieg over past 
comments they made and then apologized for. 
To sum up, is cancel culture always bad? 
No. There are some cases where people should 
be called out for their bad actions, and people 
should boycott them, as well as the ones who 
support them ﬁ  nancially, like advertisers and 
sponsors. However, I think it’s reasonable to 
ask that people pull back their outrage if the 
person in question has apologized and genu-
inely changed their ways. If we don’t do that, 
what incentive will people have to apologize 
and change? And if they don’t apologize, then 
we’ll be stuck in an endless loop of outrage 
and “canceling” every celebrity who doesn’t 
have a squeaky-clean past.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.'Cancel culture' can be a positive thingColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgPlastic is bad for the envi-
ronment. This has been 
common knowledge for 
years. What is controver-
sial, however, is demanding 
that everyone turn vegan and ditch 
single-use plastic. People fail to 
recognize that most of the earth’s 
pollution stems from major cor-
porations rather than individuals. 
Also, expecting everyone to stop 
using straws fails to acknowledge 
the unintended consequences, which could 
be catastrophic for certain groups. Certainly, 
if you’re able to, do what you can to help the 
environment. Ditch the straws or get reusable 
ones, ask for paper bags the next time you go 
grocery shopping and reduce the amount of 
meat you consume, but don’t expect every-
one to do the same. We ﬁ  rst must hold corpo-
rations accountable for their actions, which 
affect the environment differently.
It would be more productive to start by 
changing the ways major corporations treat 
the environment. In an article from 2017, The 
Guardian reported that 71 percent of global 
emissions were caused by only 100 major 
corporations. In essence, a majority of the 
global emissions that damage the ozone, the 
air we breathe, the water we drink and the 
produce we grow is caused by a small group 
of businesses that remain unchecked by eco-
nomic policies. By rewarding companies that 
enact environmentally friendly practices, we 
could begin to reverse climate change on a 
macro level. 
The process of enacting change at the 
macro level is known as looking up, rather 
than looking down. Instead of looking down, 
blaming individuals and insisting we single-
handedly reverse climate change by using pa-
per bags or skipping straws, we can look up 
to the major corporations and demand they 
adopt healthier policies through economic 
incentives. Giving tax breaks to eco-friendly 
businesses would promote longer-lasting 
policies and encourage others to follow suit. 
Investing in socially conscious companies 
also results in lasting change and can en-
courage business to enact similar methods 
and practices. 
Socially responsible investing is the act 
of investing in companies that uphold ethi-
cal standards in regard to different social 
spheres. For example, people may choose to 
invest in businesses that are mindful of the impact they can have to better 
lives in the community. In this 
case, maybe we could encourage 
change by investing in companies 
that have environmentally friend-
ly policies. In doing so, corpora-
tions will feel compelled to be-
have similarly in order to acquire 
more investors. 
By looking up to major corpo-
rations that hold the most inﬂ  u-
ence over economic policies and 
climate change, we can take the burden off 
of individuals to solve the problem of climate 
change. Of course, we should do what we can 
to reduce, reuse and recycle, but it is unreal-
istic to expect our small contributions alone 
to solve the environmental problems we face 
today. These contributions matter, which is 
why most of my trips are by bike, but let’s be 
real. My bike trips are overwhelmed by the 
primary polluters. 
In that vein, banning things such as straws 
and plastic bags will help, but we should pro-
ceed with caution. Many people with physi-
cal disabilities use straws as tools to help 
with drinking, and they would be harmed by 
a straw ban. Rather than banning straws in 
cities, restaurants should ask if people would 
like a straw, instead of handing them their 
drinks with straws already unwrapped. Local 
burger restaurant Loosey’s has enacted this 
policy, asking if people would like a straw 
instead of assuming that they would. Each 
saved straw beneﬁ  ts both the restaurant’s 
bottom line as well as the environment. Fur-
ther, straws made from cornstarch could also 
be a good place to begin, as these plastic-
looking straws are actually biodegradable. 
Regardless of what the straws are made of, 
banning them fails to acknowledge they are 
important to some people. Straw bans pro-
mote the ableist ideal that straws are futile, 
without considering the fact that some people 
rely on straws to aid their everyday lives.
Reducing the amount of plastic in your 
life is noble, and we should all do what we 
can. However, don’t get discouraged if you 
feel as though your contributions have no ef-
fect. Reversing climate change is a group ef-
fort. We are not in this alone. While we chip 
away ourselves, we must demand that big 
businesses do better. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sopho-
more. Her column appears on Mondays.The environment is a universal eﬀ  ort Column
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs welcomed a 
crowd of more than 150 people, including 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe, to Smathers 
Library on Friday.
The Center for the Humanities and the 
Public Sphere at UF held a celebration in 
honor of the 10-year anniversary of its 2009 
launch. The two-hour event hosted speakers 
to discuss the importance of humanities and 
their work in the field. 
The center funds grants, fellowships and 
sponsorships to promote humanities pro-
grams, said Sophia Acord, the center’s asso-
ciate director. 
Fuchs welcomed Jon Parrish Peede, the 
National Endowment for the Humanities 
Chairman, who is the first sitting chairman 
to visit UF in more than 20 years, said Bar-
bara Mennel, the center’s director. The last 
sitting chairman to visited in 1997.
The National Endowment for the Human-
ities is a federal grant-making agency that 
awards $155 million each year, Peede said. 
The endowment funds the Florida Humani-
ties Council, which seeks to support and pre-
serve the humanities. 
Fuchs expressed the importance of hu-
manities in tackling the challenges society 
currently faces.“As a public university, our fundamental 
mission is to make a serious and sustained 
difference in the world,” Fuchs said. “The 
humanities, I believe, provide the very best 
mechanism we have, nurturing a spirit of 
openness and a spirit of learning.” 
A showcase of public humanities projects 
from UF faculty was presented during the 
second half of the event, including an oral 
history project from Jeffrey Pufahl, a UF lec-
turer in the Center for Arts and Medicine. 
The project, called “Telling Gainesville,” 
was supported by the council and the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities with 
a $97,000 grant, Peede said in his speech. It 
told the stories of nine veterans and a mili-
tary wife from Gainesville through a theater 
performance. 
The council’s executive director, Steve 
Seibert, welcomed Peede to the stage. 
“If the humanities are the stories of our 
human experiences, then Jon Parrish Peede 
is the nation’s storyteller-in-chief,” Seibert 
said. 
Peede addressed everything from the im-
portance of civic education to the need for 
humanities to produce better citizens in his 
speech.
“I want to live in a community where 
people are welcome,” Peede said. “I want to 
live in a society where knowledge is valued. 
I can’t think of how you can have either one of those if you don’t have the humanities in 
your community and in your personal life.”
Victoria Machado, a 29-year-old UF reli-
gion doctoral student, said she walked out 
of Smathers Library feeling reassured of her 
chosen path in the humanities. 
“It’s helpful for me, as a graduate stu-dent, to know that there are multiple paths 
to take when you’re studying for a higher 
degree,” Machado said. “This kind of work 
is inspiring.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgUF humanities center celebrates 10-year anniversary
150 UF students and faculty members attended 
Courtesy to The Alligator
National Endowment for the Humanities chairman Jon Parrish Peede delivers his 
keynote speech in Smathers Library. Peede is the first sitting chairman to visit UF 
in more than 20 years.
TEN SPEAKERS GA VE  
PRESENTATIONS
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Queerbaiting, orgasm equal-
ity and moth poop brought more 
than 850 people to the 10th annual 
TEDxUF conference Saturday. 
For its anniversary, TEDxUF, 
an independent TED conference 
dedicated to ideas worth spreading, 
brought 10 speakers to the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts to 
discuss plants on Mars, peace in the classroom, moths’ role in fruit and 
modern equality. This year’s theme 
was “Legacy” in honor of TEDxUF 
for a decade.
The budget for the event was 
about $48,750.
One of the speakers, Laurie 
Mintz, a UF psychology profes-
sor, believes the legacy of orgasm 
equality needs to be changed, she 
said. She wants to make sex a com-
fortable topic with science-based 
facts.
“Despite sexual images all 
around us, talking about sex makes 
most people a bit uneasy,” she said. “Let’s place the clitoris in the public 
eye.”
Joey McGinn, a 22-year-old UF 
political science senior, spoke about 
a different equality: queer equality. 
Only 8.8 percent of television 
shows have LGBTQ+ characters, 
McGinn said. Queerbaiting is often 
used to bring in queer characters, 
which hints at a character’s sexual-
ity without a clear statement.
McGinn doesn’t believe this 
is enough to label a character as 
queer, he said. He wants the hetero-
sexual character default to change, 
especially for younger audiences. “Queer characters, while start-
ing to be more pertinently seen and 
heard, still comprise a small fraction 
of some of our greatest heroes,” he 
said. “It’s up to us to stand up and 
take them off the shelf.”
Lisa Merlo graduated as a triple-
major student with a 4.0 GPA and 
set out to finish her doctorate de-
gree two year earlier than expected.
One day, she found herself in 
the emergency room diagnosed 
with exhaustion.
Merlo, now a UF psychiatry pro-
fessor, encouraged the audience to 
stop chasing success and to invest 
in personal relationships and find 
what is meaningful to you.
“Each of us has the option to 
choose a life of meaning for our-
selves,” she said. “Let’s redefine 
success by what matters.”
Akil Reynolds, a 22-year-old UF 
public health senior and TEDxUF 
speaker, said the happiest day of 
his life was when he was accepted 
to UF. Now, he questions if he is only 
at UF for diversity’s sake.
However, UF says its not al-
lowed to consider race or ethnicity 
in admissions.
“For me, a college degree was 
sold as a means of liberation,” 
Reynolds said. “If higher education 
was actually liberatory, we would 
all contribute ethnically.”
Justin Calloway, a 20-year-old 
UF computer science sophomore, 
said Reynolds sparked anger with 
some people.
“He shook the table,” he said. 
“That was really necessary.”
Merlo’s talk about chasing suc-
cess altered Calloway’s perspective 
on his future. 
“You’re very focused on gradu-
ating and getting a degree and all 
these involvements,” he said. “We 
don’t really talk about what we 
want our lives to mean.”
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.org TEDxUF 10th annual conference focuses on idea of legacy
Courtesy to The Alligator
Anna-Lisa Paul, a UF horticultural sciences research professor, discussed how to be a better martian gardener 
with plants on Mars at TEDxUF. “Plants truly enable us to colonize places we’ve never been before, ” she said. 
TEDxUF Speakers
Maria Eugenia Zelaya: How we can build peace in everyday life
Joey McGinn: Breaking down barriers: LGBTQ+ in science fiction more than 
just “the other”
Akito Kawahara: Why you should thank a moth
Laurie Mintz: A new sexual revolution for orgasm equality
Lisa Merlo: To find fulfillment, stop chasing success
Akil Reynolds: Why we should redefine prestige in higher education
Anna-Lisa Paul: Humans are explorers — go boldly
Natalya Bannister: The power of leading with love
Daniela Seabra-Oliveira: Did evolution hardwire us to be phished?
Oliver Telusma: You know you’ve made it when they can pronounce your 
foreign last name correctlyMONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer         Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a 
summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position 
your advertisements for the local market.All ads receive a 
10% discount
Deadline: Wednesday, April 17
Run Date: Wednesday, April 24
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are 
getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your 
exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester 
and reach students and Gainesville locals.
ABOVE LEFT: Angel Gatev, a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, belays 
Hope Miller, a 20-year-old UF forest resources and conservation sophomore, Sunday 
at the rock wall at Lake Wauburg South Shore, at 312 Whitehurst Road, Micanopy, 
Florida. This was the first time that Miller had been climbing. 
ABOVE RIGHT: Krina Amin, a 27-year-old resident doctor at UF Health Shands Hospital, 
assists Tyler Detsouvanh, a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior and Lake 
Wauburg employee, in belaying someone on the Lake Wauburg climbing wall Sunday. 
“The fact that they have water activities and this rock wall is pretty cool, ” Amin said.
BOTTOM LEFT: Jessie Lebrecht, a 22-year-old UF marine sciences senior, finishes 
hole 18 of disc golf Sunday at Lake Wauburg South Shore. Lebrecht usually comes 
to the South Shore to rock climb, but he decided to change things up. “It’s free 
entertainment, ” Lebrecht said.
Wauburg Weekend
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff Chris Day / Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019
HE HAS A $28,000 BOND
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
An Ocala man allegedly took Gainesville 
Police on a chase inside a downtown park-
ing garage Friday.
At about 2:30 a.m., an officer saw Ka-
juan Lamonte Brewton, 18, driving the 
wrong way on Southwest Second Street, 
according to a Gainesville Police arrest re-port. The officer repeat-
edly told Brewton to stop, 
but he continued driving. 
He then drove into a 
parking garage at 105 SW 
Third St., the report said. 
Police found Brewton in 
the car on the third floor. 
He reversed the truck 
and began making circles around the third 
floor, eventually going to the fifth floor, 
the report said.There, Brewton and passengers got out 
of the truck, the report said. The passen-
gers complied with an officer telling them 
to stop, and then Brewton ran down a 
stairwell. 
He tried to give a person in the stairwell 
his truck keys, but police confronted him, 
the report said. He threw the keys at the 
person and then ran to the fourth floor.
An officer went to the fifth floor and 
saw Brewton running up the ramp in his 
direction, the report said. When Brewton saw the officer, he turned around and ran 
away from him, but another officer caught 
him. 
Brewton was charged with resisting an 
officer without violence, fleeing an officer 
and driving with knowledge of a suspend-
ed or revoked license, the report said. 
He remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Sunday in lieu of a $28,000 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgMan accused of fleeing from police in garage
Brewton
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
Designated drivers are the greatestGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Bintelli Sprint Scooter 49cc
2017, yellow, less than 100 mi, new battery. 
Req no motorcycle license. Comes w/car 
carry rack. $1500/OBO. Call 352-222-2226                
4-12-19-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. 
Must be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, 
love motorsports and basic car skills bonus. 
Management@GoRally.com to apply. NO 
CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM learn more before 
applying.     4-17-19-10-14
Cashiers, Gate Attendants and Grounds 
Staff (High Springs) Ginnie Springs Outdoors  
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy work-
ing with the public. High energy and low dra-
ma is a must! Must be at least 18 years old. 
Must have your own transportation and avail -
ability to work nights, holidays and week-
ends. Seasonal employment. Apply in per-
son ONLY 9am - 4pm weekdays. NO phone 
calls! GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. High 
Springs, Florida 32643     4-8-19-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Designated drivers are the greatestHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in-
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
 16 Health ServicesMONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
and Not Divorced or Bankrupt
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-9-5-20
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  Grilled ____
1.  James Bond request5.  Type of scarf
2.  Fishing ____6.  ____ pollution
3.  Survive longer7.  Turn down
4.  Black ____MNASLO
KSANHEOSATC
SENIO
ENILECS
LUEVTOIRJTEEC
RSETOFANSWERS: 1A-Salmon  5A-Ascot  6A-Noise  7A-Reject
1D-Shaken  2D-License  3D-Outlive  4D-Forest  B-Jonas Salk4-8-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This medical researcher received the 
Congressional Gold Medal in 1955.
BONUS1. When was the last time before 2018 
(Boston) that a major-league team won 
105 or more games in a season?
2. In 2017, Minnesota’s Paul Moli-
tor became the second Hall of Fame 
player to win a Manager of the Year 
award. Who was the first?
3. In 2017, the Jacksonville Jaguars 
became the third NFL team to record 
10 or more sacks in a game twice in 
a season. Name either of the first two 
teams to do it.
4. Name either of the two men’s 
basketball players who were named 
Big Ten freshman of the year and Big 
Ten defensive player of the year in the 
same season.
5. Patrick Kane set the mark for the 
Chicago Blackhawks in the 2018-19 
season for most consecutive games with 
an assist (17). Who had held the record?
6. Josef Martinez set a Major League 
Soccer record in 2018 for most career 
hat tricks (six). Who had he been tied 
with?
7. Who was the last undisputed boxing 
champion of the cruiserweight division 
before Oleksandr Usyk in 2018?
Answers
1. The St. Louis Cardinals won 105 
games in 2004.
2. Baltimore’s Frank Robinson, in 
1989.
3. The 1967 Oakland Raiders and 
the 1984 Chicago Bears.
4. Jaren Jackson of Michigan State 
in 2018 and Greg Oden of Ohio State 
in 2007.
5. Stan Mikita, who did it for 14 con-
secutive games in 1967.
6. Stern John and Diego Serna.
7. O’Neil Bell, in 2006.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
April 8, 2019King Features Weekly Service
By Robert E. Lee Morris
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/08/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/08/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 8, 2019
ACROSS
1 Separated from 
each other
6 Composer 
Stravinsky
10 Ashen
14 Reclusive sort
15 Nickname for 
grandma
16 Baseball Hall of 
Famer Slaughter
17 Broad decision-
making 
perspective
19 New Haven 
school
20 Silent 
communication 
syst.
21 Intoxicated
22 Org. with a five-
ring logo
23 Christmas song
25 Social media 
barrage
29 Slammin’ Sammy 
of golf
31 “Let me in!”
32 Figure it out
37 Cavity filler’s deg.
38 Home of many a 
blue crab
42 Trivial amount
43 Daily grind
44 Except if
47 Desert retreats
51 Announcer’s 
voice, 
metaphorically
56 All-thumbs 
message, often
57 Barn bundle
58 Peter of “The 
Maltese Falcon”
60 Mimic
61 Waffle House 
alternative
63 Hitchcock 
classic, and 
a hint to 17-, 
25-, 38- and 
51-Across
65 “Famous” cookie 
guy
66 Angelic aura
67 Calf-roping loop
68 “Ain’t gonna 
happen”
69 Taken by mouth, 
as meds
70 Defeated 
narrowly
DOWN
1 Saint __: English 
cathedral city
2 Arsenic, e.g.3 “Life of Pi” 
director
4 Exercise unit
5 Chicago paper, 
for short
6 Hitched to the 
back of the truck
7 First-aid kit item
8 How corned beef 
is often served
9 Actress Charlotte
10 Desert 
hallucinogen
11 Amazon crusher
12 Facebook 
chuckle
13 Opposite of 
WNW
18 Simple bed
22 AOL, for one
24 Lingerie material
26 Big name in little 
trucks
27 Former NYC 
mayor Giuliani
28 Base cops, 
briefly
30 Prosecutors: 
Abbr.
33 Foot bones
34 Tax pro
35 All __ up: 
excited
36 Dinghy mover
38 Baskin-Robbins 
treat39 Classic Wham-O 
toy
40 Prefix with logical
41 Rhythm
42 4, in 2 + 2 = 4
45 Pass, as time
46 Barnyard 
enclosure
48 Old salt
49 Revealing news 
story
50 Slow-boiled
52 Blue-skies 
forecast word53 Cute Down 
Under critter
54 Swashbuckling 
Flynn
55 Experian, 
formerly
59 Mozart’s 
“__ kleine 
Nachtmusik”
61 Author Fleming
62 Medical ins. plan
63 Letter after pi
64 Head-bobbing 
acknowledgment
By Robert and Marlea Ellis
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/05/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/05/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, April 5, 2019
ACROSS
1 Triumphant 
exclamation
5 Illusion
11 “The good is __ 
interred with their 
bones”: “Julius 
Caesar”
14 Ostrich relatives
15 Payday lender, 
perhaps
16 Extract with effort
17 Suffers
18 Make some  
cote residents 
angry?
20 Singer Etheridge
22 One no longer 
working
23 Enjoy at a 
leisurely pace
24 Pikelike fish
25 Nihilistic art 
movement
26 Calf roper’s 
target?
31 Put away
32 Young one
33 Storm 
components?
37 Ranking suit
40 Giant Mel
42 Fund
43 2019 Grammy 
Awards host 
Keys
45 40-Acr. is in it
47 Savings plan 
acronym
48 Birdwatcher’s 
journal entry?
52 “Frozen” sister
55 “Live __”: Taco 
Bell slogan
56 Prop for Palmer
57 Valley element?
59 Embezzlers, e.g.
63 Borden, in the 
1870s?
65 Cloud of gloom
66 Golden __
67 Singer Grande
68 Biblical twin
69 Risk
70 Identified
71 Editor’s notation
DOWN
1 Group of 
playmates
2 Parisian love
3 Hardly inspiring4 Good 
Samaritan’s offer
5 Persnickety one
6 “The Thin Man” 
canine
7 Help in the 
theater
8 Biblical mount
9 Unfavorable 
mark
10 In the past, in the 
past
11 Adams’ “Nixon in 
China,” e.g.
12 Let go
13 Far from  
laid-back
19 Out of sight
21 Work for parents
24 Juicy tidbit  
lead-in
26 Greek salad 
topper
27 Bowling great __ 
Anthony
28 Sewing case
29 “I can’t get no 
satisfaction!”
30 Farm mom
34 First name in 
the cast of “The 
Sopranos”
35 Sped36 Christmas song 
swimmer
38 2008 presidential 
candidate
39 Actress Zadora
41 Heavy weight
44 Bedroom piece
46 Dimwit
49 Polish seaport, in 
Germany
50 Welcoming gift
51 Leaked slowly
52 Founded: Abbr.53 Feudal subject
54 Reason for 
closed schools, 
perhaps
58 Show 
appreciation
59 Stabber
60 Still-life standard
61 Airline known for 
tight security
62 Turn on an axis
64 Half a slalom 
segment
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets 24 PetsIn his Class A Advanced debut 
on Saturday, former Gators 
pitcher Brady Singer threw 5.1 
innings and allowed just three 
hits and two earned runs in a 
losing effort.Two Gators participate in international play
Florida forward Deanne Rose and defender Georgia Eaton-Collins represent-
ed their respective countries this weekend. Rose made a substitute appearance 
for Canada in its 1-0 win over England on Friday. Eaton-Collins played for Eng-
land’s U-19 European Championship team in a 4-0 win over Sweden.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida’s baseball team had mo-
mentum heading into this week-
end’s series with Ole Miss.
The team held a five-game win-
ning streak, seemingly playing its 
best baseball of the season.
No. 21 UF instead took a step 
back, dropping all three games to 
the No. 18 Rebels in Oxford, Mis-
sissippi.
The Gators (21-13, 4-8 SEC) 
were outscored 40-18 over the 
weekend, getting blasted in the 
first two contests before blowing a 
commanding 8-0 lead in Game 3 to 
lose to Ole Miss (23-10, 8-4 SEC) 
12-10.
Shaky starting pitching, an 
abysmal performance from the 
bullpen and costly mistakes all 
played a part in UF falling victim 
to a second-straight SEC road series 
sweep.
Florida’s weekend rotation 
continues to struggle in SEC play
UF’s trio of starters — Tommy 
Mace, Jack Leftwich and Tyler Dy-
son — were dominant in non-con-ference play.
All three starters were undefeat-
ed, but in SEC play, they’ve gone 
2-7 with a 6.18 ERA.
Mace has shown the most con-
sistency despite the 1-3 record in 
conference play. The right-hander 
picked up a critical win against Al-
abama but dropped three decisions 
to Mississippi State, Vanderbilt and 
Ole Miss.
The sophomore gave up 13 runs 
off 22 hits in those three losses.
Leftwich’s situation has been a 
bit more complicated.
UF’s usual Saturday starter has 
dealt with a nagging blister on his 
throwing hand for over a month, 
which has hampered his perfor-
mance. His conference record (0-
2) and ERA (9.90) are only from 
a 10-inning sample size, but the 
right-hander’s numbers may con-
tinue to suffer until his hand heals.
For that reason, coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan chose to start freshman 
Christian Scott in place of Leftwich 
against Ole Miss on Saturday.
Dyson has been up and down 
all season with his control, and 
11 walks through four SEC games Gators succumb to consecutive SEC road-series sweeps
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida pitcher T ommy Mace has given up 13 runs on 22 hits in conference losses this season. 
but Boren was an integral piece at every 
meet she competed in. Boren, along with 
three other UF gymnasts, will still head to 
Fort Worth, Texas, as individual competi-
tors at the NCAA Championships.
Boren’s departure may leave a ripple, 
but Florida has plenty to be excited about 
in regard to its returning gymnasts.  
Freshman Trinity Thomas was the 
team’s most dominant gymnast. She was 
awarded the SEC Freshman of the Year 
award and was honored with four All-
American nods on the all-around, beam, 
bars and floor, the nation’s leading fresh-
man total.
This season also saw the rise of fresh-
man Savannah Schoenherr, who started 
the year with poor vault scores but later 
became an anchor on the vault and bars. 
UF has also had either the No. 1 or No. 2 
recruiting class in the nation nine of the 
last 10 years, and its recruiting power is 
likely to bring in more superstars in 2020.Aside from returning freshmen, the 
Gators also expect to return a few gym-
nasts who have already served in lead-
ership roles, such as sophomore Alyssa 
Baumann and juniors Rachel Gowey and 
Amelia Hundley. Any of them could fill the 
void left by Boren and guide the incoming 
recruiting class to the success this year’s 
freshman class displayed.
While there will be new additions to 
UF’s roster that didn’t experience the 
heartbreak in Corvallis, Oregon, there will 
be many on the roster who did. Rowland 
plans to use the missed opportunity to 
Florida’s advantage as it readies for a title 
run next year.
“We will learn from this experience, as 
it will sting for quite a while,” Rowland 
said. “This is a team with a lot of heart 
and pride. I know they will use this to get 
better.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
 GYMNASTICS,  from pg 1Trinity Thomas was an All-
American in four eventsSOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Jade Caraway jogged to second base. 
Florida’s center fielder didn’t have to 
worry about a possible play with two outs 
in the bottom of the fifth. The ball was in 
the Arkansas dugout. 
An errant throw by Razorbacks pitcher 
Autumn Storms put Caraway on base. 
She touched home on Amanda Lorenz’s 
double off the left-field fence in the next 
at-bat. 
Two errors by No. 14 Arkansas led 
to opportunities for the UF softball team 
on Sunday afternoon, as it scored three 
unearned runs in the 3-1 victory. No. 8 
Florida swept the three-game series and 
improved to .500 in the SEC. 
“I feel like we took it for granted the 
first three years,” Lorenz said about 
sweeping SEC teams. “It was kind of just 
what we did. So, I think it was nice to get this feeling again.”
Storms has given up 64 runs this sea-
son, 31 of which were unearned. The 
Razorbacks (26-14, 6-8 SEC) have com-
mitted 61 errors this season, the most in 
the SEC. That total includes four from this 
weekend. UF didn’t commit a single error 
in the series. 
“When you have a drop-ball pitch-
er like that, you’ve got to take care of 
the ball,” UF coach Tim Walton said. 
“(Storms) is really good, feeds the de-
fense a lot… We hardly hit any balls out 
of the infield against her.”
Florida (32-9, 6-6 SEC) provided 
enough run support for pitcher Kelly Barn-
hill, who turned in a solid performance 
on Sunday. The two-time All-American 
pitched her second complete game of the 
weekend after a shutout outing on Friday. 
She allowed only two hits and one earned 
run to go along with eight strikeouts on Florida wins all three over 
error-ridden Arkansas
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
LACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s lacrosse team has 
heard the same phrase all season long from 
coach Amanda O’Leary. 
“Come out of the blocks fast.”
It’s an expression commonly used in track 
and field where sprinters put their feet against 
starting blocks to begin a race quickly.
O’Leary used the saying to emphasize the 
importance of starting a game fast-paced.
The No. 19 Gators did that on Saturday, 
scoring five unanswered goals at the begin-
ning of their 18-9 victory over Vanderbilt at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
“It’s something that we’ve asked them to 
do,” O’Leary said, “and I thought (on Satur-
day) they executed the game plan perfectly.”
After gaining possession on the game’s 
initial draw, UF (7-6, 2-0 American Athletic 
Conference) ran an isolation play for senior 
midfielder Sydney Pirreca.
Pirreca escaped her defender and fired a 
shot into the top corner, giving Florida a 1-0 
lead 32 seconds into the contest.
Less than a minute later, the Gators struck 
again.
Junior midfielder Brianna Harris converted on a free-position attempt to double the lead.
Pirreca scored the next three goals, with 
two in the run of play and one from the free 
position.
By the 22:24 mark of the first half, UF had 
a five-goal advantage over the Commodores 
(9-3, 1-1 AAC).
“Contributing in the best way I can, early 
and often, was kind of what we were going 
for,” Pirreca said.
The AAC Preseason Midfielder of the Year 
led Florida with four goals, while Harris, se-
nior attacker Lindsey Ronbeck, sophomore 
midfielder Shannon Kavanagh and sopho-
more attacker Grace Haus all recorded hat 
tricks.
Ronbeck has recorded three goals or more 
in 10 out of 13 games this year, including 
a season-high eight in a 17-12 loss against 
Maryland on Feb. 14.
With her last goal against Vandy, Ronbeck 
became the second-leading goalscorer in pro-
gram history (204).
Senior goalkeeper Haley Hicklen had eight 
saves and a .500 save percentage against 
Vanderbilt.
UF has won its last four games, and Hick-
len has conceded no more than 10 goals in 
each of those victories.Pirreca noted that Hicklen’s presence in 
net makes the team feel comfortable regard-
less of the opponent.
“I never feel worried or anything like that 
when I know she’s behind me in the cage,” Pirreca said. “We can always rely on her 
when the going gets tough.”
@bmatamoros
bmatamoros@alligator.orgUF emphasizes fast start to open conference play
WOMEN’S TENNIS
MEN’S TENNISBy Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s tennis team entered 
the Ring Tennis Complex on Sunday in a must-
win situation.
The Gators would be ineligible for an at-
large selection in the NCAA Tournament if 
they finished the season below .500 — they 
entered Sunday’s contest in seventh place in 
the SEC with a 9-9 record.
UF’s match against Auburn — who entered 
Gainesville on a 10-match losing streak — was 
tight from the start, but late breakthroughs 
from freshman Sydney Berlin and sophomore 
Ida Jarlskog clinched a crucial 4-2 victory for 
the Gators.
“I was really happy to see that we were able 
to withstand (Auburn’s) best punch and pull out the win,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. 
“We have a short season in which we really 
need to excel in order to make the NCAAs… 
and it’s really going to be a mini playoff-type 
scenario going down the 
stretch.”
Sophomore McCartney 
Kessler returned for Florida 
(10-9, 7-5 SEC) in doubles 
play after missing Friday’s 
4-1 loss against Alabama 
due to a hip injury. She 
guided the Gators to a swift 
victory  in the opening point 
for the second time in their last five matches.
Freshman duo Marlee Zein and Berlin 
dominated Auburn’s Alannah Griffin and Car-
oline Turner in a 6-2 win, while Florida’s lone 
ranked pair in No. 65 Victoria Emma and Kes-
sler reunited and handled Madeline Meredith and Taylor Russo (6-4) to clinch the point.
“I thought doubles was much better with 
McCartney (Kessler) in there,” Thornqvist 
said. “Everyone was locked in at a different 
level because of that.”
Though Kessler returned for doubles, 
Thornqvist wasn’t confident she was healthy 
enough to start in the singles lineup and in-
stead gave Katie Kubicz the nod for her fourth 
start this season. 
It wasn’t the sophomore’s day on Court 6, 
with Kubicz winning just one game the entire 
match in a 6-1, 6-0 drubbing to Turner for the 
Tigers’ first point. 
Auburn’s Russo made quick work of Zein 
on Court 3 in a straight-set win (6-4, 6-1), re-
sulting in the freshman’s second-consecutive 
loss and a 2-1 Auburn lead. No. 78 Emma 
answered back in her three-set match against 
Meredith with a commanding 6-0 frame for her second straight-win (6-3, 4-6, 6-0), evening the 
match at two. 
Momentum shifted in Florida’s favor as 
Berlin grinded out a gritty 7-5, 7-6 (7-4) win 
over Yu Chen to put the Gators just one point 
away from victory. 
Attention turned to the main court, where 
No. 8 Jarlskog fought back to force a decisive 
third set over No. 103 Jaeda Daniel after drop-
ping her first set. The final frame was all Jarl-
skog, clinching the Gators’ 10th victory of the 
season 3-6, 6-2, 6-2 and her team-best 12th 
dual match win of the season. 
“I thought Auburn had fantastic heart and 
fought so hard,” Thornqvist said. “Hopefully 
we get McCartney back in the singles lineup 
before long because that makes us a complete-
ly different team.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.org
By Noah Ram
Sports writer
The Gators men’s tennis team is 
ready to party like it’s 2005.
Florida is now SEC regular-season 
champion for the first time in four-
teen years. It clinched at least a share 
of the title after beating Auburn 6-1 
at the Yarbrough Tennis Center in 
Auburn, Alabama, on Sunday.
The No. 2 Gators will be the sole 
SEC regular season champions for 
the first time since 2005 if they can 
defeat South Carolina on Sunday. A 
loss to the Gamecocks would create 
a tie at the top of the standings with 
Texas A&M, who the Gators beat on March 31 at home, 5-2. 
Florida’s 11-0 start in SEC play is 
its best in 14 years, when it started 
with the same record. The Gators 
have won 13 in a row and are 19-2 
overall. The last time they finished 
the season with two-or even three-
losses was 1977.
“Everyone  
came out today 
ready to go and 
played very 
well,” sophomore 
Oliver Crawford 
said in a release. 
“We know we 
still have to beat 
South Carolina to win the SEC outright and that’s what we are 
focused on doing.” 
For the most part, UF stuck with 
the same lineup that had success in 
the 7-0 win over Alabama on Friday. 
The only change was freshman Lu-
kas Greif and sophomore Andy An-
drade paired on Court 3. 
The doubles point came easily 
against the Tigers (12-17, 0-11 SEC). 
Senior McClain Kessler and junior 
Johannes Ingildsen won on Court 1, 
6-1. 
The point was clinched on Court 
2 with a 6-1 win by Crawford and 
senior Alfredo Perez. Greif and An-
drade led 5-1 when their match was 
stopped after the point was cliched.Singles play came easily again for 
the Gators. UF took the first set on 
five of six courts including 6-0 first-
set wins by Kessler and Crawford. 
Kessler and Perez cruised to wins on 
Courts 5 and 6, with Kessler winning 
6-0, 6-1 and Perez winning 6-1, 6-0. 
No. 14 Crawford clinched the 
win 6-0, 6-1 over Matteo DeVincen-
tis. He improved to 9-2 in SEC play 
and clinched for the second time this 
season. He has also won six straight 
matches.
Auburn picked up its only point 
in the match when No. 89 Ingildsen 
fell to Tad Maclean 6-4, 6-0. That 
was the only point the Tigers got 
as Andrade clinched a 6-2, 6-2 win. Sophomore Duarte Vale completed 
the match with a 6-4, 6-7, 1-0 vic-
tory in a 10-point tiebreaker. No. 109 
Vale improved to 9-0 in SEC play and 
extended his winning streak to 10 in 
singles.
This season has been a great im-
provement for Vale, as he is 12-1 this 
season after finishing 5-6 in singles 
in 2018.
“We don’t want to share the title. 
South Carolina is a very good team 
and it will be very tough,” Crawford 
said. “We are looking forward to the 
challenge.”
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida earns pivotal victory over Auburn at home
Gators clinch share of SEC title with win over AuburnChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida midfielder Sydney Pirreca scored four goals in UF’s 18-9 win over Vanderbilt 
on Saturday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Crawford
Kessler
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2019
Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF pitcher Kelly Barnhill allowed just two hits and one earned run in Florida’s 3-1 win over Arkansas on Sunday.
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
Two Florida women’s golfers, 
juniors Sierra Brooks and Marta 
Perez, partook in the inaugural Au-
gusta National Women’s Amateur 
this week with success.
Brooks, the No. 22-ranked ama-
teur in the world, and Perez, No. 
60, according to the Women’s Am-
etuer Golf Rankings, were invited 
to compete based on their respect-
able places and influence in the 
women’s amateur game.
Brooks and Perez finished T10 
(+1) and T21 (+4), respective-
ly. Both Gator standouts were in 
contention all week but struggled 
during the final round at Augusta, 
the only round on the celebrated 
course. The first two rounds were 
held at the local Champions Retreat 
Golf Club, with the top-30 advanc-
ing to the final day.
Bobby Jones and Clifford Rob-
erts founded the Augusta National 
Golf Club in 1933 with the idea of 
creating the most prestigious, ex-clusive and elite club in the South. 
Jones, indisputably the greatest 
golfer of his time, and Roberts, a 
close friend and Wall Street broker, 
hired legendary golf course archi-
tect Alister MacKenzie to put their 
dream to reality.The first Masters Tournament 
was held soon after in 1934, and 
since then, the tournament has 
been a spectacle of spring, and a 
staple in the sporting world’s cal-
endar.
Yet, despite all the glory that Au-gusta National basks in annually — 
its flowers in full bloom, not a sin-
gle blade of grass or grain of sand 
out of place, a seemingly always 
top-caliber tournament — the club 
has always been undermined by a 
failure to adapt to modern times.
Florida alum and current club 
chairman Fred Ridley presented 
the Augusta National Women’s 
Amateur prior to last year’s Masters 
Tournament, an unprecedented op-
portunity to spotlight the game’s 
best female amateurs on the hal-
lowed grounds of Augusta National 
for the first time, the weekend be-
fore the men compete.
The 54-hole event was met with 
widespread praise, and this week’s 
inaugural competition proved that 
the women’s competition can also 
bring crowds to Augusta each April.
In the highest-rated women’s 
golf telecast in three years, Wake 
Forest senior Jennifer Kupcho out-
lasted Arkansas senior Maria Fassi 
to become the event’s inaugural 
champion.
It was a two-person duel for most of Saturday’s final round at 
Augusta, but ultimately it was Kup-
cho who pulled away victorious at 
10 under, four shots clear of Fassi, 
a native of Mexico.
The women who competed un-
derstood the size of the moment, 
the historic nature of what it meant, 
and they took it with stride.
It was the opportunity of a life-
time.
“It’s huge. It’s everything wom-
en’s golf needs,’’ Brooks said in a 
release. “I’m just so honored that I 
get to be a part of this historic event 
and be a part of history, and I just 
really hope that this tournament 
will inspire the next generations.”
For Brooks, who also had her 
father, Brent, caddying for her this 
week, this event was extra special.
“Having him on the bag, last 
round at Augusta National, there’s 
nothing that beats that,” she said. 
“One of the best memories ever.”
 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgBrooks, Perez compete at historic Augusta NationalSunday. 
Barnhill conceded a home 
run in the top of the second 
inning to give the Razor-
backs the game’s first lead. 
Right fielder Katie Warrick 
grooved an 0-2 pitch off the 
top of the scoreboard in left-
center field for a solo shot. 
Barnhill allowed a walk 
and hit a batter later in the 
second, but she struck out 
three to retire the side and 
get out of the jam.
The Gators turned the 
deficit into a lead in the bot-
tom of the third. 
Designated player Jordan 
Roberts reached first cour-
tesy of an errant throw by 
Arkansas shortstop Keely 
Edwards. Pinch runner 
Amanda Beane took second 
on a single by first base-man Jordan Matthews and 
advanced to third on a sac-
rifice bunt by Hannah Sipos. 
Then, a ground out by Cara-
way allowed her to score. 
Lorenz plated Matthews 
with a bloop single to center 
field on the next at-bat. The 
senior left fielder went 2 for 
3 with 2 RBIs. 
Lorenz’s RBI double in 
the fifth added an insurance 
run, and Barnhill didn’t al-
low another base runner af-
ter UF took the 3-1 lead. 
“I think just the offense, 
we’re trying to take it per-
sonally and have our pitch-
ers’ backs,” Lorenz said. 
“This weekend was just nice 
for us to give them a little 
something, give them a little 
breathing room.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14Lorenz went 2 for 3 with a double and 2 RBIs on Sunday
showcases that.
The junior salvaged a victory against Mis-
sissippi State last month, but his other out-
ings have been shortened by inconsistency.
He only went 3.1 innings against Ala-
bama, and this weekend’s start was just 3.2 
innings, as he allowed four walks against the 
Rebels.
His strikeout-to-walk ratio is just 14 to 11 
against SEC competition, and if those results continue, O’Sullivan will be relying on his 
bullpen more and more on the days Dyson 
takes the mound.
Bullpen issues continue to hurt Gators
UF fell to 0-6 in SEC road games after this 
weekend’s series, and the bullpen is partially 
to blame.
The pen has given up 37 runs in the two 
SEC series away from Gainesville, and six re-
lievers have ERAs at or above nine in confer-
ence play.Redshirt freshman Hunter Ruth has had 
some great moments at Alfred A. McKethan 
Stadium, but his appearances away from 
home have not been ideal.
This weekend’s outing was by far his 
worst as he gave up 10 runs (eight earned) 
off 12 hits after 2.1 innings.
Freshman Nolan Crisp also had a tough 
weekend in Mississippi.
Crisp earned his first loss of the season 
after surrendering UF’s lead late in Game 3, 
giving up six runs off six hits.Not everything was the the bullpen’s fault 
against Ole Miss, though.
Florida’s defense let it down early and of-
ten during Games 2 and 3 of the series on 
Saturday.
Four errors during the contests allowed 
the Rebels to score eight unearned runs.
Shortstop Brady McConnell (5), second 
baseman/outfielder Jacob Young (2) and 
first baseman Kendrick Calilao (2) lead the 
team in errors during conference play.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Florida led 8-0 before letting up 10 straight runs
Alligator File Photo
Florida golfer Sierra Brooks tied for 10th at the Augusta National 
Women’s Amateur with a score of 1 over.
