We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators defeat FAMU, win 5 straight
The UF baseball team beat Florida Atlantic 
12-1 on Tuesday, and pitcher Nolan Crisp got 
his second win, pg. 1 4A plastic ban for the county
The county commission decided to follow Gainesville’s steps in 
eliminating plastic use, pg. 4
All jokes aside
The UF president continued his April Fools’ tradition, pg. 5WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 76
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
ABOVE: Jaboukie Young-White, a stand-up comedian and correspondent for 
“The Daily Show, ” performs in front of an audience of about 450 people Monday 
night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Young-White joked about topics like 
college, Twitter and coming out to his parents. The event was presented by the 
Reitz Programming Board and was free for UF students.
ABOUT 450 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer 
Comedian Jaboukie Young-White 
ﬂ  ipped through a slideshow of bugs, speculating each one’s sexuality.  
“Wasps are straight,” Young-White 
said. “‘Zaddy’ long legs — gay.” 
The crowd of about 450 students 
cackled in agreement. 
Young-White, a 24-year-old come-
dian who has appeared on “The Daily 
Show with Trevor Noah,” performed 
in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
Monday night. 
He was paid $10,500 by the Reitz 
Programming Board. Young-White’s 
hour-long set was ﬁ  lled with stories 
of his life growing up gay, living in 
Los Angeles and Chicago and his ex-
periences in college.   
“All these rich parents are, like, 
paying for their kids to get into 
school,” he said. “It’s like OK, just, 
you know, give your kids just a lit-
tle bit of trauma so they could write 
something in their college essay.”
He went on to describe the differ-
ences between his younger brothers 
and himself, who he says are much 
taller than him.
“Me and my brothers are really dif-
ferent from each other,” he said. “I 
carry myself like an inbred European 
prince.”
Young-White interacted with the 
audience, asking individuals their 
majors and joking about the num-
ber of liberal arts students. The ﬂ  oor 
wasn’t opened up for questions. 
Many of Young-White’s jokes dealt 
with his sexuality, and he followed 
many of his lines with a giggle. 
“My dad was like, ‘Oh my God, I 
can’t believe my son is gay,’” Young-
White said about his coming out expe-
rience. “He had a bit of a stroke and 
a heart attack, and I was like, ‘You’re 
being such a queen right now.’”
Young-White’s routine was not 
complete without a “Florida man” 
joke. Surprised by the gloomy weath-
er he experienced during his stay in 
Florida, he said it resembles a “Twi-
light” movie, and that he expected to 
see a “Florida man vampire.” Comedian Jaboukie Young-
White performs at Reitz
SEE JABOUKIE,  PAGE 3By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
In 2017, Hasan Minhaj 
hosted the White House 
correspondents’ dinner 
in which President Don-
ald Trump was absent. 
Minhaj said it wasn’t an 
honor.
“No one wanted to 
do this. So, of course, it 
lands in the hands of an immigrant,” Min-
haj said.
Now, he’ll speak at UF. 
The Accent Speakers Bureau will host 
Minhaj at the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts on April 11 for a moderated 
conversation, Accent Chairman Gregory 
Wolf wrote in an email.Minhaj, an Indian American comedian, 
is known as the host and creator of the 
Netﬂ  ix comedy show “Patriot Act with 
Hasan Minhaj,” as well as a correspondent 
for “The Daily Show.” Minhaj will be paid 
$78,000, according to his contract with UF. 
The event is free to students, who can 
pick up tickets with a Gator 1 Card from 
the Student Government suite in the Reitz 
Union on April 9 and 10 between 10 a.m. 
and 5 p.m., Wolf said. Students can pick 
up leftover tickets at the same place be-
tween 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. April 11.
The event will be presented as a mod-
erated conversation, which is a sit-down 
interview where a moderator will ask Min-
haj questions, Wolf said. The conversation 
will be followed by a 15-minute Q&A ses-
sion.Comedian Hasan Minhaj to 
speak at Phillips Center 
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sequins, stand-up comedy and Nicki 
Minaj songs will grace the presence of UF 
students on April 13.
At 8 p.m., Pride Awareness Month, a 
subgroup under UF Pride Student Union, 
will host its fourth annual drag show at the 
Phillips Center for Performing Arts, said 
Andrew McAuley, the Pride Awareness 
Month executive director. 
Performers will include contestants 
from VH1’s reality show, “RuPaul’s Drag 
Race,” like Gia Gunn and Ariel Versace, as 
well as local drag queens like Kelly Kelly 
and Faith Taylor, McAuley said.
“Drag is such an important part of Pride 
Awareness Month because it brings so 
much visibility,” McAuley said. “We are 
able to show other people outside the com-
munity what we do on campus.”  
The event is free to the public. Sixty people will be selected from competitions 
held on the group’s social media pages and 
from meeting with students throughout 
next week to participate in a meet-and-
greet with the drag queens an hour before 
the show starts. 
The event cost approximately $22,000, 
primarily through student government al-
located funding, McAuley said. About 
$15,000 of that went toward booking “Ru 
Paul’s Drag Race” queens.
Audrey Long, a 20-year-old UF psychol-
ogy and women’s studies sophomore, said 
she is ready to see local Gainesville drag 
queens perform on such a large stage. She 
frequently sees their performances at an 
LGBTQ+ bar, University Club, at 18 E. 
University Ave. 
“I like how bold the queens are to go 
against what society projects the conven-
tional gender norms to be,” Long said. 
“They have a sense of self and rebellion I 
wish I had.”UF Pride Awareness Month 
holds fourth annual drag showMinhaj
Accent will pay Minhaj $78,000
SEE HASAN,  PAGE 3
The event cost $22,000 to produce
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
RPB Presents: Greetings from 
Florida
When: Noon to 3 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union North Lawn
What: Students can experience 
iconic attractions from around 
Florida. There will be a Wynwood 
Wall photo booth, do-it-yourself 
Mickey ears, a mechanical ga-
tor and surfing at Panama City 
Beach. The event is free for UF 
students with a Gator 1 Card.
Take Back the Night: March and 
Rally to End Sexual Violence
When: 5:30-8:30 p.m.
Where: Plaza of the Americas
What: Survivors are invited to 
share their stories at an open 
mic and participate in a demon-
stration supporting them and an 
end to sexual violence. There 
will be free T-shirts. From 5:30-6 
p.m., there will be poster mak-
ing, activities, performances and 
a T-shirt giveaway. From 6-6:15 
p.m., Maddy Coy will conduct 
the chant practice. From 6:15-7 
p.m., demonstrators will march. 
From 7:15-8:30 p.m., there will be 
more speakers, another open mic 
and an art display. Call Sexual 
Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education at GatorWell for more 
information at 352-273-4450. If you are a person with disabilities 
and anticipate needing accommo-
dations in order to participate in 
this event, email Amanda Metzler 
at ametzler@ufsa.ufl.edu at least 
three days prior to the event.
THURSDAY
Technology, Media and Privacy 
Law: Crime, Justice and Equity
When: Noon to 5 p.m.
Where: UF Levin College of 
Law Campus, Chesterfield Smith 
Ceremonial Classroom (Holland 
Hall Room 180)
What: The Brechner Center 
will co-sponsor a session about 
emerging issues at the intersec-
tion of privacy and transparency 
in the criminal justice system. 
The conference is free to attend 
and open to the public. Speakers 
scheduled to appear include 4th 
Circuit State Attorney Melissa 
Nelson, CNN legal commenta-
tor Latonia Hines and other ex-
perts from the fields of law, me-
dia, government and advocacy. 
Panelists will talk about issues of 
public accountability and trans-
parency in law enforcement, 
including access to police body 
camera videos and mugshots, the 
transparency of “predictive polic-
ing” technology and more. More 
information can be found at law.
ufl.edu/events/2019-technology-
media-privacy-law-conference . 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  54°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
Correction:  In an article titled 
“UF professor placed on leave 
after ‘sexting’ accusation” that 
ran in Monday’s edition, the in-
vestigation reported that for-
mer UF professor Mohamed 
DaCosta's alleged harassment 
interfered with the woman's 
ability to perform her job, edu-
cation or participate in an aca-
demic program. The Alligator 
reported differently. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please 
call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. T o 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
entries before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 76WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
We’re IDEA Public Schools, and we’re hiring people just like you. People who are driven to innovate and collaborate to change education for the better. People who don’t settle for the status quo. 
People who have high expectations for themselves and thrive in a high-growth, high-reward environment. And most importantly, people who are united in the belief that every child has the potential 
to succeed in college and in life. By 2022, we’ll serve 100,000 students at 173 schools across ten regions. As we grow, you grow – at IDEA, your professional potential is limitless.
Explore your future at ideapublicshools.org/careers.
Join our community at fb.com/IDEACareers.TEACHERS CO-TEACHERS OPERATIONS LEADERS CHANGEMAKERSWE WANT TO MAKE
A DIFFERENCE IN yours .
difference
difference
   YOU WANT TO MAKE A 
IN PEOPLE’S LIVES.The comedian concluded his 
set with a slideshow with a series 
of back-and-forth tweets between 
himself and another user, who 
criticized Young-White’s sexual-
ity. Young-White called the man 
a “broke Uncle Phil” from “The 
Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.”
Suha Zaidi, a 20-year-old UF 
psychology sophomore, went to 
the show with a friend. She said 
she wanted to see Young-White after watching his routines on 
“The Daily Show.”
Zaidi’s favorite story from the 
performance was how Young-
White talked his way out of get-
ting robbed. He told the students 
that if you’re annoying enough, 
the robbers will give you your 
phone back.
“It’s probably exactly what I 
would do if I got robbed,” Zaidi 
said.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgJABOUKIE,  from pg. 1He showed slideshows
Insect Sexuality, according to Jaboukie Young-White
Dragonﬂ  ies are gay
Ladybugs are lesbians
Beetles are lesbians (with a strap-on)
Bees are gay
Wasps are straight
Praying Mantises are gay
Cicadas are straight
Scorpions are bisexual
Daddy Long Legs spiders are gay
Cockroaches are gay
Ants are a mystery
The caterpillar from “A Bug’s Life” is gay Doors will open at 7 p.m. and the event 
will start at 8 p.m. 
“Mr. Minhaj was chosen to speak be-
cause we feel he is a dynamic speaker 
that brings both comedy and a cultural 
perspective to our students,” Wolf said.
There will be a meet-and-greet photo 
opportunity with student leaders, accord-
ing to the contract. 
Accent is funded by SG, whose budget 
comes from student Activity and Service 
Fees, which come entirely from students.
Any remaining tickets will be available 
to the public at the Phillips Center box 
ofﬁ  ce at 7 p.m. on the day of the event.
“I hope that students will come with 
an open mind and that students will get a 
break from their daily classwork to enjoy 
a laugh with us,” Wolf said. 
Tasnim Thakur, a 19-year-old UF 
business administration and psychology 
freshman, is planning to see Minhaj af-
ter hearing about his appearance from her 
group chat with several Asian cultural or-
ganizations, she said. 
Thakur said she admires Minhaj’s suc-
cess as a Muslim comedian, which she 
ﬁ  nds inspiring as a Muslim woman.
“He is so widely accepted and loved, 
which is not a common thing in Ameri-
ca,” she said. “He’s a really good image 
for the Muslim community. And also, he’s 
just a hilarious guy.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgHASAN,  from pg. 1A 15-minute Q&A will be held
PAST ACCENT SPEAKERS
Spring 2019
Hasan Minhaj
$78,000
Kevin O’Leary
$95,000 
John Kasich
$60,000 (plus travel expenses)
Fall 2018
Armando Christian Pérez (Pitbull)  
$130,000 
Aly Raisman
$56,000
Summer 2018
Jay Pharoah
$52,000 
Spring 2018
Jodi Kantor
$20,000
Jim Jefferies
$125,000
Dan Mullen
Not paid, estimated cost to host event under 
$5,000
T erry Crews
$40,000
Insect Sexuality, according to Jaboukie Young-White
Ladybugs are lesbians
Beetles are lesbians (with a strap-on)
Praying Mantises are gay
Cicadas are straight
Daddy Long Legs spiders are gay
Beetles are lesbians (with a strap-on)
Daddy Long Legs spiders are gay
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE HAS A 
$1,302,000 BOND 
A man accused of hav-
ing sex with a 13-year-old 
girl and sending sexually 
explicit messages to her and 
her 15-year-old friend was 
arrested Sunday. 
Depu-
ties found 
Facebook 
messages 
sent by 
Tony Lo-
renzo Hug-
gins Jr., 
26, of Or-
lando, to 
a 13-year-old girl and a 
15-year-old girl between July 
6 and July 28, according to 
an Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce sworn complaint afﬁ  -
davit. 
Huggins had sex with the 
13-year-old at least once, the 
report said. He repeatedly 
messaged her that he was go-
ing to Gainesville and asked 
her to send photographs of 
her naked. She refused and 
sent him videos.In one message he said, 
“I gotta see u dance naked I 
bet dat lil a-- b moving. I’m 
horny I’m trying to see u na-
ked,” the report said.
The 13-year-old told Hug-
gins she knew he had sex 
with her 15-year-old friend 
the same day they had sex, 
the report said. In a message 
thread to the 15-year-old, 
he and the girl talked about 
meeting up to have sex. He 
also sent a photo of his erect 
penis and she sent him a 
photo of her vagina. 
Huggins was arrested 
Sunday on a warrant, accord-
ing to court records. 
He was charged with lewd 
and lascivious behavior to a 
victim between the ages of 
12 and 16 years old, using a 
computer to seduce a child, 
promoting sexual activity to 
a victim less than 16 years 
old, possession of obscene 
material and distributing ob-
scene material to a minor, 
the report said.
Huggins remained in the 
Alachua County Jail Tuesday 
in lieu of a $1,302,000 bond. SHE WAS SWERVING 
ON THE ROAD
A woman was accused of being 
intoxicated while swerving in and 
out of her lane with a child in the 
car Sunday. 
At about 7:30 p.m., a deputy 
saw Meggan Faye Jones, 30, of 
Gainesville, driving a Chevrolet 
Equinox near 22000 W Newberry 
Road, according to an Alachua Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. The 
car was swerving, driving on and off 
the road and almost hit another car. Jones had a 
child in the back-
seat of the car, 
said ACSO spokes-
person Lt. Brett 
Rhodenizer. 
When she was 
stopped, she was 
slow to get out of 
the car, and she 
was struggling to walk to the patrol 
car, the report said. 
Jones had slurred speech and 
smelled like alcohol, the report said.  
While the deputy talked to her, she 
leaned against the patrol car to bal-ance herself. 
Jones refused to participate in 
ﬁ  eld sobriety exercises or give a 
breath sample, the report said.
She was charged with a DUI and 
child abuse without great bodily 
harm, the report said. 
On March 9, Jones was accused 
of texting while driving. She was 
charged with careless driving two 
days later, according to court re-
cords.
She was bailed out of the Ala-
chua County Jail Monday on her 
own recognizance. She could not be 
reached for comment. Man accused of sexting two 
minors, having sex with one
Woman accused of drunk driving with child in carAll Stories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez  |   Alligator Staff Writer
 kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org   |   Twitter: @katwf98
GPD: Man threatens homeless man with knife over beer
HE HAS A $40,000 BOND 
A man accused 
of pulling out a 
knife on a home-
less man over beer 
was arrested Sun-
day. 
David Arthur 
Williams, 61, of 
Gainesville, ac-
cused a homeless 
man of touching his beer and threat-
ened to beat him up if he touched it near a Target, at 3970 SW Archer 
Road, according to a Gainesville Po-
lice arrest report. 
Williams pulled out a knife and 
held it to his side, police said. He 
walked toward him and the man 
called an ofﬁ  cer.
Williams hid the knife in hedges 
10 feet away, the report said. 
A witness saw Williams yell at the 
man about his beer but did not see 
him pull out a knife. She told police 
the knife in the hedges belonged to 
her, the report said.
Williams denied having a knife but did admit to threatening to “beat 
his a-- if he touched my beer again,” 
the report said.  He told the ofﬁ  cer the 
man poured out one of his beers. 
Police responded to a battery 10 
minutes later involving Williams, the 
report said. He said he was slapped.
Williams was drunk and told po-
lice the person who slapped him 
should be gutted, the report said.
He was charged with aggravated 
assault, the report said. 
Williams remained in the Ala-
chua County Jail Tuesday in lieu of a 
$40,000 bond. Williams
Huggins
Jones
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Commis-
sion made a motion to bring a sin-
gle-use plastic and Styrofoam ban 
to a public hearing next week. 
On Tuesday, the commission 
voted unanimously to follow the city of Gainesville’s example. The 
city commission voted to pass a 
plastic ban ordinance in January.
Patrick Irby, the county’s waste 
alternatives manager, presented 
other Florida cities who have passed 
similar bans during the meeting 
to show how it would work if the 
county made the decision. The ban would remove Styro-
foam containers, like takeout trays 
and cups, and single-use plas-
tic bags from all restaurants and 
stores. There will be some excep-
tions to the law, including bags 
used at dry cleaners and produce 
bags in grocery stores.
There will be citations and an education process for business 
owners who violate the ban, Irby 
said. 
Irby said the ordinance is mod-
eled after Coral Gables, Florida, 
which passed a Styrofoam ban in 
2016 and banned plastic bags in 
2017. 
The county wants to implement 
the ban with the city of Gainesville 
on January 1, 2020, Irby said.
Chris Rose, 30, of Waldo, spoke against the ordinace during the 
meeting. He asked the board to en-
force ordinances that are already in 
place regarding the environment 
rather than creating a ban.
“It’s already illegal to litter, it’s 
already illegal to improperly dis-
pose of trash,” Rose said. “I would 
support stronger penalties for those 
violations.”
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgAlachua County proposes its own single-use plastic ban
It hopes to follow Gainesville’s suitWEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
215 N Main StreetGainesville Masonic Lodge No. 41
Come out and get to know us.
OPEN HOUSE
Saturday, April 6
10 am - 4 pm
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs turned his commence-
ment garb into a football uniform, Century Tower 
now plays 80s music and Carly Rae Jepsen will 
perform at UF. 
Or so students were led to believe.
Fuchs continued his tradition of jokes on April 
Fools’ Day. He has pulled a prank every year since 
he took ofﬁ  ce in 2015. Other pranks this year in-
cluded playing the song “Never Gonna Give You 
Up” by Rick Astley at Century Tower and tickets to 
see pop artist Carly Rae Jepsen at the UF Perform-
ing Arts Center going on sale on April 31 — a day 
that doesn’t exist.
“The month of April is a hard month, in terms 
of stress with ﬁ  nishing up the semester,” Fuchs 
said. “I try to inject just a little bit of levity, often 
making fun of myself. It’s the only time of year I 
can get away with it.” 
Past pranks include UF and FSU announcing a 
merger in 2016, and Fuchs and then-football coach 
Jim McElwain switching jobs in 2015. In 2018, 
instead of pulling a traditional prank, Fuchs an-
nounced the temporary “Food for Fines” program 
that allowed students to donate food to the Field 
and Fork Pantry to forgive parking tickets.
This year’s prank featured a series of posts 
across Twitter, Instagram and Facebook on UF ac-counts building up to a video of Fuchs in a foot-
ball uniform made to resemble his commencement 
robe. The jersey had No. 12 on the back because 
Fuchs is UF’s 12th president. 
The video did not cost any money to produce 
because it was done internally, Fuchs said. The 
theater department’s costume shop made the uni-
form, and the UF Athletic Association ﬁ  lmed the 
video. 
The plan has been in the works for about a year. 
Permission from the athletic department was need-
ed as the football uniforms were involved, Fuchs 
said.
“We don’t want to make fun of them. We just 
want to have fun,” Fuchs said. 
A student in UF Carillonneurs, a student group 
that plays the bells in Century Tower, had their 
own prank ideas.
When UF Carillonneur Wade Fitzgerald, a 
21-year-old UF music and biology senior, saw he 
was scheduled to perform in the Century Tower on 
April Fools’ Day, he decided it was an opportunity 
for a prank. 
Instead of playing what he was scheduled to 
perform, he “rickrolled” students by playing “Nev-
er Gonna Give You Up,” by Rick Astley. Rickrolling 
is a meme involving the song’s unexpected appear-
ance. 
“There was a real program. I just didn’t play 
it,” Fitzgerald said. “It caught people by surprise.” UF president continues April Fools’ jokes  
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Heads buried in laptops and cell 
phones bolted upright when Senator 
Nikolas Bindi (Inspire, Liberal Arts and 
Sciences) called the UF Student Govern-
ment Senate out on Tuesday night. 
“I don’t know how you sleep at night,” 
Bindi said of the Senate’s behavior in the 
past weeks. 
The Inspire caucus brought miscon-
duct allegations against two Impact sena-
tors: Information and Communications 
chairwoman Meryl Jones (District A) and 
Budget and Appropriations committee 
member Audrey Wikan (Sophomore).
Inspire asked for the removal of Jones 
and Wikan from their respective commit-
tee appointments. Both motions failed in 
a vote of 30-55 and 31-54, respectively.
Senate Minority Party Leader Ashley 
Grabowski (Inspire, graduate) said Jones 
provided additional points of information 
to members of her own party in order to 
gain an advantage in gaining committee 
seats. She also said Jones did not send 
emails to implement live-streaming in the chambers. Jones did not address this ac-
cusation.
Jones said the information she provid-
ed to potential committee members was 
directly from the committee description.
Grabowski said Wikan falsely identi-
ﬁ  ed herself as the district secretary for 
District 31 Representative Jennifer Sulli-
van when applying to the committee. 
Wikan provided 50 copies of a letter 
by Sullivan that listed her activities to 
include administrative tasks and budget 
maintenance.
“While serving as my intern, she had 
the opportunity to work alongside others 
in my ofﬁ  ce as she was getting trained in 
the district secretary position,” Sullivan 
wrote. 
Majority Party Leader Tony Emmett 
(Impact, District B) said Inspire Party’s 
actions were disrespectful and under-
mined Senate President Libby Shaw and 
Pro Tempore Emily Dunson. 
“Why would we as a party want to 
work with people with such negative at-
titudes toward us?” Emmett said.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgUF SG senators raise allegations of 
misconduct, slander, corruptionThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumnWe, the editorial board, wanted to address the last editorial published 
Monday entitled, “What does it mean to do it ‘For The Kids’?” Since 
its publication, we’ve received a number of questions regarding 
some of the topics we addressed. In addition, we received answers to 
some of our own questions posed in the editorial. We did not reach 
out to UF Health Shands Hospital specifically for Monday’s editorial; however, 
we received an email Tuesday from Shands spokesperson Rossana Passaniti 
after we reached out to her earlier that day. In the email, she provided a state-
ment from the CEO of Shands, Ed Jimenez, who responded to the board’s edito-
rial, which will be published in full on our website. He addressed some of our 
previous questions, namely where the money from Dance Marathon goes and 
how the Miracle Children are helped. These Miracle Children are patients at the 
Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. DMUF’s Miracle Children have profiles 
provided on DMUF’s website. These are the answers Jimenez provided: 
In the fiscal year of 2018, Jimenez said, “$9.8 million was raised for our local 
CMN [Children’s Miracle Network] thanks to Dance Marathons, local partners 
and corporate sponsors and events.” Of that amount, $3.9 million went to the 
UF College of Medicine department of pediatrics for pediatric research proj-
ects focused on neonates, children and young adults. Patient care and educa-
tion funding received about $846,000 for recurring programmatic support. This 
money also helped purchase more compression garments for the regional burn 
center, pediatric support groups and about $3.2 million funded “capital items 
like renovations to our pediatric infusion center.” More information was pro-
vided including a link to some efforts that the CMN donations fund. 
We understand this is a very sensitive topic, and many people have spent 
hundreds of hours working on it. We appreciate your feedback and your pas-
sion. We also would like to offer an apology to anyone who felt our questions 
were misplaced. We by no means meant to discredit the efforts and accomplish-
ments made by the Children’s Miracle Network, Shands or Dance Marathon; we 
merely wished to ask for more transparency on where the more than $3 million 
raised goes locally. We have a news article on Dance Marathon 2019 that was 
reported by an Alligator reporter, who does not work in the opinions section, 
that ran on the front page of The Alligator Monday with the headline, “Dance 
Marathon hits new record.” We did not ignore the event or its new record in 
our daily news coverage. 
As some of our questions were addressed, we would also like to address 
some of the questions that have been commented on Facebook — for example, 
if we had reached out to Dance Marathon for answers before the publication 
of the editorial. Near the end of March one of our reporters reached out to 
multiple representatives at DMUF asking specifically about the use of Venmo 
as a reliable way to raise money, and how much money has to be raised before 
someone is allowed to attend the event. She received only one response that 
directed her to another person and to the Dance Marathon press kit. She ulti-
mately received no response from that person and did not get the answers to 
the questions she posed.  
On the day of Dance Marathon, the reporter and photographer covering the 
event were followed around by a Dance Marathon representative and were de-
nied access to interview any of the Miracle Children, their families or to record 
their names for photos, stating it was a liability issue. However, The Gainesville 
Sun was able to get an interview with one of the Miracle Children for its own 
news story. 
We say this to offer more context to where our questions have come from 
so our readers understand that we didn’t get the opportunity to understand the 
impact directly from the people who benefit from Dance Marathon. We would 
also like to add that after our editorial was published, we received an email in-
viting the editorial board to take a tour of Shands, to which we gladly accepted. 
We had hoped to tour before the publication of this editorial; however, we were 
told by the Shands spokesperson that she will help set up a tour of Shands as 
soon as possible. Afterward, we will write an editorial about our experience. 
Lastly, we have received answers on how UF Health Shands utilizes the 
money raised from Dance Marathon, but we have yet to be able to confirm how 
much the Dance Marathon event costs and how it is paid for. We wanted to ex-
press our wish that Dance Marathon and Shands make breakdowns of the funds 
raised more easily accessible to the common person. We have always under-
stood that Dance Marathon and the Children’s Miracle Network organizations 
have always been for the kids, and we hope you understand that our questions 
were posed for the kids, as well. A follow-up on Dance Marathon
Here’s the real tea on Flat Tummy Tea
Flat Tummy Tea ads: They pop up 
almost everywhere on social me-
dia. It is possible that you have 
seen one on your Instagram, or 
maybe you follow an influencer 
who endorses the product every chance 
they get. But is this get-skinny-quick 
product actually useful? YouTubers 
have made videos documenting them-
selves trying the product, and online 
reviews offer more insight. However, 
from these reviews, it seems the only thing this 
product guarantees is that you’ll be running to the 
bathroom. So why do influential social media users 
continue to promote such a product, especially one 
targeted to young girls, a demographic more likely 
to dislike their own bodies?
The biggest and most recent critic of this prod-
uct has been Jameela Jamil, the long black-haired, 
bang-rocking actress from NBC’s “The Good Place.” 
Jamil’s main target has been the Kardashians, who 
promote the use of Flat Tummy products as a means 
to help shape their figures. The promotional posts 
usually include a photo of the influencer flexing 
their abs with the products sitting beside them or 
in their hand. The teas claim to reduce bloating and 
“detox your system.” While the tea seems like just a 
harmless scam (drinking tea can’t exactly hurt), the 
shakes are another story. The Flat Tummy Shake’s 
website advises to “replace 1-2 meals with your Flat 
Tummy Shake from Tuesday - Friday” as well as 
on Monday. Meal replacement is a tricky thing and 
something that should be discussed with a dietician. 
On her own post, referring to one of Khloe Kar-
dashian’s Flat Tummy promotional posts, Jamil 
wrote, “If you’re too irresponsible to: a) own up to 
the fact that you have a personal trainer, nutrition-
ist, probable chef, and a surgeon to achieve your 
aesthetic, rather than this laxative product...And b) 
tell them the side effects of this NON-FDA approved 
product, that most doctors are saying aren’t healthy 
[...] then I guess I have to.” Jamil makes a good 
point with her criticism.  Young, impressionable girls who 
follow influencers who advertise these 
products may not know all the work 
that goes into getting those flat abs. 
Drinking tea and shakes is most likely 
not the way it happened. As Jamil’s 
comment addresses, chefs, surgeons, 
trainers and nutritionists all play a part 
in making influencers like the Kardashi-
ans look perfect enough to advertise 
these products. Not only are these prod-
ucts misleading to young girls, whom are the target 
buyers, but the products from the company per-
petuate harmful eating habits. Flat Tummy appetite 
suppressant lollipops can be bought to “keep you in 
check.” And the “Best bit? They’re only 35 calories 
a pop!” This product is probably the most problem-
atic product on the website, and no one other than 
Kim Kardashian has promoted it. 
Although one might argue that it is their job to 
take these kinds of product deals, it does not mean 
they should disregard the responsibility they have 
to their young fans. If they care about their fans as 
much as they claim to, then they would not pro-
mote a company with products encouraging  un-
healthy eating habits. And of course an endorse-
ment is not forcing people to buy the diet-oriented 
products, but it is misleading to young followers. 
They might not know any better, and they may 
believe replacing meals with shakes and sucking 
on appetite-suppressing lollipops will get them the 
body of the influencers promoting those products. 
Some might think Jamil is being harsh with her at-
tacks against the Kardashians, but it comes from a 
position of defending young girls from these promo-
tional products. With so much content telling young 
girls what to buy, it’s important to be an aggressive 
voice in the crowd. It could be a way to break the 
brainwashing content. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
In my ﬁ  ve years at UF, I’ve met many 
people who have raised similar questions to 
yours regarding the sincerity and efﬁ  ciency 
of Dance Marathon’s fundraising efforts. 
They’re good questions. I’m sure they’re 
coming from a place of genuine concern. In 
fact, I’ve asked the same questions myself.
Here were my answers.
When you may have asked, “Why is 
there an obscene amount of neon clothing 
and fanny packs?” I was in my senior year 
of high school, scrolling through Instagram 
when those bright colors and quirky outﬁ  ts 
ﬁ  rst caught my eye. As someone planning to 
pursue a career in health care, the captions 
about fundraising for UF Health Shands 
Children’s Hospital had me intrigued. Al-
though I didn’t know exactly what I want-
ed to do with my time in college, I knew I 
wanted Dance Marathon to be a part of it.
You may have wondered, “With the big 
emphasis Greek life places on Dance Mara-
thon, what room is there for non-Greek stu-
dents?” I had just been released from so-
rority recruitment at the start of my second 
Fall semester. Despite being dropped from every Panhellenic house on campus, I was 
determined to keep my head up. I looked 
into starting my own team, with a campus 
group that didn’t require formal member-
ship for students to be able to participate in 
its activities. In Fall 2015, the Jewish Stu-
dent Union Dance Marathon team was in-
troduced to the over 9,400 Jewish students 
on our campus.
When you questioned, “Where does the 
money go?” I did my research. Along the 
way, I also found that Children’s Miracle 
Network was one of the most reputable 
charities around. I trusted that my dona-
tions would be put to good use. On that 
note, I understand your reluctance to do-
nate through Venmo. Although Dance Mar-
athon has ofﬁ  cial pages for each registered 
fundraiser, they can take some time to navi-
gate through, especially on mobile. Venmo 
is more efﬁ  cient – but, it’s also less secure. 
When you may have worried about stu-
dents using Dance Marathon to take over 
campus leadership, pad their resumes or 
show off their wealth, guess what? Their 
money beneﬁ  ts these families all the same, regardless of their underlying intentions.
When you were ﬁ  lled with concern 
about the students “patting themselves on 
their backs” for their good deeds, I spent 
my summer reaching out to the incoming 
freshmen through Facebook to further grow 
my team. It was hard work, but as a small 
team, we needed all the support we could 
get. I even found our next delegate! Over 
the course of the year, we planned a ba-
gel brunch and a day at the park for Jew-
ish students from all over campus to meet 
our Miracle Child, a bubbly ﬁ  fth grader who 
received monthly treatments for complica-
tions she faced from her premature birth. 
We even visited her in the pediatric infusion 
room at Shands, which Dance Marathon has 
helped fund.
Finally, when you were asking, “What 
does patient care mean?” I was setting my 
alarms for the crack of dawn for my clini-
cal rotations as a nursing student. I used a 
handheld vein illuminator to help start an 
IV. I placed a premature infant – whose 
birth I had just witnessed two hours prior 
– in a Giraffe Warmer bed. I walked in on a mother curled up on a sleeper sofa with her 
daughter, who was being screened for an 
upcoming lung transplant. 
Most of all, I cradled an infant in my 
arms as he was hooked up to monitors and 
a feeding tube, singing him to sleep after 
yet another long night. I gazed into his big 
blue eyes, holding back tears – how could 
someone this young, so small and helpless, 
have to suffer this much? I prayed for his 
future and for the future of all the other 
children on the unit – uncertain, yet hope-
ful. And at that moment, I couldn’t help but 
think about the thousands of students on 
our own campus who were not only just as 
concerned for these kids as I was, but also 
actively ﬁ  ghting for the resources they need 
for a chance at a better tomorrow.
No matter the ﬁ  nal fundraising total held 
up on the signs at the end of each year’s 
annual 26.2-hour stand, this cause is truly 
priceless.
Valerie Berman is a UF Bachelor of Science 
in Health Education graduate. She is a nursing 
student in the Accelerated BSN program. 
It would be tempting to think 
the most pressing political and 
cultural question of our day is 
the question of political afﬁ  lia-
tion: Republican or Democrat, 
conservative or liberal. We cer-
tainly spend a lot of time wonder-
ing if someone, especially some-
one famous, is one or the other, or 
which party is better, which view 
is the correct one. We tuck people we meet 
or see on TV nicely into those groups so we 
know what to think about them. “He’s a lib-
eral,” we often say to describe a person, or 
“She leans conservative.” These are mean-
ingful terms to us, capable of telling you all 
you need to know about another person. We 
believe strongly in them.
Our fascination with this political group-
ing started with one of our great founders, 
George Washington, who was famously sus-
picious of a two-party system and would not 
be surprised to see our animosity. He was 
worried the two parties would drift away 
from each other, away from a sense of the 
common good and toward a desire to rule at 
the expense of everyone else.
Indeed, many smart people today saddle 
Republicans and Democrats with responsi-
bility for our divisions. And it’s hard not to. 
Take the response to the Mueller report, for 
example. To paraphrase the columnist Peggy 
Noonan, if you identify with the left, you 
thought “the traitor got away with it, and 
you feel destabilized, deﬂ  ated.” If you are on 
the right, then you considered it an “attempt-
ed coup” and now feel “energized, elated.”
Notice how vastly different the two reac-
tions are, simply because of political beliefs. 
I sometimes wonder if we are reading the 
same news, or living in the same country. 
And yet, America has always been a place 
for people of different races and nationalities 
to come together as a single nation. Howev-
er, there have always been disputes, dating back to the earliest days of our his-
tory with the creation of the Con-
stitution until now, with problems 
rooted in religion, race, sex, etc. 
Today seems different. We 
seem to revel in our divisions and 
wear them as badges of honor 
rather than things to lament. Histo-
rian Andrew Delbanco segmented 
our history in his book, “The Real 
American Dream: A Meditation on Hope,” 
into three time periods: when we collectively 
hoped in God, in our nation and now in the 
self. In the former two periods, American life 
was imbued with a hope to be a nation un-
like any other in history. 
In those days, even though there were 
stark divisions, Americans of all types could 
appeal to the Bible or the Constitution as a 
popularly accepted way of being human. 
When our hope was the improvement of 
America, we were all trying to be distinc-
tively American.
My point is that it was not terrible back 
then to tell someone: “I think this is how we 
are all meant to be human.” We were all try-
ing to be something similar, something com-
mon — or at least that was the hope. It was 
not strange to believe that whatever being 
American or being human meant, it should 
apply to everyone.
 In my opinion, this is our most pressing 
cultural question today. Namely, is there a 
particular way we are all meant to be? Does 
being American look the same for you and 
me, or are we forever locked within our own 
interpretations and experiences? Is it seg-
mented along ethnic or gendered boundar-
ies? We should all think seriously about our 
answer. 
We have to understand everyone comes 
from different backgrounds, and that’s OK. 
Our differences do not have to divide us.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.I used to be against the habit 
of regularly spending mon-
ey on coffee. My parents 
were against it too. They 
would forward articles to 
my sisters and I about saving 
$5 a day. They would shake 
their heads in disappointment 
whenever they spotted us with 
a Starbucks cup in our hands. 
Comments like, “Is that cof-
fee really worth it?” and “You 
could’ve donated that money to charity!” 
were not uncommon. I understood their 
logic, so I only bought it when I really 
wanted to treat myself. My dad is a full-
blown caffeine addict with an ensured 
headache if he doesn’t drink at least 
three cups a day. I knew it wasn’t smart 
to get into the habit anyway.
Despite my best efforts, I am now an 
avid coffee drinker. I’m almost ashamed 
to say I am slowly making a complete 
180-degree turn on how I felt about 
spending money on coffee. The universi-
ty has made the act of getting coffee into 
a social affair, and I hate to be excluded. 
It started with accompanying my friends 
when they went out for a cup and has 
escalated to needing coffee in my hands 
while I study. In Gainesville, shops like 
Bay Islands Coffee Company and Coffee 
Culture have stolen my heart. Starbucks 
is nearly inescapable, with a new store 
popping up every few blocks and in every 
library.
Coffee is a craving that can’t be satis-
ﬁ  ed for long, no matter how good the cof-
fee is. Once you get into it, drinking cof-
fee every day is a cycle that can only be 
broken with serious willpower. I reason 
with myself that I might as well enjoy the 
taste if I am going to drink it every morn-
ing. Spending a few dollars a few times a week seems harmless. I try 
not to think about the truth, 
which is that if I keep going at 
this rate, I am going to end up 
shelling out hundreds of dol-
lars a year on coffee. 
I feel a little guiltier with 
every dollar I drop on a latte, 
but cutting coffee out of my 
expenditures does not neces-
sarily make me more ﬁ  nan-
cially mature. Managing your 
money properly is a skill that starts with 
being responsible. Sometimes it can be 
hard to tell how much you have to spend 
on the inessentials, especially if you have 
never had to keep track of your funds be-
fore college.
There are ways to budget and make 
room for a semi-frequent trip to the baris-
ta if you really want to. You could try 
going from purchasing three cups a week 
to two, or you could make a long-term 
investment in a nicer coffee machine that 
brews better coffee. Look for other places 
to save money or cut down on spending. 
Spend your money on coffee if that is a 
luxury you can afford and can’t live with-
out.
I am coming to terms with coffee be-
ing a part of my routine some days. It 
feels more worth it now than it did be-
fore. I am OK with this habit as long as I 
never let buying coffee get in the way of 
using my money for things I really need. 
If you are going to choose to prioritize 
coffee over another indulgence, so be it. 
It might take longer to save up for those 
sunglasses or that pair of shoes you have 
been eyeing, but at least you’ll be awake 
and alert while you do it.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sopho-
more. Her column appears on Wednesdays. If we look back at history, our 
divisions have only grown deeperSpend your money on coﬀ  ee, but 
remember those cups can add upColumn Column
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgTo the Dance Marathon skeptic: This has been my experience with DM WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Netﬂ  ix’s “The Legend of Cocaine Island”
Check out the new documentary that gives Alachua 
County more than 15 minutes of fame, pg. 10It’s not so great ‘Under the Sea’
Read our review of Gainesville Community Playhouse’s “The 
Little Mermaid, ” pg. 9By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Cindy, 64, and Joe Montalto, 65, fell in love 
with the bed-and-breakfast lifestyle after their 
ﬁ  rst stay in the 80s.
First, the couple looked at a house in Or-
lando but when they lost the place to someone 
who paid in cash, the couple started searching 
for Victorian houses in Gainesville’s historic 
district.  
Gainesville held fond memories for the two. 
They got married here and Joe studied engi-
neering at UF. On Easter Sunday 1990, the 
couple toured the Baird Mansion in downtown 
Gainesville with Joe Montalto’s parents. Cindy 
Montalto hoped her in-laws would convince 
them to not buy the rundown mansion, but 
they did not. 
Together, the couple completely restored 
the 1885 Victorian mansion and opened Mag-
nolia Plantation for guests May 3, 1991. 
The neighborhood at the time was not wel-
coming due to illegal activities like prostitution. 
“We had no idea what this area was like, 
there were hookers walking up and down the 
street,” Cindy Montalto said. “We were so en-
grossed in restoring the house, people prob-
ably thought we were idiots because nobody 
came down here.”
Montalto said that now the area is one of 
the safest neighborhoods in Gainesville. Even-
tually, the Montaltos were able to buy the 
properties surrounding the mansion and pre-
serve seven cottages. 
Their guests, friends and family also fell in 
love with the lifestyle and started restoring Vic-
torian houses around the Magnolia Plantation. 
This became known as the bed-and-breakfast 
district.  
The husband’s cousin, Patricia McCants, 
and her husband, Tom McCants, eventually 
opened the Camellia Rose Inn after visiting for 
their wedding anniversary.Two Magnolia Plantation guests, Monta 
and Peggy Burt, bought and restored the Laurel 
Oak Inn next door after staying with the cou-
ple. The inn is currently owned by Nan Char-
land and her husband, Dave Charland.
“We have something that we call ‘The 
Sucker Club,’” Cindy Montalto said. “Between 
guests and friends and family, we have moved 
18 people into this neighborhood.”  
Magnolia Plantation Bed & Breakfast Inn 
and Cottages is now a pet-friendly vacation 
destination complete with a full breakfast, 
gardens overlooking an inviting gazebo, path-
ways, bridge, ponds and a fountain. With the 
mansion and seven cottages, the B&B can host 
42 guests maximum.
The couple has a personal relationship with 
their staff and care deeply about their guests 
having a welcoming experience at the B&B.
“We are here for the people; these people 
are our job,” Cindy Montalto said. “Yeah, we 
had to restore this house, but it’s more about 
making sure people get a favorable impression 
of this super cool town.” 
Unlike an Airbnb, a B&B is required to fol-
low regulations, comply with inspections, have 
multiple licenses and pay a sales tax and bed 
tax. The owners are also required to live on-
site. 
In Gainesville, the quaint vacation get-
aways have to compete with hotels and Airb-
nbs for guests during commencement ceremo-
nies, football season, weddings and parents’ 
weekend.   
Owners like Cindy Montalto are frustrated 
with Airbnbs because of the lack of guidelines. 
“That’s the problem,” Montalto said. “We 
are forced to a different standard than they are 
but nobody seems to be able to do anything 
about them.”
Cornelia Holbrook, 55, owner of the Sweet-
water Branch Inn, thinks that inns in this area 
will be a thing of the past because of the level 
of commitment and money that goes into run-
ning an inn or B&B. Holbrook said her inn gets inspected four 
times a year to make sure the sprinkler sys-
tems, ﬁ  re alarms and licenses are all up-to-
date. 
“It takes a very special person to want to 
commit themselves to this,” Hollbrook said. 
“I mean, I’m married to this as much as I’m 
married to my family. Those two things go to-
gether, I’m married to my business, and I’m 
married to my family and my husband.” 
Since she was 4, Holbrook has lived in 
Gainesville. Her mother was the 
one who inspired her to open an 
inn. Her combined love of garden-
ing and cooking also motivated her 
to join the hospitality industry. 
The Sweetwater Branch Inn 
grounds feautures two Victorian-
style mansions, the McKenzie 
House and the Cushman-Colson 
House; ﬁ  ve guest cottages; one hon-
eymoon cottage; a reception hall 
that ﬁ  ts 180 people; gardens and a 
heated pool. 
Holbrook completely restored 
the 1885 Victorian Cushman-Colson 
house while her parents restored 
the 1895 Victorian-style McKenzie 
House. However, Cornelia made the 
McKenzie House code-compliant to 
make it a public-use space. 
By 1993, Holbrook opened the 
Sweetwater Branch Inn two years 
after the Magnolia Plantation. Each 
room has a different style that ranges from 
Asian-Victorian to garden-themed. She is re-
storing two more cottages. When she ﬁ  nishes, 
her inn will have 25 guest rooms.
Besides serving breakfast, the inn offers 
guests free bikes to explore nature trails and 
downtown Gainesville. Plus, a high tea is host-
ed on the third Tuesday of every month. 
Holbrook said business is not as busy as 
she would like it to be and has had brief con-
versations with UF President Kent Fuchs about promoting the B&B district as hospitality enti-
ties for out-of-town participants who come to 
UF during seminars, conferences and sympo-
siums. 
“Put us on the radar,” Holbrook said. 
“That’s all I want to be done, that’s all I want 
is that the University of Florida helps put these 
historic inns on the radar because they are spe-
cial.”
@vanessablankie
vblankenship@alligator.orgGainesville’s historic bed-and-breakfast district
MUSIC
Inn owners want UF to help put them on the radar
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Baird Mansion, pictured above in 
1896, became Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst Bed and 
Breakfast. The McKenzie House is below.
By Alex Camargo 
Avenue Staff Writer
Jordan Peele’s new horror ﬁ  lm, is 
sure to leave you in awe. The ﬁ  nal 
plot twist leaves audiences to theo-
rize for themselves and generating 
$70 million, “Us” is deﬁ  nitely one of 
2019’s best ﬁ  lms.
Adelaide Wilson  (Lupita 
Nyong’o) returns to the beachfront 
home she grew up in as a child with 
her husband (Winston Duke) and 
two kids (Evan Alex and Shahadi Wright Joseph).
After overcoming a childhood 
traumatic event, Wilson’s gut said 
something was wrong. She felt as 
though someone was after her and 
her family, and she was right.
The people after them were their 
clones. While trying to escape their 
clutches, the Wilsons quickly learn 
they’re not the only people who 
have killer dopplegangers.
The clones seem to be a part of 
an experiment that was ultimately 
successful, but the souls could not be replicated, which results in the 
clones’ connection to their originals. 
It’s as though they’re looking at a 
mirror, but all they see is the worst 
of themselves. Peele’s ﬁ  lm seems to 
insinuate that we are, in fact, our 
own worst enemy.
Left behind by their creators, the 
clones were hidden from the world 
in underground tunnels, depriving 
them of the outside world. But, one 
clone discovered the world above. 
Jealous of everything she did not 
get to experience, Adelaide’s clone, Red, was determined to give herself 
and her fellow clones the life they 
deserve.
Throughout the ﬁ  lm, viewers will 
feel lost and have a plethora of ques-
tions, but the answer to the biggest 
question is in front of you all along. 
The cast was superb. Each actor 
played an average person and a cold-
blooded killer. It was amazing to see 
the cast switch from being a loving 
family to thirsting for blood. 
Most of the character’s doppel-
gangers did not speak. There are a variety of scenes that show each mir-
ror-image killer in awe of what they 
were deprived of while down below.
Although the ﬁ  lm obviously ends, 
audiences will continue to theorize 
with friends as to how the events re-
ally happened.
Overall the ﬁ  lm was great, and I 
recommend it with a 10 out of 10. 
And with that being said: Well 
done, Jordan Peele, well done.
@AlexCamargo95 
acamargo@alligator.org‘Us’: Jordan Peele’s new thriller leaves you wanting more
FILM
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer 
Aries  
Liza Koshy is known for her spicy jokes and on-point im-
pressions. Being an Aries gives this comedic YouTuber enough 
energy to play multiple characters at once. To star in many roles 
and direct and write your own videos, it takes the energy only 
this ﬁ  re sign could possess. 
Taurus
JoJo Siwa uses trademark Taurus stubbornness to rock that 
side ponytail, even as her hairline begins to recede. Fifteen-year-
old YouTube sensation Siwa commits to her hyper, colorful 
brand in a way that only a Taurus could. 
Gemini
Car vlogs, coffees and pulling all-nighters are the Holy Trinity 
for Emma Chamberlain, who has a whopping 7.3 million sub-
scribers. Her self-destructiveness rings true for any Gemini who 
can’t seem to get a grip on the fast-paced world around them.
Cancer  
Shane Dawson is the conspiracy theorist of the bunch; he 
likes to get to the bottom of things. Just like any Cancer, he is 
extremely perceptive and makes almost anyone spill their truth. 
Thanks to his Cancer-psychic tendencies, he’s able to see the 
conspiracy clues that others may miss. 
Leo 
One part of the four-person gang, Zach from the Try Guys 
holds his own and stands out. This Leo manages to work great 
in a team setting due to his loyal nature. 
Virgo
Freelee the Banana Girl has a reputation for being a green, 
mean vegan-preaching machine. Sometimes described as judg-
mental, harsh or perfectionist, Virgos like Freelee have a knack 
for picking something up – like veganism – and sticking to it. Libra  
Damon Dominique is one half of the travel duo DamonandJo. 
He is the diplomatic side of the two. In true UN-esque, Libra-tar-
ian style, he speaks ﬁ  ve languages and uses his charm to make 
friends wherever he goes.  
Scorpio
Jeffree Star rules over the makeup video domain with tongue-
in-cheek reviews and a keep-it-real mentality. Like any Scorpio, 
Jeffree has his secrets and plenty of tattoos to go along with it. 
Sagittarius
Ethan and Grayson Dolan ﬁ  ght the Sag stereotype with their 
energetic and feel-good videos. These vlog-oriented twin broth-
ers push each other to new challenges and put their twin abilities 
to the test. 
Capricorn  
Jake Paul is one of the most problematic YouTubers on this 
list. His ambitious Capricorn tendencies may be the root of his 
overkill problem. His videos may seem out of control for the 
viewer, but it may just be an overcompensation to counteract his 
control issue, something characteristic of Capricorns. 
Aquarius  
Molly Burke is known for her informative videos that shed 
light on to the blind community. She is a classic Aquarius thanks 
to her humanitarian qualities. She uses her platform to help oth-
ers and does it in style, like any true Aquarius.
Pisces
As a ﬁ  tness guru, Whitney Simmons may not be your typi-
cal Pisces. She uses her high levels of empathy to understand 
what viewers want from a workout and uses the gym as a way 
to escape reality – a methodology of a Pisces: Swim away from 
the real world. 
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.org
Famous YouTubers
 and their zodiac signs
THE GAINESVILLE COMMUNITY 
PLAYHOUSE PRESENTS ‘THE LITTLE 
MERMAID’
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
Audiences may wish they could be “part of that world” 
when they enter the Vam York Theater to escape to great-
er horizons with Ariel and Flounder, but they may be 
underwhelmed. The Gainesville Community Playhouse 
production of “The Little Mermaid” reminds audiences of 
the values and foundations community theater provides, 
but fails to provide quality. 
“The Little Mermaid” is a musical version of the clas-
sic Disney tale of a girl who desires freedom from the sea 
and a chance at love in the human world. 
The Gainesville Community Playhouse rendition was 
a unique adaptation with a cohesive ensemble and color-
ful technical aspects that created the spectacle of the sea 
and the magic within. 
The cast performed as a nice ensemble on the  whole. 
The mermaid sisters were exceptional in their synced 
movements and choreography, as well as their harmo-
nies. The group consisted of performers of all ages, which 
added variety and youth to their performance. 
Anna Cappelli, 21-year-old UF public relations senior, 
portrayed the role of Ariel with passion, heart and charm, 
but did not follow through on her vocal technique. 
She sang the iconic solo “Part of Your World” with 
quite a bit of nasality, and lacked motivated movement, 
which made some of her choices unjustiﬁ  ed. 
The song is so iconic because Ariel is meant to take 
the audience on an emotional journey, and most are able 
to sympathize with wanting more from life. Yet Cappelli 
took the song to an emotional level of ﬁ  ve out of 10. She 
— along with some of her castmates — did not execute 
her role with full commitment and presence because 
there was no thought process, nor were there truthful 
moments. 
The same cannot be said for the evil, vindictive Ur-
sula, portrayed by Susan Christophy. Christophy was ex-
tremely consistent with her presence and commitment 
to the actor’s quartet: voice, body, emotion and intellect. 
Her moments were clear, her thought process was there 
and her vocal range was extensive. She knocked the oth-
er iconic solo “Poor Unfortunate Souls” out of the park.  
Rikki Baynard and Brittany Kelly portrayed Ursula’s 
personal assistants Flotsam and Jetsam respectively with 
similar zest as Christophy. Their ﬂ  uid body movements 
were informed and believable, and they had a nice vocal 
variety. They transformed themselves into evil eels in a 
way that suspended disbelief and brought the audience 
further into their world.   
The technical aspects of the show were impressive 
given that community theaters typically have to impro-
vise more than others to create a believable product that 
suspends the audience’s disbelief. 
Christophy, in her second role as scenic designer, in-
telligently brought together a colorful set and projections 
that added texture and life to the stage. 
One technical aspect of the show that was particularly 
alluring was that the actors would ﬂ  y across the stage on 
cables to make believe they were ﬂ  ying or swimming to 
the surface of the ocean. This was one of the few mo-
ments in the show when actors fully engaged their bodies 
to communicate an idea. 
Overall, the ensemble was at its strongest in the num-
ber “Under the Sea.” The actors seemed to have the most 
fun and make bold choices with the lyrics and choreog-
raphy. Had this energy and engagement been consistent 
throughout the production, it could have created a stron-
ger piece.  
“The Little Mermaid” is showing Thursdays and Fri-
days at 8 p.m., Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. and Sundays at 
2 p.m. until April 14. 
@emmamcavoy1  
emcavoy@alligator.orgIt’s not so great 
‘under the sea’
THEATER
Chris King/ Alligator Staff
Trenton Ropp, Driveaway’s lead singer and 
guitarist, plays a solo to close the Sunday night 
show at High Dive, which his band headlined.Chris King/ Alligator Staff
Damian Gutierrez, Cannibal Kids’ lead singer and 
guitarist, performs “Troubled Mind. ” Cannibal 
Kids, The Forum and Aster and Ivy opened.
Sundown on Sunday at the High Dive10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern 
portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  Come try our 
new specials! Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this add and get 10% off 
your order!BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on 
premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, 
ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english muffin or 
bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order will be 
ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open Late
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Alachua County gets to shine 
in a new Netﬂ  ix documentary and, 
surprisingly, it’s not for agricul-
ture, but cocaine. 
“The Legend of Cocaine Island” 
allows viewers and local residents 
to picture what it would be like if 
they came into dirty money. 
The comedic documentary, 
which premiered on March 29, tells 
the story of Archer resident Rodney 
Hyden who got caught up in an old 
tale that could have led him out of 
the recession to his prior glory. 
According to the documentary, 
there is a more than decade-old 
tale about a man coming across 
cocaine. Not knowing what to do, 
he buries it. At the time, the drug stash was worth $1 million, and 
now the price has doubled.
Whirling from the grim reality 
that has become his life after the 
recession, and supported by un-
wavering optimism, Rodney – with 
the help of a strung-out friend – 
makes a plan to retrieve the stash 
of cocaine from its reported Carib-
bean hiding place.
Hyden is the president of B.H. 
Builders, Inc., which he tells view-
ers he started in 1998.
“I am a dreamer,” Hyden said 
in the documentary. “Yes, I am an 
optimist.” 
Hyden comes from a hardwork-
ing family, and he mentions his 
belief he inherited from his father: 
Never allow someone to do for you 
what you can do for yourself.
The documentary follows 
Hyden all the way from the incep-
tion of this huge plan, to his mi-
nor involvement with a huge drug lord all the way to the ﬁ  nal police 
search. While the idea is crazy and, 
of course, illegal, the story overall 
is very heartwarming because of 
Hyden’s narration and positivity. 
Although he was criticized for 
being too trusting or an amatuer, 
Hyden moved through the plan, 
simply hoping everyone would 
give the same respect that he usu-
ally gives to get the job done.
“We didn’t set out to make a 
documentary in the traditional 
sense. We wanted to make a mov-
ie. A big, fat, entertaining movie,” 
said Director Theo Love in a Va-
riety article. “I grew up thinking 
documentaries had to be boring, 
stuffy, educational ﬁ  lms, but then I 
got my Netﬂ  ix subscription. Netﬂ  ix 
changed the game for docs in every 
way, and we’re thrilled to add to 
their collection of true stories.”
@marnett
tmaner@alligator.orgAlachua County shines in new Netflix documentary 
MOVIES
Hyden tells “The Legend of Cocaine Island”
Courtesy to The Alligator
Archer resident Rodney Hyden takes audiences on a 
treasure hunt that’s close to home.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds 
to advertising use caution and investi -
gate the sincerity of the advertiser be -
fore giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12 AutosNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in-
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. 
Must be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, 
love motorsports and basic car skills bonus. 
Management@GoRally.com to apply. NO 
CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM learn more before 
applying.     4-17-19-10-14
Cashiers, Gate Attendants and Grounds 
Staff (High Springs) Ginnie Springs Outdoors  
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy work-
ing with the public. High energy and low dra-
ma is a must! Must be at least 18 years old. 
Must have your own transportation and avail -
ability to work nights, holidays and week-
ends. Seasonal employment. Apply in per-
son ONLY 9am - 4pm weekdays. NO phone 
calls! GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. High 
Springs, Florida 32643     4-8-19-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
EARN $250-$1000 WEEKLY:
Financial Freedom offers legit work from 
home jobs.  No exp req'd, training provide, 
easy sign-up.  Free info:  www.earncash -
weekly.site 815-977-5383    4-5-19-3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
first president to be born a U.S. citizen?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the elite 
shopping district called Rodeo Drive 
located?
3. MOVIES: Which 1990s movie 
featured the line, “Keep the change, ya 
filthy animal”?
4. HISTORY: In which country did 
the Mau Mau Uprising take place?
5. TELEVISION: What kind of crea-
ture was the animated character Fog-
horn Leghorn?
6. SCIENCE: What is a tornado at 
sea called?
7. LITERATURE: Which poet 
wrote, “April is the cruelest month”?
8. ARCHITECTURE: Who designed 
Central Park in New York City?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
is the traditional birthstone for April?
10. U.S. STATES: In which U.S. 
state was the first atomic bomb tested?
Answers
1. Martin Van Buren
2. Beverly Hills, California
3. “Home Alone”
4. Kenya
5. A rooster
6. A waterspout
7. T.S. Eliot
8. Frederick Law Olmsted and 
Calvert Vaux
9. Diamond
10. New Mexico
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 1, 2019King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
and Not Divorced or Bankrupt
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-9-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the 
classifieds to find trip arrangements or show 
off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Kevin Christian and Jules Markey
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/03/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/03/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, April 3, 2019
ACROSS
1 Specially formed
6 Suffix with Jumbo
10 Outback
14 Avian crops
15 Disney film set in 
Polynesia
16 “Fancy meeting 
you here!”
17 When the  
dot-com bubble 
began
19 Prompted on 
stage
20 Energy Star 
co-mgr.
21 Backless slippers
22 Country’s 
Haggard
23 Form of the game 
of tag
27 River formations
29 Kiwi-shaped
30 Eye-opener?
31 Aplomb
34 Hieroglyphics bird
38 Court figs.
39 Small Apple tablet
42 D-Day vessel
43 Uninvited picnic 
arrivals
45 Short or tall thing 
(and neither 
refers to height)
46 Zany
48 Soupçon
50 Acme’s best 
customer?
51 Ad boast for 
a relaunched 
product
57 Hoover rival
58 Patterned fabric
59 Fuel for the fire
62 Almond __
63 Trait for an evil 
genius ... and a 
hint to what can 
literally be found 
in 17-, 23-, 39- 
and 51-Across
66 Censorship-
fighting org.
67 __ Hawkins Day
68 Ancient Greek 
region
69 Abrasive tool
70 Proof word
71 Itsy-bitsy
DOWN
1 Pinnacle
2 Water waster
3 Whooped it up
4 Dominate5 Forensic TV 
spin-off
6 Carved emblem
7 Mrs. Gorbachev
8 Number of gods 
worshipped in 
Zoroastrianism
9 “Stillmatic” rapper
10 Italian tenor 
Andrea
11 Swahili for 
“freedom”
12 Walmart stock 
holder?
13 HDTV part, for 
short
15 Mix together
18 Many “Call 
the Midwife” 
characters
22 CFO’s degree
24 USPS unit
25 Private reply?
26 “Frozen” reindeer
27 Bit of baby talk
28 Pizazz
31 Start of a series
32 A little bit off
33 “__ Mine”: 
Beatles song
35 Sequence of 
direct ancestors
36 “Freedom __ 
free”: salute to 
military sacrifice37 Ocular malady
40 Spot for a koi or 
a decoy
41 “That was 
awesome!”
44 Move in together
47 “Listen up,” to 
Luis
49 Pen filler
50 King with a pipe
51 SportsNet 
LA analyst 
Garciaparra
52 Writer Jong53 Water sources
54 Crete peak: 
Abbr.
55 Put forth
56 Solemn 
ceremony
60 “Come __!”
61 Outback  
greeting
63 Mao __-tung
64 “__Games”: 
1983 Matthew 
Broderick film
65 Curly associate
1.  Spoken
1.  Express dissent 5.  Like good oranges
2.  California neighbor6.  Greased
3.  Faithfulness 7.  Grand ____
4.  Become solidAYRLOL
BCEOTJCYJIU
DEIOL
AZOARNI
OTLALYYACOYNN
AENDHRANSWERS: 1A-Orally  5A-Juicy  6A-Oiled  7A-Canyon
1D-Object  2D-Arizona  3D-Loyalty  4D-Harden  B-Billy Joel4-3-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ took up boxing as a teenager 
and even won a few amateur fights.
BONUS
18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.16 Health Services 16 Health Services
By Craig Stowe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/02/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/02/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 2, 2019
ACROSS
1 “I’m clever” 
chuckle
4 Take a broom to
9 Rapscallion
14 Pretty __ picture
15 Main artery
16 __ roll: student’s 
achievement
17 Hawk, in the 
military sense
19 Get the best of
20 In the buff
21 Local residents, 
to local college 
students
23 Draw sap from, 
as a maple
25 “I haven’t the 
foggiest”
27 Grooming 
process
30 Formula __: auto 
racing class
31 Casino 
convenience
32 Cacophonous
34 Prescription items
38 Canapé garnish
39 Competition
41 Snap or split 
veggie
42 “Casino” co-star 
Joe
44 Ease up
45 Toy with, cat-style
46 Microbrewery 
product
48 Studios for artists
50 Materials for 
babies’ rugs
54 Paper size: Abbr.
55 Consumed 
amounts
56 Reverb in a 
chamber
59 Centipede game 
company
60 Drambuie and 
Scotch cocktail
65 Closer to being 
harvested
66 Month before 
febrero
67 Get it
68 “Alien” director 
Ridley __
69 Eggs purchase
70 Juan’s “that”
DOWN
1 Goldie with a 
Golden Globe2 Founder of 
Edom
3 *Tough period 
in life
4 Brazilian map 
word
5 Hit the jackpot
6 Bit of energy
7 Strasbourg 
summer
8 Second section
9 *Grade school 
presentation
10 Come back (with)
11 Naysayers
12 Web surfing tool
13 Narrative writing
18 Event with 
courses
22 War on Poverty 
org.
24 *Slim-fitting Dior 
creation
25 Singer Turner’s 
memoir
26 *Nuclear treaty 
subject
27 Camper’s cover
28 Plains native
29 Excessively
33 Irish poet who 
wrote “Easter, 
1916”35 Caps, and a hint 
to the answers to 
starred clues
36 Drive or reverse
37 Toothed tools
40 Fr. holy woman
43 Moulin Rouge, 
notably
47 Squeeze (out)
49 Cross-country 
southern hwy.
50 Some are 
compulsive51 Shenanigan
52 Philippines peak: 
Abbr.
53 Looks flushed
57 Hurries,  
old-style
58 Bread spread
61 2018 National 
Toy Hall of Fame 
inductee
62 “__ who?”
63 Antonio’s three
64 That, old-styleWEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida golfers Marta Perez 
(pictured) and Sierra Brooks  
are competing in the inaugural 
Augusta National Women's 
Amateur starting on Wednesday.The AAF suspends football operations
The Alliance of American Football announced on Tuesday it is suspending 
football operations effective immediately. The league would have been in 
its ninth week, with only two weeks remaining before the playoffs. Orlando 
Apollos coach Steve Spurrier had the most wins in the league at seven.BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The game was still close through 
three and a half innings.
The No. 21 Florida baseball team 
held a narrow 2-0 lead over Florida 
A&M but was in position to put the 
game away early on.
Cory Acton led off the bottom of 
the fourth with a single. Kris Arm-
strong followed with a walk, and 
Brady Smith bunted for a hit. Jacob 
Young, UF’s leadoff hitter, came to 
the plate with the bases loaded. But 
before he could do his part to in-
crease the Gators’ lead, FAMU pitch-
er Joshua Wilson made the ﬁ  rst of 
three costly mistakes in the inning.
Wilson threw a wild pitch, allow-
ing Acton to score. In the next at-bat, 
Smith scored on another wild pitch. 
One batter later, Young came around 
to score on the third and ﬁ  nal wild 
pitch to come full circle.
Those three runs were part of a 
six-run fourth inning Florida used to 
secure a 12-1 win over Florida A&M 
on Tuesday night. The win conclud-
ed a four-game home stand for the 
Gators and extended their winning 
streak to a season-high ﬁ  ve games.
“I feel like we’re playing really good baseball right now,” designat-
ed hitter Nelson Maldonado said.
Nolan Crisp started his third-con-
secutive midweek game for Florida 
(21-10) and continued to neutralize 
opposing offenses. Crisp threw three 
hitless innings and ﬁ  nished with one 
strikeout and two walks.
“He threw the ball really good to-
night and he has done that his past 
three starts,” left ﬁ  elder Austin Lang-
worthy said.
David Luethje relieved Crisp and 
was just as effective. In three innings 
he tallied three strikeouts and just 
one walk. The one hit he allowed 
was to the ﬁ  rst batter he faced, but 
he retired the next eight.
Crisp and Luethje combined for 
six scoreless innings, but the shutout 
ended once Nick Blasucci came in 
for Luethje. FAMU outﬁ  elder Tuck 
Rayburn took the ﬁ  rst pitch Blasuc-
ci threw well over the wall in right 
ﬁ  eld. That was the only run the Rat-
tlers (11-20) managed on the night.
Blasucci didn’t allow any other 
hits in his one inning on the mound 
and also had a strikeout.
Nick Pogue and Hunter McMul-
len both threw scoreless innings to Gators demolish FAMU, extend win streak to 5
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
The UF softball team will welcome the de-
fending national champion, Florida State, to 
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium on Wednes-
day night. 
The No. 8 Gators will face No. 3 FSU for 
the ﬁ  rst of two matchups this season, and 
they will need to make some improvements 
to win this midweek contest. 
Florida is 3-6 in the SEC and 4-6 this sea-
son against top-10 opponents, and it has 
struggled lately with ﬁ  elding and hitting 
with runners in scoring position. 
“I don’t think we’re any better or any 
worse than exactly where our (SEC) record 
is,” coach Tim Walton said. “There’s a ton of 
teams with below .500 records right now (in 
the SEC)… We’re no different, where in the 
past maybe we’ve been a little bit different 
than the rest of the pack.”
Making adjustments in the ﬁ  eld
UF is tied for ﬁ  rst in the NCAA in ﬁ  eld-ing percentage (.984), but it had a bad series 
defensively against Ole Miss last weekend. 
The Gators had six errors in the three-
games against the Rebels, and Ole Miss 
scored two unearned runs on those errors.
“(We) had some really nice defensive 
plays,” Walton said, “but a lot of other mis-
cues extended innings, extended the games 
and ultimately cost us in the end.”
Shortstop Sophia Reynoso committed two 
errors in the series. Second baseman Hannah 
Adams, who didn’t make one error in 2018 
but has three this season, allowed a ball to 
roll under her glove in the third inning on 
Sunday. And ﬁ  rst baseman Amanda Lorenz 
let a run score when she couldn’t corral a 
throw from catcher Jordan Roberts, also in 
Sunday’s third inning. 
Florida State possesses one of the most 
explosive offenses in the country. It’s second 
nationally in batting average (.368) and on-
base percentage (.458) and third in slugging 
percentage (.652). Florida needs to make 
changes before FSU gameChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida pitcher Nolan Crisp went three innings during UF's 12-1 win over Florida A&M on Tuesday. He 
didn't allow a hit or a run in his appearance, striking out one in his second win of the season.
Jake’s on a Plane / Opinion
When was the last time 
the Florida football 
team had a clear-
favorite quarterback 
that lasted an entire 
season?
You know, someone who 
was the leader heading into 
the season, started every game 
without worry of getting pulled 
and ﬁ  nished the year without 
fans calling for his benching. 
Was it Jeff Driskel? It could have been. 
He was a clear favorite twice, but he got hurt 
in 2013 and traded starts with Treon Harris 
in 2014 before he transferred to Louisiana 
Tech.
Was it Harris? I was a freshman when 
Turlington Plaza was plastered with “In Tre-
on We Trust” signs. That good-will feeling 
was gone around the time the Gators had to 
take Florida Atlantic to overtime.
Was it John Brantley? Deﬁ  nitely not. He 
was not a good answer to all the success 
Tim Tebow brought.
The last clear-favorite quarterback that 
lasted a full season was Tebow in 2009. Now, there is a new one.
It’s the middle of spring 
practice, and it’s Feleipe Franks’ 
spot to lose. It’s not even close. 
Franks will be the starter for 
UF’s season opener against Mi-
ami on Aug. 24.
“I’ve been more comfortable 
in everything I’ve been doing 
whether it be watching ﬁ  lm, up 
there just trying to learn from 
Coach Johnson, Coach Mullen,” he said, “or 
even just out here on this ﬁ  eld, being a lead-
er, being more comfortable making throws 
and just knowing the offense.”
Franks has grown a lot and his success is 
resonating with the fans. They are no longer 
calling for his benching and actually seem 
excited for what the future holds next sea-
son.
He is coming off his best season as a 
Gator. Franks threw for 2,457 yards on 188 
completions, 24 touchdowns and six inter-
ceptions. He also developed into a dual-
threat, rushing for 350 yards and seven For the first time in a while, UF 
doesn’t have a quarterback battle
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
Jake Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJakeWEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
It was during its vault rotation that the 
Gators’ gymnastics team watched its lead in 
the SEC Championships dwindle to the LSU 
Tigers. An outside observer would likely be-
lieve that UF was going to spend a lot of time 
in the gym improving the event it scored the 
lowest on before it headed off to Oregon for 
the NCAA Corvallis Regional on Friday.
Coach Jenny Rowland would disagree.
“We haven’t addressed vault specifi-
cally,” Rowland said. “I would say that was 
one of our best performances thus far at 
SECs.”
It isn’t the vault that Florida has been fo-
cused on during practice this week, or any-
thing else for that matter. Aside from fine-
tuning the little details, Rowland asserted 
that UF was very satisfied with its gymnas-
tics ahead of Friday’s regional.
Florida has put an increased emphasis, 
however, on its health in preparation for the 
long trip to Oregon.
“We talked about how our gymnastics is 
there,” junior Rachel Gowey said. “We have 
the skills, we have the training, so it’s really just focusing on outside of the gym.”
It’s what Gowey refers to as “fueling our 
bodies,” focusing on sleep patterns, eating 
patterns and water intake, among other 
things.“Super important to have some healthy 
snacks with you, obviously,” freshman Trin-
ity Thomas said. “Always have your water 
bottle, so you can stay hydrated and fuel 
your body.”Thomas was recently crowned SEC Fresh-
man of the Year and also became a four-time 
All-American after winning the honor for all-
around, uneven bars, the balance beam and 
the floor.
Senior Alicia Boren also earned All-Amer-
ican honors for the all-around and the floor, 
bringing her total count to 10.
On top of Florida’s “health first” ap-
proach in practice for the last few days, 
Rowland stressed that the key to success at 
the NCAAs lies within the team as a whole.
“Not one person can take it to heart and 
say, ‘Oh, I should have, I could have’,” 
Rowland said in regard to UF’s defeat at the 
SEC Championships. “Really, it’s the whole 
team.”
After the Gators’ health is addressed and 
the small things are shaped up, Florida will 
continue to stick with what it has hit on 
throughout the season: normality.
“If we go in there and do exactly what 
what we’re doing in the gym, we’re going 
to be where we need to be by nationals,” 
Thomas said.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgFlorida confident in its abilities as NCAA regionals approach
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman Trinity Thomas was named SEC Freshman of the Year and became 
a four-time All-American in all-around, uneven bars, beam and floor.
GATORS IN THE MLB
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Pete Alonso stepped up to the 
plate for the New York Mets on 
Monday night against the Miami 
Marlins at Marlins Park in the top 
of the ninth inning. The Mets had 
alleviated some of the pressure on 
his shoulders after they took a 4-3 
lead.
Alonso swung at the first pitch 
and powered it over the center 
field wall, scoring three runs and 
giving the Mets a 7-3 advantage, 
and eventually the win.
This was the first-career home run for the Mets’ second-round 
pick in 2016. Alonso was a star 
on Florida’s 2016 College World 
Series squad. 
He had made his Major League 
debut on Opening Day on Thurs-
day against the Washington Na-
tionals. In four games this season, 
he is hitting .412 with a home 
run, six RBIs and seven hits.
Alonso is one of seven Gators 
who made opening day rosters 
in 2019. The list also includes 
Harrison Bader of the St. Louis 
Cardinals, Mike Zunino of the 
Tampa Bay Rays, Anthony DeS-
clafani of the Cincinnati Reds, Brian Johnson of the Boston Red 
Sox, Darren O’Day of the Atlanta 
Braves and Richie Martin of the 
Baltimore Orioles.
Martin was a first round pick 
in 2015 by the Oakland Athletics 
and was selected by the Orioles 
in the Rule 5 draft last offseason. 
He made his debut on Thursday 
as the starting shortstop for Balti-
more. Martin is off to a slow start 
this season, hitting .083 with no 
home runs or RBIs.
Bader, a third-round pick in 
2015, is in his third season as a 
center fielder for the Cardinals. 
His best season came in 2018, when he hit 12 home runs and 
drove in 37 RBIs in 138 games. In 
the first at-bat of the year against 
the Milwaukee Brewers, he hit a 
home run. 
Zunino is in his first season 
with the Rays after spending six 
seasons as a catcher for the Se-
attle Mariners. He was the first-
round pick for the Mariners in 
2012. Zunino has yet to get a hit 
this season in three games and 
nine plate appearances.
DeSclafani has yet to pitch in 
his third season with the Reds. He  
spent his first season in 2015 with 
the Marlins.Johnson, a first round selec-
tion for the Red Sox in 2012, is in 
his fourth season. The reliever is 
off to a good start, with one win 
and a 2.08 ERA in 4.1 innings.
O’Day is the longest-tenured 
Gator in the pros. The 36 year old 
entered the big leagues in 2008 
and has played for the Los Ange-
les Angels, Texas Rangers, Balti-
more Orioles and now the Atlanta 
Braves. O’Day is beginning the 
season on the 10-day IL.
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgAlonso powers Mets, tops list of Gators in the pros
GATORS IN THE NBA
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
With the NBA playoffs less than 
two weeks away, let’s take a look 
at some former Florida Gators who 
made headlines during the 2018-
19 season.
Bradley Beal has been a leader 
for the Washington Wizards dur-
ing the regular season. The seven-
year vet, who played for Florida 
coach Billy Donovan during the 
2011-12 season, has recorded 
career-highs in points (26.0) and 
rebounds (5.1) per game. He was 
voted to be an all-star for the sec-
ond time in his career while the 
Wizards’ star point guard, John 
Wall, has been out with a heel in-
jury.Beal impressed again in a win 
on March 31 against the Denver 
Nuggets with 17 points and six as-
sists.
In Wall’s absence, the 25-year-
old shooting guard has led the 
league in minutes per game with 
38.7 and is on pace to start in ev-
ery Wizards game this season.
While it has been a down year 
for his team, Beal has established 
himself as a star in the league with 
his scoring talent and durability.
The season has gone much bet-
ter for forward Al Horford’s team. 
The 12-year veteran has scored 
13.5 points per game this season 
for the Boston Celtics, who cur-
rently hold the No. 4 seed in the 
Eastern Conference with a 46-32 
record. Horford has remained an an-
chor for Boston in the paint, av-
eraging 13.4 points and seven 
rebounds per game in the three 
seasons he has been with the 
team. 
His crafty offensive play in the 
post, along with his tough defen-
sive presence, has helped the Celt-
ics reach the playoffs every year 
since he joined the team in 2016, 
including a run to the Eastern Con-
ference Finals in 2017 and 2018. 
Horford again showed this in his 
last game against the Miami Heat 
on April 1 with a 19-point, 11-re-
bound, 10-assist triple-double.
The season has gone in a differ-
ent direction for a pair of former 
Gators. 
Forward Joakim Noah has played a dependable role on a 
Memphis Grizzlies team that was 
eliminated from playoff conten-
tion in March. Noah has played 
42 games for the Grizzlies, scor-
ing 7.1 points and grabbing 5.7 
rebounds off the bench. 
On the other hand, Noah’s 
teammate and former Gator, 
Chandler Parsons, has had a dis-
appointing year. He shot just 26.7 
percent from three-point range 
and averages 6.7 points in the 21 
games he played.
Other notables include point 
guard Chris Chiozza and forward 
Udonis Haslem. 
Haslem is expected to retire 
after a 16-year career with the 
Miami Heat. He has maintained 
a solid veteran presence but has averaged less than a point in the 
eight games he’s appeared in this 
season. 
But while one career comes to 
an end, another one begins.  
Chiozza made his debut in 
the NBA after he signed a con-
tract with the Houston Rockets on 
March 22. He played his first game 
against the New Orleans Pelicans 
two days later and saw the court 
for five minutes in the win.
The 6-foot point guard finished 
his four-year career with Florida in 
2017 as the Gators’ all-time assists 
leader with 571. It will be interest-
ing to see what he does at the next 
level.
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.org.Beal leads the Wizards, Horford takes on bigger role16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect 
WEDNESDAYS 
 
$4 Yuengling Pitcher
$6 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSmore touchdowns.
Now, nothing is guaranteed. 
Franks could theoretically lose 
his spot to Kyle Trask or Emory 
Jones, but from what I saw in 
Florida’s ﬁ  rst scrimmage on 
Thursday, that seems highly un-
likely. Trask did ﬁ  ne — he threw 
for more yards than Franks did 
— but he still has a lot to work 
on. He had a lot of miscues with 
his receivers, which led to over-
throws that should have been 
picked off.
Jones completed just six of his 
17 passes, and his presence was 
felt more on the ground. He ran 
for the most yards of any rusher 
(64).
I know it was just one scrim-
mage, but Franks left it as the 
best quarterback of the trio. If 
there was any doubt on his sta-
tus as UF’s starter, which there 
shouldn’t be, it was all gone after 
last week. 
For the ﬁ  rst time in a long 
time, the Gators aren’t in a quar-
terback battle. It’s cool to see.
Jake Dreilinger is the sports 
editor of the Alligator. Follow 
him on Twitter @Dreilinger-
Jake and contact him at jdreil-
inger@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
The Seminoles also only strike out on 14 per-
cent of their at-bats. 
Making clean and quick decisions with the 
ball will be critical against a team that puts it in 
play as much as FSU.
Making adjustments at the plate
Florida left 16 runners on base in its two loss-
es to the Rebels, including 10 on Sunday alone. 
Twice it had the bases loaded with less than 
two outs, and twice it left them loaded without 
scoring a run. UF also had an opportunity in 
Saturday’s second inning with Reynoso on third 
and no outs, but she was stranded for the entire 
frame. 
“I think that’s been the biggest key for us is 
the lack of productivity with runners in scoring 
position,” Walton said. “Being ‘athlete tough’ is 
to do your best when it matters the most, and 
we haven’t been able to do that yet.”
The Gators must savor their opportuni-
ties against FSU, especially if they face its ace, 
Meghan King. The senior pitcher has an 18-1 re-
cord and has limited opposing batters to a .172 
average this season. 
Walton said he’s going to try to utilize fresh-
man Cheyenne Lindsey and sophomore Jordan 
Matthews at the plate more this week. 
Lindsey could step in for center ﬁ  elder Alex Voss or utility player Jaimie Hoover, while Mat-
thews may substitute in for catcher/designated 
player Jordan Roberts or right ﬁ  elder Danielle 
Romanello. Roberts and Romanello lead the 
team in strikeouts with 29 and 26, respectively. 
“Maybe we need to have a little bit more lineup diversity,” Walton said, “players that can 
do a little bit more, bunt, slap and hit the ball 
over people’s heads in the gaps."
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14Florida State strikes out on 14 percent of at-bats
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Tim Walton said utility player Cheyenne Lindsey could be used more at the 
plate this week against Florida State.
complete a strong showing from the 
Florida bullpen.
Florida’s offense carried over its 
momentum from a sweep of Ala-
bama into a 14-hit, 12-run outburst 
against FAMU. The Gators also drew 
six walks and struck out just ﬁ  ve 
times.
The scoring began for Florida in the third inning with two errors by 
FAMU on a single play. Kendrick 
Calilao came to bat with Young and 
Maldonado on the corners. 
Calilao hit a ground ball to the 
shortstop, Rob Robinson, who mis-
played the ball, and Young scored. 
The second baseman, Octavi Moyer, 
picked up the ball and committed a 
throwing error, which allowed Mal-
donado to score and Calilao to ad-
vance to second.Although UF scored three runs 
from wild pitches in the fourth in-
ning, Florida also hit well. The 
Gators totaled six hits and batted 
through the order. 
Maldonado went deep to left ﬁ  eld 
to put UF ahead and Calilao followed 
with a home run of his own. 
Maldonado went 3 for 3 with two 
runs scored and an RBI, and Calilao 
went 1 for 4, but added 3 RBIs of his 
own and a run scored.Langworthy went 3 for 5 with 
a double, following a strong series 
against Alabama. The veteran strug-
gled to begin the season but appears 
to have ﬁ  gured things out near the 
halfway mark.  
Jud Fabian was absent from the 
lineup against FAMU after being 
hit in the hand by a pitch on Friday 
night. Coach Kevin O’Sullivan said 
he was available for Tuesday night’s 
game but held him out as a precau-tion.
With the game already out of 
reach in the seventh inning, Florida 
bagged four more runs to extend its 
lead to 11.
“All in all, it was a good night,” 
O’Sullivan said. “Between the pitch-
ing and defense and getting a lot of 
guys some opportunities tonight of-
fensively.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Florida scored 12 runs of 14 hits against Florida A&M