VOLUME 114 ISSUE 18 OCTOBER 4, 2019
    FEATURING:
       ALIEN UNICYCLER, pg. 5
     RAD GATOR TATZ, pg. 8 
   2019 TIME CAPUSULE, pg. 16
 SWAMP SHOWDOWN, pg. 21HOMECOMING
EDITIONT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  92° LOW  68°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Florida Museum presents 
‘A Celebration of the Life of 
Alexander von Humboldt’
When: Sunday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History is celebrating 
renowned naturalist Alexander 
von Humboldt’s 250th birthday 
This free event features a special 
performance by the Gainesville 
Master Chorale and a talk by 
best-selling author Andrea Wulf 
followed by a Q&A and book 
signing. For a full schedule or 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
humboldt or call 352-273-2047.
ButterflyFest 
When: Oct. 12, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History, 3215 Hull Road
What: Explore the lives of bats, 
bees, birds and butterflies at 
the 14th annual ButterflyFest. 
Learn about butterfly 
gardening, native pollinators, 
conservation, backyard wildlife 
and more during this free event. 
Experience butterfly releases and 
come dressed in your favorite 
pollinator attire for the pollinator 
parade. Visit the #ButterflyFest 
webpage for more information 
and a full schedule of events, 
www.floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
butterflyfest. Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
When: Oct. 18-20, open to 
public at 7 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, 874 SE 4th 
St.
What: Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
is a free music festival for people 
to celebrate the Gainesville 
native and music legend. Over 
20 local and national bands will 
perform on two stages at Depot 
Park. While tickets are free, 
interested guests can upgrade 
their experience with Petty For 
The People Packages to receive 
additional merchandise and 
support the local nonprofit 
program, UF Health Shands Arts 
in Medicine. 
2019 Fall Art Show 
Submissions
When: Submissions displayed 
Oct. 19-20
Where: Alachua County Library, 
401 E University Ave. in Meeting 
Room A
What: The Alachua County 
Library District invites teen 
artists ages 12 to 15 to submit 
works for the 2019 Fall Art Show 
through Oct. 11. Works will be 
judged by professionals including 
staff members from UF’s College 
of the Arts and the Harn Museum 
of Art on Oct. 18. Winners will 
be announced on Saturday at 1 
p.m. at the Headquarters Branch. 
Submissions can be made at any 
Alachua County Library District 
Branch. Prizes will be awarded 
for first through third place. For more details or to schedule an 
interview, please contact Rachel 
Cook at 352-334-3909. 
Friends of the Library Book 
Sale 
When: Oct. 19, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., 
Oct. 23, noon to 6 p.m.
Where: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County, 430-B N Main 
St.
What: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County is hosting the 
Friends of the Library Sale. In 
addition to books, the sale will 
include art, comic books, manga, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records and 
more. Most items are priced 
between 25 cents and $4. On 
Tuesday, everything will be 
marked half-off and Wednesday 
everything will be 10 cents. All 
proceeds support the Alachua 
County Library District and area 
literacy projects. Sale hours are 
Saturday, Oct. 19  from 9 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. and noon to 6 p.m. 
Sunday through Wednesday. 
GCM Food Fest
When: Oct. 24, 5 to 9 p.m.
Where: Celebration Pointe
What: The sixth GCM Food 
Fest is coming to Gainesville. 
Enjoy great food from over 50 of 
Gainesville's best restaurants all 
in one location. GCM has teamed 
up with Celebration Pointe to 
host what they hope will be the 
biggest and best festival yet.  
Celebration Pointe Avenue, in 
front of the Nike store, and the 
Tommy Hilfiger store will be 
closed and filled with music, 
food, beer, wine and kids' 
activities. Admission to the 2019 
GCM Food Festival is free. To 
ensure the festival is accessible 
to all audiences, meal and drink 
tickets will be sold a la carte 
for only $2 each. Download the 
Gift Certificates and More app 
and receive one free meal/drink 
ticket. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 19
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
publix.com/orangeandblue
Order Now
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019GATOR PARTY ORIGINALL Y FILED 
A COMPLAINT TO GET INSPIRE 
DISQUALIFIED
By Emma McAvoy
Alligator Staff WriterInspire Party’s newly won Senate seats are 
safe.  
Four elections commission members af-
firmed this semester’s UF Student Government 
election results on Thursday with Inspire win-
ning the majority of open Senate seats after 
complaints were withdrawn via email.  
Inspire and Gator Party emailed the elec-
tions commission at 5:48 p.m. to withdraw 
complaints remaining from last Thursday’s 
elections commission meeting. Alfredo Ortiz, 
who was an independent candidate, emailed 
the commission Monday.  
Ortiz said he withdrew his complaint to 
avoid further drama since the elections passed. 
Inspire and Gator met Thursday at 5:30 
p.m. before the elections commission meeting, 
which was rescheduled twice, and agreed to 
withdraw remaining complaints they had filed. 
The elections commission was going to ad-
dress two more complaints Gator submitted 
against Inspire. The violations accused Inspire 
of passing out fliers in an area of Gainesville 
that wasn’t approved by the SG election codes 
and making a financial disclosure request at an 
improper time. 
Inspire Party President Zachary Amrose 
said Inspire passed out fliers in District D, 
which is legal, and that its request was submit-
ted at a proper time. 
Wednesday, four Supreme Court justices re-
versed the elections commission’s recommen-dation to disqualify Inspire from the elections 
at a SG Supreme Court hearing. This happened 
after Gator filed a complaint against Inspire.
“I think this is pretty cut and dry,” said SG 
Supreme Court Chief Justice David Walsh. “I 
don’t think there’s a violation here.” 
After Inspire’s unprecedented win in the 
Fall 2019 SG elections, it faced potential dis-
qualification when it was accused of violating 
election rules by sending a Listserv email to 
students on Sept. 23 encouraging them to vote. 
Gator filed the complaint on Sept. 25, but 
none of its members attended the hearing. 
“Gator Party wants to ensure the voice of 
every Gator is heard and we did not agree with 
the penalty that was assessed by the elections 
commission,” Gator representatives wrote in 
an email to The Alligator. “Due to this, our 
party did not attend last night’s hearing.” 
SG Supreme Court Chief Justice David 
Walsh said he received an email from Gator 
member Branden Pearson Wednesday after-
noon that Gator doesn’t support Inspire’s dis-
qualification. 
“Gator Party does not agree with the pen-
alty of disqualification that was recommended 
by the elections commission,” Pearson wrote. 
“In light of this we will not be attending to-
night’s Supreme Court hearing and requesting 
the complaint be dismissed without prejudice.”
Walsh said he could not dismiss the com-
plaint because Pearson’s email asking to dis-miss his previous complaint didn’t contain the 
complaint itself.  
The justices ended the meeting by reversing 
the elections commission’s recommendation 
for disqualification against Inspire. 
Inspire Party campaign manager Ashley 
Grabowski spoke for 20 minutes at the hear-
ing. She came in with a 72-page legal brief cit-
ing case facts, Inspire’s defense argument and 
written statements from UF officials within the 
Registrar’s Office and UF Information Technol-
ogy supporting that there was no violation of 
email usage regulations. 
Inspire didn’t violate UF’s email usage 
regulations because email addresses are pub-
lic records.  Therefore, students don’t have to 
consent to the release of their email addresses, 
Grabowski said. 
UF officials cleared Inspire of violations, 
Grabowski said in her speech. 
Grabowski said she plans to move forward 
by raising awareness with the public. 
“That’s where the power really lies: with 
the public,” Grabowski said. “They’re the ones 
who really get to make decisions.”
 
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.orgSG elections commission, Supreme Court confirm Inspire wins  
  THEY MET ON THE UF 
ULTIMATE FRISBEE TEAM
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
After making seemingly impos-
sible frisbee trick shots, surviv-
ing cancer and paragliding down 
a 7,000 foot tall mountain, Brodie 
Smith and Kurt Gibson know all 
about beating the odds.
As UF students, they won na-
tional championships in Ultimate 
Frisbee. The UF alumni have made 
a name for themselves in and out-
side of UF after starring on the 28th 
season of “The Amazing Race” in 
2016.
Smith, a 32-year-old 2010 UF 
graduate, and Gibson, a 34-year-
old 2008 graduate, met on the UF 
Ultimate Frisbee team. 
Between practicing six times a 
week and winning the 2006 Na-
tional Championship together, the 
duo’s bond became unbreakable.
“You don’t get those kinds of 
relationships and spend that time 
together anywhere as an adult,” 
Gibson said.
Smith recalled his college days 
when he would sneak the Frisbee 
team into Gator Corner Dining Cen-
ter with his all-you-can-eat pass. 
He would swipe in and slide his 
pass under the door for everyone 
else on the Frisbee team to use.
He claims they are the reason 
Gator Corner Dining Center only 
lets students swipe their dining 
pass every 30 minutes now. 
Smith and Gibson were always 
at Ultimate Frisbee competitions 
during Homecoming weekend. But that didn’t stop them from watch-
ing football games.
“We would try to win games on 
Saturday quick, and then, quick, 
run to Chili’s to watch the rest of 
the football game,” Smith said. 
Smith originally gained internet 
fame when he started posting Fris-
bee trick shot videos online. 
His videos showcased familiar 
spots around campus including 
Turlington, Ben Hill Griffin Stadi-
um and Flavet Field. 
His YouTube channel has more 
than 2 million subscribers. The fol-
lowing led him to the 28th season 
of “The Amazing Race,” which was 
populated with social media influ-
encers.  
On the 28th season of “The 
Amazing Race,” Smith and Gibson 
competed against YouTubers, Vin-
ers and internet personalities such 
as Tyler Oakley and Korey Kuhl . 
They traveled around the world 
and completed tasks in hopes of 
winning $1 million.
Smith and Gibson ended up in 
fifth place. Although they didn’t 
win the million dollars, they came 
home with lifelong memories.
The duo said the funniest mo-
ment of the race happened just five 
seconds in. 
Gibson was ready. The cameras 
were lined up, almost like a run-
way for the teams. But Smith was 
facing the other way talking to the 
other team with his shoes untied. 
When teams heard the “Ready, 
go!” from producers, Gibson was 
the first one to start running, but 
Smith was left in the dust.
“All of a sudden, I hear thwack! 
Boom!,” Gibson said. “This water 
bottle flies past me like 25 yards, 
and I look back and Brodie is on the ground and wiped out com-
pletely. It was ridiculous.” 
Smith and Gibson have not gone 
without adversity, though. 
Smith overcame multiple knee 
injuries while making a name for 
himself in Ultimate Frisbee. 
Gibson beat colon cancer he 
was diagnosed with when he was 
22. “There’s a lot of things that 
we’re thankful for since our college 
days,” Gibson said. 
Smith travelled around the 
world on the “The Amazing Race,” 
but to him, there’s still no better 
place than UF.  
Smith said the years fly by fast, 
and to take in as many experiences 
at UF as possible.“Because when it is gone, it’s 
gone,” he said. “There’s nothing 
else like it.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgUF alumni showed Gator spirit on ‘The Amazing Race’
Courtesy to The Alligator
Kurt Gibson (left) and Brodie Smith (right) are both UF alumni. They met on the UF Ultimate Frisbee 
team, and have been on CBS show The Amazing Race. This photo was taken when they won the USA 
Ultimate Club Championship with Denver’s Johnny Bravo in 2014.
Sept. 24: first day of SG elections
Sept. 25: second day of SG elections, 
Inspire wins more seats than Gator
Sept. 26: election commission meeting 
to discuss campaign violations
Sept. 30: election commission 
meeting scheduled to finish discussing 
campaign violations, but canceled
Oct. 1: election commission meeting 
rescheduled, also canceled
Oct. 2: Supreme Court meeting, 
Inspire’s seats confirmed
Oct. 3: election commission meeting 
lasts less than five minutes because 
Inspire, Gator and independents 
withdrew complaints FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
A HIGH SCHOOLER WITH 
UNUSUAL HOBBIES 
SPREADS SMILES ON 
CAMPUS
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Ethan Gamble leans far back. 
Teetering nearly 8 feet above the 
ground, he narrowly avoids the 
ceiling as he rides his neon green 
giraffe unicycle through Weimer 
Hall’s breezeway. 
Pedestrians freeze, faces turn 
and conversations falter when 
the 17-year-old Gainesville High 
School senior approaches. Gam-
ble gallivants through campus on 
his unicycle, sometimes donning 
eccentric frog and alien costumes, 
simply because it’s fun, he said.
“Just havin’ a really busy, 
stressful day and I just see live-
action Pepe just, ya know, scoo-
tin’ around,” 18-year-old UF po-
litical science sophomore Sarisha 
Boodoo said after Gamble rode 
past her.
Gamble started unicycling 
about two years ago when he 
found a standard unicycle in his 
friend’s garage which originally 
belonged to her brother, he said. 
His parents gave him his ﬁ  rst uni-
cycle that Christmas.
“Once I got my unicycle, I just 
kinda went outside that day,” 
Gamble said. “At ﬁ  rst, I started 
just holding onto the wall at my 
house and trying to go for it, but I 
couldn’t get much grip.”
After school, Gamble tried 
learning at home. When he strug-
gled to ﬁ  nd grip support, he said 
he started visiting J. J. Finley El-
ementary School’s bus loop. He would use the chain-link fence 
around the perimeter for assis-
tance until he could manage to let 
go and stay upright.
It took Gamble a couple of 
weeks to be able to freely mount 
and ﬁ  nd comfort in maneuvering 
the unicycle, he said.
Gamble said there are other 
“trick” kinds of mounting, such 
as wrapping a leg around the 
front wheel before hopping on, 
which he discovered on YouTube 
but hasn’t attempted yet. 
Friends and family weren’t 
surprised when Gamble picked 
up unicycling, he said. The pro-
spective UF student has always 
had a quirky reputation. 
“He takes over the whole 
house. I love him to death, but,” 
Gamble’s mother, Odalis Mandu-
ley, 53, smiled and lowered her 
voice, “I can’t wait ‘til he moves 
out.”
Tanks and cages for his pet 
snakes, ﬁ  sh, bearded dragon, tur-
tles, gecko and birds line an entire 
wall in his “animal room,” which 
also happens to be his bedroom, 
said his brother, Gavin Gamble. 
When asked to describe his 
younger brother, the 19-year-old 
UF aerospace engineering sopho-
more, cracked a smile.
“Oh man… He’s just a little 
circus animal,” he said. “He just 
does weird things all the time.”
The brothers sometimes ride 
around UF pranking students; the 
youngest on his unicycle wearing 
a green elastic bodysuit and alien 
glasses or a frog mask, referenc-
ing the “dat boi” meme, the old-
est following on bicycle. 
The frog mask impairs Gam-
ble’s vision, so his older brother helps him navigate. Onlookers of-
ten stare or laugh and attempt to 
stealthily record the boys, Gam-
ble said. 
“A lot of people are too afraid 
to say anything,” Gavin Gamble 
said. “They’ll just pull out their 
phone and very subtly record it 
and I’m just like, ‘Bruh, we’re try-
ing to get looks. You don’t have 
to be slick about it.’”
Paul Schmidt, owner of 
Gainesville’s Bikes and More, 
recognized Gamble’s name im-
mediately. Schmidt estimated he 
has sold six unicycles in his 13 
years at the shop. Two of the six 
belong to Gamble, Schmidt said. 
Staff at the shop also recognized 
the name because Gamble’s fa-
ther and grandfather are avid bi-
cyclists.
Gainesville is following an 
“upswing” in bicycle sales seen 
nationwide in the last six years, 
Schmidt said. However, uni-
cycle sales remain rare and usu-
ally occur during Christmas time, 
Schmidt said.
“So he got the giraffe unicycle 
and we thought, ‘he’s gonna kill 
himself,’ but within a day he was 
riding it,” Manduley said. 
Gamble knows his hobby is 
uncommon, but he simply likes 
unicycles more than bicycles, he 
said.
“Why one wheel?” Gamble 
said. “I don’t know. Why use two 
when you only need one?”
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgOne Wheel, One Deal: This boy’s unicycles are out of this world 
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Ethan Gamble, a 17-year-old Gainesville High student, rides his 
unicycle down Stadium Road while wearing his green alien outﬁ  t. 
Gamble said he ﬁ  rst started by riding around the bus loop at JJ 
Finley Elementary school. “You just have to practice, ” Gamble said. 
“Until you get the feel of it. ”
EditorialFRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsA conversation I wish I could have had with ACCENT
The ACCENT speakers have already been chosen, but 
if I could go back in time and have a conversation with 
someone from ACCENT Speakers Bureau, I imagine it 
would sound a lot like this:
So, you get to choose the ACCENT speaker? 
That’s cool. Seems like a big responsibility. You 
wouldn’t want to mess that up. 
You’re thinking of contacting Donald Trump 
Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle? Why?
Yeah, I love the First Amendment, too. But don’t you 
think that saying it’s their “First Amendment right” to 
speak here is a little weird? We get it. No one is trying to 
argue otherwise.
Oh, you want them to speak here because it pro-
vides the Student Body with a variety of viewpoints?  
Cool, let’s keep that energy and invite some Democrats, 
too. If you want different political opinions shared, let’s 
get someone working for Elizabeth Warren or Stacey 
Abrams here. 
Oh, you think that Hasan Minhaj speaking earlier this 
year counts as different views being shared? Well, kind 
of, but not really. One is a politician and the other is a 
comedian, and they will be received with that in mind. 
Minhaj wasn’t here to promote anyone or support a spe-
cific platform. So no, it’s not a fair range of views.
Speaking of supporting a platform, you’re paying 
them $50,000. Isn’t that practically making a direct cam-
paign donation to Donald Trump? Your money is going 
to the vice president of the Trump Organization and the 
person in charge of his 2020 campaign. It only costs so 
much to get here from Mar-a-Lago. Do you really think 
the rest of that money is going to go to their utility bill?
If you want to provide the community with a conser-
vative viewpoint, you can. I would argue that it would 
make more sense to spend time and money on someone that most people would be interested in hearing from. 
But, you’re in charge, so hatemonger it is! What about 
Judge Jeanine Pirro or Sean Hannity? Or a B-list version 
of that? Why don’t you pick a conservative that isn’t 
working for a president facing an impeachment inquiry?
Also, you keep bringing up that you want a controver-
sial speaker. I think it’s weird to want to spark something 
that just divides students. Oh, you call that fostering a 
rigorous discussion? Baby, that’s just agitating political 
differences that will never change and causing reactions 
like protests that could lead to violence. Who does that 
benefit?  
The topics they’ll likely discuss are not things people 
are just going to change their minds about. This isn’t a 
discussion about the pros and cons of pineapples on piz-
za. It’s an hour of highly polarized views on immigration 
policy, which makes it hard to imagine people leaving 
feeling differently than they did before.
If you want someone to facilitate a reasonable politi-
cal discussion, then find a moderate and fair speaker. 
If you just want someone controversial, might I suggest 
Shane Dawson?  
Just make sure you really think this through before 
going with it because it seems like a politically charged 
decision. I know you like those two idiots, but you don’t 
work for them, you work for the UF Student Body. If the 
point is to create a lot of buzz or anger, then you win. 
But if the point is to create reasonable or impactful dis-
cussion, try again. If the point is to pick someone that 
people will come to see, you missed by a mile. 
In the case that you have no other options, don’t 
forget that John Mulaney still owes us one. Maybe you 
should give him our money instead.
Maggie Spilane is a UF telecommunications senior.Letter to the Editor
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.It’s way too early for this much noise. 
It might already be 1 p.m., but this combination of burning 
sun and screaming voices should be illegal. Looking at your 
surroundings, you see an endless sea of ecstatic voices and 
sunburns. At the center of it all, crowds of people alongside 
floats adorned with orange and blue celebrate in the middle 
of the street.
It must be extra hot for them, you think. Especially in a 
huge Gator mascot suit, you have to be sweating buckets. 
What brave people.
Of course, your friends aren’t helping ease your suffering. 
Apparently, you’re supposed to chomp with your hands right 
over left, not left over right. They keep getting mad at you 
when you do it wrong, but you don’t really understand the 
point of what you’re doing in the first place. You didn’t realize 
being a Gator was going to be so hard.
Finally, the parade seems to die down. The last float seems 
to trail behind all the others, showcasing the end of the event. 
Right before it passes by, you catch a glimpse of the orange 
and blue words written on its side.
They read…
Darts and Laurels
Happy Homecoming, Gators! The editorial staff at The Al-
ligator would like to welcome alumni, fans and future Gators 
to The Swamp.
Everyone except Donald Trump Jr., that is. 
If you haven’t already heard, Trump Jr. is scheduled to 
give a keynote presentation with President Donald Trump’s 
campaign adviser, Kimberly Guilfoyle, next Thursday. UF is 
expected to pay them $50,000 to speak, but if it’s anything 
like Richard Spencer’s presentation, they’ll probably end up 
spending more on security. What’s even worse is the fact that 
this time around, the ACCENT Speakers Bureau can’t even get 
an actual conservative leader to speak to us. Instead, we’re 
stuck with someone whose only value lies within his father’s 
wealth. A dart goes to Trump Jr. for wasting our time and 
money with his irrelevant opinions.
Despite its usual large costs, some people are providing se-
curity at events for free. On Tuesday, Gigi Hadid confronted 
a woman who decided it would be funny to crash a Chanel 
catwalk in Paris. A laurel goes to Hadid for knowing when to 
end a joke that goes too far. 
Unfortunately, it seems like the Daily Mail doesn’t know 
when to stop. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have recently 
announced they will be suing the outlet for its constant harass-
ment of the new duchess. This, of course, is especially sensi-
tive to Harry as he lost his mother, Princess Diana, because 
of the overwhelming amount of people harassing her. A dart 
goes to the news organization for giving reporting a bad name. 
Some people are actually feeling forgiving toward people 
who have done them wrong. Amber Guyger, a former Dallas 
police officer who shot an innocent man in his own apartment, 
was convicted on Wednesday for the murder of Botham Jean 
in 2018. His brother, Brandt Jean, decided to do the unthink-
able after his testimony: he gave her a hug. A laurel goes to 
Jean for being a better person than most of us are. 
In light of being a better person, Judge Ann Donnelly de-
serves a laurel for denying R. Kelly bail. Thank you for mak-
ing the world a better place by keeping him out of it. 
Seeing that this is supposed to be a celebratory weekend for 
everyone in Gainesville, it only makes sense for us to give the 
last laurel to UNO for releasing a braille card deck. Everyone 
deserves to be able to annihilate their friends with a “draw 
four” every once in a while.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORFRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
Do you ever just want to waste $50,000, 
but don’t feel like dousing it in gaso-
line and setting it on ﬁ  re? Don’t feel 
like funding emergency blue lights? 
Don’t feel like helping student organi-
zations that are struggling with funding?
Well, I guess you can do what UF Student 
Government did and invite Donald Trump Jr. 
to campus.
I’ve read a lot of very passionate comments 
on the internet about liberal and conservative 
bias of the speakers that the ACCENT Speakers 
Bureau brings in. I hear that college students 
need to focus on “facts, not feelings,” so I sup-
pose we can do just that by taking a look at 
who has been invited to come speak over the 
past couple of years.
Looking back through all of ACCENT’s old 
Facebook events, on one side you have Don-ald Trump Jr. (2019), John Ka-
sich (2019), Carly Fiorina (2017), 
Ben Shapiro (2017) and Ron Paul 
(2013).
On the other side, you have Kal 
Penn (2017), former White House 
Press Secretary Jay Carney (2014) 
and former National Security Ad-
viser Thomas Donilon (2013).
Somewhere in the middle is the 
State Senate candidate debate with 
Keith Perry and Rod Smith (2016).
It doesn’t take a genius to realize that, in 
the last couple of years, a lot more money from 
student fees has gone to people generally con-
sidered to be conservative.
To be frank, I don’t mind for the most 
part because I understand that many of these 
people have been invited to share perspectives not often heard and to debate ideas 
worth being debated on a liberal 
college campus.
But if you asked me what I 
thought of Trump Jr. coming to 
campus, I’d probably respond by 
saying I wish Ben Shapiro was 
coming back for round two instead.
I get that universities are sup-
posed to be like Candy land for free 
speech and stuff, but I really take 
issue with Trump Jr. coming to campus. 
Compared to some of the other conver-
sative speakers SG has brought to campus, 
Trump Jr. has little to sell in the marketplace of 
ideas. No one would ever mistake him for be-
ing an intellectual or a public servant. Trump 
Jr. is also frequently criticized for promoting 
false information and conspiracy theories. We know his family, organization and fa-
ther’s administration does really shady stuff 
with money, yet we’re forking $50,000 over to 
Trump Jr. and an adviser for the president’s 
re-election campaign.
Let’s be frank: Is the Trump Jr. event really 
going to be an intellectual exchange of thought-
ful discourse? Is it really going to change any 
hearts and minds? Or are we chucking $50,000 
down the drain to invite two hyperpartisans on 
campus to preach to the choir of those willing 
to attend?
Say what you might about Trump Jr. com-
ing to town, but keep in mind that this is just 
the continuation of a recent trend. If you see 
someone crying victim about anti-conserva-
tive bias in ACCENT speakers, make sure to 
let them know how things really are. The last 
thing any of us needs is more fake news being 
spread around.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
senior and serves as the Murphree Area Senator.ACCENT Speakers Bureau’s conservative biasColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
In the United States, 
health care can be 
quite expensive. The 
total amount spent on 
health care last year was 
$3.65 trillion. U.S. health 
care expenditures for 2018 
were nearly 17 percent of 
the gross domestic prod-
uct. This is almost twice the 
average cost of other coun-
tries’ health care within the 
Organisation for Economic Co-opera-
tion and Development. Why is health 
insurance so expensive in our country, 
and how do our costs compare to health 
care costs around the world?
The American health care system is 
a bit of an enigma in the sense that we 
use aspects from each of the four ma-
jor health care systems and apply those 
aspects to speciﬁ  c social classes. Most 
other countries use just one health care 
system, either the Beveridge Model, the 
Bismarck Model, the National Health 
Insurance Model or the Out-of-Pocket 
Model. 
In the Beveridge Model, which is 
used primarily in the UK, Spain and 
Cuba, the government is the sole entity 
responsible for paying health care costs. 
This helps to eliminate market competi-
tion and establish low prices. Patients 
never receive bills and instead get cov-
erage through taxes. We actually have a 
system like this in the U.S. through the 
Veterans Health Administration, which 
serves 9 million veterans every year. 
Unfortunately, the government doesn’t 
seem to think there’s room for the rest 
of the country.
A slightly more decentralized health 
care system is the Bismarck Model, 
in which health insurance is funded 
through employer and employee pay-
roll deduction. Private insurance plans 
cover the employed. The insurers don’t 
make money and have their pricing 
regulated by the government. Although 
this system is used primarily in Germa-
ny, France and Japan, many employed 
Americans get similar coverage through their jobs and payroll de-
duction. 
The National Health In-
surance Model combines 
the Beveridge Model idea 
of public insurance paid by 
a sole entity with the Bis-
marck Model idea of private 
practice. This results in low 
prices negotiated by the 
government and coverage 
to all the employed citizens. 
This system was ﬁ  rst implemented in 
Canada and is now being taken up by 
Taiwan and South Korea. The Ameri-
can Medicare system is similar to this 
model, though it only applies to indi-
viduals over the age of 65.
In the Out-of-Pocket Model, the pa-
tient must pay for treatment themselves. 
This is a model of health care that is 
primarily found in underdeveloped 
countries with no structured health care 
system, or in the U.S. In many rural 
areas of Africa, South America, China 
and India, the poor are unable to afford 
health care. As of last year, roughly 8.5 
percent of the U.S. population (27.5 mil-
lion Americans) were uninsured. They 
would be forced to pay high medical 
bills entirely on their own with no out-
side assistance.
No single health care system has 
proven to be entirely unﬂ  awed but all, 
with maybe the exception of the Out-of-
Pocket Model, have still proven to be ef-
fective in providing coverage. However, 
part of the efﬁ  ciency comes from the 
lower costs and coverage to employed 
citizens. Because the American health 
care system is fractured to include 
many aspects, costs remain high, and it 
is tough for uninsured individuals to re-
ceive out-of-pocket coverage. The coun-
tries that follow one system of health 
care tend to be less expensive and more 
fair, in comparison to the United States.
Kelly Cavaliere is a UF Business 
Administration sophomore. She is 
studying abroad in Germany at the 
Universität Mannheim.The United States’ health care 
versus the rest of the world’sColumn
Kelly
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
River Wells / Alligator Staff8  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
FOUR PEOPLE TELL THE STORY OF THEIR 
UF-THEMED TATTOOS
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Kaylyn Rhodes was celebrating her friend’s birthday with din-
ner and bowling. The 20-year-old UF advertising senior was kind of 
bored, so naturally, she ended up in a tattoo shop. 
Nearly one year later, Rhodes now walks with a mouthful of 
black ink. She pulled down her bottom lip to reveal “gataz” printed 
neatly in all lowercase — the z just ﬁ  ts her personality. 
“I vibe with it,” she said. “It gives an extra ﬂ  are.”
She usually forgets the lip tattoo is there but is considering add-
ing a picture of a Gator under the message. It was done on a whim, 
but Rhodes said getting a tattoo was something she wanted for a 
while. It shows her collegiate pride in a positive way.
“You know what? I’m in college, this is the only time I’ll tattoo 
something Gators,” Rhodes said.Butts & monopoly: How Gators got inked
1. It’s the Sunday 
before ﬁ  nals, and 
you’re studying at...
a. Library West 
b. Marston Science
 Library 
c. Newell Hall
2. Where are you go-
ing out to lunch with 
your friends?
a. Chick-ﬁ  l-A
b. Chipotle 
c. Krishna Lunch 
3. Where is your 
morning boost com-
ing from?
a. Starbucks 
b. Jamba Juice
c. Au Bon Pain 
4. It’s the morning 
before an afternoon 
game, where are you?
a. The Social
b. Fraternity Drive
c. Asleep
5. What’s your favor-
ite Midtown spot?
a. Fat Daddy’s
b. Grog House
c. Italian Gator6. What’s your favor-
ite UF sport to watch?
a. Football 
b. Volleyball
c. Basketball 
7. How are you get-
ting around campus?
a. RTS  
b. Scooter 
c. On foot
8. Which UF chant is 
your favorite?
a. “Get up and go” 
b. “Move back, you 
suck” 
c. “Gator Bait”
9. What are you do-
ing on a Wednesday 
night?
a. Booking a study
 room
b. Going to Mid for 
Ladies’ Night
c. Going to the bat
 houses
10. Who is your UF 
role model?
a. Kent Fuchs
b. Dan Mullen
c. AlbertWhich flavor of 
Gatorade are you?
Daniel Gato’s orange and blue “swamp life” tattoo started as 
a bet in a high-stakes Monopoly game his freshman year at Santa 
Fe College. The ﬁ  rst to go bankrupt had to draw a random slip of 
paper from a bowl full of tattoo drawings. 
Gato lost his money and the bet.
The 21-year-old Santa Fe economics junior says he didn’t get 
the worst design of the bunch. Other doodles included a unicorn 
and a Florida State University drawing.
“Originally, I was going with the ﬂ  ow in the moment but the 
day after I got it I was like, ‘Why did I do this?’” Gato said. 
But Gato strategically placed it on his left thigh. It’s hidden on 
ﬁ  rst glance, but he’s willing to show it when friends ask. Two 
years later, he loves the colorful message.
One professor’s UF pride is worn under his sleeve.
Mike Foley’s daughter, who was attending UF at the time, said she wanted 
to get her bellybutton pierced. Naturally, Foley tagged along for some father-
daughter bonding.
About 15 years later, a miniature Gator ﬁ  gure marks the right arm of the UF journal-
ism professor. It’s a symbol he knows he’ll honor the rest of his life.
“That’s the one thing about my life that’s never going to change. You have girl-
friends, but you’re always going to be a Gator. So why not?” Foley said.
One reason Foley doesn’t have any other tattoos is because the needle makes him 
feel as if he is “being stung by a bee a thousand times.” 
Over the years, Foley thought about getting it retouched or adding the years that the 
UF Gators were the national champions. 
But for now, the green alligator, faded from years of teaching and cheering on 
his beloved football team, serves as a permanent reminder of Foley’s love for his 
alma mater.
Eight cheeks. Four tattoos. One permanent UF pride.
Christopher Bonilla graduated from the university 
in December but wanted to memorialize his time at UF. 
He and his three friends decided to tattoo their right butt 
cheeks.
The location was chosen because the group is very 
body positive and wants to show off their assets.
“We kind of, just in general, are very comfortable with 
our body and like to show our a-- to people,” he said.
Each of the friends’ right cheeks are ink-stained with 
a different design honoring the university. They proudly 
share the art at football tailgates by cutting holes in their 
jean shorts.
“Everybody loves it, they think the tattoos are great 
and very ‘Florida Gators,’” Bonilla said. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org
Mostly As: YOU’RE FRUIT PUNCH! You’re a 
dependable, reliable person. Your friends can al-
ways count on you to be there for them, and you 
love that about yourself. You’re loved by many, 
and you’re deﬁ  nitely the parent of your friend 
group.
Mostly Bs: YOU’RE LEMON-LIME! You’re 
feisty and sassy. You are the boldest of your 
friend group, and you’re never afraid to speak 
your mind. You pack a punch, and are fearless in 
everything you do.
Mostly Cs: YOU’RE COOL BLUE! You are su-
per chill and laid-back. You are spontaneous and 
love to just go with the ﬂ  ow. You’re always up 
for new experiences, and you just let life take 
you wherever it wants. 
Even mix of two or more: YOU’RE GLACIER 
FREEZE! People can’t pin you down, I mean, 
what does a “glacier freeze” even taste like? But 
don’t worry, you keep people on their toes and 
don’t like to put yourself into a box.
@noroneill
noneill@alligator.orgARE YOU A CLASSIC FRUIT PUNCH, 
OR MORE OF A LEMON-LIME? 
TAKE OUR QUIZ TO FIND OUT!
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff WriterFRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
BRYAN G. WILLIAMS, 
32, TURNED HIMSELF IN 
WEDNESDAY NIGHT
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man turned him-
self in to deputies Wednesday 
night in connection to a murder 
and home invasion robbery on 
Sunday morning.
Bryan G. Williams, 32, was arrested on a 
murder charge 
while engaged 
in felony offens-
es, attempted 
robbery with a 
ﬁ  rearm and at-
tempted mur-
der, according 
to an arrest war-
rant. The charges came after dep-
uties found two men, one dead 
and one injured, inside a home 
on the 1200 block of Southwest 75th Drive, according to court re-
cords. 
Jonathan Morris was pro-
nounced dead when law enforce-
ment arrived, and the other un-
named 22-year-old also found at 
the house was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital. A third person 
was found injured about half a 
mile away after the ﬁ  rst two were 
found.
All three people were shot, 
said Art Forgey, Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce Spokesperson. Law enforcement is still deter-
mining if the third person is in-
volved in the same shooting or a 
separate incident.
Williams is not one of the three 
people shot, Forgey said. 
The investigation is ongoing, 
with the person injured in the 
home and the man found nearby 
still in the hospital. Items were 
stolen from the home, but depu-
ties are not releasing what the 
items were as of Thursday.
There aren’t any other war-rants for arrests as of Thursday, 
but Forgey said more arrests are 
expected to come soon.
“We’re piecing together slowly 
what happened,” Forgey said.
Williams is being held in the 
Alachua County Jail on a $3.5 
million bond, according to court 
records.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMan arrested in connection to Sunday morning murder, home robbery
THE 10-YEAR PLAN’S MAP SHOWS 
RECREATIONAL FIELDS IN PLACE OF 
TWO GRADUATE DORMITORIES
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
When UF computer science graduate 
student Michael Sanchez found UF’s 10-
year master plan online, he searched the 
housing section for the keyword “gradu-
ate.” Out of the 20 results, only one wasn’t 
connected to the word “undergraduate.”
Sanchez, the president of the Mayors’ 
Council, which represents students in 
graduate and family housing, then read ev-
ery part of the 313-page plan, thinking the 
search wasn’t working. 
But it was. Every cent of UF Housing 
and Residence Education’s $404 million to 
$479 million budget was slated to go to-
ward undergraduate dormitories, accord-
ing to the housing master plan executive 
summary. 
“[I was] trying to ﬁ  gure out like, ‘Man, 
are these guys really serious? In the next 10 
years, they don’t plan to do anything with 
graduate and family housing?’” he said. 
But that wasn’t all he found. A mas-
ter plan map shows a recreational ﬁ  eld in 
place of Maguire Village and University 
Village South, which make up 40 percent 
of all graduate and family housing com-
plexes. 
This proposal remains unfunded and 
unapproved, and there are no current plans 
to close Maguire or UVS, said Student Af-
fairs interim associate vice president David 
Bowles. However, residents are still wor-ried about the map’s implication and the 
lack of focus on graduate housing in the 
master plan. 
Bowles said the recreational ﬁ  elds that 
overlap with Maguire and UVS are simply 
a “placeholder for the future.” 
“No plans have been developed for 
them,” he wrote in an email. “There is 
a signiﬁ  cant list of recreational needs on 
campus that take priority and need funding 
before considering new ﬁ  elds in that area.”
Regardless of Maguire and UVS’ fate, 
Sanchez believes graduate housing needs 
more support. 
“They need to get $10 million from that 
$480 million that they’re going to use to 
make this campus a wonderland for un-
dergrads and renovate graduate and family 
[housing],” Sanchez said. 
Sanchez believes graduate students are 
one of the university’s prime “stakehold-
ers” and that pushing them away is coun-
terproductive. 
UF reported it received $776.2 mil-
lion for research in 2019, much of which 
goes toward graduate and Ph.D. research, 
Sanchez said. Graduate students are also 
champions for diversity, he said. More 
than 70 countries are represented in gradu-
ate housing, he said.
Mayors’ Council vice president Ara-
vinda Munasinghe is worried about UF’s 
climb up the national ranks if graduate 
housing is neglected. 
“President Fuchs talks about [how] we 
are becoming a top national 5 university 
and in the Top 10 universities,” he said. 
“But we just can’t do that by just develop-
ing one section of the university.” 
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst issue the Mayors’ Council has encountered with housing. 
They’ve been asking for updates about the 
future of Maguire and UVS for about six 
months with little response, Sanchez said. 
Housing’s executive summary says that 
buildings with poor ventilation systems are 
“areas of critical need,” but graduate hous-
ing has these problems as well, Sanchez 
said. More than 50 of the 358 apartments 
in Maguire and UVS are unavailable right 
now due to maintenance issues.
Housing emailed the Council in July to 
say that some students may be relocated 
during apartment repairs in Maguire and 
UVS, but they haven’t heard anything else 
since, Sanchez said.  “It’s like pulling teeth, you know? It’s 
an ongoing battle,” he said. “What’s going 
on is just ugly.” 
The Council ultimately wants housing 
to communicate with them about the sta-
tus of Maguire and UVS. 
“What we at Mayors’ Council are trying 
to do is keep the villages not only open, 
but up to code and up to date, just like 
everyone else has a chance to live in a nice 
apartment and feel like they’re cared about 
by the university,” Sanchez said. 
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgHousing development plan has UF graduate students worried
Courtesy to The Alligator 
A map on UF’s 10-year master plan shows outdoor recreational ﬁ  elds in place of 
Maguire Village and University Village South, two of ﬁ  ve graduate and family housing 
complexes. 
Williams
10  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
UF now ranked #7
among public universities
 – U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT 2020
UFL.EDU
THANK YOU   faculty, staff 
and students. It is because of you 
we can celebrate this success. 
As the flagship university in the nation’s number one state for 
higher education, the Unversity 
of Florida’s momentum is on an 
unstoppable trajectory.
INVESTING IN OURSELVES. 
INVESTING IN WHAT’S NEXT.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Behind the homecoming ﬂ  oats
Meet the people who make the homecoming parade 
ﬂ  oats. Pg. 12Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Inside UF’s Homecoming Leadership Pageant
This year’s homecoming king and queen are set to be crowned 
tonight at Gator Growl. Pg. 14UF HAS AN ALL-ENCOMPASSING 
TASTE IN MUSIC
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
Music occupies a large role on most col-
lege campuses. Questions like “Can you 
make me a playlist?” and “Is the venue 21-
up?” can be heard through dorm room walls 
or across dining hall tables.
On campus, groups of friends are en-
hanced by fandoms or hatreds toward the 
same artists. Adrian Sakr, a 19-year-old UF environ-
mental engineering junior, said he agrees 
with this sentiment. 
“It deﬁ  nitely does help strengthen friend-
ships when you meet people and then ﬁ  nd 
that they have the same music interests,” 
Sakr said.
He said his favorite musical acts in-
clude Vampire Weekend, Paul Simon, Da-
vid Bowie and Queen.
Each student at UF has their own individ-
ualized taste that is formed like a sculpture 
being constantly chiseled at by thousands of 
hit-or-miss songs and artists.Carina Nunno, 19-year-old UF industrial 
and systems engineering sophomore, was 
eager to share her current favorite artists: 
Lana Del Rey and self-proclaimed “Ameri-
ca’s favorite boy band,”  Brockhampton. 
“It’s really cool that Brockhampton have 
so many members that all contribute to their 
sound,” Nunno said. “They came out with a 
new album recently, and I love it.”
The Alligator asked students to share 
their favorite current artists. UF proved to 
have a wide spectrum of musical favorites, 
spanning genres including hip-hop, pop, 
rock and country. 
Here are the most popular artists at UF.
@chrstophercannWhat are UF students listening to?
Hip Hop: 
• Post Malone
• Tyler, the Creator
• Lizzo
• Drake
• Brockhampton
• Cardi BPop:
• Ariana Grande
• Khalid
• Billie Eilish
• T aylor Swift
• Lana Del Rey
• Sam SmithRock:
• T ame Impala
• The 1975
• ﬂ  ipturn
• Arctic Monkeys
• Vampire Weekend
• Panic! at the DiscoCountry:
• Blake Shelton
• Florida Georgia Line
• Blanco Brown
• Chris Lane
• Luke Combs
• Chase RiceHonorable Mentions:
• Bad Bunny
• BTS
• Kacey Musgraves
• Lorde
• FKA twigs
• Kendrick LamarTHE BAND’S INTERACTION 
HIGHLIGHTS THE IMPORTANCE 
OF A DIGITAL PRESENCE
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Staff Writer
“It was all my fault,” said Jesse Frimmel, the 
drummer for Arrows in Action.
The Gainesville-based pop-rock band has 
shown a devotion to Hot Pockets via Twitter, 
and it has not gone unnoticed. 
Their peculiar online relationship with the 
popular microwavable turnover brand can be 
traced back to late 2018, around the same time 
the band’s current lineup began playing together.
“We will eat a Hot Pocket on stage every 
show if we have to,” the tweet read, as they 
asked for sponsorship.
Frimmel said the company would occasion-
ally respond to their “weird, dumb” tweets with 
similar banter. 
“One time I had a back-and-forth of like, 
eight tweets between me and Hot Pockets,” he 
said. “And then I was like, I can keep this up.”
Now, almost a year later, the saga continues. 
Hot Pockets recently sent the band a gift box ﬁ  lled 
with T-shirts and a plush Hot Pockets mascot.
Arrows in Action recorded a video unboxing 
the merch package, which they shared with over 
2,000 Twitter followers who had been watching 
the situation evolve with piqued interest.
“Unofﬁ  cially ofﬁ  cially pen-pals,” Hot Pock-
ets tweeted back with a red heart emoji. 
To Arrows in Action, this exchange symbolizes 
the importance of maintaining an online presence. 
“Getting bigger Twitter accounts to joke back 
with you is like the online equivalent of getting 
bigger shows,” guitarist Matt Fowler said. 
Fowler said having an active Twitter ac-
count has allowed their followers to relate to 
them on a personal level and has even allowed 
for more show opportunities. 
But he’s emphasized that online interactions 
are more important than just managing a grow-
ing follower count. 
“[It’s] proof that people like talking to you 
and think you’re funny and listen to your mu-
sic,” Fowler said.
Victor Viramontes-Pattison, the band’s lead 
singer, said showcasing their personality is key 
to strengthening their audience.
“We’ll just post little funny things like Hot 
Pockets, which has nothing to do with our set 
or any tour dates. It’s just fun stuff like this,” 
he said. “[It becomes] a little bit more than just 
like, ‘Oh, I really like the music.’ But it’s also 
like, ‘They’re cool.’”
Bassist Tony Farah has been in Gainesville 
for over 20 years and has witnessed the digi-
talization of the local music scene ﬁ  rsthand. 
He remembers when handing out CDs was the 
primary method of getting people to listen to 
your music. 
“There’s more competition,” he said, “be-
cause it’s so much easier to get your music and 
your name in front of people. Which I think just 
means you just have to be better. You have to 
work harder.” 
Arrows in Action will be playing their last 
round of shows for their current record, “Hell 
in Paradise”, throughout October. 
“Hopefully the next time we get something 
directly from Twitter, it’ll be a show offer,” 
Fowler said. “But I’ll take free stuff from Hot 
Pockets.”  
@morgangoldwich
mgoldwich@alligator.orgArrows in Action is the 
“Hot Pockets band”
MUSIC
MUSICProducing the looks of 2019 
HOW THE ALLIGATOR PRODUCTION TEAM 
WORKS THIS YEAR’S TRENDS
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
Assistant production manager Deion Mcleod, 22 (bottom), helps 
with the creation of The Alligator’s pages with production staff mem-
bers Dana Meyers, 21 (top), and Whitney Mecca, 22 (left). “We build 
the paper, we edit the photos and puzzle the stories in order to make 
the paper look organized and aesthetically pleasing,” Mcleod said.
Fashion
Photos by Dana Cassidy / Alligator Staff12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Queen of the Dazzling Black Hat Divas, Susie Mosley puts the finishing touches on the 
Homecoming float Thursday. Mosley has been a member of the dance group since it began 
10 years ago. This is the third year that they have participated in the UF Homecoming parade.
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff 
Sade West and Laverne Porter-Mitchell help hang decorations on the golf cart float 
for the Dazzling Black Hat Divas. The group celebrates diversity and inclusion and 
will have its 10th anniversary this November. The group is open to all who have a 
passion for dancing and want to have fun. 
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Bekah Malpass, a 21-year-old UF English senior, works on the Young Life float for the 
Homecoming parade. This is the fourth year that Young Life has participated and about 
30 high school and college students are marching with the trailer in the parade. 
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Lily Irwin, respiratory therapist for the neonatal team with ShandsCair, and Wade 
Jones, flight medic for ShandsCair, work on the UF Homecoming parade float for 
UF Health ShandsCair team Thursday afternoon. Irwin said she has been with 
ShandsCair for 29 years and Jones said he has been a part of the Gainesville team 
for over 27 years.
Floating down University: Making floats before the parade FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
1. Credit approval required and initial $50 opening deposit required. Offer is for new checking accounts only. Offer subject to change without notice. Member must elect to receive eDocuments within the first 90 days, deposit over $200 per month for the first 3 months. If the 
requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT. 2. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member must elect to 
receive eDocuments. 3. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required. Federally insured by the NCUA.CONVENIENTCHECKING
Visit campuscu.com for a complete list of our convenient locations!
FREE 
CAMPUS
and Publix 
Presto! 
ATMsCAMPUS
Online and
Mobile  
Banking
and Mobile 
DepositInstant-
issue 
debit cards
Receive same day 
– at convenient 
service centersNo minimum 
balance 
requirement2No 
monthly 
fee$150  Cash 
Bonus1
when you open a 
FREE Checking 
Account2
Membership is open to students, 
faculty and staff of the University of 
Florida, UF Health, and all residents 
of Alachua County!3Plenty of Perks!
VISIT OUR THREE  LOCATIONS CLOSE TO CAMPUS:
1200 SW 5th Ave. 1900 SW 34th St. UF Health, Room H1$ $ $
  Call 335-9090  and press 5     Visit any CAMPUS Service Center            Open an account today at campuscu.comASHA FLORIDA TO HOST 
SHOW OCT. 18 
IN REITZ UNION
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Apple-size hoop earrings graze 
her cheeks, a reptile-print dress 
ﬂ  ows down to her ankles and a 
black bindi rests between her dark, 
groomed eyebrows. 
Appajosula Yashodhara “Yas-
hu” Rao, a 27-year-old UF materi-
als science and engineering doc-
toral candidate and Asha Florida 
president, is dressed in the Indo-
Western style that she’ll display at 
the fashion show she’s organizing 
for Oct. 18 at 7:30 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union Rion Ballroom. 
“You have these two kind of 
contrasting fashion industries but 
then when you mix them together 
you create this funk,” Rao said. 
Asha Florida, a branch of the in-
ternational nonproﬁ  t Asha for Edu-
cation, is hosting the volunteer-run 
show. The organization fundraises 
“to catalyze socio-economic change 
in India through the education of 
underprivileged children,” accord-
ing to its website. 
The event will include an ex-
clusive “premium 100” reception 
at 6:30 p.m. for special attendees 
and the models’ guests. There will 
be a section in the audience for UF students attending GatorNights to 
view the production. 
In September, about 60 people 
strutted across the Reitz Union 
Amphitheater for a chance to be a 
model in the upcoming show. Rao, 
who is a model herself, will select 
about 50. 
Local networking fashion com-
pany Sliick helped organize the 
event. As a Sliick brand ambassa-
dor, Rao said when she began her 
modeling career with the company, 
members “hyped” her up and cre-
ated a body-positive environment, 
which she used for inspiration for 
the fashion show.   
Sliick CEO Erinesha Hamilton, 
26, said Sliick’s mission connected 
with the fashion show’s purpose. 
The hostility and competition on 
social media among women with 
different body types inspired her 
to create a brand focused on unity, 
body-positivity and empowerment 
six years ago. 
“Just being on social media, it 
was a lot of slim versus thick hap-
pening at that time,” Hamilton 
said. “So I took the ﬁ  rst three let-
ters of slim and the second three 
letters of thick to make Sliick.”
Rao said she experienced a lot 
of bullying and cultural shame 
since childhood as a plus-size In-
dian female. Her family required 
her to wear long clothes to hide her 
body, which limited her creativity and ability to explore fashion. 
“Being Indian, the plus-size 
community gets really really disre-
spected,” Rao said. “We’re treated 
not really well.”
With the freedom and conﬁ  -
dence Rao acquired with adult-
hood, she was empowered to defy restrictive cultural standards. She 
began wearing shorter skirts, ex-
posing her shoulders and blending 
Indian and Western styles. 
Rao said she hopes the show 
will celebrate diversity, inclusivity 
and both cultures’ fashion indus-
tries. “My ultimate goal as a person 
is to show that beauty starts just 
from here,” Rao said pointing to 
her heart. “It doesn’t matter what 
you look like.”
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgFriday night fashion show fuses Indian and Western styles
Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff 
Yashu Rao, 27, a third-year UF materials science and engineering doctoral student, directs candidates 
at the fashion rehearsal Thursday afternoon for the upcoming Indo-Western Fashion Show Oct. 18 at 
the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
14  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
BLOODHOUNDS FOUND HER FOUR 
MILES DOWN THE PATH 
By Alex DeLuca
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman reported missing on a hike in 
Newnans Lake State Park has been found.
The 52-year-old woman began hiking 
in the state park at 9 a.m. Wednesday, ac-
cording to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce press release. 
The unnamed woman was reported 
missing when a friend of hers received calls at about 4:30 p.m. from the missing 
woman saying she was stuck in mud, ac-
cording to the report.
It’s unknown why the woman was there 
or how she became stuck in the mud. 
Deputies arrived to the park at 1000 NE 
55th Blvd. at about 6 p.m. and began look-
ing for the woman, the report said. 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, Ala-
chua County Fire Rescue and bloodhounds 
from the Department of Corrections were 
called to the scene in northeast Gainesville, 
authorities said. According to the report, after nearly an 
hour and a half of searching, the blood-
hounds found the woman. She was found 
about four miles down the trail and in a 
muddy area off the path. 
She was taken to a hospital for medical 
treatment due to dehydration. Her health 
status and identity are currently unknown. 
This is a breaking story that will be up-
dated.
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgWoman found stuck in mud after going missing on a hike THE ARTIST, WRITER, 
ACTRESS AND PRODUCER 
CHAMPIONS DIVERSITY 
IN HER WORK
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Julissa Calderon used her 
platform as a Buzzfeed content 
creator to bring Latinx voices 
and experiences to light. 
Now, she looks forward to 
doing the same with the upcom-
ing release of her new Netﬂ  ix 
show. 
The 2011 UF alumna, now 
30, describes herself as an artist, 
although she started at UF as a 
nursing student.
After getting a 62 percent on 
a chemistry exam during her 
freshman year, Calderon was 
walking to the bus stop and 
came across theater students 
dancing.
“It looked like recess,” she 
said. “And I was like ‘Wait what 
the hell? Why am I over here 
bummed because of a chemis-
try test and here are these kids 
in the theater building having a 
blast?’”
She called her mother im-
mediately and told her she was 
changing her major. Calderon 
found her place on campus as a 
theater and telecommunication 
double major, which set up her 
career trajectory as an actress, 
writer, producer, editor and di-
rector.
While she didn’t know what 
she was going to do at the mo-
ment, she knew the change 
would make her happy. 
She quickly found her-
self spending weekends in 
Gainesville instead of going 
home after changing her major 
and meeting her best friend, 
who she bonded with over being 
from the Dominican Republic. 
“We started embracing be-
ing there and going out and 
going to parties and going to 
events and learning the culture 
of Gainesville and UF,” she said. 
“I think that kept us from going 
home. By sophomore year, we 
were so immersed.” 
The most validating moment 
of her college career was during 
her senior year when she was 
cast for the ﬁ  rst time as a char-
acter who she truly connected 
with: a Latina woman. “It was deﬁ  nitely so reward-
ing,” she said. “I learned so 
much. I got to actually enjoy 
that semester because I felt in-
cluded for the ﬁ  rst time.” 
In 2013, she went from Mi-
ami to Los Angeles for an audi-
tion and decided she was there 
to stay. 
Again, she immediately 
gave her mom a call, but 
adapting to Los Angeles, like 
Gainesville, took time. She 
was rejected from auditions 
because her “accent” was too 
strong — an accent she didn’t 
know she had.
In 2016, she started working 
at Buzzfeed where she accep-
tance of her culture as part of 
“Pero Like,” a Buzzfeed depart-
ment for Latinx audiences. Her 
job as a producer combined her 
undergraduate degrees because 
she was acting and producing 
content by editing and directing. 
“I was so happy and so en-
gaged and so involved making 
the content that I feel like we 
needed,” Calderon said. 
She is now looking forward 
to the release of “Genteﬁ  ed,” a 
Netﬂ  ix show that was rewritten 
for her to star as a Dominican 
activist. 
“It allows us to show that 
all Latinos are not the same,” 
she said. “We all don’t speak 
the same, we all don’t look the 
same. But at the end of the day 
we speak the same language so our stories are the same, they’re 
just different colors.” 
Until its release, Calderon 
is visiting colleges around the 
U.S. telling her story and shar-
ing experiences with students. 
Her tour started a year ago when 
she was invited to speak at UF 
for the 2018 Hispanic Latinx Stu-
dent Assembly. 
Madison Rodas, a 21-year-
old UF political science senior, 
was the event director for HLSA 
when Calderon came to speak. 
She said her team wanted to 
bring someone to the event that 
embodied a Latinx success story. 
Rodas said that hearing sto-
ries from people who have lived 
similar experiences validates 
students.
“She talked about moving to 
California, how she had noth-
ing and basically how all of the 
hard work she had put in and 
the chase paid off in the end,” 
she said. “I think a lot of people 
need to hear that.” 
To Calderon, speaking at UF 
made her story come full circle. 
“I never imagined I would 
be speaking to my alma mater, 
just talking to them about me 
and my life,” she said. “I felt like 
such a small ﬁ  sh in a big pond 
at UF, and here I am getting rec-
ognized.”
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgYoutube star reﬂ  ects on UF career 
IT HAS BEEN A UF 
TRADITION FOR MORE 
THAN 90 YEARS
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
As students, faculty and Gator fans 
gather in a darkening ﬁ  eld for Gator 
Growl, the buzz of voices quiets as 
the announcer once again crowns the 
Homecoming king and queen. 
Yet, out of the more than 50,000 stu-
dents at the university, few know how 
these royals are selected. 
Sydney Brandenburg wanted to 
change that.
Brandenburg, who is a 21-year old 
marketing senior and director of the UF 
Homecoming Pageant, said she decided 
to take on the position to make people 
more aware of the pageants mission to 
showcase the best leaders on campus.
“A lot of students don’t know what 
we are, which is the difﬁ  cult part of my 
job because I know the organization so 
well and I’m so passionate about it,” 
Brandenburg said. “Even though it’s a 
leadership pageant, they hear the word 
and their brain goes to pageant.”
This year, the nominees for Home-
coming queen are: Sarah Abraham, the 
Student Body vice president; Emily Dun-
son, the Gator Party leader and Senate 
president pro-tempore and Samantha 
Singer, the Footprints: Buddy and Sup-
port Program president, Brandenburg 
said. 
The potential kings are Graham 
Boone, who works for the UF Invest-
ment Corp., Evan Curry, a UF CARE 
student afﬁ  liate, and Dylan Santalo, a 
member of Florida Blue Key, she said. 
The winner will be ofﬁ  cially crowned at 
Gator Growl, Brandenburg said. 
Planning for the pageant starts eight 
months in advance when all of the 
Homecoming chairs get selected, Bran-
denburg said. Applications to be entered 
into the pageant opened the ﬁ  rst day of 
the Fall semester, but when it opens var-
ies every year depending on when the 
Homecoming game is scheduled.
Forty contestants are selected by 
Brandenburg and her team. This year, 
they competed in the Sept. 23 pageant. 
The event consisted of an opening num-
ber, a Gator spirit round, a business 
dress round and an on-stage question 
round for the semi-ﬁ  nalists. The event was judged by a panel of UF faculty 
members, Brandenburg said. 
Brandenburg said she tried to over-
come the negative stereotypes associ-
ated with pageants by removing the for-
mal wear round this year and replacing 
it with business attire. She also collabo-
rated with the Career Connections Cen-
ter to give advice on what to look for an 
ideal king or queen.
This year, Brandenburg said  select-
ing thoughtful student leaders on cam-
pus was her top priority. 
“It’s not about who has the most 
leadership positions, it’s about whether 
their impact on campus can be really 
felt,” she said.
Out of the 40 contestants, the judges 
pick six to be on the Homecoming court 
based on an interview prior to the pag-
eant, resumes and their performance 
at the pageant itself, Brandenburg said. 
From the court, the panel then select the 
king and queen based on who is the top-
scoring male and female after the pag-
eant. 
This year’s contestants were barred 
from speaking to any media.
Students cannot vote for the queen or 
king but can come support the contes-
tants at the pageant, Brandenburg said.
The winners are crowned at Gator 
Growl in order to make it a more special 
experience for the contestants, students 
and alumni, Brandenburg said. The king 
and queen get to make an appearance 
at the Homecoming game the following 
day.
“I want this to be something that 
when you’re a freshman, you say, ‘I re-
ally I wish I could be like the Homecom-
ing queen,’” Brandenburg said. “Every 
single [contestant] has done something 
that I cannot even comprehend. I think 
that we need a time and a place to show-
case them and highlight them.”
Lauren Adler, a 21-year-old account-
ing senior and Homecoming general 
chairwoman, oversees all the Home-
coming events, including the pageant, 
Homecoming festival, parade, Gator 
Gala, philanthropy events and alumni 
outreach initiatives.
Adler was the only student judge at 
the pageant. She said scoring all of the 
contestants was hard because everyone 
was high-achieving and involved on 
campus, but feels conﬁ  dent in her deci-
sions.
“Every single person that was in that 
pageant ended up being a really strong 
leader,” Adler said. 
She said the Homecoming Pageant 
is vital to UF culture because it’s impor-
tant that students have a whole event to 
focus on leadership on campus. This is 
one of the only opportunities for these 
students to be recognized for all their 
hard work, she said. 
“It’s not a popularity contest. It’s 
nothing of the sort,”Adler said. “ It’s 
just about who really did make the 
university a better place and who re-
ally is passionate and conﬁ  dent in 
themselves.” 
@jordynkalman
jkalman@alligator.orgInside UF’s Homecoming 
Leadership Pageant
Courtesy to The Alligator 
Julissa Calderon, a 2011 UF theatre and telecommunication 
alumna, repped orange and blue during her time as a Gator.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15
Applications for the class of 2024 are available on our website.
www.sacklerschool.org provides extensive information about Sackler SOM
For further information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
John Denny, head brewer and one of the co-founders of First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, pours malt grains into a milling machine to break them 
down. The grains are then transported to the mash tun, a large vessel that 
converts starches into sugars for fermentation.
Ana Gabriela T orres, a cellarman for Swamp Head Brewery, packages kegs for distribution 
Wednesday afternoon. Once the beer is fermented and separated from the yeast, it is 
carbonated and packaged into cans or kegs for distribution. Swamp Head is able to produce 
around 700 or 800 cases in a day, selling beers all across the state of Florida.
The Life of a Beer
Sky Muncaster, a part-time manager and bartender for Cypress & Grove Brewing Co., sells a beer to a customer Thursday afternoon. 
After beers are packaged, some kegs are distributed to buyers across Gainesville and additional parts of Florida, while other are 
connected to the taps at the bar and served to customers. 
Sky Muncaster, a part-time manager and bartender for Cypress & Grove Brewing Co., sells a beer to a customer Thursday afternoon. 
Photo Story by Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
From milling to serving — beer undergoes 
a lengthy and sometimes complex process 
before it reaches stores and bars. 
The beer-making process 
for Gainesville breweries16  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
vv
Alligator 2019
 Time CapsuleAlligator 2019
 Time Capsule
When UF students wore cowboy 
hats at the Gator Growl artist re-
veal we thought it was going to 
be the man who saved country in 
2019,  Lil Nas X. His hit “Old T own 
Road” sat atop the Billboard T op 
100 list for 17 weeks making it the 
longest-running no.1 single in Bill-
board history. But, I mean Chase 
Rice is good too.The 16-year-old Swedish activist’s 
environmental advocacy started 
by skipping school on Fridays to sit 
outside the Swedish parliament. 
Greta Thunberg caught the world’s 
attention in the wake of the inter-
national climate strike in Septem-
ber.
White Claw is like drinking La 
Croix, except enjoyable and alco-
holic. Hard seltzers took over the 
industry in 2019, even leading to 
a national shortage of the popular 
drink. But, you know what they say 
“there ain’t no claws when you’re 
drinking claws baby. ”The rise of the ugly shoe started with Birkenstocks 
and took off to a whole new level with the rise of 
the chunky Fila sneaker. Try walking across campus 
without spotting someone wearing a pair of these 
atrocities. I dare you. If you’re not on TikT ok, you’re 
already behind. The short video 
app has become the next big 
thing in social media in 2019. 
Even good ole’ newspapers, like 
the Washington Post and the Al-
ligator, hopped on the train to 
produce quality content.He was set to come perform at UF at the beginning of 
2019. But after facing deportation, the rapper’s up-
coming show was in question. Don’t worry, 21 Savage
still performed live in the Swamp later in the year. 
Hot girl summer isn’t just a phase – it’s a lifestyle. 
Thanks to Megan Thee Stallion, everybody knows 
when it started. No one knows when it will end. If 
you’re treating yourself, you’re having a hot girl sum-
mer, and that’s the tea.
We were all shocked when 
Nicki Minaj  retired. 
In September she tweeted: 
“I’ve decided to retire & have 
my family. I know you guys 
are happy now. ” 
We hope she’s happy.
Mango pods and middle schoolers 
were 2019’s version of two peas-
in-a-pod. The electronic cigarette 
ﬁ  lled the lungs of a generation 
who, some, never even touched a 
cigarette. But like a cloud of smoke, 
JUUL ’s downfall came as fast as it 
emerged. Oh, well. Maybe kids 
will stop setting off the ﬁ  re alarms 
when they go to take a hit of that 
sweet nic on a bathroom break.
SKSKSKSK! Have you seen my hydroﬂ  ask? 
It’s probably next to my oversized t-shirt and 
puka shell necklace. Scrunchies and metals 
straws became an aspect of the quintessen-
tial teenage, VSCO girl meme in 2019.Thirty years from now, you’re cleaning the attic of 
your four-bedroom house ﬁ  lled with children, a fat 
dog and orange and blue memorabilia. Hidden un-
derneath dusty boxes is this edition of The Alligator’s 
2019 Homecoming edition. 
You can’t remember if we beat Auburn University, but 
you do remember these shenanigans:FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   17
1. Truth Hurts - LizzoT op 5 Songs of the Week
4. Ran$om - Lil T ecca3. Someone You Loved - Lewis 
Capaldi
5. No Guidance - Chris Brown 
ft. Drake2. Senorita - Camila Cabello & 
Shawn Mendes
The Marvel Cinematic Universe broke our 
hearts and the box ofﬁ  ce with the release 
of Avengers: Endgame, which became 
the highest-grossing ﬁ  lm of all time. But 
a feud between Disney and Sony left us 
worried about the fate of T om Holland’s 
Spider-Man in the MCU. Don’t worry, 
they’ve worked it out and we get to keep 
Holland and Spidey in the divorce.
When a Facebook event titled “Storm Area 51, 
They Can’t Stop All of Us” was created as a joke, 
1.5 million people were interested in raiding the 
highly classiﬁ  ed United States Air Force facility in 
Nevada. On Sept. 20, a few people actually showed 
up – but unfortunately, Naruto running didn’t de-
feat the military guards, and we didn’t ﬁ  nd the gov-
ernment hiding aliens.She’s the baaaaad guuuy. DUH. And 
we can’t get enough of the 17-year-
old pop star. The release of Billie Eil-
ish’s debut album “When We All Fall 
Asleep, Where Do We Go?” paired 
with her signature oversized style sky-
rocketed her to instant fame in 2019.As usual, Beyonce
came and she slayed. 
“Homecoming” was 
a religious experi-
ence for all who at-
tended and watched 
Coachella on April 
17. Let’s hope our 
homecoming is just 
as revolutionary. The people of Puerto Rico took to the streets this sum-
mer to protest their Gov. Ricardo Rosselló’s corruption. 
Bad Bunny and Ricky Martin even took to the streets. 
The historic protest caused him to resign.The catchphrase of VSCO girls everywhere, “And I – 
oop!” originally came from a Youtube video uploaded 
by RuPaul’s Drag Race contestant Jasmine Masters in 
2015. It sat ignored for four years until the meme took 
off in 2019, and it’s all thanks to our friends on Twitter.
Former UF football star Tim 
T ebow got engaged in Janu-
ary. He announced his en-
gagement to Miss Universe 
Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters via a 
cute Instagram post, crushing 
the hearts of hundreds. 
You think your life is hard? Well, Netﬂ  ix released a movie 
about the difﬁ  culties of being 6-foot-tall teenage girl. Beat 
that. T all Girl, the Netﬂ  ix original movie, led to an array of 
jokes and memes making fun of the movie that takes its 
plot about teenage “hardship” just a little too seriously.18   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
POE WILL ALSO VISIT 
LIPETSK FOR THE 2019 
RUSSIA/U.S. MUNICIPAL 
FORUM 
By Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Months after his trip to Hawaii, 
Mayor Lauren Poe is on the road 
again. 
The Gainesville mayor is off to 
Russia to join the 2019 Russia/U.S. 
Municipal Forum, taking place next 
Oct. 10-12 in Lipetsk.
The forum will involve leaders 
from both nations sharing challenges 
and successes they face on the job, 
as well as conversations about the 
influence of globalization on urban 
economic development, safety and 
ecology, according to Poe.
Poe said he was invited to attend by Sister Cities In-
ternational (SCI), 
a nonprofit diplo-
macy network 
that has paired 
cities across 
the world since 
1956. SCI paired 
Gainesville with 
Novorossiysk, 
culminating in the longest sister city 
relationship Gainesville has, Poe 
said. Once the forum is over, Poe 
will head to Novorossiysk.
He will be the 10th Gainesville 
mayor to visit. 
“We were one of the earliest 
U.S.-Soviet sister cities,” Poe said. 
“They frequently send delegations 
over here as well. It’ll be my first 
visit. I’m really excited, and I know 
they’re excited to have us.”
The trip was organized by Ste-
ven Kalishman, member of the SCI board of directors and owner of his 
own Gainesville law office, Poe said. 
Kalishman is the original charter 
member of the city’s sister city rela-
tionship.
“His wife is actually from there,” 
Poe said. “We really maintain active 
and frequent dialogue with them be-
cause of that.”
The Alligator does not have ac-
cess to the total cost of  his U.S.-
Moscow flight as of Thursday. Poe’s 
round-trip flight from Moscow to 
Anapa, Russia costs 10,930 rubles, 
or $167.87. This represents only part 
of Poe’s travel expenses, with the 
rest coming from Poe’s own pocket, 
he said.
While the announcement of his 
trip has drawn criticism following 
possible Russian interference in the 
2016 elections, Poe said he thinks it 
should not have any impact on talks.
“We try not to let the national climate cloud what we’re doing,” 
Poe said. “There might be some dis-
cussion of national or international 
politics, but mainly we keep it to 
how we can support each other as 
two communities that can share this 
common bond.”
G.V. Kelley, a 33-year-old UF Col-
lege of the Arts alumnus and former 
UF teaching assistant, said Poe’s at-
tending the forum without acknowl-
edging the “problematic attitudes 
of the Novorossiysk leadership” 
could send the wrong message to 
Gainesville. 
Russia’s 2013 “gay propaganda” 
law, which prohibits “promotion of 
nontraditional sexual relations to 
minors,” has been repeatedly and 
broadly cited to block any LGBTQ+ 
events in towns like Novorossiysk. 
This is part of the recent anti-LG-
BTQ+ sentiments emerging in Rus-
sia.“It sends a clear message to 
Gainesville’s queer community that 
tolerance is conditional... as opposed 
to an interest in earnestly supporting 
a marginalized community,” Kelley 
said. 
In response, Poe noted that he 
would be happy to discuss these 
issues with Russian leaders and, in 
particular, the 2017 denial of Mos-
cow pride parade co-founder Niko-
lay Alekseev’s request for a Novoros-
siysk parade.
“We know when we visit other 
places and cultures that they’re not 
going to see everything the same 
way we do,” Poe said. “It’s my job 
to share with them how we try to 
treat every individual with equity 
and equal dignity, to see their city 
moving in a different direction.”Mayor Poe to visit Gainesville’s Russian sister city for forum
Poe
SOCIAL MEDIA DRIVE 
RAISES AWARENESS
By  Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Kelcey Hernandez held up a sign 
that summarized four years of strug-
gle in seven words. 
“UF does not understand my 
community’s needs.” 
Hernandez was one of 43 stu-
dents in front of the camera for the 
Asian Pacific Islander Desi American 
(APIDA) task force and Asian Amer-
ican Student Union’s first Facebook 
initiative highlighting the lack of 
resources Asian American students 
receive on campus.
Hernandez, a 21-year-old UF 
health education senior, said that as 
a first-generation Filipino American 
student, Counseling and Wellness 
Center counselors weren’t equipped 
to deal with the intricacies that sur-
round mental health issues in Asian 
cultures during her visit in Fall 
2017. 
To her, addressing mental health 
in Asian communities is taboo. 
“Even within our community, 
people don’t feel open to talking 
about it,” Hernandez said. “It’s a barrier having to explain what you’re 
going through to someone that will 
never really get it.”
According to the UF CWC 2018 
report, about 10 percent of clients 
identified as Asian American or 
Asian. 
APIDA and AASU’s campaign 
asked students to write their con-
cerns on whiteboards: their native 
language isn’t offered, Asian diaspo-
ra studies aren’t taught and students 
don’t have a cultural center to call 
home. 
Vibhor Nayar and Emma San-
chez, APIDA’s task chairs, created 
the series after seeing a similar cam-
paign created by Yale’s Asian Ameri-
can Studies Task Force. To Nayar, a 
24-year-old UF mechanical engineer-
ing senior, seeing students’ emotions 
from behind the lens was impactful.
“With photos, where you can 
attach names and faces, you see a 
person, and them holding up a mes-
sage they care deeply about,” Nayar 
wrote in an email.
Nayar said he doesn’t feel repre-
sented on UF’s campus as an Indian 
American. 
“Discussions about mental health 
resources, diversity space resources, 
course offerings, etc. consistently show that our community, interna-
tional and domestic, is consistently 
underserved,” Nayar wrote. 
Although Asian American stu-
dents are 7.35 percent of the student 
population, they are the second larg-
est minority on campus. UF is one 
of the few Top 7 universities that 
doesn’t have an institute for Asian or 
Asian American studies. 
Sanchez, a 19-year-old UF inter-
national studies sophomore, said the 
lack of spaces for Asian studies and 
students is visible on University Ave-
nue where the Institute for Hispanic-
Latino Cultures and the Institute of 
Black Culture will have their ribbon-
cutting ceremony in November. 
As a Filipina American, she wish-
es other minority groups supported 
the Asian and Asian American com-
munity’s efforts to get an institute 
the way she supported theirs. 
“We had been speaking to people 
in Latin American Studies and Af-
rican American Studies,” Sanchez 
said. “They would say bringing up 
the fact that the Asian American 
community doesn’t have an institute 
isn’t valid.”
@AEscalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgAPIDA, AASU highlight lack of Asian American programs
MONEY TO GO TOWARD 
15,200-SQUARE-FOOT 
TERMINAL EXPANSION
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
Local travelers will have more 
terminals to choose from as they fly 
in and out of Gainesville.
Gainesville Regional Airport will 
receive a $12 million grant from the 
Federal Aviation Administration to 
fund a 15,200-square-foot terminal 
expansion. The grant will be award-
ed over a two-year period and is the 
largest earned by the Gainesville Ala-
chua County Regional Airport Au-
thority, Erin Porter, the Gainesville Airport manager of marketing and 
public relations, said. 
Groundbreak for the new termi-
nal will happen in mid-November, 
and will add two additional gates 
and amenities including expanded 
restrooms, a second food and bever-
age area, a lactation room, a prayer 
room, a children’s play area and an 
outdoor pet relief area, she said.
The grant is part of the Federal 
Aviation Administration’s Airport 
Improvement Program, which pro-
vides funding for airports across the 
United States based on activity levels 
and project needs. The grants usu-
ally fund between 75 to 95 percent 
of an airport’s projects, Porter said. 
Porter wrote in an email that the 
grant was much-needed because of growth in the Gainesville commu-
nity and air traffic capacity being at 
an all-time high.
“This expansion allows the air-
port to better accommodate the 
flights it has now, as well as prepare 
for future growth,” Porter said.
To fund these renovations, the 
airport will be using a $1.275 million 
grant from the Florida Department 
of Transportation, about $2 million 
from passenger facility charges, and 
$107,000 from the Gainesville Alach-
ua County Regional Airport Author-
ity revenue, Porter said. The project 
has been budgeted at just under $16 
million.
Other updates include a new 
entrance road, opening 40 acres to 
potential development, $8 million in terminal renovations, commercial 
aircraft apron expansion, a 350-kilo-
watt solar panel project, parking lot 
expansion and airport fire station re-
placement. 
Airport staff will have a meeting 
with the contractor next month to fi-
nalize construction plans for the next 
two years, Porter said. The project’s 
total cost is expected to be about 
$14.5 million.
Sophia Alday, a 19-year-old UF 
tourism, events and recreation man-
agement sophomore, has flown in 
and out of the airport to Dallas-Fort 
Worth, where her family is from. She 
chose to fly out of Gainesville be-
cause it was more convenient since 
the airport added direct flights to the 
Dallas area. She said she is excited for the 
expansion because it will help bring 
more money into the local economy 
and will help local businesses flour-
ish. She also thinks that airport could 
benefit from some Gator decora-
tions, much like the Disney decor in 
Orlando, she said. 
“It makes it an experience and 
would encourage people to fly in for 
Gator events and games, thus boost-
ing the economy here,” she said. 
@jordynkalman
jkalman@alligator.orgGainesville airport gets $12 million grant to expandCourtesy to The Alligator
Kelcey Hernandez, a 21-year-old UF health education senior, said 
she doesn’t feel seen on UF’s campus as a Filipino American. 
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
DEEP DOCKABLE WATERFRONT 
ACREAGE GULF ACCESS-ONLY $69,900. 
WAY UNDER MARKET! CONVENIENT 
TO TAMPA AREA ON FLORIDA’S 
NATURE COAST. GREAT FISHING AND 
SCALLOPING. EXCELLENT FINANCING. 
GULFATLANTICLANDSALES.COM,  
BROKER 1-888-423-0944       10-4-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Block RoboCalls on home phones for your 
family! Stop the annoying and costly calls. 
RoboCallWall is the best landline call block-
er for your Mom, Dad or Grandparents. 
RoboCallWall connects to WiFi and uses a 
huge cloud database of known robocallers. 
www.RoboCallWall.com    10-7-19-3-8
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D1For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
To My Lovely Wife, Mary J.:  
Happy Homecoming 2019! 
Here’s to making new memories at 
The Swamp?, Social, Paisano’s... 
Go Gators!  Beat Auburn! 
Love you, John J. (Cocoa Beach) To The Girl With The 
Beautiful Blue Eyes:
We have not been at UF for 
Homecoming in 5 years, but this 
year, we are back here in Gainesville 
where we started!  We began 39 
years ago, Homecoming Weekend.  
It’s been an amazing and wonderful 
ride.  Married for 34 years, you still 
look like you did when we were stu-
dents!  We are so proud of Little Blue 
Eyes, a UF grad, high school teacher, 
and soon getting her masters degree!  
Even better, she is getting married 
next year!  Who could have ever 
thought that Homecoming Weekend, 
1980, would lead us on this amazing, 
wonderful journey of life.  I love you 
and Little Blue Eyes forever.
ILY,
Liarface
HOMECOMING
MESSAGES:
By Mark McClain
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/04/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/04/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, October 4, 2019
ACROSS
1 Crossed the mob, 
in a way
5 Insignificant 
points
9 When repeated, 
Second British 
Invasion band
14 Second person 
of old?
15 “No problems 
here”
16 “... the __ of 
defeat”: “Wide 
World of Sports” 
phrase
17 Steaming flow
18 Casual eatery
19 One spun by a 
juggler
20 Deity worshiped 
by backyard 
chefs?
23 July 4th show 
failure
24 Attach, in a way
25 NFL scores
28 Underground 
support
31 “ASAP!”
36 7-10 split, to a 
bowler?
39 Exploring toon
40 Conceals
41 Support for 
driving and 
kicking
42 Flying toys
43 Dumbo’s flying 
aids
44 Distiller Walker’s 
treatise about a 
whisky grain?
46 Home of the 
Senators
48 Ruckus
49 Double curve
50 Two-time U.S. 
Open champ
52 Played the first 
card
54 Hester Prynne’s 
trademark milk-
producing farm?
62 So it could be 
heard
63 Where I-90 and 
I-79 meet
64 Rock’s Bon __
66 Fire sign
67 With 68-Across, 
words before 
“easy”
68 See 67- or 
69-Across69 With 68-Across, 
studied
70 Army installation
71 Loch with a 
legend
DOWN
1 Baseball Cards: 
Abbr.
2 Melville captain
3 1960s-’80s Chevy
4 Bank employee
5 Words to a 
growler
6 Apple on a desk
7 Vegan staple
8 Sport with disks
9 Togged out
10 Not-cute fruit
11 Large chorus of 
cheers
12 Opposition prefix
13 Duma “Don’t 
think so!”
21 Uses for warmth, 
as wood
22 Dainty drinks
25 Cops as a unit
26 Marvelous
27 Get around
29 Eye-related prefix
30 Layers
32 Father of Thor
33 French 
possessive34 Low cards
35 Relief providers
37 To whom Rick 
says, “We’ll 
always have 
Paris”
38 Orderly
42 Divided land
44 Put a stop to
45 Least spicy
47 Tidied the garden
51 A lot to pay
53 Tangy mustard
54 Filing tool55 Dagwood 
neighbor
56 Saloon __
57 Third of four 
canonical 
gospels
58 Thus
59 Fixes on the sly
60 Wander
61 Part of YSL
65 April 15 org., or, 
as a plural, a 
hint to four long 
puzzle answers
By Jeff Stillman
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/03/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/03/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, October 3, 2019
ACROSS
1 Collect
6 Stag
10 Diminished 
gradually, with 
“off”
14 Lake between the 
Silver State and 
Golden State
15 Promise, for one
16 Operation 
Solomon airline
17 Feature of an 
American flag 
purchased with 
58-Across?
20 Raina Telgemeier 
graphic novel 
about a girl with 
braces
21 Breeder’s income 
source
22 Names as a 
source
25 Fizzy prefix
26 Decryption org.
29 Sidney Lumet film 
purchased with 
58-Across?
34 Regatta racer
36 Paint store 
selections
37 Ristorante bottle
38 Mandolin kin
39 Loved, with “up”
40 Dasani product
41 Carbon 
monoxide’s lack
42 Iditarod racer
43 Capital of  
Ghana
44 Freight vehicle 
purchased with 
58-Across?
47 Coal scuttle
48 “I have an idea!”
49 Silas of the 
Continental 
Congress
51 Deals with 
freebies
55 Museo 
Leonardiano city
58 Sales incentive
62 Everyone, in 
Essen
63 Mideast bigwig
64 Mill input
65 “All in the 
Family” producer 
Norman
66 Donnybrook
67 Church councilDOWN
1 QB’s stat
2 Big mouths
3 Word of 
disapproval
4 Sega’s hedgehog
5 Band concert 
guides
6 Cooperstown inst.
7 “Rope-a-dope” 
boxer
8 Races
9 “CSI” IDs
10 Multi-use 
workshop tool
11 Elsa and Anna’s 
snowman pal
12 Medium __
13 Besides that
18 Mysterious 
Himalayan
19 Litigious type
23 Yoga instruction
24 Cooked in a 
skillet
26 Guitar string 
option
27 King Salman, for 
one
28 Do something in 
response to
30 Tease
31 Deadpan comic 
Hedberg32 Summer month 
in South America
33 Annual Santa 
tracker
35 From now on
40 Alarms
42 More on the ball
45 Miss Muffet fare
46 Outer wall 
protector
50 Vestibule, e.g.
51 Nonstick kitchen 
brand52 Sly trick
53 “Man __ 
Mancha”
54 Frozen Four 
game
56 Invent, in a way
57 “That being the 
case ... ”
59 Brazilian hot spot
60 Old PC monitor
61 Co. with a 
bouquet in its 
logo
10/02/19
20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
Experienced horse person for weekend 
feeding and cleaning of barn. Must have own 
transportation, farm in NW Marion County. 
Call (352) 591-2121 to arrange an interview.    
10-7-19-8-14
Part-time bilingual office assistant (English/
Spanish) for law office. Please send your 
resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com.    10-21-
19-8-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbes-
tos victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or email 
cancerFL@breakinginjurynews.com     10-
4-1-16
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Estate Sale:
furniture, bdrm set, roll top desk, lamps, 
household items.10/5-10/6
9-5pm 9028 NW 37th Cir. Gainesville 32653    
10-4-19-2-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Another Homecoming without a date? 
Read The Alligator.SHARED NANNY in a family home. I have 2 
full time spots available. Providing exceptional 
& loving care for children of busy professionals. 
Bilingual. Small groups. FT or PT. Over 25 yrs 
exp. FHdaycare.com 352-213-5375    10-14-
19-10-15
PhD tutor in Spanish or English
$20 per hour.
donaldar@cox.net 352-332-1818       10-14-
5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
SPORTS QUIZ
By Chris Richcreek
1. Washington's Bryce Harper set a 
major-league mark in 2017 for most runs 
scored in the month of April (32). Who 
had held the record?
2. In the 1960s, three major-league 
pitchers compiled seasons in which they 
won at least 20 more games than they 
lost. Name two of them.
3. Who succeeded Woody Hayes as head 
coach of the Ohio State Buckeyes football 
team?
4. Who holds the Oklahoma City 
Thunder record for most 3-pointers in a 
playoff game?
5. When was the last time before 2019 
that the New York Islanders were swept in 
an NHL playoff series?
6. Track star Usain Bolt of Jamaica holds 
the world record for a 200-meter race 
(19.19 seconds in 2009). Who holds the 
U.S. mark?
7. Who was the last golfer before Brooks 
Koepka in 2019 to go wire to wire in 
winning the PGA Championship?1. Colorado's Larry Walker, with 29 in 
1997.
2. Whitey Ford in 1961 (25-4), Sandy 
Koufax in 1962 (25-5) and Denny McLain 
in 1968 (31-6).
3. Earle Bruce, who coached the Buckeyes 
from 1979 to 1987.
4. Paul George, with eight 3-pointers 
made versus Utah in 2018.
5. It was 1994, versus the New York 
Rangers.
6. Michael Johnson, who ran the 200 
meters in 19.32 seconds in 1996.
7. Hal Sutton, in 1983.
(c) 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.ANSWERS BELOW
SOLUTION BELOW
SPORTS QUIZ Answers CONCEPTIS HITORI Answers
SCRABBLEGRAMS SOLUTIONCONCEPTIS HITORI ANSWERS ON THIS PAGE
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Sports Illustrated announces layoffs for half of staff
The iconic sports magazine was acquired by publisher Maven earlier this 
year. Maven assumed control of Sports Illustrated operations Thursday,
which included laying off half of SI's staff unexpectedly.Former UF hurdler Grant 
Holloway completed his 2019 
season by winning gold in the 
110-meter hurdles at the IAAF 
World Championships in Doha, 
Qatar, on Wednesday.  By Sam Campisano                             
Sports Writer
It has been a long time since 
there was this much anticipation 
for a game in Gainesville.
The eyes of the college foot-
ball world will descend upon 
the Swamp on Saturday at 3:30 
p.m. when the No. 10 Gators 
take on No. 7 Auburn. The Ti-
gers are making their ﬁ  rst trip to 
Gainesville since 2007 for a home-
coming game that could have 
massive ramiﬁ  cations in both SEC 
divisional races.
The game will be broadcast 
nationally as the CBS Game of the 
Week. ESPN’s College GameDay 
will be in town for the ﬁ  rst time 
since 2012. Around 90,000 rabid 
fans will pack Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium.
“This is why you come to 
Florida, to play in big, big games like this,” coach Dan Mullen said. 
“We don’t shy away from it.”
Auburn is Florida’s ﬁ  rst ranked 
opponent this year, and it goes 
without saying this is UF’s biggest 
test to date.
Mullen and the Gators, how-
ever, are not a team that is unfa-
miliar with the spotlight. Florida 
won big games last year over LSU 
and Michigan. Its Week 0 win this 
year over Miami was ESPN’s high-
est-rated game since 2016. College 
GameDay was at that game, too, 
along with last year’s Florida-
Georgia game.
UF will receive the added boost 
of at least six players returning 
from injury – defensive back C.J. 
Henderson, defensive lineman 
Jabari Zuniga, safeties Shawn Da-
vis and Jeawon Taylor, linebacker 
Ventrell Miller and wide receiver 
Freddie Swain.
FOOTBALL
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Defensive end Jabari Zuniga (92) will play Saturday for the ﬁ  rst 
time since suffering an ankle injury in the game against Kentucky.
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Heading into their third SEC 
matchup of the season, the No. 
12 Gators (11-2, 2-0 SEC) will 
make their conference road de-
but against the 15th-ranked 
Wildcats on Sunday afternoon in 
Lexington, Kentucky. 
All of Florida’s roster, with 
the exception of two transfers, 
remembers what it felt like leav-
ing Memorial Coliseum with 
a sweep loss to the then-12th-
ranked team in the nation last 
season. 
But it’s a new campaign and 
a new team. 
What happened last year 
doesn’t matter now. 
“Experience will help, but you 
can’t rely solely on it,” coach 
Mary Wise said. “The team that 
makes plays (will win).”
And experience does carry a 
bit of an edge. Kentucky’s roster 
returns all but four players to the 
matchup this season. There’s not 
a whole lot it’ll have to adjust to, 
carrying a veterans-heavy squad 
just like Florida. 
“They (Kentucky) got it going 
right now and they play really well at home,” Wise said. 
And the coach is right. 
Senior outside hitter Leah Ed-
mond has been a force for the 
Wildcats (9-4, 2-0 SEC) all sea-
son. She leads her team in kills 
with 179 on the season, 10 kills 
ahead of Florida leader and soph-
omore outside hitter Thayer Hall. 
Kentucky is also very good 
at staying in-system, pushing 
its passes to the net so its setter 
has three options to run the of-
fense. It’s one of the reasons why 
graduate student middle blocker 
Leah Meyer has been one of the 
most productive attackers for 
Kentucky, notching 112 kills so 
far on the season. 
Florida should stay optimistic, 
though. 
Through its ﬁ  rst 13 games, 
seven matches have ﬁ  nished in 
sweep wins (a streak of ﬁ  ve 3-0 
wins ended with Florida’s 3-1 
win over Georgia). 
A tough Kentucky offense — 
with lots of arms, as Wise likes to 
say — could be a rough matchup 
for Florida if it doesn’t stay with 
the game point-for-point. Incon-
sistencies and mistakes could 
easily start a negative trend for 
the Gators, forcing them to get on Preview: Florida vs. UK
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Thayer Hall will go head-to-head against fellow 
outside hitter Leah Edmond, who leads Kentucky in kills (179).
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 23
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 23UF and AU set for top-10 matchup in the Swamp
Staff Report
Another week of the college football 
season is in the books, and it still feels 
like we don’t know anything about any 
of these teams.
But we’re about to learn a whole lot 
about two of them.
The Gators have No. 7 Auburn this 
week, and the College GameDay crew is 
in town. That means UF fans can partici-
pate live in America’s favorite Saturday 
morning pastime: nursing a hangover 
with the soothing sounds of Kirk Herb-
streit ceaselessly defending Ohio State, 
Lee Corso spouting nonsense before 
picking the wrong team, and Rece Davis 
doing whatever Rece Davis does.
The excitement on campus is pal-
pable.
But before we get into staff predic-
tions for that game and others, Sports 
Editor Tyler Nettuno and Online Sports 
Editor Sam Campisano will debate a 
battle between independents Liberty and 
New Mexico State.
Liberty will win because…
The Flames think they’re going to 
win. That’s good enough for me.
Why would they lie about that?
There’s deﬁ  nitely not a policy at Lib-
erty that prevents students and faculty 
from criticizing the university, so why 
would you even suggest that there is?
But aside from being a beacon of free 
speech on campus, the Flames also have 
a pretty good football team. 
In its ﬁ  rst season as a full FBS mem-
ber, Liberty is off to a 3-2 start behind 
the strong play of quarterback Stephen 
Calvert, who has thrown for nearly 1400 
yards and nine touchdowns while toss-
ing only three interceptions.
The Flames defense has forced six 
interceptions and recovered two fum-
bles this season, so coach Hugh Freeze 
should be able to solicit turnovers from 
the Aggies.
See what I did there?
Solicit. As in, like, solicit a prostitute.
You know, the thing Freeze did on a 
university-issued cell phone at Ole Miss? 
Good times.
Some may tell the Flames they’re 
wrong. That they have no chance against PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: CBS / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 23
22   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   23  
Auburn has played in plenty of big games, 
as well.
The Tigers, led by freshman quarterback 
Bo Nix, already have two wins over ranked 
teams this year, including an upset in Week 1 
over No. 11 Oregon.
Nix is arguably the most dangerous quar-
terback UF has faced to this point. He has 
thrown for 980 yards (sixth-highest in the 
conference), seven touchdowns and just two 
interceptions. He also has 173 rushing yards 
(second-highest in the conference) and two 
rushing touchdowns.
Nix will try to replicate his father, Patrick, 
who in 1994 became the first SEC quarter-
back to defeat then-UF coach Steve Spurrier 
in Gainesville.
“He’s already had to play in some big 
games, big moments, and he’s handled that well as a freshman,” Mullen said about Nix. 
“He can throw, he can run and he’s a talent.”
Opposing Nix will be Florida quarterback 
Kyle Trask, who has been everything UF 
fans could’ve wished for after Feleipe Franks’ 
season-ending injury. He has thrown for 647 
yards with five touchdowns and two intercep-
tions this year, but he’s yet to face a defense 
like Auburn’s.
The Tigers have one of the best defensive 
lines in the country, something that could 
give Florida’s lackluster offensive line trouble. 
They’ve given up just 95.2 rushing yards per 
game, third-best in the conference. They also 
have recorded 13 sacks, the fourth-best in the 
SEC.
Florida outpaces Auburn in both catego-
ries with just 86.8 rushing yards allowed per 
game (second-best in the SEC) and 24 sacks 
(best in the conference, by far). The Tigers 
have the second-best rushing offense in the SEC (over 250 yards per game), so something 
will have to give.
The rushing game is the biggest difference 
between the two teams. Florida is averaging 
just 141.4 yards per game on the ground. 
The Gators, however, have more passing 
yards themselves and have a defense that 
has allowed less passing yards than Auburn 
(though the discrepancies in the two team’s 
schedules make it hard to draw any conclu-
sions).
The combination of inexperience at quar-
terback – Nix and Trask have combined for 
just seven collegiate starts – and the talent on 
both defenses means Saturday’s game may be 
a low-scoring affair.
“We could open a lot of eyes,” Swain said. 
“Hopefully it’ll show what we can do and 
show how we are as a team.”
 @samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 21Florida hasn't beaten the Tigers since 2002
hot streaks and putting them in holes they’ve 
been climbing out of all season. 
Maybe a grinding Wildcats offense is just 
what Florida needs right now, though. May-
be it helps them get more settled into who it 
is as a team and the kind of competitiveness 
it can bring to this heavy SEC conference. 
“You’re just trying to maintain your com-
petitiveness within the league race, but more 
importantly, is your team getting better?,” 
Wise said. “It’s not in September or October 
when you want to play your best volleyball. 
You want that in December.
“Any team playing them (Kentucky) 
knows they have a great challenge ahead.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 21
the Aggies.
But Liberty’s athletic director is Ian Mc-
Caw, and if there’s one thing a former Baylor 
administrator knows how to do, it’s silence the 
critics.
Give me the fighting Jerry Falwells by two 
touchdowns.
— Tyler Nettuno
 
New Mexico State (-5.5) will win because…
I’ll be honest here: Tyler told me to do this 
pretty last minute and I know next-to-nothing 
about either team. 
I’m also not in the mood for writing this and 
don’t have any intention of doing research for 
it. 
So here’s what I will say:
Liberty coach Hugh Freeze is a pile of gar-
bage. 
He oversaw multiple recruiting and aca-
demic violations as the coach at Ole Miss, en-
suring the school lost 33 victories and would 
be banned from postseason play for two years.
Freeze then resigned over the whole using-
a-university-phone-to-hire-escorts thing. 
The perfect hire for an ultra-conservative 
evangelical school. 
I am hereby placing the Campisano Curse 
on Hugh Freeze and Liberty. New Mexico 
State? You’re welcome.
— Sam Campisano
Now onto the picks… 
In first place at 27-12 is Kyle “Still Had 
Faith In Student Government” Wood. In 
response to the news that Donald Trump Jr. 
would be speaking at UF for $50,000 (which 
is paid for using student fees), Kyle offered the 
ridiculous suggestion that students have a say 
in what speakers those fees go toward funding. 
You think SG should care about the opinions of 
students? Preposterous.
In a tie for second at 25-14 is Tyler “Foot-
ball Beat Writer Who Misses HBO Debut” 
Nettuno. I mean honestly, Tyler. It’s insane 
to think how you could miss this pinnacle op-
portunity for Florida’s program and watch Vice 
YouTube videos featuring the Westminster 
Dog Show and Monster Truck Jam instead of 
a special moment in Florida’s history. We get 
always putting “man’s best friend” as your No. 
1, but c’mon Tyler. At least you’ll have Nick’s 
tweets to reference when you do decide to give 
it a whirl. 
Also tied for second is Mark “Don’t Tell 
Me How To Run My Picks Column” Long, who suggested to the alligatorSports crew 
on Saturday that we use Nick wearing a 
Dora the Explorer Band-Aid in the press box 
for his roast. While we appreciate the idea, 
I’m the arbiter of roasts here. No one else 
shall decide them. That includes you, Mark.
In fourth at 23-16 is Nick “HBO Report-
er” De La Torre, who took it upon him-
self to live tweet the entire hour of Florida’s 
HBO special like it was a football game. 
Nick, I’m sure fans without a subscription 
appreciated the content, but minute-to-min-
ute updates may have been overkill. On the 
bright side, at least there’s no halftime Q&A 
for TV shows.
The first component of a three-way tie 
for fifth at 20-19 is Edgar “It Happened 
Again” Thompson, who after turning in 
his picks late for Week 4 said it wouldn’t 
happen again. Well, loyal reader, guess 
what? He did it again. Unbelievable. It’s all 
good, Edgar. Just don’t let it happen again, 
again.
Also in fifth is Graham “Concerned 
Citizen” Hall, who took to Twitter to ask 
the Gainesville community to give back 
Emory Jones' scooter. It probably won’t 
work, but who knows, maybe your heart-
felt message touched the criminal who took 
the Gators quarterback’s ride. Who are we 
kidding, that plea is going to be about as 
effective as asking the players to wear hel-
mets when they ride.
The final member of fifth place is Sam 
“Steal Tyler’s Line” Campisano. We’re 
honestly just disappointed, Sam. How dare 
you walk around all proud and mighty 
knowing you stole someone else’s mate-
rial. The least you could have done was 
give him a contrib line. It’s not that hard. 
Go find your material elsewhere, and quit 
taking Tyler’s lines. 
We have another two-way tie for eighth 
at 18-21. First up is Dylan “Tampa Bay 
Bucs Will Never Disappoint” Ruldolph, 
who for some reason still has faith in a fran-
chise that has been up in smoke since its in-
augural season in 1976. We’re happy the Bucs 
could pull it off for you, Dylan. Really, we are. 
But we’re still questioning how the franchise 
drafts kickers so high year after year and yet 
they still miss kick after kick. 
Joining Dylan in eighth is Zach “Green 
Uniform Hater” Goodall, who questioned 
on Twitter why UF players loved the alli-
gator-themed uniforms they wore in 2017. 
Uhh, maybe because they’re awesome? Who 
wouldn’t want to look like a live alligator while  
playing a football game? Take your hate and lack of style elsewhere.
In 10th at 16-23 is Mari “Never Told Tyler 
About JCA Applications” Faiello, who failed 
to report to me that the deadline for Journal-
ism and Communications Ambassadors was 
closing. Even though she knew being a mem-
ber of such a prestigious organization was my 
lifelong dream. Whatever, Mari. If you don’t 
want me in your club, that’s fine. I don’t care. I 
guess I’ll just sit here and waste away, nothing 
to do with my life until the spring.In last place at 15-24 is Brian “How The 
Hell Are You In Last?” Fox, who inexplica-
bly fell to last place in this week’s standings 
behind Mari, allowing the embattled assistant 
sports editor to emerge from the bottom slot 
for the first time this season. I mean, come on, 
man. I’m pretty sure she doesn’t even watch 
college football. Aside from her beloved Buck-
eyes, of course… PICKS,  from pg. 21
Kyle (27-12) Tyler (25-14) Mark (25-14)
AUB @ UF (+3.5) AUB UF AUB
IOWA @ MICH (-3.5) MICH MICH IOWA
TEX @ WVU (+10.5) TEX TEX TEX
UGA @ TENN (+24.5) UGA UGA UGA
MSU @ OSU (-19.5) OSU OSU OSU
CAL @ ORE (-18.5) CAL CAL CAL
VT @ MIAMI (-13.5) VT VT MIAMI
LIB @ NMSU (-5.5) NMSU LIB LIB
Nick (23-16) Edgar (20-19) Graham (20-19
AUB @ UF (+3.5) UF AUB UF
IOWA @ MICH (-3.5) MICH MICH MICH
TEX @ WVU (+10.5) TEX TEX TEX
UGA @ TENN (+24.5) UGA UGA UGA
MSU @ OSU (-19.5) OSU OSU OSU
CAL @ ORE (-18.5) CAL CAL ORE
VT @ MIAMI (-13.5) VT MIAMI VT
LIB @ NMSU (-5.5) NMSU NMSU LIB
Sam (20-19) Dylan (18-21) Zach (18-21)
AUB @ UF (+3.5) UF AUB UF
IOWA @ MICH (-3.5) MICH MICH IOWA
TEX @ WVU (+10.5) TEX TEX WVU
UGA @ TENN (+24.5) UGA UGA UGA
MSU @ OSU (-19.5) OSU OSU OSU
CAL @ ORE (-18.5) CAL CAL CAL
VT @ MIAMI (-13.5) VT MIAMI MIAMI
LIB @ NMSU (-5.5) LIB LIB NMSU
Mari (16-23) Brian (15-24)
AUB @ UF (+3.5) AUB UF
IOWA @ MICH (-3.5) IOWA IOWA
TEX @ WVU (+10.5) TEX TEX
UGA @ TENN (+24.5) UGA UGA
MSU @ OSU (-19.5) OSU OSU
CAL @ ORE (-18.5) ORE CAL
VT @ MIAMI (-13.5) VT VT
LIB @ NMSU (-5.5) LIB LIB'Expert '  picks for the week24  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2019
BEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
18 & UP
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
1718 West University AvenueWells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJFUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
 FRIDAY & SATURDAY
1728 West University Avenue
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
GO
GATORS!
LIVE DJ
9 pm - Close
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student IDSOCCER
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida’s soccer team won’t have two 
prominent  players for its conference bout 
against No. 12 Texas A&M this weekend.
Midﬁ  elder Ava Kuyken and forward 
Deanne Rose are out of the country due 
to national team commitments with Eng-
land and Canada, respectively.
Both players have been key compo-
nents of a UF attack that has outscored 
its opponents 14-2 throughout the Gators’ 
current ﬁ  ve-game win streak.
“Obviously it would be nice to be able 
to pick and choose the times they are 
gone where they wouldn’t miss games,” 
coach Becky Burleigh said. “But that’s 
just not the way it works.”
With Kuyken and Rose unavailable for 
Sunday night’s game, Florida will need a 
resounding team effort to take down the 
Aggies at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
“We’ve been kind of experienced in losing players like this,” Burleigh said. 
“So I think, in some ways, it helps oth-
er players gain a lot of valuable experi-
ence.”
UF’s offense is at its best when de-
fender Kit Loferski is making runs down 
the sideline. Her blazing speed forces 
the opponent’s back line out of position, 
which creates channels for midﬁ  elders 
like Parker Roberts and Tess Sapone to 
exploit.
Loferski’s ambition going up the ﬁ  eld 
has resulted in two goals and a team-high 
four assists for the redshirt junior.
“With that aggression, I think it’s real-
ly challenging for whoever she is matched 
up against,” Burleigh said. “When she’s 
aggressive, she’s really hard to contain.”
Forward Vanessa Kara has turned 
things around after a slow start to her 
Florida career. The graduate transfer reg-
istered zero goals in the ﬁ  rst six games of 
the season but has found the back of the 
net six times in her last ﬁ  ve appearances.Kara’s recent form resembles her time 
at Drexel (2015-2017), where she accu-
mulated the second-most goals (22) and 
third-most assists (11) in program his-
tory.
Loferski, Kara and the rest of Florida’s 
attack must work together to keep up 
with Texas A&M’s high-powered offense. 
The Aggies have peppered opposing 
teams with 20.42 shots per game (sev-
enth in the nation), which has resulted 
in 32 goals (tied for fourth in the nation) 
scored through 12 games.
Unlike their offense, the Gators’ de-
fense will be at full strength this week-
end, as defender Georgia Eaton-Collins 
was not called up to England’s national 
team. Having her will help Florida slow 
down Texas A&M’s attack, and that starts 
with shutting down Jimena Lopez, who 
leads the NCAA in assists (11).
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgShorthanded Florida welcomes 12th-ranked Texas A&M
TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The Gators women’s tennis team 
will have an opportunity to bounce 
back this weekend, after a sub-
par performance at the USTA Fall 
Ranked Spotlight this past weekend. 
Two of UF’s players, Sydney Ber-
lin and Tsveta Dimitrova, will begin play Friday at the Bedford Cup. The 
three-day event will be hosted at 
Florida Gulf Coast University in Fort 
Myers, Florida. The statewide event 
will feature USF, UCF, FGCU, North 
Florida, Stetson, FAU and FIU.
Berlin and Dimitrova will com-
pete in the 48-player singles ﬁ  eld, 
which will be divided into three 
16-player brackets. They will also 
compete in the 32-player doubles draw. 
Berlin, a sophomore, has won 
four of her last ﬁ  ve matches and has 
an 8-6 career record. Dimitrova, the 
senior transfer from Houston, enters 
the season with more wins than any 
other Gator (60).
The duo will play at 8 a.m. in 
doubles against Sandra Bozinovic 
and Maria Turrillo of FIU on Friday. 
Following the doubles match, Dimi-trova will take the court for singles 
play at 9 a.m. and Berlin will take 
the court at 11 a.m. Dimitrova will 
play her second singles match at 
12:30 p.m. and Berlin will play again 
at 2:30 p.m.
The men’s squad will begin play 
on Saturday at the USTA Men’s 
All-American Championships at 
the Michael D. Case Tennis Center 
in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The nine-day tournament will end on Oct. 13. 
Pre-qualifying and qualifying will 
go through Tuesday, with the main 
draw set to begin on Wednesday. 
No. 3 junior Oliver Crawford and 
No. 10 sophomore Sam Rifﬁ  ce will 
anchor Florida’s play.
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgGators ready for important weekend of tournamentsMargaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Forward Vanessa Kara (27) has scored six 
times in her last ﬁ  ve appearances.
