We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Auburn surges late, downs 
Gators 76-62
Coach Mike White said Florida committed 
too many turnovers in the loss, pg. 14The candidates’ ﬁ  rst dual
Three Gainesville mayoral candidates argued issues in their 
ﬁ  rst debate Monday, pg. 4
Play that ‘Jeopardy!’ tune
A UF student had a “Jeopardy!” debut Tuesday, pg. 3WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 55
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
As 21 Savage’s attorneys ask for the rap-
per’s release from U.S. immigration custo-
dy, UF organizers don’t have a back-up plan 
for his scheduled sold-out show or know if 
they’ll have to refund tickets. 
U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement detained She’yaa Bin Abraham-
Joseph, the Grammy-nominated rapper, 
Sunday morning in a targeted operation in Atlanta, according to The 
Associated Press. 
UF’s Black Student 
Union and Student Gov-
ernment Productions 
had planned on having 
the 26-year-old rapper 
perform Feb. 27 at the 
O’Connell Center. UF con-
tracted him to be paid $110,000 for an hour-
long set. 
The rapper’s attorneys said he has had a 
visa application pending since 2017, AP re-ported. Both his legal team and ICE authori-
ties say he has not had legal status since his 
family’s visas expired in 2006. 
It’s unclear if his team will be able to 
free him and if that would occur before his 
scheduled UF performance. 
UF’s Black Student Union has not dis-
cussed plans with Student Government 
Productions, said Sarah Dominique, BSU’s 
Black History Month executive director. 
SGP is working with its agents and will 
post an update on the show when more in-
formation is available, wrote Andrew Kelly, the SGP chairman, in an email.
Tickets for the concert were $10 for stu-
dents and $20 for the general public. More 
than 6,000 were available, and they sold 
out.
He is the only artist scheduled to per-
form, Dominique said.
“I was just like, ‘maybe he’ll bounce 
back from this,’ but considering that this is 
an immigration issue, I understand that it’s 
different,” Dominique said.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgNo backup artist in place for UF 21 Savage performance
Nicole Needles / Alligator Staff
Getting the Input
Che John, a 19-year-old UF finance sophomore, and Maria Espinoza, a 19-year-old UF criminology 
sophomore, talked to students Tuesday afternoon on Turlington Plaza. John and Espinoza are 
both members of Inspire Party, and they spent the afternoon reaching out to students about the 
upcoming Student Government elections. Read the story online at ifla.news/Platform. 
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
A round of applause erupted 
in Simon Lopez’s chemistry class 
Monday when he walked into the 
room.
The UF chemistry professor 
was stuck with his family in Mex-
ico since December due to issues 
with his visa application. With the government tempo-
rarily reopening, the U.S. Embas-
sy was able to streamline Lopez’s 
visa Thursday. He then bought 
tickets for a ﬂ  ight back to Orlando 
on Sunday.
“I’ve received so much sup-
port, not only from students, but 
from my colleagues and other 
staff members,” Lopez said. “I’m 
really glad to feel like I’m back home.” 
Lopez is from Venezuela and 
went to Mexico City to complete 
his visa application. 
He came to work at UF in 
2014 while on a J-1 visa, which 
allowed him to travel to the U.S. 
through a work and study based 
exchange program if he returned 
to his home country after a year.
He decided to stay in 
Gainesville and apply for a waiv-er that would allow him to stay 
indeﬁ  nitely, but the Venezuelan 
government denied it to all Ven-
ezuelans in 2015.
Lopez then began applying for 
an O-1 visa, a visa for people who 
are talented in the sciences, arts, 
education, business or athlet-
ics, in August. He was approved 
for it but had to get his passport 
stamped outside of the U.S. Some of Lopez’s students, like 
CJ Lockwood, a 21-year-old UF 
environmental science senior, 
initially struggled to adjust to Lo-
pez’s replacement.
“I’m glad he’s back,” Lock-
wood said. “It is much nicer 
knowing that everything will be 
more streamlined now.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgUF chemistry professor returns after stuck in MexicoPROJECT COSTS 
$9.9 MILLION
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
When Isabella Campbell came 
to UF from Guatemala in 2017, 
she struggled to ﬁ  nd a place 
where she ﬁ  t in. 
“I felt left out,” the 20-year-old 
UF mechanical engineering soph-
omore said. 
That was until, when looking 
for a study space, she wandered 
onto the second ﬂ  oor of the Reitz 
Union. There she found La Salita, 
a space for Hispanic and Latinx 
students to gather while the Insti-
tute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, 
known as La Casita, undergoes 
construction. 
Soon, Campbell will be able to 
study at La Casita, with it and the 
Institute of Black Culture, sched-
uled to open in Fall, at 1504 and 
1510 W. University Ave., said William Atkins, director of UF 
multicultural affairs. 
“It’s a really great place,” 
Campbell said. “Here you feel 
comfortable, you feel represent-
ed.”
The project is funded by UF 
Capital Investment Trust Fund 
and will cost $9,921,048, Atkins 
said. 
On Feb. 15, there will be a 
“topping out” celebration, where 
onlookers can see the ﬁ  nal struc-
tural steel beam placed on top of 
each of the two buildings, Atkins 
said.
“Progress is being made, we’re 
moving along nicely,” Atkins said. 
The Institute of Black Culture 
is expected to have a “residential 
aesthetic” with a “timeless look,” 
including a modern-style entry 
lobby, a café, an event space, a 
living room, a conference room, a 
study room and a reﬂ  ection room, 
Atkins said.Student multicultural 
buildings to open in Fall
SEE CONSTRUCTION,  PAGE 321 Savage
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
THURSDAY
An African American History of 
Alachua County
 Author and historian Lizzie 
P.R.B. Jenkins will talk about 
the history of African Americans 
in Alachua County for free at 6 
p.m. Thursday at the Matheson 
History Museum, located at 513 
E. Universtiy Ave. Her book talks 
about how Alachua County's 
African American ancestry con-
tributed to the area's history. 
Attendees must register before-
hand at eventbrite.com.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Correction: In an article titled 
“21 Savage detained by ICE, 
status of UF performance un-
clear” that ran in Monday’s edi-
tion, a cancellation clause was 
crossed out of the contract. The 
Alligator reported differently. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  81° LOW  56°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Sabrina Conza, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Lourdes Hernandez, Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Graham Marsh, 
Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 55WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
We’re IDEA Public Schools, and we’re hiring people just like you. People who are driven to innovate and collaborate to change education for the better. People who don’t settle for the status quo. 
People who have high expectations for themselves and thrive in a high-growth, high-reward environment. And most importantly, people who are united in the belief that every child has the potential 
to succeed in college and in life. By 2022, we’ll serve 100,000 students at 173 schools across ten regions. As we grow, you grow – at IDEA, your professional potential is limitless.
Explore your future at ideapublicshools.org/careers.
Join our community at fb.com/IDEACareers.TEACHERS CO-TEACHERS OPERATIONS LEADERS CHANGEMAKERSWE WANT TO MAKE
A DIFFERENCE IN yours .
difference
difference
   YOU WANT TO MAKE A 
IN PEOPLE’S LIVES.La Casita will have a similar de-
sign, with a private study room, event 
space, conference room, living room 
and lobby, Atkins said.
The original buildings were houses 
built in the early 1900s, Atkins said. 
The initiative for the new buildings 
came after a series of facility issues 
were presented to the UF Capital In-
vestment Trust Fund in Fall 2015.“These buildings will be a re-
minder of the great legacy that’s been 
established prior to current students 
and alum being here,” he said.
Students expressed concern about 
the presence of mold, termites and 
wood rot, as well as not meeting ADA 
compliance standards, he said.
“After approaching 100 years, it 
was about time for an upgrade and 
renovations,” Atkins said. 
Black Student Union President 
Akil Reynolds, a UF public health senior, said that although he was ex-
cited at ﬁ  rst to hear about the rebuild-
ing of these spaces, he now is a bit 
conﬂ  icted by the choice to demolish 
the original structures.
“I don’t completely agree with 
complete demolition,” the 21-year-old 
said. “The preservation of the original 
buildings was important to black his-
tory and student activism.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgCONSTRUCTION,  from pg 1Students unsure about demolition decision
Kelly Hayes / Alligator Staff
Crew members from Foresight Construction Group work Tuesday on the Institute of Black Culture on West 
University Avenue. A ﬁ  nal structural steel beam will be placed on each of the buildings on Feb. 15. 
SHE WON $1,000
By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
“What is?” was 
Jade Ryan’s response 
every time she an-
swered a trivia ques-
tion on national 
television Tuesday 
evening.
The 25-year-old 
UF English senior 
came in last place on 
an episode of “Jeopardy!,” a 
trivia television show, aired 
on CBS. 
“I got beat on the buzz-
er,” Ryan said. “But I had 
fun. It was my dream.” 
The show was ﬁ  lmed Dec. 
5 in Los Angeles, but Ryan 
and her friends gathered at 
House of Beer, at 19 W. Uni-
versity Ave., with more than 
10 people to watch the pre-
miere. 
Ryan brought home 
$1,000 in third place. Sec-
ond place won $2,000, and 
the winner advanced with 
$15,599 to the next round. Throughout the episode, 
Ryan’s ﬁ  rst correct answer 
earned her $200. She then 
hit a low of -$200 and even-
tually gained her ﬁ  nal earn-
ings. 
In the future, 
Ryan wants to earn 
her doctorate in ei-
ther ﬁ  lm studies or 
comparative litera-
ture. She is currently 
waiting on graduate 
school acceptances, 
but her top choice is 
the University of Pennsylva-
nia. She plans to one day be 
a professor. 
“She did great,” said 
friend Stephanie Falcon, 33, 
of Gainesville. “I imagine it’s 
super nerve-wracking.”
Being on “Jeopardy!” 
wasn’t an overnight occur-
rence but rather two years in 
the making, Ryan’s dad, Dan 
Ryan, 53, said. He’s proud of 
his daughter’s accomplish-
ment.
“She was on ‘Jeopardy!’ 
with Alex Trebek,” Dan 
Ryan said. “What’s cooler 
than that?”‘I got beat on the 
buzzer’: UF student 
places last in ‘Jeopardy!’
Ryan
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
HE ALSO FOLLOWED ANOTHER 
SIMPSON HALL RESIDENT 
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police is searching for a man 
who was involved in a burglary and touch-
ing women without their consent Sunday 
morning at Simpson Hall. At about 4:50 a.m., a woman was in the 
stairwell of the hall walking to her room on 
the fourth floor when she saw the man come 
in from the third, said Maj. Brad Barber, a 
University Police spokesperson.  
Her room was on a women-only floor and 
the man came from a men-only floor in the 
co-ed hall, according to the Graham Area Of-
fice.
He began to follow her, and she let him 
pass when she got to her floor, Barber said.  She called 911 from her room. 
It was discovered that he went into the 
room of two other women on the fourth 
floor, who told him to leave and asked him 
why he was in their room, Barber said.
While talking to him about being in the 
wrong room, he walked by both of them 
and touched their legs before running out, 
he said. 
He is described as a 6-foot-2-inch black 
man wearing a white shirt and blue pajama pants, Barber said. He was also wearing an 
Apple Watch and has a fade haircut.
He was not found during a search, Barber 
said. Police are following up on any leads. 
Anyone with information about the inci-
dent can call police at 352-392-1111 or Crime 
Stoppers at 352-372-7867. 
“If you see something, say something,” 
Barber said. 
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgUPD: Man touches two women after walking into their room 
 
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
Only three of the four mayoral candidates 
attended the first debate of the election season 
Monday night. 
About 60 people went to the Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom to hear Mayor Lauren Poe, Jenn Powell 
and Marlon Bruce debate topics such as afford-
able housing. UF College Democrats monitored 
the event and developed the questions asked. 
Jennifer Reid, the fourth candidate, declined 
the invitation to join, said Kristen Jackson, the 
20-year-old College Democrats president.  
Gators Vote Everywhere, Gators for Under-
represented Voters, Students for the New Ur-
banism at UF and Democracy Matters UF all co-
sponsored the event. 
The debate came two weeks before voter 
registration closes on Feb. 19 for the Gainesville 
regular election on March 19. 
R. Matthew Barocas, the 19-year-old treasur-
er of College Democrats, monitored the debate 
and asked the candidates nine questions cover-
ing topics including experience, UF relations and 
Gainesville Regional Utilities before the audience 
asked questions. 
Affordable housing caused the most discus-
sion among the candidates.
Poe spoke on how the commission is cur-
rently addressing affordable housing and will 
host the first of many housing summits at the 
Thelma Boltin Center, at 516 NE Second Ave., 
on Feb. 20.Powell, a 40-year-old part-time legal as-
sistant, challenged Poe by asking him why he 
hasn’t solved the affordable housing issue if he’s 
been in office for 10 years. Poe served as a city 
commissioner for six years, a year as mayor-
commissioner pro tem and then the last three 
years as mayor. 
“You seem to be on the right track,” Powell 
said to Poe about his affordable housing efforts. 
“What is holding you back?”
Poe did not respond.
Bruce, a 20-year-old Santa Fe College stu-
dent, said one way to fix the problem is to bring 
down development costs.
The audience submitted questions including 
topics about a living wage and the recent plastic 
ban.
On Jan. 17, the city commission voted unani-
mously to pass an ordinance to ban single-use 
plastic bags and polystyrene containers. It will 
go into effect Aug. 1.
Poe said he was proud the work the city com-
mission put in to pass the ordinance. 
While Powell agreed with the ban, she said 
the city’s time should have been put to more im-
portant issues.
Bruce said he would alter the ordinance to 
include an opt-out option as one of his first acts.
In the candidates’ closing remarks, they reit-
erated their platform. 
“We’re not willing to sort of hide behind our 
laurels and wait for other communities to to take 
the first hard steps,” Poe said.
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgMayoral candidates argue affordable housing, living wage at first debate 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Marlon Bruce (left), incumbent Mayor Lauren Poe (middle) and Jenn Powell 
(right) answer questions Monday during the Gainesville Mayoral Candidate 
Debate in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. T opics ranged from affordable 
housing to cannabis. About 60 people attended the event.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
SHE WAS AWARDED A $240,000 
GRANT IN THE 1990S
By Precious Polycarpe 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Venita Sposetti’s mentors and companion-
ship inspired her to continue working at UF 
after she got her dental degree in 1979.  
Nearly four decades later, she’s still at the 
institution, but her time is coming to an end. 
Sposetti, 67, the Associate Dean of Edu-
cation for the UF College of Dentistry, an-nounced Jan. 30 that she will retire in Octo-
ber. 
She wants to retire so she can spend time 
with her family and  travel. She said her time 
at UF has been deeply satisfying, challenging 
and a learning experience.
“I am incredibly fortunate to ﬁ  nd my pas-
sion for education and clinical dental care,” 
she said. 
The college is in its late stages of launching 
a national search to ﬁ  ll the position, Sposetti 
said. 
One of Sposetti’s greatest accomplish-ments was when she received a Josiah Macy 
Jr. Foundation grant for about $240,000 in the 
late 1990s, she said. 
Cesar Migliorati, the Associate Dean of 
Clinics and Quality Assurance in the UF Col-
lege of Dentistry, said Sposetti serves as a 
motherly ﬁ  gure to many students because of 
her compassion and diligence.
There is never a day she’s not willing to sit 
down and talk to any and all of her students 
individually, Migliorati, also a professor for 
the college’s Department of Oral and Maxil-
lofacial Diagnostic Sciences, said. “Since she is the person who oversees 
the student progress committee, sometimes 
we have to make unpleasant decisions about 
the way students are progressing,” Migliorati 
said. “She has done a great job.”
Sposetti hopes her legacy as an associate 
dean and 40-year employee for the college 
will live on. For those pursuing a career in 
the ﬁ  eld, she said she wants them to carry her 
words of wisdom. 
“Know who you are, know your strengths 
and weaknesses, know why you want to do 
this and then jump in and do it,” Sposetti said.Associate Dean for Education at UF College of Dentistry to retireDEBATE STEMMED FROM 
RESOLUTION TO SUPPORT 
VENEZUELAN INTERIM 
PRESIDENT 
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
A speaker who identiﬁ  ed him-
self as Omar Omar stood before 
the Reitz Chamber lectern and de-
clared himself to be the UF Student 
Body president.
He said this declaration was as 
ludicrous as UF Student Govern-
ment Senate supporting a political 
leader more than 1,600 miles away.
Ten speakers addressed 85 Sen-ators about how extending UF’s 
jurisdiction to international politics 
is dangerous at Tuesday night’s SG 
Senate meeting on a proposed reso-
lution recognizing Juan Guaidó as 
the interim president of Venezuela. 
Despite disagreements, the resolu-
tion, a non-binding statement of 
agreement, was passed with 79 
votes.
The speakers said SG does little 
to help UF and is ignoring its duties 
by turning its attention to Venezu-
ela.
The names of some of the stu-
dents and community leaders who 
spoke up at the meeting could not 
be veriﬁ  ed via the UF Student di-
rectory.“You all might be the top school 
in the state, but there’s a lack of 
history in American exceptional-
ism,” Omar said. “Shame on you.”
Venezuela has been in turmoil 
following claims that the election 
of President Nicolás Maduro in 
May was fraudulent. Juan Guaidó, 
the president of the National As-
sembly, declared himself the in-
terim president, according to The 
Associated Press.
William Zelin (Inspire, District 
D) objected to passing the resolu-
tion because of his concerns that 
the resolution assigned political 
beliefs to the Senate and Student 
Body.
A UF student who identiﬁ  ed himself as Josh Seattle attempted 
to present a 50-slide PowerPoint in 
ﬁ  ve minutes about Venezuela’s so-
cial and economic climate.
He refused to yield his time and 
Senate Secretary Clayton Gaulding 
attempted to escort him away.
“Hands off Venezuela!” Seattle 
yelled.
The speakers then tried to ﬁ  li-
buster the meeting at 8:30 p.m. 
Senate President Michael Murphy 
declared a 15-minute recess.
Upon return, a crowd of about 
100 Hispanic students from the 
Hispanic Student Association, Stu-
dent Body President Ian Green and 
Student Body Vice President Da-
vid Enriquez gathered in the Reitz Chamber to support the resolution. 
The students came out af-
ter hearing about the ﬁ  llibuster 
through various group chats among 
the Hispanic community, said Ka-
tie Hernandez (Impact, District A)
“That’s why we do this,” Her-
nandez said. “That’s why we come 
to Senate every Tuesday.” 
Student Body Vice President Da-
vid Enriquez addressed the Senate 
for the ﬁ  rst time this Spring with 
the crowd behind him.
“Venezuela will be free, and it 
starts in each and every one of us,” 
Enriquez said.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgStudents attempt to filibuster UF SG Senate meeting
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Phil Courson wasn’t happy as the 
Alachua County Commission  talked 
about passing an ordinance to out-
law conversion therapy Tuesday 
morning. 
“There are people who have 
been harmed by it, but I have seen 
people who have been helped by it,” Courson, 58, said during public 
comments. “To call it child abuse is 
ridiculous.” 
Commissioners decided to dis-
cuss the ordinance that would out-
law conversion therapy at the gener-
al policy discussion meeting, where 
commissioners discuss issues and 
possible future policies. 
A public hearing on outlawing 
the form of counseling to change  mi-nor’s sexual orientation throughout 
the county could be held later this 
month once commissioners study 
the bill and make revisions.
County ofﬁ  cials are not sure how 
many conversion therapy practitio-
ners are in the county.
Conversion therapy was banned 
in Gainesville by a unanimous city 
commission vote in April. 
County attorney staff advised to 
increase the ﬁ  rst-time offense ﬁ  ne 
from $125 to $1,000 for practitioners who continue conversion therapy 
and a $500 ﬁ  ne after that. 
Commissioners were largely in 
favor of the ordinance. Commission-
er Ken Cornell asked what authority 
the county would have if organiza-
tions such as churches continue this 
practice. 
County attorney Sylvia Torres 
said she did not think the govern-
ment could regulate the teachings of 
a church or allowing those teachings 
to inﬂ  uence their tax-exempt status. Bruce Blackwell, 77, of 
Gainesville, attended the meet-
ing to support the ordinance. As 
a gay man, he said he had no 
LGBTQ+community growing up. 
He didn’t know any gay people until 
he met his late husband of 51 years. 
“I don’t think my love is a big 
deal,” he said. “I have to stand with 
these people to try and get this right-
ed.”
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgCounty Commission moves closer to outlawing conversion therapy
Public hearing should be held this monthThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnOur oceans are going 
to change color in the 
future, and here’s why
By the end of the 21st century, our grandkids and great-
grandkids will be looking at a different colored ocean 
than what we are used to seeing.
By the year 2100, climate change will cause more than 
50 percent of the world’s oceans to change color, accord-
ing to a recently released study by the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology (MIT). Climate change will intensify the blue and 
green regions of our oceans, the study suggested. The change is 
not drastic, but it is a clear, physical example of how a changing 
climate is capable of altering the earth’s environment.
Climate change, in broad terms, is the overall shift in higher 
global temperatures affecting climates across the globe. Climate 
can be affected by many things, but you and I are the biggest 
reason for change. Actually, all 7.6 billion of us, to be more spe-
ciﬁ  c. Earth’s average temperature has risen about 1.62 degrees 
Fahrenheit since the late 1800s, due to increased carbon dioxide 
and emissions since the industrial revolution.
The term is widely accepted by the scientiﬁ  c community; 
however, our current government administration does not ac-
knowledge it to be true. With a surmounting amount of proof, it’s 
strange that people can still deny the impacts of climate change, 
especially in the past few years. According to NASA, a govern-
ment facility, most of Earth’s overall warming has occurred in the 
past 35 years. The New York Times reported that 2018 was the 
fourth warmest year on record, only to be beat out by the previ-
ous three years with 2015 in third, 2017 in second and 2016 in 
ﬁ  rst. Who knows what 2019 will bring, but by the looks of it, not 
overall cooler weather.
Our ocean’s colors depend on how sunlight interacts with 
what is in the water like phytoplankton, which contain chloro-
phyll. When there are more organisms in the water, the color of 
the water can shift, depending on how color is reﬂ  ected. If there 
are more phytoplankton, they reﬂ  ect green, creating a deeper 
green color in the ocean. However, when a section of the ocean 
lacks organisms, the water appears to be a deeper blue.
According to the MIT study, the simulation showed the Earth’s 
temperature rising, causing phytoplankton and other organisms 
to have to adapt. With these adaptations, the color of the ocean 
will show a signiﬁ  cant difference, a physical marker of more 
changes to come. But the changes in ocean color isn’t all that 
is going to change. Sea levels will rise, hurricanes will become 
stronger and droughts will become worse, NASA predicts.
We’re hitting a point in human history where the time to start 
making major environmental changes was yesterday. The world 
around us is changing, and it’s because of us and our ancestors. 
There are steps being taken, like Gainesville enacting a ban on 
plastic bags and Styrofoam, but they are small, and frankly, not 
enough. People are slow to change in just about every aspect of 
life, but in regards to the environment, it’s time to kick it into 
high gear.
We don’t have time to try to convince people that climate 
change is a real, scientiﬁ  cally proven phenomenon. The earth’s 
temperature is rapidly increasing, and we can do our part indi-
vidually to help the environment, but it’s the governments across 
the globe that are going to have to make signiﬁ  cant changes in 
policies. Our grandkids and great-grandkids aren’t going to be 
able to experience the same things we did, especially in Florida 
where our beaches, and the people who live on them, are at risk.  
Our oceans may not yet be changing drastically in color, but 
they serve as a warning sign of more changes to come. It’s time 
our administration and countries across the world acknowledge 
the disaster that is waiting for us in just a few decades and start 
to take action.
Gainesville LGBTQ advocate discusses problems 
with the recent transgender military ban
The U.S. is an embodiment of liberty and 
equality. It’s a shining beacon of hope 
across the globe. However, as our issues 
grow increasingly more apparent and 
ugly, our light has dimmed. The U.S. Su-
preme Court disappointed the country and set 
an intolerable precedent when it granted the 
Trump administration’s request to temporarily 
ban most transgender people from serving in the 
military on Jan. 22.
This decision and the majority of the Trump administra-
tion’s decisions fuel the ﬁ  re of evil in this country and signal 
for the racists, homophobes, sexists and white supremacists 
to step out of the shadows. We have just begun the second 
month of 2019, but this outright transgender discrimination 
throws our country back a century in terms of LGBTQ rights.
We all know that awful people run rampant across this 
“land of the free.” I was still appalled and enraged when this 
Supreme Court decision was released. It’s always shocking 
when the ofﬁ  cials you idolize turn out to be morally ques-
tionable people. 
Banning transgender people from the military, even tem-
porarily, is outright discrimination. Targeting these people 
reinforces negative stigmas toward the LGBTQ community 
on a nationwide scale. The LGBTQ community is widely 
misunderstood and this discrimination by the Supreme Court 
casts it in a negative light. Perpetuating these hateful ideas is 
an egregious mistake. 
I spoke with Joe Antonelli about this Supreme Court deci-
sion to gain some perspective. Antonelli is the founding pres-
ident of the Gainesville Community Alliance, a social group 
founded in 1991 for the LGBTQ community of Gainesville. 
Antonelli has engaged in the battle for LGBTQ rights for near-
ly 60 years. He offered me a wealth of knowledge and shared 
many of his ﬁ  rst-hand experiences from his lifelong battle for 
LGBTQ rights.
The Supreme Court’s decision to grant the Trump admin-
istration’s temporary transgender military ban astounded and infuriated Antonelli. This blow to transgen-
der rights did not dampen his spirits, though. 
“[LGBTQ rights] is a social movement, it is 
going in the right direction. There have been gay 
people in the military forever, they just weren’t 
out. To say [transgender] people can’t serve is 
ridiculous. It’s a waiting game, I don’t think it’s 
going to affect us greatly,” Antonelli said. 
Antonelli hopes that the lower courts will 
prevent this temporary decision from becoming 
ﬁ  nal. He believes we need laws to protect all types of people 
from this kind of discrimination and he has faith that our 
great country will continue to grow and improve.
“We as a country have to open our arms and let liberty do 
her thing,” Antonelli said.
I agree that our country overall is moving the right way. 
The current administration, however, continues to take 
steps backward. I constantly question how we made such 
a 180-degree turn from our optimistic, progressive and for-
ward-thinking former president to the current homophobic 
and racist con man that holds the reins today. How in the 
span of a few years have we switched from legalizing gay 
marriage to banning most transgender people from serving 
our country? 
It comes down to the time-old issues of pride and fear. 
People want their ideas, their party, their race, their sex and 
their agendas to win. It’s time to get over ourselves and ad-
mit that the way people thought, spoke and lived in the past 
was wrong. We are entering a new era of freedom for all 
people, no matter their gender, race, sexual orientation or 
preferred pronouns. People need to swallow their pride and 
understand that hateful speech and actions are intolerable in 
today’s world. After the Supreme Court’s decision, it seems 
our justices can lead the way by admitting they were wrong.
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism freshman. Her 
column normally appears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
We sign up for seven 
classes, then complain 
that our professors 
overwork us when we 
know how much work 
a credit hour is worth, about three 
hours of work. We actively pro-
crastinate with our work, which 
leads us toward a stressful path 
when doing the work up front 
would have meant a weekend free 
of any worry. We take our time for small de-
tails so often that working on the big picture 
seems absolutely impossible.
I love going to class. It is a weird thing to 
hear from a student when everyone is used 
to the constant drone of complaints concern-
ing classes. I myself did not like going to 
class back in middle school, but now I have 
worked on changing that mindset. I am not 
taking these classes to knock off the cred-
its required to get a degree and get to my 
destination as soon as possible. I walk into 
class knowing that I am taking a step further 
to ﬁ  nd others who share my passion. My 
professors were students just like me, and 
they cared about a subject enough that they 
came back to it to make sure others could 
share that same passion. Yes, lecture classes 
always feel like ﬁ  ller classes and those criti-
cal tracking courses seem like the barrier be-
tween die-hard devotees of a major and the 
tentative followers testing the waters. But if 
you ﬁ  nd the time to get to know a professor 
for 10 minutes and talk to them about what 
they have seen and done, it is a step toward 
a possible career path. 
Graduating should give us a competitive 
advantage. This is a common saying that en-
tices students to go to college. We now know 
that a lot of what we learn can be found in 
different ways but for a lower up-front cost. 
Coding, business planning, creative writing 
and even DIY construction and building are 
all courses that can be taken online. How-
ever, what we do get out of an in-person class is a community. It is difﬁ  cult 
to ﬁ  nd groups of people passion-
ate about areas of study and to be 
able to grow with them outside 
of a university. Academia allows 
us to ﬁ  nd a community that loves 
what we love. Learning is second-
ary in school and in life. I think 
the real value of school and life is 
in community building.
School clubs let us ﬁ  nd a hobby 
or pastime that connects us to others. These 
connections go far beyond a shared interest 
in knitting or soccer; they create a thread 
that binds people together to create fami-
lies. Transgender feminist writer Janet Mock 
spoke with the artist Devonté Hynes, also 
known as Blood Orange, about his album. 
One of the most heart-touching moments is 
on the interlude “Family” where she talks 
about what she thinks family is and deﬁ  nes 
it as “community ... the spaces where we 
don’t have to shrink ourselves, ... we choose 
our families. We are not limited by biology.” 
We all chose to apply and to commit to 
UF. We choose every semester what we 
want to participate in like the classes we 
take and club meetings we go to. Every 
day we get to come into the hallways, the 
classrooms, the libraries and onto the plazas 
and become part of the Gator family. That 
includes students, professors, directors of 
programs, deans of colleges, the staff who 
work tirelessly to keep our campus safe and 
clean, the alumni who continue to show the 
support and love for their community and 
every prospective student who waits for de-
cisions to come out and then commit. We 
are all part of a great family, so instead of 
grimacing as we walk into class, let’s walk 
in smiling for another opportunity to grow 
with the Gator Nation. 
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism sopho-
more. His column normally appears on Fridays.College isn’t only for education — 
it’s where we build a communityColumnTelevision shows are Mad Libs to me. I 
turn on a cable TV show, sit there and 
try to ﬁ  nish the character’s sentences, 
fully aware that I am the worst type 
of person to watch TV with. Correctly 
guessing the ending to a show can be so sat-
isfying. Nothing is as fulﬁ  lling as saying out 
loud exactly what a television character says 
with the same timing and beat. But on the 
other hand, when I am wrong, the results are 
devastating — yet so humbling.
Realizing that this is one of the most an-
noying things a human could do, I turned 
my attention to what it is about the shows 
that keep me dumbfounded. My kryptonite: 
nonlinear timelines. This storytelling tool 
allows for multiple story lines that add an-
other dimension to the plot. It is a combi-
nation of long ﬂ  ashbacks, backstories and 
sometimes even snapshots of future events. 
When it comes to holding on to the element 
of suspense, television writers use a variety 
of techniques. 
Flashbacks have been used through-
out cinematic history to reveal information about characters that deﬁ  nes 
their present storyline. But now, 
writers are using nonlinear sto-
rylines to keep viewers on their 
toes and sometimes even confuse 
them. The confusion element 
comes into play especially when 
viewers cannot tell when scenes 
are happening in relation to the 
present plot. In the coming years, 
nonlinear timelines may become even more 
popular with the success of shows like “This 
is Us” and “Westworld.”      
In the NBC series “This is Us,” viewers 
see a substantial range of the character’s 
lives through ﬂ  ashbacks that frame several 
time periods. The show keeps fans intrigued 
by going back and forth from past to present. 
Just when you ﬁ  nd yourself getting bored, 
the story moves to another time and sparks 
your interest once again. Viewers ultimately 
know what is going to happen to some of the 
characters, making watching the show not 
a matter of “What will happen?” but rather 
“How did that happen?”A similar case happens in 
HBO’s “Westworld” but with 
more intensity. The robot char-
acters in this series do not show 
signs of aging, making it hard to 
decipher what time the actions 
take place. Only the more atten-
tive viewers can ﬁ  gure out where 
in the show’s timeline scenes are 
taking place. And viewers ca not 
exactly trust that anyone who looks human 
is not a robot, adding an additional layer of 
confusion as to where in time certain actions 
are taking place.  
Even if you pride yourself on paying at-
tention to each timeline switch, a plethora 
of Reddit threads and YouTube videos ex-
ist to explain what the heck just happened. 
Nonlinear plots may be the next big thing be-
cause it gives viewers enough information to 
get the wheels in their head turning without 
giving away major plot lines. And with so 
much content for us to watch, we might tune 
in to get to the bottom of questions we have 
been tweeting about. Although these shows are not the only 
shows to use nonlinear timelines, “This Is 
Us” and “Westworld” are recent examples 
of what TV shows may look like in the fu-
ture. The new trend may be viewers being 
kept in the dark as to when things are tak-
ing place. The jaw-dropping plot twists in 
“Grey’s Anatomy” will not sufﬁ  ce anymore. 
The steady, chronological order of events 
will not cut it. 
Viewers love to speculate and conspire 
about what is next for a show. Nonlinear 
or multiple timelines allow for more fans to 
wonder about the events of a show and how 
things came to be. As with any show, infor-
mation on characters is withheld to create 
suspense, but now we are given the knowl-
edge and we have to ﬁ  gure out where it ﬁ  ts 
in the timeline. These TV shows are puzzles 
that need to be solved and they are going 
to keep us coming back each week for the 
foreseeable future. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism ju-
nior. Her column appears on Wednesdays. Nonlinear shows are creating a new age of TV, and I can't stop watching themColumn
The other day, a class-
mate of mine said 
something that seemed 
to resonate with the rest 
of the class. She said 
the truth is whatever a person 
thinks it is, or to translate into 
pop culture, the truth is “You 
do you.”
There are many beliefs and 
many more believers. An atheist and a 
Christian hardly agree on some of their 
fundamental beliefs, and often both be-
lieve they are right and know the truth. 
The same is the case for all of us: We 
hold our beliefs because we think they 
are true.
In this sense, my classmate was right 
to point out that we all believe we are 
right, no matter what it is we believe. 
Surely her view is appealing in today’s 
times, when the hope of unity seems to 
be a child’s daydream. How can we live 
together among diverse beliefs and cul-
tures? Perhaps by believing that a reli-
gious person’s beliefs are true for them, 
and a secular person’s beliefs are true 
for them. Why argue, then? Why debate 
which religion is right or which political 
policy is right, when all of us are right?
At one time, I would have agreed with 
my classmate and thought truth was 
relative to each person. In high school, I 
used to be bewildered by universal truth 
claims, especially those made by religion 
because they seemed both unfair and 
simplistic. The idea that one particular 
religion could be the one universal truth 
of life was ludicrous, over and against 
all other devoutly believed religions. I 
thought the truth, if there was any, would 
never be that narrow. 
There are good motivations for this 
view — a desire for inclusivity, to revere 
and accept the many beliefs of this world. 
Good intentions aside, relative truth is a 
self-defeating proposition.
If all of the world’s views are some-
how true, like branches that grow from 
a common tree, then in order to know the views, we would somehow 
have to know what that tree is. 
I cannot say all religions are 
true without assuming a degree 
of knowledge that none of us, 
quite frankly, possess. In other 
words, saying that truth is rela-
tive to the person is just an-
other universal and objective 
claim. Reduce the proposition 
to its bare essentials — it is objectively 
true about the world that truth is relative 
— and you can see the contradiction.
The claim, then, that truth is rela-
tive must itself be a relative statement. 
It might be true for the person who be-
lieves in relative truth, but it cannot be 
universally true for everyone else, or else 
it would cease to be a relative truth and 
defeat itself.
We should remember, though, human 
beings have been abused in the name 
of truth. It may be the case that relative 
truth is self-defeating, but simply point-
ing that out and doing nothing else does 
not help much. I would like to be sen-
sitive of our world’s long history of reli-
gious and political war. Truth can quickly 
become a justiﬁ  cation for all sorts of ma-
licious behavior.
My point is this: I do believe truth is 
universal and objective, but I also be-
lieve forcing your truth onto others can 
be harmful. Instead, as a Christian, I sub-
scribe to the belief that the fundamental 
truth about the universe is not an idea or 
principle but is a person. The truth has 
hands, feet, eyes and a heart. He healed 
the sick, befriended his enemies and rose 
from the dead 2,000 years ago.
So yes, I disagree with my classmate 
— truth cannot be relative. But it can-
not be used as a weapon, either. Truth 
must walk the middle space: universal 
but ﬂ  exible, objective but relational, 
ﬁ  rm but gentle. In other words, the truth 
must be whacky.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. 
His column appears on Wednesday.The truth is ﬂ  exible and a bit whackyColumn
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
How to survive bad tattoos
Check out regrettable body ink on Ariana Grande 
and a UF student, Pg 9
Unleash your inner wild cat
Read about Neon Liger’s 11th anniversary, Pg 10SOCIAL ACTIVISM 
COLLIDES WITH 
THE ARTS
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Changeville Music and Arts 
Festival is bringing around 5,000 
people from all aspects of enter-
tainment and the community to 
promote social change.
The two-day festival, this 
Thursday, Feb. 7 and Friday, 
Feb. 8, will feature musical per-
formances, ﬁ  lms, poetry read-
ings, discussion panels and com-
edy routines in venues located in 
downtown Gainesville. 
Some of the local and national 
musicians performing include 
The Forum, Japanese Breakfast, 
AJJ, Big Freedia, Flipturn, Mike 
Llerena & The Nerve, Zeta, Pool 
Kids, Stereo RV, Ted Leo, Expert 
Timing and Sooza.
Unlike other music festivals, 
all the performers must submit 
an application explaining the 
work they are currently contrib-
uting to social change, said Jen-
nifer Vito, Executive Director of 
Changeville. 
“All of the artists and every-
one involved shares a passion 
for social change and does some 
work in that area,” Vito said. “So, 
it’s different than booking a regu-
lar festival where you’re just like 
‘Who’s hot right now?’ but we’re 
like, ‘Who’s hot and who does 
work in social change?’”
Vito said every year the fes-
tival will do a beneﬁ  t and this 
year’s beneﬁ  t is through a part-
nership with PLUS1 that will help support equality and education. 
A dollar from each ticket sale will 
be donated to one local and one 
national organization. The local 
organization is Gainesville Girls 
Rock Camp and the national or-
ganization is Center for Educa-
tional Excellence in Alternative 
Settings, a program that works 
with education in juvenile justice 
facilities.
New this year to Changeville 
is Greenroom, a mixture event 
located at Big Top Brewery from 
6-8 p.m. on Friday where guests 
can interact with headliners and 
speakers from the UF College 
of Journalism and Communica-
tions’ frank conference.
Other popular activities in-
clude the Bo Diddley Plaza street 
fair on Thursday from 5-9:30 
p.m. with food trucks, vendors 
and live music. Guests will be 
able to buy an individual ticket 
for speciﬁ  c shows or purchase a 
VIP all-access festival pass which 
comes with a T-shirt and extra 
perks such as better seating.
Vito said she is most excited 
about the connections and collab-
orations from this year’s lineup 
and artists. 
“We have a very diverse 
lineup. I guess that is something 
I’m proud of and we strive to do 
every year to just make more of 
a platform and help visibility of 
more diverse range of artists,” 
Vito said. 
Tickets can be purchased at 
http://www.changeville.us/tick-
ets. 
Vblankenship@alligator.org
@vanessablankieChangeville 2019
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
This was a scene from last year’s festival. Performances 
this year include Japanse Breakfast and Big Freedia.
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Florida Museum of Natural History and 
Sante Fe College Art Gallery are partnering to 
put on this ﬁ  rst SciArt Showcase. It opens Friday 
Feb. 8 at 7 p.m. It will feature paintings, drawings, 
ceramics, ﬁ  lm, photography and digital media 
from Gainesville artists. Kyle Novak, the Santa 
Fe art gallery manager, said that art plays an 
important role in science-based education. 
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
See the Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History come alive in a new way 
at the ﬁ  rst SciArt Showcase to open 
Friday.
SciArt Showcase is a culmination 
gallery of works by artists who con-
vened at the 2018 SciArt Meetups and 
were inspired to make art based on 
exhibits at the Florida Museum and 
the state’s nature and culture.
The upcoming exhibition will fea-
ture paintings, drawings, ceramics, 
ﬁ  lm, photography and digital media 
created by an array of 20 artists from 
UF and the Gainesville community. 
Artworks by UF forest entomology 
associate professor Jiri Hulcr and re-
nowned Gainesville-based artist Mar-garet Ross Tolbert will be featured.
Opening reception for the exhibi-
tion will be held from 7-9 p.m. on 
Feb. 8 at the Santa Fe College Art 
Gallery. The event is free and open to 
public with food and beverages pro-
vided. 
The Santa Fe College Art Gallery 
will continue to display the pieces 
Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. 
to 4 p.m. from Feb. 8 through March 
15. 
Santa Fe art gallery manager Kyle 
Novak said that this exhibit is one-
of-a-kind because of the crossover 
between art and science that will be 
showcased.
“Personally, I’ve always been 
drawn to scientiﬁ  c illustration. I think 
art and illustration play a big role in 
science-based education and what the museum exhibits,” Novak said.
Novak also looks forward to the 
2019 SciArt Meetups and continuing 
the program next year.
“The SciArt Meetups have allowed 
artists to come to (the) museum after 
hours, learn more about science and 
art and listen to guest speakers who 
are either scientists or artists them-
selves,” said Chelsea Collison, Florida 
Museum educator.
“It’s an awesome opportunity 
to see some of the artists here in 
Gainesville. You get to experience 
natural history of the museum in a 
different form than when you nor-
mally visit and see what inspires 
other people.”
@sarahan921
shan@alligator.orgFirst SciArt Showcase at Florida 
Museum of Natural History
The beauty of science will be on displayWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
Chris King, Alligator Staff
Flipturn plays pop-up show on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday
Dillon Basse, the 21-year-old lead singer and rhythm guitarist of Flipturn, performs for about 40 people 
on campus to promote the band’s upcoming performance during the Changeville Festival this weekend.
DO YOU LEARN TO LOVE IT 
OR COVER IT UP?
By Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
Last week, Ariana Grande post-
ed a picture of her newest body 
ink. The tattoo was meant to rep-
resent her new hit song, “7 rings.” 
Instead, when she posted a picture 
of the Kanji characters on her palm, 
she found out that it actually trans-
lated to “shichirin,” which means a 
small barbecue grill.
The pop princess later tried to 
ﬁ  x the tattoo, but due to incorrect 
character placement the tattoo now 
says, “Japanese barbecue ﬁ  nger.”
Grande is by no means the ﬁ  rst 
person to get a regrettable tattoo. 
Danny Gato, a 20-year-old UF eco-
nomics sophomore, understands 
Grande’s situation.
After Gato moved from Miami 
to Gainesville, his friends, Chris Cardenas and Eddy Chamizo, de-
cided to visit the city and obsessed 
over the term “swamp life.” 
Once Gato returned home for 
winter break in Dec. 2016, the trio 
decided to get matching tattoos 
and drunkenly decided on the term 
“swamp life.” 
“I don’t think a sober person 
would do this,” Gato said.
Originally they were going to get 
the tattoos on their necks but they 
decided that wasn’t a good idea.
Gato’s tattoo can be found on 
his left thigh in blue and orange. 
Cardenas’ is on his left forearm 
and is complemented with a small 
campsite. Chamizo’s is on his right 
bicep in big black letters.
Two days after Gato got the tat-
too, he regretted it. But now he has 
grown to see it as a part of him. 
“Looking at it now, I just laugh,” 
Gato said.
Lizzii Barreto, a 25-year-old tat-
too artist at Bodytech Tattooing 
and Piercing, has been tattooing for ﬁ  ve years and mainly focuses 
on cover-ups and black and grey 
realism.
Barreto said clients cover up 
their tattoos because the tattoo 
didn’t age well, they no longer like 
it, they got someone’s name or 
they have a misspelled word.
Cover-ups can easily be done, 
unless the tattoo is over-saturated, 
too new or the client isn’t willing to 
work with the artist, Barreto said. 
“I’m very picky on what I cover 
and what I cover it with,” she said. 
“If they’re not willing to work with 
you, it makes it pretty hard.”
In Grande’s case, her infamous 
hand tattoo could be covered, but 
she would need to have an open 
mind, Barreto said.
“That’s not something you try to 
boss the artist around with,” Bar-
reto said. “You’d have to trust your 
artist at that point.”
Acarmargo@alligator.orgHow to survive regrettable tattoos
TATTOO
Courtesy to The Alligator
T op: Danny Gato, 20,  shows off his “Swamp Life” tattoo.
Bottom: Ariana Grande’s mistaken  Kanji characters.
THIS NEW TAKE ON AN 
OLD STORY IS TAKING THE 
INTERNET BY STORM
By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Staff Writer 
A show produced by The CW 
Television Network is getting a 
new wave of viewers thanks to 
its Netﬂ  ix upload, which brought 
a new audience into an old story-
line.
In 2017, news broke that an 
‘80s soap opera classic was not 
only getting a reboot, but also a 
reimagining. The CW decided to 
take the well-known storyline and 
reimagine it for the modern world.
The original “Dynasty” was 
created as a prime-time televi-
sion soap opera on ABC that aired 
in 1981. This program centered 
around the trials, tribulations and 
battles between members of the 
Carrington’s, a wealthy family in 
Denver, Colorado. 
In September 2016, a pilot for 
the reboot season was ordered, 
and eight months later, in May, it 
was declared a full series for the 
CW Network in the U.S. and Netf-
lix internationally.
The premise of the show is the 
same as its airing. It begins with 
heiress Fallon Carrington, played 
by Elizabeth Gillies, who is up-
set her billionaire father, Blake, 
played by Grant Show, is engaged 
to her biggest rival Cristal Flores, 
played by Ana Brenda Contreras. 
Fallon goes through many she-
nanigans and antics to separate the two but ﬁ  nds no success and 
must team up with her father’s en-
emy and former employee. 
While the main storyline of the 
show is the same, there have been 
some modern updates to intrigue 
the new audience and introduce 
more aspects of diversity.
Some of those changes include 
moving the setting from Denver, 
Colorado, to Atlanta, Georgia; in-
troducing Steven’s homosexuality 
as a problem for Blake; and chang-
ing gold digger Sammy Jo from a 
woman to a gay man.
During its initial run, the series 
was critically acclaimed and won 
several awards.
The reboot of this critically ac-
claimed series is perfect for those 
who love young adult drama, 
whether you know the origin of 
the story, or not. Fans of shows 
like “90210,” “Gossip Girl” and 
“Pretty Little Liars” will ﬁ  nd that 
“Dynasty” embodies all of those 
aspects into one very high-brow 
package with just as much drama. 
What really makes this show 
different from the other dramas is 
the soap opera nuances and exag-
gerations that really draw you into 
the storyline. 
Thankfully, anyone looking 
to binge the series that is disap-
pointed by the limited number of 
episodes, you’re in luck because 
more is to come. 
“Dynasty” was renewed for a 
third season on Jan. 31. 
@manertt
mtraner@alligator.orgNetﬂ  ix’s ‘Dynasty’
Series Review10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any 
day of the week. Come in and check out one of the 
best wine lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you 
wait for the chef to put out nothing but goodness from 
the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties 
for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-
9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgSPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 years as an 
alternative to alcohol used for ceremonial, 
political, medicinal, and social purposes. Come 
try our Kava, Kratom, Mate, and other teas in 
Downtown Gainesville. Open weekdays 12pm-
12am, weekends 12pm-1am and Sundays 12pm-
5pm.  17 W. University Ave. maikaikava.com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comINDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay oven 
tandoor cooking for succulent Halal beef, 
chicken, lamb, and goat made fresh daily 
for tikka masalas, vindaloos,  kormas, and 
paneers. Vegetarian and vegan available 
too! Daily lunch specials include rice, 
naan, appetizers, salad, desserts. Open 
Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, Sunday noon - 9. 
Delivery through Bite Squad. Order ahead 
www.kababhousegainesville.com   604 NW 
13th St. 352-792-6764.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Everyone loves a good taco Tues-
day, but where should you go to en-
gage in this zesty entree?
Last week, three Mexican restau-
rants in Gainesville were put to the 
test to see which taco was supreme. 
No, it wasn’t Taco Bell. 
The ﬁ  rst stop is 
Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria.
Order: Two soft tacos with chicken, 
lettuce, pico de gallo and cheese.
Price: $5.09
Review: Upon ﬁ  rst bite, the taco 
had a very soft texture and every-
thing seemed to melt together. The 
chicken was tasty, but it didn’t stand 
out as mind-blowing. Starting the 
second taco, I realized I deﬁ  nitely 
needed a sauce because the tacos 
were very dry without it. 
Rating: The tacos were ﬁ  ne, but def-
initely not game changing or some-
thing to rave about to friends. That 
equals a 3 out of 5.
***Next stop is Boca Fiesta. 
Order: Ahi tuna tacos which come 
with seared pineapples, onions and 
cilantro. 
Price: $13.47
Review: The price may seem like 
a bit much for tacos, but the order 
comes with three tacos ﬁ  lled to the 
brim with nicely seared ahi tuna. 
The tuna works really well with the 
pineapple for this sweet and savory 
ﬂ  avor that’s unexpected but very 
nice. Also, despite the soft shell, you 
can tell the tortillas were warmed 
slightly.
Rating: These tacos were better 
than expected. The amount of ﬂ  avor 
in each one was amazing. It was the 
ﬁ  rst time that it seemed like the taco 
needed no extra toppings than what 
it came with because it was perfect. 
Thus, these tacos get a strong 4.5 out 
of 5. 
***
Final stop is La Tienda Latina.
Order: Al pastor tacos, which has 
marinated pork and is cooked with 
pineapple, onions and cilantro.Price: $8.50
Review: It was difﬁ  cult to eat the 
tacos because they kept falling apart. 
The taste was good, but could be 
better if the pork was a bit more ten-
der. The pork was tough and chewy, 
whichmade the eating experience 
less enjoyable. 
Rating: The tacos were pretty difﬁ  -
cult to eat and tough but had some 
promising and very authentic ﬂ  a-
vors. These tacos receive a 4 out of 
5. 
***
Final Thoughts: If you’re looking 
for a low-budget, great taco that 
gives you a bit more than the drive-
thru, then La Tienda Cantina should 
be high on your list. However, if 
you’re willing to sit down and spend 
a little bit more on quality food and 
atmosphere, then you should ﬁ  nd 
yourself at Boca Fiesta. Also, for 
those 21 and up, Boca Fiesta has a 
great margarita Monday deal. 
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgAvenue Eats: Let’s taco-bout it  
The Avenue ranks some of Gainesville’s tacosBy Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
On Saturday, The Wooly will hold 
the 11-year anniversary of Neon Liger. 
It was weekly when it started in 
2008. After seven years, it became 
annual; now serving as a reunion for 
alumni that called the party home. 
This year’s host, Kat Bein, 31, said 
the energy has stayed the same. As a 
UF journalism student in 2008, she at-
tended the party more than 100 times 
over the years. 
“It’s just a really over-the-top sort 
of energy, but not because it’s trying 
too hard,” she said. “It’s totally wild.” 
Bein describes the event’s cult-like 
following as her sorority.  
The event holds sentimental value 
for those who have attended since its 
inception. It serves as a time to let 
loose, reconnect with old friends and 
to party like it is the last night on earth, 
Gianmarco Pow-Sang said.
Pow-Sang, 27, will be deejaying 
under his stage name, “GPS,” on Sat-
urday night, feeling the energy of the 
audience and playing whatever reso-
nates with the crowd’s energy. 
He ﬁ  rst attended the event in 2009 
as a UF telecommunication freshman. Since then, the Los Angeles native es-
timates he has attended Neon Liger at 
least 150 times. 
Both Bein and Pow-Sang shared 
that they would not be where they are 
today without Neon Liger. 
Christopher Wallack, 20-year-old 
psychology sophomore, is new to the 
party. He is performing as Allwack.
“I’ve been hearing about it for 
as long as I’ve been on the scene in 
Gainesville,” he said. 
Wallack will perform alongside 15 
other electronic music artists. He plans 
to take what he has heard about Neon 
Liger’s old-school vibes and mix a 
fresh spin on it. 
Tickets at the door cost $15. The 
event is 18 and older except for the 
outside patio. 
If you have never heard or gone to 
Liger, know to leave your expensive 
clothes, inhibitions and pretension at 
home. 
If you go by yourself or feel lost in 
all the commotion, the host will prob-
ably be crawling around encouraging 
people to break out of their shell and 
roar. 
Jdefreitas@alligator.org
@jackiedef7Unleash your inner wild cat BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDSAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no 
responsibility for injury or loss 
arising from contacts made through 
advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the 
sincerity of the advertiser before giving 
out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
 Make an extra or full-time income from your 
photography. With just a camera, turn your 
hubby into a profitable business. 
Go to: http://photographyoppurtunity.club      
2-6-19-5-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
1. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Greek suffix “-stasis” mean in 
English?
2. GEOGRAPHY: How many conti-
nents are in the world?
3. INVENTIONS: Who invented the 
nuclear reactor?
4. TELEVISION: In what year did 
“Monday Night Football” debut?
5. FOOD & DRINK: What was the 
original name of the breakfast cereal 
Cheerios?
6. LITERATURE: Where did the 
Grinch live in Dr. Seuss’ book “How 
the Grinch Stole Christmas!”?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which presi-
dent was the first to campaign by tele-
phone?
8. MOVIES: Which war was the set-
ting for the musical “South Pacific”?
9. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is rep-
resented in the condition called logo-
phobia? 
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which animal is the symbol of the 
World Wildlife Fund?
Answers
1. Standing still
2. Seven
3. Enrico Fermi
4. 1970
5. Cheerioats
6. Mount Crumpit
7. William McKinley
8. WWII
9. Fear of words
10. The giant panda
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 4, 2019King Features Weekly Service
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
The Village at Gainesville Career Fair
February 6, 2019 from 10am - 2pm
8000 NW 27th Blvd, Gainesville Fl 32606      
2-6-19-3-14
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/11- 
2/14 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & 
W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” 
then "workshops” to register.      2-11-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attemted 
to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-4903 
2-08-7-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Jerry Edelstein
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/06/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/06/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, February 6, 2019
ACROSS
1 Area with pews
5 It’s saved for a 
rainy day
9 Monster party
13 Constrain
14 Singer Adams
15 Spanish “this”
16 In first place
17 Does really well, 
for a weekend 
golfer
19 Sophs, come 
Sep.
20 “Who Dat Girl” 
rapper __ Rida
21 Corkscrew  
pasta
22 “Next time’s for 
real”
26 Hurry, old-style
27 Leaf-clearing 
tool
28 Hairy spider
33 It stings
36 Cardiologist
40 Energy unit
41 Looks through, as 
a keyhole
42 Tennis immortal
45 Spanish “that”
46 Jewish deli meat
53 Learn from A to Z
54 Little newt
55 Bloke
56 “America’s Got 
Talent” judges’ 
concern
58 With 62-Across, 
handyman’s 
assortment, and 
a hint to what’s 
in each set of 
circles
60 Latvian seaport
61 De __: again
62 See 58-Across
63 Cocktail garnish
64 Gets the picture
65 Keep up (with)
DOWN
1 ’60s jacket style
2 “What __!”: “Ick!”
3 By way of
4 See 28-Down
5 Musk’s electric 
car brand
6 Limited in scope, 
as a committee
7 Grande opening8 Illinois city that 
symbolizes 
mainstream 
America
9 Lifelong pal
10 Clinton’s 
first Defense 
secretary
11 Sporty Ford, to 
devotees
12 Big name in 
spydom
13 Pilgrimage to 
Mecca
18 Clock sound
20 Guitar neck 
features
23 Whaling direction
24 Pub order
25 Copy on a 
transparent sheet
28 With 4-Down, 
fairy tale’s last 
words
29 Fizzy prefix
30 Tattered cloth
31 Word with class 
or case
32 Blues legend 
John __ Hooker
33 Storage 
container
34 Approximate fig.35 WWII arena
37 “__ my case”
38 Exec’s hire, 
perhaps
39 “Tell the truth!”
42 Starlike
43 Fox News anchor 
Smith
44 Wading birds
46 Five-time 
Olympic 
swimming gold 
medalist Ledecky47 Missouri river
48 “Pet” irritation
49 High dos
50 Greek 
marketplace
51 Smelling of mold
52 Lithographer 
James
53 No. on a new car 
window
57 Misery
58 CD predecessors
59 Breakfast grain
By Tyler Lian and Jeff Chen
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/05/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/05/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 5, 2019
ACROSS
1 Ring ref’s 
decision
4 Hindu division
9 Rig up
14 Hankering
15 Aquaman’s realm
16 “Grey’s Anatomy” 
staffer
17 Immigrant’s ID
19 Extend the library 
borrowing term
20 Tries to hit
21 Low singers
22 Blackjack elevens
23 Not fitting
25 Title for Jose or 
Diego?
27 Tuition-paying aid
32 Rude and crude
34 “Begone, feline!”
35 Unsubscribes, 
with “out”
36 Jazz trumpeter Al
37 Indian prime 
minister mentored 
by Gandhi
38 Eric Carle’s 
“The __ Hungry 
Caterpillar”
39 Viral internet item
40 Improve text
41 Porto-Novo’s land
42 Competitive 
swimming venue
45 Cul-de-__
46 Sniffling maladies
47 Mother’s Day gift 
holder
49 Old phone 
company 
nickname
52 Biblical opening
55 Food recall culprit
56 Emmy-winning 
reality series for 
entrepreneurs 
... and a place 
for the ends of 
17-, 27- and 
42-Across?
58 Biblical verb
59 Fictional Swiss 
miss
60 “Excusez-__”
61 Frankfurt’s state
62 How ballerinas 
dance
63 Sinus doc
DOWN
1 Rapper whose 
name sounds like 
an endangered 
cat2 “The Americans” 
co-star Russell
3 Many an action 
film hero
4 Admit
5 Greet 
aggressively
6 Burn a little
7 Road covering
8 Conclude
9 Fascinated
10 The Roots’ 
frontman on 
“Late Night with 
Jimmy Fallon”
11 Big coffeepots
12 “Noted”
13 Church rows
18 PC panic key
21 African  
language  
group
23 Tracking 
implants, for 
short
24 A few feet from
25 Blockhead
26 Princess who 
gives up her 
voice to be 
human
28 Vintage music 
purchase
29 Magical access 
words30 Glass-roofed 
lobbies
31 Timberlake’s 
former band
33 Biological 
building blocks
37 Sam of “Peaky 
Blinders”
41 Tot’s comforter, 
affectionately
43 Not at all 
32-Across
44 Work too hard
48 Opposite of rise49 Screen door 
material
50 Aleve target
51 Jungle 
squeezers
52 Canter or  
gallop
53 A party to, as a 
private joke
54 Classroom 
acting
56 “Shameless” 
network, briefly
57 Egg layer
1.  Disastrous 
1.  Trip5.  Field ____
2.  Bauxite component6.  Optimal
3.  ____ lettuce 7.  “Miss ____”
4.  Swiped CRTGIA
UMELBTOMEUS
IALDE
AANILMU
RCEIGEBGOAINS
ETOLSNANSWERS: 1A-Tragic  5A-Mouse  6A-Ideal  7A-Saigon
1D-Tumble  2D-Alumina  3D-Iceberg  4D-Stolen  B-George Lucas2-6-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
BONUSCLUE: This person was once engaged to singer 
Linda Ronstadt, but they never married.
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Sophomore Alyssa Baumann  
(pictured) earned SEC Specialist 
Gymnast of the Week honors, while 
Trinity Thomas earned her third 
SEC Freshman of the Week  award.Mullen looks to round out 2019 recruiting class
Coach Dan Mullen and the Gators football team will cap off its 2019 signing 
class on Wednesday during National Signing Day. Florida currently has the 
No. 11-ranked recruiting class in the nation, according to 247Sports.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Gators coach Mike White 
thought his team was on the turn-
around.
It forced an excellent Kentucky 
team to play nearly perfect basket-
ball in the ﬁ  nal minutes to escape 
an upset bid in Gainesville, and 
Florida held on for a hard-fought 
overtime victory over Ole Miss in 
the game prior.
That turnaround is in serious 
jeopardy after UF fell to the Tigers 
76-62 at Auburn Arena in Auburn, 
Alabama, on Tuesday night. Flori-
da was competitive in all but one of 
its losses going into the game, the 
exception being an 81-60 drubbing 
at the hands of Florida State in the 
season opener. Against the Tigers, 
however, White’s squad played 
from behind for all but nearly four 
minutes.
The Gators (12-10, 4-5 SEC) 
traded the lead with Auburn ﬁ  ve 
times in the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve minutes of 
the game. Florida hit six of its ﬁ  rst 
eight shots but committed three 
turnovers in that stretch. It became 
a theme for the Gators throughout 
the ﬁ  rst half as they totaled nine giveaways in the ﬁ  rst 20 minutes. 
Despite shooting 56 percent before 
the break to Auburn’s 46 percent, 
the Tigers (16-6, 5-4 SEC) took ad-
vantage of UF’s mistakes.
“Seventeen turnovers at Au-
burn. No. 1 in the country at turn-
ing you over,” White said in a 
release. “Could talk about it until 
we were blue in the face…(Au-
burn) has elite team speed. Active 
hands.”
Florida was in reach of Auburn 
when the score was 20-17, but a 
subsequent 10-2 AU run and 3:54 
Gators scoring drought gave the Ti-
gers the momentum.
Florida narrowed that gap 
thanks to Noah Locke, who scored 
10 in the ﬁ  rst half. Auburn didn’t 
score in the ﬁ  nal 2:21 of the period, 
and a tough drive for a layup from 
KeVaughn Allen as time expired 
cut the Gators’ halftime deﬁ  cit to 
six.
The Tigers’ lackadaisical play 
came to an end in the second half, 
though. Their shots started falling, 
and they quickly pushed the lead 
to double digits. Auburn shot 10-
of-15 to begin the period and led by    Second-half surge lifts Auburn over turnover-prone Gators 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
The Gators turned the ball over 17 times during their 76-62 loss to Auburn on Tuesday. "Could talk about 
it until we were blue in the face...Auburn has elite team speed. Active hands, " coach Mike White said. 
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The Gators’ gymnastics team may 
be competing in a regular season meet 
against Auburn on Friday, but there’s 
nothing regular about it.
It’s the UF gymnastics squad’s 13th 
annual “Link to Pink” meet, an event 
that shows support for breast cancer 
awareness. The team will don pink 
leotards for the meet against the Tigers 
as well as give out pink T-shirts and 
posters.
Last year’s "Link to Pink" meet, a 
197.725-196.875 winning effort against 
Arkansas, ended on a sour note when 
senior Kennedy Baker tore her Achil-
les, ending her career at Florida. The 
Gators hope to bounce back from their 
defeat against the No. 1 Oklahoma 
Sooners when they take on the Tigers 
this Friday.“It’s a really special evening for 
this team,” coach Jenny Rowland said. 
“Knowing that there are a lot of sur-
vivors close to these young women’s 
hearts… it’s always great to go out 
and compete for something bigger than 
themselves.”
While UF’s established veterans are 
used to the atmosphere of the annual 
event, Friday’s meet will be the ﬁ  rst  
for the six freshmen on Florida’s roster.
“(The upperclassman) always 
say it’s a fun meet,” freshman Trin-
ity Thomas said. “I’ve done multiple 
things for pink, like pink meets and 
Unite for HER in the past: I love do-
ing it.”
Thomas, who was named SEC 
Freshman of the Week for her efforts 
against the Sooners, is looking forward 
to a number of traditions that come 
with the team’s annual meet.What the “Link to Pink” 
meet means to FloridaJake's On A Plane / Opinion
The angry mob of Florida fans 
is all over Twitter as of late, 
fully equipped with torches 
and pitchforks. Especially 
after the men’s basketball 
team lost to Auburn on Tuesday 
night.
“Fire White!”
“How can you defend this man?”
“His offense is terrible! There’s 
no player development. He needs 
to go!”
The chants have been coming for most of the 
season. It seems like all that support for White, 
all that fan-favor, has just gone out the window.
And for what? One bad season?
I’ve been patrolling #Gators Twitter, and I’ve 
seen the messages. Heck, I’ve even responded 
to a few of them with factual support. 
The truth is, nobody actually believes White 
should be ﬁ  red after this season. And if they do, 
they’re just plain ignorant.Let me give you a few reasons 
why based on things I have seen on 
Twitter.
“They are lacking in the four/
ﬁ  ve position because White isn’t 
recruiting them.”
This statement is correct on pa-
per. Center Kevarrius Hayes, a for-
mer forward that had to change po-
sitions, is the only healthy big man 
Florida has. Gorjok Gak can’t shake a pesty knee 
injury and Chase Johnson transferred to Dayton 
after dealing with concussions his entire UF ca-
reer. Keith Stone, Florida’s typical four-man, is 
out for the rest of the year after tearing his ACL.
That leaves just Hayes, redshirt sophomore 
Dontay Bassett, freshman Keyontae Johnson 
and redshirt freshman Isaiah Stokes to ﬁ  ll those 
slots.
That’s rough. Do people really want to see Mike 
White fired over one bad season?
Jake 
Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOFTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The month of February ushers in a new sea-
son of Florida softball, and there’s a lot about 
coach Tim Walton’s program that’s new. 
UF welcomes high-profile transfers, tal-
ented freshmen and a new pitching coach. It 
also anticipates playing in a newly renovated 
stadium, which will be finished after the team 
heads to Tampa for the USF Opening Weekend 
Invitational.
Here are three preseason observations 
ahead of the Gators’ season-opening tourna-
ment: 
New facilities bring new friendships
The biggest change for Florida softball is to 
its home. 
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium received a 
massive overhaul during the offseason, includ-
ing shaded seating areas for fans, state-of-the-
art amenities for the athletes and a new press 
box, among other changes. 
But with new facilities come extra costs and 
not just the types that affect the financial bot-
tom line. 
With the stadium unavailable, the team has 
practiced on the intramural practice fields at 
Southwest Recreation Center, and its locker 
room was replaced with a double-wide trailer 
by the practice fields. These aren’t exactly ideal 
practicing conditions for one of the country’s 
top college softball programs. 
However, one of the positives that has come 
out of it is a reinvigorated feeling of closeness 
between teammates. 
“If anything, it’s brought us closer togeth-
er,” catcher Jordan Roberts said. “Literally, 
we’re right next to each other in the locker 
room every single day, but I wouldn’t have it 
any other way.”
With the offseason coming to a close, UF 
is looking forward to debuting its revamped home field next Tuesday against Team Japan. 
“We’re starting to get a little antsy, and es-
pecially after getting some more practice time 
on the stadium,” outfielder Amanda Lorenz 
said. “We’re really thankful and really excited 
to get in there finally.”
How will newcomers affect the lineup?
The Gators welcomed two junior transfers 
this offseason in outfielder Jade Caraway from 
NC State and catcher Kendyl Lindaman from 
Minnesota. The additions should help replace 
two departed seniors: last year’s home-run 
leader Nicole Dewitt and catcher Janell Whea-
ton. 
Lindaman should be able to replace De-witt’s slugging ability in the lineup. The An-
keny, Iowa, native led the Big Ten last season 
in home runs with 20, which was the eighth-
highest total in the country. She also demon-
strated tremendous bat control in her last sea-
son at Minnesota by leading the conference in 
walks per game (.95, fifth-best in the country). 
That was also on display this fall when coach 
Walton said that she only swung and missed 
once since she has joined the team.
Bat control is another skill present in Cara-
way’s game. She led NC State with 25 walks, 
a valued skill for someone who might bat in 
the leadoff position. Once on base, Caraway is 
a huge threat, as she stole 13 bases and hit for 
eight doubles and two triples last season. Along with the two transfers, the Gators 
signed eight freshmen for the 2019 season. 
Third baseman Hannah Sipos has impressed 
players and coaches alike leading up to the sea-
son. Walton named Sipos as one of the most 
impressive freshmen, and Lorenz spoke glow-
ingly about her. 
“(She’s) really good. She’s, like, really, re-
ally fun to watch,” Lorenz said. “I’m so, so ex-
cited, just seeing her play every day is so fun, 
but I can’t wait to see her in the Gator uniform, 
and see her play in front of Gator Nation.”
Who is going to be rotating with Kelly 
Barnhill?
As much as the Gators will miss Dewitt and 
Wheaton, replacing the pitching of Aleshia Oc-
asio will be the biggest task for them this year. 
Kelly Barnhill is arguably one of the best 
pitchers in college softball, winning SEC Pitch-
er of the Year last year and throwing a perfect 
game against Georgia Southern last season. 
Barnhill was a stellar 29-3 last season and cur-
rently holds the lowest career ERA (.92) and 
opponent batting average (.124) in program 
history. 
And when Barnhill wasn’t in the circle, the 
Gators would turn to Ocasio, whose 23-7 re-
cord and 1.45 ERA wasn’t far off Barnhill’s. It 
gave them a tremendous one-two punch in the 
circle, which is essential for a championship-
caliber team. 
That No. 2 spot is up for grabs now between 
sophomore Natalie Lugo, junior Katie Chronis-
ter and freshmen Danni Farley and Elizabeth 
Hightower. Lugo had more appearances than 
Chronister last season, so she is presumed to 
be the second starter. 
“She’s worked really hard, (pitching coach 
Mike Bosch has) worked really hard on that… 
she’s going to get the ball a ton,” Walton said. 
bfarrell1@alligator.org
@Bfarrell727Three observations ahead of the beginning of UF’s season
Mark Stine / Alligator Staff
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium, home of the UF softball team, will finish 
construction ahead of an exhibition game against Japan on Tuesday.
GOLF
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s golf team en-
tered Tuesday leading the field in 
Jacksonville at the Sea Best Invita-
tional. It finished the day in third 
place, shooting 9-over par in the 
final round and stumbling to fin-
ish 8-over for the tournament.
Florida senior Gordon Neale 
impressed throughout the tour-
nament, finishing tied for second 
amongst the field after shooting 
68 (-2) in the final round. De-
spite Neale’s performance, Florida 
couldn’t hold on to its lead and 
start the spring season with a big 
victory at TPC Sawgrass.
“I know we all wanted to win 
today, but we’re not ready yet,” 
coach JC Deacon said in a release 
following the loss. “We’ve got to 
look closely at what held us back 
and work to get better. When this 
team starts playing its best golf, 
we are going to be really tough.”
Florida sophomore Chris Nido 
struggled in the final round, notch-ing four bogeys and two double-
bogeys on his way to a 7-over-par 
finish. The Gators remaining three 
golfers — John Axelsen, Eugene 
Hong and Manny Girona — didn’t 
provide Neale much help either, 
combining to shoot +11 on the 
day. The Gators finished behind 
fellow-Sunshine State schools 
Florida State and North Florida, 
which finished even and three 
over for the tournament, respec-
tively. 
Though the men’s team was 
disappointed to leave Jackson-
ville with a third-place finish, it 
still had a decent weekend com-
pared to the women’s team, which 
struggled in its opening tourna-
ment in Palos Verdes, California.
Florida entered the three-day 
tournament ranked No. 3, per the 
Golfstat team rankings but failed 
to compete for a top spot all week-
end, hovering in the middle of 
the pack and ultimately finishing 
13th. 
Weather played a major fac-
tor at Palos Verdes Golf Club as no team shot below par over the 
course of the event, along with no 
players shooting under par in the 
final round. 
Sophomore Addie Baggarly im-
proved from her 78 (+7) perfor-
mance on Monday to become the 
only Gator to shoot par or better 
during the whole event by shoot-
ing a 71 (E), moving up 19 spots 
on the final day. Other than Bag-
garly, UF’s struggles lasted all 
tournament, finishing 37 strokes 
back of tournament-winner Stan-
ford at 52-over.
The men’s team returns to 
action Feb. 16-17 for its annual 
Gator Invitational where it’ll host 
some of the nations top teams at 
Mark Bostick Golf Course.
The women’s team travels 
to New Orleans that weekend 
to compete in the AllState Sugar 
Bowl, where it won the team title 
last year, and junior Sierra Brooks 
coasted to an individual title. 
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgFlorida men falter in final round, women descend on leaderboard
Alligator File Photo
Gordon Neale finished the Sea Best Invitational tied for second.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS“I’m excited to be in pink,” 
Thomas said. “I’m excited because 
I know some survivors of breast 
cancer, and I know how important 
it is for them.”
The meet is particularly special 
to senior Alicia Boren, whose aunt, 
Kathy, is a breast cancer survivor. 
It’ll be her second "Link to Pink" 
meet cheering on her niece.
“She means the world to me,” 
Boren said of her aunt. “She’s so 
much fun. She came last year, and 
it was her ﬁ  rst time.”
Boren is no stranger to the 
"Link to Pink" event. She’s com-
peted in three meets, all of which 
were victories, and she had some 
words of wisdom for the freshmen 
who are wearing pink for the ﬁ  rst 
time on Friday.
“We’re just kinda telling them 
to do what they do in every oth-
er meet,” Boren said. “But take a 
chance and enjoy competing for 
someone else… take a second to 
go speak to them and thank them.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg 14Boren competed in three "Link to Pink" meets
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Senior gymnast Alicia Boren has competed in three "Link to Pink" meets during 
her time at UF. "T ake a chance and enjoy competing for someone else...take a 
second to go speak to them and thank them, " she said.
But that’s mostly not White’s fault.
Go back to last year. The Gators were supposed 
to have center John Egbunu back from injury midway 
through the season, which would have put Hayes as the 
backup. They ran a four-guard starting lineup, so there 
was no need for a true forward. 
At the time, White didn’t need to recruit any more big 
men. He already had Hayes, Gak and Stokes. He took a 
risk on both Gak and Stokes, who were coming off inju-
ries.
No one knew Gak couldn’t remain healthy and Stokes 
can’t get in game shape to play meaningful minutes.
Florida’s troubles this season were from injuries of the 
past catching up to it, not White’s lack of recruiting. 
Not to mention he has 6-foot-9 Omar Payne coming 
in next season, who will help ﬁ  ll in the role of forward/
center.
“The players not making shots falls on White.”
A coach can’t force shots to go in. All he can do is set 
his players in a position to make them, which is exactly 
what White has done this year. 
Keyontae Johnson has been open for dunks that he 
has missed. Guard Jalen Hudson gets open looks where 
his shots just aren’t falling. You can’t blame White for his 
guys not hitting a three or ﬁ  nishing at the basket.
White has gotten a team that looked like it didn’t want 
to put in any effort at the beginning of the season to play 
hard against teams like Tennessee, Kentucky and Michi-
gan State.
The Gators are taking better shots, and that’s because 
White is drawing up the plays to get them open.
“Florida is on pace to have its worst offense in 20 
years.”
That’s just not true at all. It’s actually on pace to have 
the third worst, which isn’t much better.
Look for my story on Thursday in alligatorSports ﬁ  rst 
edition of “By The Numbers,” where I use stats to answer 
a certain question about UF sports. 
First story is on this topic. Just know that it is not the 
worst UF offense in two decades. It is the worst under 
White, however.
One bad season where Florida still might make the 
NCAA Tournament doesn’t mean he should be ﬁ  red as 
its head coach.
Jake Dreilinger is the sports editor of the Alligator. Fol-
low him on Twitter @DreilingerJake and email him at 
jdreilinger@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
as many as 18 points. UF, on the other 
hand, couldn’t replicate its shooting 
success from the ﬁ  rst half, making only 
36 percent in the second. Locke failed 
to score in the second period.
The Gators cut that lead back down 
to 10, but never got within striking range in the defeat, and Auburn pulled 
away again for a 14-point victory.
AU leading scorer Bryce Brown was 
one of three Tigers players who scored 
in double digits (14 points), along with 
Samir Doughty (12) and Chuma Okeke 
(11).
UF has three days to recover from 
the road loss before facing arguably its 
toughest challenge of the season: The No. 1-ranked Tennessee Volunteers 
in Knoxville. The Gators will hope 
to avoid their third-straight loss in 
Thompson-Boling Arena on Saturday.
“Good teams execute the impor-
tant things,” White said. “This current 
Gator team doesn’t do that very well.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Bryce Brown led Auburn with 14 points