We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
What was that Wendy’s protest?
About 300 protested the fast-food chain Thursday to remove 
the restaurant from campus, pg. 10 
A little bat in a library
Library West had an unexpected vistor this past week, pg. 9Gators clash with No. 7 Mississippi State
Freshman Kendrick Calilao and the UF 
baseball team host MSU with Game 1 starting 
Friday at 6:30 p.m., pg. 14FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 68
From tents to shelters, homeless hope for a homeLIVING IN GAINESVILLE: HOMELESS (PART 1 OF 4)
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
In Dignity Village, just outside the main gate of GRACE Marketplace, Mark Venzke, 62, describes his plans to 
renovate his motorhome so he can move out of the 6-foot tent where he currently sleeps.
MORE THAN 600 
HOMELESS PEOPLE 
WERE IN ALACHUA 
COUNTY LAST YEAR
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s note: In order to 
protect sources who are victims 
of domestic violence, The Al-
ligator has changed the name 
of one of the sources to “Ellen 
Miller.” This is not her real 
name. This story is part one of 
a four-part series on housing in 
Gainesville.
Ellen Miller’s hot pink ﬁ  n-
gernails peeked out of her ﬁ  sts 
as she folded her hands togeth-
er and searched for the words 
to describe her situation. 
“I didn’t feel human,” Miller 
said.
She pursed her lips and took 
a deep breath. 
“It could be you.” 
Some students in Gainesville 
live in luxury apartments near 
UF where a one-bedroom apart-
ment commonly costs $1,700 
a month. Blocks away, people like Miller are searching for 
help with homelessness.
Across town in St. Francis 
House homeless shelter, Sa-
vannah Dickson watched her 
11-month-old daughter crawl 
from toy to toy on the dirty 
ﬂ  oor, reﬂ  ecting on some of her 
life choices. 
“I’m not surprised that I’ve 
had hardships,” Dickson said. 
“I never thought I’d be in a 
homeless shelter with a baby. 
But hardships? Yeah.”
Dickson, 30, is one of 35 
people every night who seeks 
shelter at one of two homeless 
shelters in Gainesville. 
In 2018, there were 641 
documented homeless people 
in streets and shelters in Ala-
chua County, a number that 
has been decreasing, accord-
ing to the North Central Florida 
Coalition for the Homeless and 
Hungry. 
On the other side of town 
in a makeshift city of tents, 
Mark Venzke sat shirtless in his 
wheelchair hanging pants on a 
clothesline outside of his 1980s 
Chevy motorhome. 
HE IS BEING PAID $95,000 TO 
SPEAK
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
A shark is coming to the Swamp in two 
weeks. 
Kevin O’Leary from ABC’s Shark Tank 
will be the next speaker in the Accent Speak-
ers Bureau series at 8 p.m. March 25 at the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, said 
Gregory Wolf, chairman of Accent. He will 
be paid $95,000 for the talk, according to a 
contract between O’Leary’s talent agency, 
Greater Talent Network, LLC and Accent. 
O’Leary will deliver a keynote presenta-
tion for about 50 minutes and then answer 
questions from the audience for 15 minutes. 
Wolf said his team did not pick the lecture 
topic but gave O’Leary general topics to cov-
er including his experiences on Shark Tank and how to be smart with 
money as a college stu-
dent. 
Wolf said 1,800 tickets 
will be available March 
21 and March 22 from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. and March 
25 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in 
the third-ﬂ  oor Student 
Government suite in the 
Reitz Union. The tickets are free with a val-
id Gator 1 Card. Unclaimed tickets will be 
made available to the public for pickup at 
the Phillips Center, Wolf said. 
O’Leary’s talk isn’t just for business stu-
dents, Wolf said. 
“The concepts of Shark Tank aren’t just 
for people who are ﬁ  nancially thinking. 
There’s an entertainment factor,” he said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgBy Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Miley Cyrus’ younger sister, Noah Cyrus, 
has been chosen as the artist for this year’s 
Big Orange Festival. 
The singer will perform March 22 on 
the Reitz Union North Lawn for the event, 
which is free for students, said Janzen Rich, 
vice president of external affairs for the Re-
itz Programming Board. The event is fund-
ed by student activity fees. 
Doors will open at 6:30 p.m., and Cyrus 
is expected to perform an hour-long set at 
about 8:30 p.m. Ocean Park Standoff will be 
opening for Cyrus, and the event will also 
include rides and art installations. 
This will be the ﬁ  rst time the event is 
held outside to encompass the feel of a mu-
sic festival, Rich said. Although the event 
usually also hosts a comedian, new costs 
from holding it outside, like stage setup, meant cutting part of the 
program.
“It’s been really excit-
ing for us to kind of jump 
into this new kind of chal-
lenge,” he said. 
Megan Pitt, a 21-year-
old UF economics and 
political science junior, 
heard about the event through friends in-
terested in it on Facebook, she said. 
She wants to see Noah Cyrus not be-
cause she listens to a lot of her music but 
because of her recent relevance in pop cul-
ture, she said. 
“Her relevance is interesting, especially 
with the Jonas Brothers making a come-
back, now it’s all these names coming up in 
pop culture,” she said. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgShark Tank’s Kevin O’Leary 
is the next Accent speakerPop singer Noah Cyrus to 
perform at UF this month
Cyrus
O’Leary
SEE HOMELESSNESS,  PAGE 8
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
Gainesville Early Voting
When: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday 
and Saturday
Where: Millhopper Library, 
at 3145 NW 43rd St.; Senior 
Recreation Center, at 5701 
NW 34th Blvd.; Supervisor of 
Elections Office, at 515 N. Main 
St.; Reitz Union, at 655 Museum 
Road; Martin Luther King Jr. 
Center, at 1028 NE 14th St.
What: Voting for the Gainesville 
mayor and the District 4 City 
Commission seat.“From Colored to Black”
When: 2-7:30 p.m. Saturday 
Where: Squitieri Studio Theatre, 
at 3201 Hull Road 
What: “From Colored to Black” 
encompasses more than 80 
years of Florida’s black oral his-
tory. Get tickets at eventbrite.
ca/e/from-colored-to-black-tick-
ets-57446608352 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  61°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.   Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Hope Hathcock
Lourdes Hernandez, Ashlyn JonesMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 68FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Mindfulness 
and social 
change
An all-day event April 1 at the  
J. Wayne Reitz Union.
A whole day event with parallel sessions 
focused on the intersection of mindful-
ness and social change: Keynote talks; 
panel discussion; mindfulness medita -
tion, yoga and compassion practices; 
and various topical talks. The event is 
open to UF students, faculty and staff, 
as well as the public community.
Details of the program are available at:  
mindfulness.ufl.edu/index.php/events. 
No pre-registration is required for the 
UF Mindfulness Day, donations are gra -
ciously accepted: mindfulness.ufl.edu.Friday, March 15, 2019
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSDig into geology and discover the Earth 
at your feet during this fun-for-all-ages 
geology event!
UF’s department of geological sciences and 
the Gainesville Gem and Mineral Society have 
partnered together to present a fun event for all 
ages. Enjoy hands-on activities, watch demon-28 programs are now ranked among the  
nation’s top 30.
The University of Florida continues its upward 
momentum with a 40 percent increase in the 
number of graduate programs now ranked 
among the top 30 nationwide, according to the 
2020 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate 
Schools rankings, released March 12.
UF now has 28 programs nationally ranked in 
the top 30 in their disciplines, up from 20 two 
years ago. Of note, this includes seven programs 
ranked in the top 10, and 17 in the top 20.
“The rise in rankings across such a broad array of 
graduate and professional programs is remark -
able and reflects the combined efforts of UF fac -
ulty, chairs, deans, and the generous Gator com-
munity that supports their work,” UF Provost 
Joe Glover said. “Their work and UF’s recent 
investment into hiring an additional 500 faculty 
members have contributed substantially to the 
momentum of the entire institution.”
Nearly all graduate programs at the state of Flor-
ida’s flagship university garnered improved aca-
strations of volcanic eruptions and experience an 
augmented reality sandbox, fossil dig and more! 
Please join us 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on March 16 at 
the Florida Museum of Natural History. While 
the event activities are free, there is an admission 
charge for the “Permian Monsters” and “Butterfly 
Rainforest” exhibits. For more information, visit:  
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/can-you-dig-it.demic reputation scores. UF officials cite state 
investments including Preeminence funding 
and the Faculty 500 initiative in expanding our already strong nationally and internationally rec -
ognized faculty. To r ead the story and learn more 
about these programs, visit www.news.ufl.edu.
Can you dig it?UF achieves sweeping gains in U.S. News  
& World Report graduate rankingsFrom  
segregation  
to Black Lives 
Matter
Enjoy a symposium and celebra-
tion of the opening of the Joel  
Buchanan Archive of African 
American Oral History at the 
University of Florida.
Named in honor of a beloved civil 
rights activist, historian and librarian in 
Gainesville, this three-day symposium 
marks the 10th anniversary of the Af -
rican American History Project at the 
Samuel proctor Oral History Program. 
Please join us from March 21 – 23 in 
Smathers Library East, Room 100 . 
The event is all day and will feature 
panels, films, exhibits, performances, 
book signings and lectures on different 
facets of Black history.
The University of Florida is in the pro -
cess of assessing opportunities to enhance 
the on-campus dining experience.
One of the key components of this undertaking 
is to learn about your use of UF’s on-campus 
dining facilities — or reasons for not using 
these facilities — to better meet your needs and 
those of future members of the Gator Nation.
In the next  few weeks, a survey will be distrib -
uted via email to the current University popu -
lation. We would appreciate if all UF students, 
faculty and staff could take approximately 15 
minutes to participate. As a token of our grat -
itude for your time, we will select random participants to receive either $50 or $100 gift 
cards to the UF Bookstore. Please be sure to 
check your UF email.
We ask you to share this information, and  
we greatly appreciate  
your taking  
the time to  
participate  
in this  
important  
endeavor  
for the UF  
community.The future of campus diningSee the fun side of science this 
Friday at the one-and-only  
amphi-tastic Soap Bubble Circus.
Every  Friday evening, hundreds of 
UF students get together for a night 
of movies, games, activities and free 
food at GatorNights in the Reitz 
Union, and this week is all about weird 
science! Have fun with members of 
Women’s Student Association as you 
learn about Women in Science, in -
vent your own zine vision board and 
test your knowledge in trivia. Evaluate 
states of matter and diffusion with tie-
dye socks and test tube aromatherapy, 
or get crafty and synthesize your own 
DNA bracelet. The event is open to UF 
students with their Gator1 Card from 
8:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Attendees must 
be current students to participate and 
are allowed to bring a maximum of one 
guest to the event.GatorNights: 
Weird  
Science
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019HE WILL ALSO BE CHARGED 
WITH ATTEMPTED MURDER
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was accused Thursday of killing a 
man behind the Eighth Ave Food Store last 
week.
Gainesville Police arrested James Eugene 
Boykins, 20, on a warrent for the alleged mur-
der of Montez Davis and attempted murder 
of another woman, according to a Gainesville 
Police press release.
Members of the U.S. Marshals Fugitive 
Task Force assisted Gainesville Police in find-
ing Boykins and arresting him, the release 
said.
On March 9 at 12:12 a.m., Gainesville Po-
lice responded to a man being shot behind  the Eighth Ave Food Store, at 1634 NE Eighth 
Ave., according to a police Facebook post. 
They found Montez Davis shot to death and a 
woman who had been shot. She was rushed 
to the hospital and is in stable condition.
Witnesses said there was an argument be-
fore the shooting, the post said.
Boykins is being charged with possession 
of a firearm by a convicted felon, murder and 
attempted murder, the release said. 
He has been transported to the Alach-
ua County Jail and will be assigned a bail 
amount this morning. 
Police are asking for anybody who knows 
of evidence for the case to contact Alachua 
County Crime Stoppers at 352-372-STOP or 
Detective J. Castor at 352-393-7681 or 352-
872-2101.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgGPD: Man accused of killing 
man in shooting last week
AT LEAST $15,000 HAS BEEN 
SPENT SO FAR
By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
Library West will have new faculty offic-
es, a new conference room, cafe upgrades 
and new furniture by June.
The library started its renovations of the 
first, second and third floors in March and 
will be finishing in about three months, 
said Patrick Reakes, senior associate dean 
of George A. Smathers Libraries. 
These are the first major renovations 
since 2005 when the seating section facing 
University Avenue was added, Reakes said.
“This building has over a million people 
a year in it,” he said. “It just gets to the 
point where you have to refresh it.” 
The total cost of the project has not yet been determined, but at least $15,000 has 
been spent so far, Reakes said. The project 
is being financed with standard library op-
erating funds that are set aside for building 
refreshment projects.
Flooring, lighting and countertops will 
also be upgraded, Reakes said. 
One of the goals of the renovation is to 
allow students to have more access to out-
lets for their devices, Reakes said. 
“Students always are asking for more 
outlets, so that’s one of the main driving 
forces behind this renovation,” Reakes said.
Katie Foss, a 21-year-old UF biology ju-
nior, comes to Library West at least four 
times a week to study for exams and do 
homework. She is excited for the new seat-
ing in the library. 
“Every time I come here I’m just walking 
around for at least 15 minutes trying to find 
somewhere to sit,” Foss said. Library West to receive 
renovations on three floorsBy Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Almost 50 years after UF’s first 
female Student Body president, the 
top Senate positions are filled by 
women.
UF’s first female Student Body 
president was Allison Miller in 1973.
Her path to presidency was com-
plicated: The president and vice 
president both resigned. Miller only 
held the position for a month before 
a run-off was held. 
In 1962, Joan Gilliatt, then-SG 
women’s affairs secretary, said there 
were too few women in SG politics. 
Gilliatt wanted to see intelligent, 
hard-working girls with the right at-
titude in all areas of SG. 
Libby Shaw and Emily Dunson, 
both from Impact Party, are the first 
female Senate leadership duo since  
Fall 2015. Ashley Grabowski and 
Zarella Berrocal are the first female 
Inspire caucus minority party leader-
ship team, Grabowski said. A caucus 
is a group of people with similar val-
ues or identities.
Even in highly sought-after roles, 
the women still experienced discrim-
ination and self-doubt.
Not a time to quit; a time for 
change 
Ashley Grabowski slept about 
three hours each night during the UF 
SG election season. 
The sleep pattern started during 
Spring 2018 when Inspire Party ran 
its first executive ticket campaign. 
Grabowski, a 22-year-old UF mass 
communication master’s student, 
was in charge of marketing and cam-
paign strategy. 
Grabowski appreciated the chal-
lenge of running the party’s social 
media campaign in conjunction with 
her heavy course load and jobs. She 
stayed up to teach herself Adobe Il-
lustrator through Lynda.com videos 
and to learn the exact dimensions to 
print a banner at Target Copy. 
As Grabowski crafted content to increase the 
party’s social 
media following 
and balanced her 
commitments to 
various organiza-
tions, a reputation 
began to trail her. 
Some thought she 
was too aggressive or spoke out too 
much. 
When Grabowski found out 
about what some thought of her 
or called her behind her back, she 
questioned her decisions and feared 
speaking out. 
Grabowski thought her hours of 
work proved she was worth her salt. 
She said her experience isn’t unique 
to her. 
“By the time a woman rises to 
leadership in Student Government, 
they are so exceptional that no one 
can even dare to remark against it,” 
Grabowski said.
Grabowski’s personal experienc-
es with sexism have formed an inte-
gral part of her leadership style. She 
was the Inspire Party president and 
is now the Senate minority leader. 
“We need to make sure that 
women in leadership isn’t just a sea-
sonal thing whenever it’s popular, 
but that it’s a part of our culture,” 
Grabowski said. 
A room full of strong women 
can accomplish anything
Libby Shaw thinks about the 
1-in-4 every day. 
The 1-in-4 women who will ex-
perience sexual assault while attend-
ing university. 
The Summer after her freshman 
year, Shaw co-founded Sister Sup-
port Ambassadors, a Panhellenic 
program that creates a dialogue 
about sexual assault and resources. 
“I know dozens of women who 
have been sexually assaulted in col-
lege, and that’s kind of where my 
passion came from,” Shaw said.
Because of this involvement, 
Shaw said she’s had women come to her for advice on resources af-
ter being assaulted. Each story is 
heart-wrenching to Shaw, not only 
because of the depth of each individ-
ual, but the amount of these stories 
she’s heard at UF. 
SG was another platform where 
Shaw, a 21-year-old UF public re-
lations junior, saw she could be a 
voice for women. 
She became a sophomore senator 
in Spring 2017 and has since repre-
sented the College of Journalism and 
Communications. She has been the 
Senate Judiciary Committee chair, 
the Senate Pro Tempore and now 
the Senate President.
Last summer, Shaw founded the 
women’s caucus in Senate. 
Part of the inspiration stemmed 
from when she counted the men and 
women in the Senate and found the 
male-to-female ratio was not equal 
nor representative of UF’s popula-
tion. About half of those elected to 
Senate this semester were women. 
The caucus allows women from 
both sides of the aisle to collabo-
rate on legislation and to learn more 
about each other. The caucus is 
working on resoluions to commem-
orate Women’s History Month and 
address issues of sexual assault. 
Now as the head of the Senate, 
Shaw said she hopes to show wom-
en who are in their first year of Sen-
ate who they can become. 
“One of the most important 
things to make sure is that the peo-
ple after you are equipped and ready 
and have the knowledge to do your 
job better than you did it,” she said. 
Standing for those who can’t
Zarella Berrocal was told by close friends and strang-
ers alike that she 
only got into UF 
because she was a 
first-generation, His-
panic woman. 
At first, the 
20-year-old said she 
didn’t feel worthy, 
but now the comments have em-
powered her growth.  
Berrocal said there aren’t many 
female leaders in her native country 
of Peru. 
“I grew up in a family where gen-
der roles are a very set point. You 
don’t really see women doing things 
that men would do, and it made me 
really angry that it wasn’t happen-
ing,” Berrocal said. 
This is part of the reason why 
she chose to major in political sci-
ence and biomedical engineering, 
and why she ran for Senate in the 
first place. 
When Berrocal didn’t see herself 
represented in UF SG, she decided to 
run her sophomore Fall. 
“First-generation students often-
times don’t stand up for themselves 
… because they’re scared of doing 
certain things because they don’t 
know about it,” Berrocal said. 
She’s been a District D senator 
since Fall 2017 and now serves as 
the deputy minority party leader 
for the Inspire caucus. Within SG, 
Berrocal feels the need to stand out 
more because she is a woman. 
“If we were in the Senate, and 
there’s only men standing for a ques-
tion period, then that inequality will 
make me want to stand up to repre-
sent women that aren’t standing up 
for themselves,” Berrocal said. 
Making women feel known
Emily Dunson has a recurring vi-
sion for the future. 
She sees herself sitting on a roof 
with a woman many years into the 
future. They look out over a city and 
talk about a utopia where women 
are free from expectation. This is the catalyst before a big 
change with Dunson at the helm. 
The details may be shaky now, 
but Senate Pro Tempore Dunson 
already has the leadership style to 
make this change happen.
“Women have the power to 
change people’s lives not only 
through authority and not only 
through skill, but also just through 
the depth in which women have to 
make people feel known,” she said. 
Dunson, a 21-year-old UF pub-
lic relations junior, gets her love for 
mentorship from three generations 
of women in her life, her mom, her 
grandmother and her great-grand-
mother, whom she called “Gaga.”
“Gaga” or Myrtice Stolz, was a 
student at Florida State University, 
an all-women college at the time, 
while her boyfriend played football 
at UF, then a men-only university, in 
the 1930s. Myrtice and the other FSU 
girlfriends sat in a special section for 
Saturday games in the Swamp. 
Myrtice’s daughter and Dunson’s 
grandmother, Ann, was another 
source of inspiration. As a school 
teacher in Polk County, Ann no-
ticed the children of migrant work-
ers lacked basic academic resources. 
She started Cereal Saturdays where 
children would get a healthy break-
fast and receive academic tutoring.
Dunson’s strength in developing 
personal relationships was well used 
during her three terms as Budget and 
Appropriations Committee chair.
She said she enjoyed sitting down 
with hundreds of student leaders 
and seeing how they were passion-
ate about the university and creating 
programming to serve UF’s students. 
Dunson enjoys hearing other peo-
ple out, but said she should not be 
mistaken for a pushover.
“I think just because you listen to 
people doesn’t mean that you don’t 
have your own voice in your own 
thoughts,” Dunson said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgMeet the women of UF Student Government Senate  
Dunson
 Berrocal
 Grabowski
 Shaw
FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student ID
THE DISEASE IS ASSOCIATED 
WITH AN AVERAGE OF 25,000 
ANNUAL DEATHS WORLDWIDE.
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Contributing Writer
A potentially life-threatening disease may no 
longer be a risk in the Galapagos Islands thanks 
to UF researchers.
A new study, led by UF medical geographer 
Sadie J. Ryan, examined how humans respond 
to their environment in the Galapagos.
These factors lead to mosquito presence in 
the area and dengue fever, a disease from mos-
quito bites that causes high fevers, rashes, liver 
failure and potentially death, Ryan said.
The study, which started in 2014 and was 
published online Feb. 26 in the Multidisci-
plinary Digital Publishing Institute’s website, 
is the ﬁ  rst of its kind to be conducted in the 
Galapagos and was funded by a grant from the 
University of Ecuador for $5,000, Ryan said. 
“When we think of Galapagos, we think of 
wildlife and we think of tourism,” Ryan said. 
“But we should also be thinking about people 
and disease.”
The results showed water storage is one of 
the biggest risk factors. With little fresh water 
available, residents store water in containers, 
which attracts mosquitoes to breed, Ryan said. The study also found that people traveling 
were bringing the disease back to their local 
communities, Ryan said.
People who were aware of and took preven-
tative measures like using chemicals to treat 
their water, installing mosquito netting in their 
house and closing their doors and windows 
were less likely to contract the virus, Ryan said.
Mosquitos pose a large threat to the 30,000 
people who live in the Galapagos because they 
carry diseases like dengue and Zika, Ryan said.
Dengue is found throughout South America, 
Ryan said. Cases in the Galapagos Islands start-
ed appearing in the early 2000s and an average 
of 25,000 deaths occur worldwide each year.
The study started in 2014 and took place 
on the two most populated islands, Santa Cruz 
Island and San Cristobal Island, where 100 
households were surveyed, Ryan said. 
The data pointed to a lack of government 
funding to create a healthy city, Ryan said.
Ana Stewart, the director of the Latin Ameri-
can and Caribbean research program within the 
Institute for Global Health and Translational 
Science, helped conduct the household surveys.
She said she hopes the study will raise 
awareness about mosquito-borne diseases that 
threaten residents and tourists in the Galapagos.
“Most of the focus has been on the wildlife 
without taking into consideration the health 
needs of people who are living on the island,” 
Stewart said. “We need better solutions.”UF study shows how to prevent 
deadly dengue disease in GalapagosBy Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Amber Galloway Gallego 
has found a way to help people 
see music through American 
Sign Language. 
She will be the ﬁ  rst celeb-
rity American Sign Language interpreter to perform songs dur-
ing Deaf Awareness Week from 
March 19 and run until March 23.
Nathanael Herbert, a 34-year-
old hard of hearing advocate, has 
worked with local organizations, 
like the Florida Association of the 
Deaf, to organize the week to ad-
vocate for deaf and hard of hear-ing resources since 2011.
Galloway Gallego will per-
form on the ﬁ  nal day at Santa 
Fe College. The week’s events, 
which will take place throughout 
Gainesville, include a story time 
for deaf children and American 
Sign Language lessons. 
Herbert expects 300 to 400 people to come throughout the 
week. 
Herbert and Galloway Gal-
lego, 42, from Houston, are 
longtime friends, he said. She is 
known for her style of signing 
musical rythmns and lyrics and 
has performed with musicians 
such as Chance the Rapper and 
Wiz Khalifa. 
Although she is not hard of 
hearing herself, she said she has always been involved in the com-
munity.  
Galloway Gallego hopes to 
see more people working on their 
own interpretations. 
“I’m asked to interpret songs 
all the time because deaf people 
want access, and they want it in 
sign language,” she said. 
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgCelebrity interpreter to come to Gainesville for Deaf Awareness Week
Gallego
Amber Galloway Gallego will be interpreting popular music
ONE MAN IMPLIED WHO ELSE 
WAS INVOLVED
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested three men 
in connection with a string of car 
robberies that occurred across 
Gainesville.
At least three cars were stolen 
and at least two were burglarized 
in the Blues Creek and Westches-
ter neighborhoods, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report. One 
suspect was found with three sets of 
car keys on him at the time of arrest.
On March 6, police arrested Aja-
vior Young, 18, during a car theft in-
vestigation. During an interview, he 
told police that Henry Scott, 18, and 
Tuyen Baker, 18, were also involved 
in the robberies, according to mul-
tiple arrest reports. All of the men 
are from Gainesville.
Scott was arrested two days later 
and told police he and the men were 
responsible for the burglaries, the 
report said.
On the same day, Baker told po-
lice he was involved in the robbery spree, according to a report. 
Young was also arrested in connection 
to ﬁ  ve other car incidents. The vehicle 
burglary spree began Feb. 10. Young was 
found in possession of three sets of car keys 
at the time of arrest, a report said. 
On Feb. 10, two residents reported their 
cars had been broken into. After 
he was read his Miranda rights, 
Young confessed to his involve-
ment with the burglaries. 
Young was charged with three 
counts of burglary, one count of 
grand theft, four counts of grand 
theft auto, one count of resisting 
arrest and one count of driving 
without a valid license. He re-
mains in the Alachua County Jail 
in lieu of a $33,000 bond.
Scott was charged with three 
counts of burglary, one count 
grand theft auto and one count 
of grand theft. He remains in the 
Alachua County Jail with a bond 
of $50,000.
Baker was charged with two 
counts of burglary to unoccupied 
conveyance. He was released on 
his own recognizance Monday. 
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgMen arrested in auto theft string
Scott
Baker
Young
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsYou’ve just started your car. Your gas tank is full, and your 
mind is refreshed. Spring Break is officially over, and it’s time 
to head back to reality. You mentally prepare yourself for the 
drive back to Gainesville. You’ve spent the past week relax-
ing, without a care in the world. Deadlines were pushed to the 
back of your mind, and anything that remotely reminded you 
of school was quickly brushed aside. 
Now, however, you have a few hours of just you, the road 
and a few hundred billboards to keep you company. You de-
cided to wait until Sunday to make your way back to school, 
having already grappled with the pros and cons of a ridicu-
lous amount of traffic. Ultimately, the possibility to squeeze as 
much vacation out of Spring Break was too good to pass up, 
so a leisurely Sunday drive was the move. Except there is no 
such thing as a leisurely drive on I-75. It’s more like an “Oh, 
my god, I can’t believe these people have a license. I may die 
today,” kind of drive.
While gripping your steering wheel for dear life, you make 
your way onto the highway. To keep yourself entertained, you 
notice some new billboards on the way back to Gainesville. 
There’s the usual crop of billboards promising beautiful beach 
vacations and advertisements for the best oranges of your life, 
but there’s one that sticks in your mind. It’s simple, yet so 
important. It marks the true return to Gainesville: 
Darts & Laurels
To start out with some spicy college news, a scandal 
involving 50 people has resulted in federal charges 
of fraud for allegedly bribing officials to get their 
kids into certain colleges. Those accused of involve-
ment include more than 30 wealthy parents, some 
of the most notable actresses being Felicity Huffman and 
Lori Loughlin, a few coaches and the scandal’s ringleader, 
businessman William Singer. A dart goes out to all of the 
parents and college officials involved in the unfair college 
admittance of these students. It’s a clear reminder of the 
educational divide between classes, where those without 
proper qualifications can buy their way into college, while 
others who are qualified are denied admittance. 
In Florida news, a bill was passed on Wednesday, with 
the support of Gov. Ron DeSantis, which calls for the repeal 
of the state’s ban on smokable medical marijuana. A laurel  
goes to Florida’s government for easily passing the bill, 101-
11. This essentially enforces the will of Florida’s residents 
who had previously voted to allow for the legalization of 
smokable medical marijuana. However, there are stipula-
tions to the bill, such as the statement that only terminally 
ill minors can smoke and will need to have prescriptions 
from their physician and pediatrician.
In an arguably surprising decision by the Republican-run 
Senate, President Donald Trump’s declaration of a national 
emergency was rejected. A laurel goes to Congress for ve-
toing a declaration that overstepped its bounds because the 
money Trump is asking for was already rejected by both the 
Senate and the House. Congress serves as a check on the 
president and for good reason. If Congress were to approve 
the declaration of a national emergency, it would have al-
lowed for the redirection of $3.6 billion. However, this re-
jection by Congress makes it possible for Trump to use the 
first veto of his presidency, which is very likely. If Trump 
were to veto Congress, it would be the first time in history 
a president would spend money Congress had previously 
refused the allocation of.Boot the braids: Wendy’s protests take place on campus
“We know that freedom has many 
dimensions. It is the right of the 
man who tills the land to own 
the land; the right of the work-
ers to join together to seek bet-
ter conditions of labor…” These words, spoken 
by Robert F. Kennedy at the 1962 World’s Fair 
in Seattle, the same year Cesar Chavez founded 
the National Farm Workers Association, echo 
today, leaving reverberations across the United 
States. Cesar Chavez, who had been protesting 
for better living conditions for migrant workers 
in California, encouraged his fellow Americans to boycott 
the grape industry that underpaid and abused its workers. 
Even in 2019, and on the liberal campus of UF, we 
continue to see human rights abuses. Students have begun 
to boycott the burger chain Wendy’s due to its refusal to 
join the Fair Food Program. Wendy’s, which is a popular 
fast food chain with a location in the Reitz Union, is not 
a member of the Fair Food Program, which ensures better 
wages and conditions for agricultural workers in the fast 
food and supermarket industry. According to a flyer for 
the recent march in support of Wendy’s workers, agricul-
ture suppliers for fast food chains that are not a part of 
the Fair Food Program, such as Wendy’s, endure sexual 
abuse, forced labor and child labor. According to a study 
done by the University of California - Santa Cruz, roughly 
80 percent of female farm workers in California’s Central 
Valley endure sexual harassment or abuse during their 
time at work. These conditions are eerily similar to those 
that migrant workers from the Central Valley of California, 
where Cesar Chavez worked and protested, endured. 
Wendy’s is the last major fast food corporation to have 
not joined the Fair Food Program. Aside from merely re-
fusing to join, Wendy’s is consciously avoiding increased 
rights for its agricultural workers. When the Fair Food Program was enacted in Florida, Wendy’s be-
gan harvesting its tomatoes from Mexico in-
stead, where there aren’t the same protections 
for workers. In doing so, Wendy’s managed to 
maintain its competitively low prices, including 
its “4 for $4” deal, hence the march’s title “4 for 
Fair Food Tour.”
The 4 for Fair Food Tour came to UF March 
14 to support the Coalition of Immokalee Work-
ers, Chispas UF and Boot the Braids UF. These 
groups are fighting for expanded rights for Wen-
dy’s farm workers and have demanded that UF 
“boot the braids,” meaning UF ban Wendy’s from campus 
until it vows to join the Fair Food Program. The Gainesville 
City Commission recently passed a resolution encouraging 
UF to sever ties with the fast food chain. UF has not yet 
responded to this call to action; hopefully, Wendy’s will 
soon no longer be on campus. 
Despite Wendy’s delicious Frostys and burgers, noth-
ing can justify human rights violations. The university 
would be wise to divest itself of any corporations that 
deny human rights, and Wendy’s is just the tip of the ice-
berg. This must end. Write letters to UF administrators 
and sign petitions demanding they sever ties with abusive 
corporations.
More than five decades after Chavez demanded an 
expansion of workers’ rights, we continue to see human 
rights violations, even on campuses that we believe to be 
safe bubbles. Kennedy was right when he said workers 
had the right to join together to see better conditions for 
labor, and so do we, as students and humans. It’s time 
Wendy’s promised its farm workers livable conditions. 
We can be a part of the solution. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. Her 
column normally appears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
I have heard every version 
of students wishing Spring 
Break hadn’t ended. From, 
“I’d love it if the semester 
ended already,” and “Why 
did it have to end early?” to 
even the dramatic “God, I’m 
dropping out. I swear.”
I can understand the desire 
to not feel stressed every mo-
ment of the day. But I wonder 
why people get so ﬁ  xated on those small 
breaks — weekends, weeks or semesters 
off — when they know those are guaran-
teed. Procrastination leads to having every-
thing pile up before the weekend, or even 
letting things pile up into the weekend. 
That buildup of work can create anxiety in 
any action you take that doesn’t immediate-
ly address it. Twitter doesn’t have a meme 
about young adults looking like they have 
an existential crisis at a party or students on 
their laptops at concerts for no reason.
Breaks are a moment to recharge and 
not have any immediate deadlines hanging 
over your head. Even the weekend can be 
a time for you to take part in your #selfcare 
routine, to clean up any mess in your home 
and to get reorganized. But we don’t seem 
to prepare ourselves for taking advantage 
of our destressing by loading up on more 
stress. Often I’ve told myself that my home-
work can wait for another hour. It piles up 
until the anxiety attack palpitates in my 
chest, and this happens way too often for 
good health. I know I can ﬁ  nish whatever 
assignment I get from my professors rela-
tively easily, I just can’t ﬁ  nd the motivation 
to tackle that work right away.
Tim Urban, a writer and renowned TED 
speaker, has a perfectly succinct TED talk 
titled, “Inside the mind of a master pro-
crastinator.” In it, Urban tells the comedic 
tale of our thought processes being dis-
tracted by a monkey, always tempting us 
with immediate rewards rather than wait-
ing for longer-term rewards. So the clubs in 
Midtown, the spontaneous road trip your friends have organized or even 
the guilty memory of you skip-
ping out on the gym yesterday 
are all triggers that can pull you 
from chipping away at your 
mountains of work, obligations 
and duties.
Procrastination is something 
I am intimately aware of. My 
senior year of high school was 
a train wreck of consistently 
avoiding all work and minimizing any 
interaction with school and paperwork. 
“Senioritis” had settled in from the start. I 
found it incredibly humbling to come to UF 
and realize my habits had to change or else 
I would be in a world of missed opportu-
nities. Even now on campus, I struggle to 
keep aﬂ  oat with my classwork and seize 
the chances to work with incredible student 
organizations and programs. I can’t justify 
much external activity without it taking 
time and energy from my studies, and in 
a world where people are questioning the 
merits of a college education, I would still 
rather get my time in the classroom done 
before dedicating so much time to seeking 
work.
The dilemma of how we should spend 
our time will always bring about some 
amount of anxiety over whether we are 
accomplishing all we could with our time. 
The world values our productivity, but we 
can’t always judge ourselves when we take 
time to relax and unwind. “Hustling” and 
“grinding” are both great pastimes for those 
who love a challenge and wish to succeed, 
but they are not the deﬁ  nition of a success-
ful person. The deﬁ  nitions that can stress 
us outside of our obligations are ours to 
conquer. You should probably stress about 
getting your homework turned in early, but 
don’t overstress yourself if you still haven’t 
achieved what might’ve taken masters 
years to practice.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism soph-
omore. His column appears on Fridays.Things got a little spicy in Sen-
ate last Tuesday, and there’s 
plenty of tea to share.
Student Government has 
several committees that each 
have a specialized focus, such as 
creating the budget or looking over 
legislation. A lot of the important 
stuff that actually affects students 
happens in our committees. This 
past meeting, we were to approve 
the chairs for these committees.
Fun fact: typically the people who are select-
ed for committee chair positions (as well as Sen-
ate President and Pro Tempore) are the people 
who have donated noticeably more money to 
the majority party’s Spring election campaign. 
Now that’s straight up correlation without cau-
sation but it can’t help but make you wonder if 
these people know that they’ll be in leadership 
positions ahead of time.
Chair positions are normally uncontested, 
but this past week, one wasn’t. The minority 
party had an extremely qualiﬁ  ed individual go 
for it.
The position at stake is the chair of the In-
formation and Communications Committee, 
and this individual had already acquired her 
bachelor’s degree in public relations and was 
pursuing her master’s degree in mass communi-
cations. She also had experience with the Public 
Relations Student Society of America and The 
Agency and has completed at least three other 
public relations internships. Finally, she was a 
former senator who had served on the Informa-
tion and Communications Committee. We had 
the perfect candidate.
The current chair, Meryl Jones, just hasn’t 
been doing a very good job sharing information 
about Senate to our constituents. We calculated 
she posted on the Facebook page less than once 
per week on average and noted there had been 
numerous errors in the information in her posts. 
I emailed her in January asking about progress 
on live-streaming Senate, and she never re-
sponded. This ain’t it, chief.
So of course when faced with a qualiﬁ  ed can-
didate and a lackluster candidate, our Replace-
ment and Agenda Committee, which is domi-
nated by the majority party, picked the inferior 
of the two options. Thus, the minority party decided to object to the decision in 
the Senate with hopes the committee 
would reconsider.
This, however, didn’t happen and 
things went downhill from there. De-
liberation works as follows: There’s 
a presentation, then Q&A and then 
pro-con debate. Jones ran out of 
time while giving her presentation 
and used the ﬁ  rst question in Q&A to 
burn through almost all of the allot-
ted questioning time by continuing 
her presentation. She plugged her laptop back in 
and continued with her slides.
The pro-con debate wasn’t anything to be 
proud of. The minority party brought up our 
concerns (some of which I mentioned above), 
but when it came to defending their own can-
didate, not many folks stood up to speak for 
Jones. The few they did offer were nonspeciﬁ  c 
defenses of their candidate such as seeing them 
working hard. Ain’t that rare?
My favorite line of the night came from Jones 
in response to a concern about why she never 
issued any press releases (which she was sup-
posed to do, but didn’t): “I didn’t feel there were 
anything—anything that the Senate did, um, last 
Fall was noteworthy.”
Are you really going to diss your own party? 
Maybe she has a point, but never have I seen 
a senator from the majority party call out their 
own inefﬁ  ciency like that. Worse, let’s not for-
get the Fall Senate president is now the Student 
Body president-elect; what does that say about 
the way he ran the Senate if people running for 
leadership now are trashing the Senate he led?
When she addressed my concern that she 
hadn’t responded to my email, Jones berated 
the senators from the minority party for not 
reaching out to her in person (emphasizing “in 
person” three times) as if that was some sort of 
excuse that makes up for not be able to respond 
to emails.
When it comes to our Senate leadership, we 
need our senators to stand up when they know 
something wrong is going on. We need them to 
stand up for the students they represent.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science ju-
nior and Murphree Area senator. His column ap-
pears on Fridays.Take a moment to ﬂ  ip your thinking: 
Breaks are for getting on track SG needs to start standing up for its students Column Column
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgSixty-one years ago, an Air Force vet-
eran named George Starke Jr. became 
the ﬁ  rst African American student to 
attend UF when he enrolled in our 
law school.
Starke, who went on to a successful ca-
reer in business, never graduated. In an in-
terview he gave for UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral 
History Program, he explained that the pres-
sure he felt to live up to being a historic ﬁ  g-
ure, rather than simply another law student, 
became overwhelming.
“You must do well, and you push yourself 
harder than anybody else has to,” he said. “I 
was not a public ﬁ  gure and had no aspira-
tions in that regard.”
History can be remote and inaccessible, 
but it can also be personal and surprising. 
History can make our hearts race. It can 
make us cringe or cry or cheer.
We get to celebrate this kind of history 
this month with a symposium as well as a 
new dramatic production surrounding the 
oral histories of African American Floridians.
Starting next Thursday, “From Segrega-
tion to Black Lives Matter” will bring together 
historians, scholars, students and Gainesville 
community members for three days of dis-
cussion surrounding the ofﬁ  cial opening of a remarkable UF resource: the Joel 
Buchanan African American Oral 
History Archive.
This archive, part of the Sam-
uel Proctor Oral History Program, 
consists of more than 600 oral his-
tories given by black Floridians 
about lives spanning most of the 
20th century. The interviews were 
conducted by UF students, faculty 
and volunteers.
Named in honor of Joel Buchanan, a local 
educator who conducted many interviews 
with Gainesville residents, the archive in-
cludes the histories of  people active in civil 
rights, those with family stories passed down 
directly from slavery, descendants of the sur-
vivors of the Second Seminole War, the ﬁ  rst 
black students at UF and many others, said 
Paul Ortiz, director of the Proctor program 
and a UF history professor.
Spanning all of Florida and extending to 
interviews with civil rights activists in the 
Mississippi Delta, it is one of the largest 
regional collections of black oral histories, 
comprising an “odyssey” of African Ameri-
can history, Ortiz says.
That odyssey arrives in another form on 
stage Saturday with a performance of “From Colored to Black: The Stories of 
North Central Florida.” Featuring 
dramatic renditions of oral histo-
ries of such historic moments as 
the desegregation of St. Augustine, 
the production runs for two days 
at the Squitieri Studio Theatre.
I, and many others, experi-
enced the Buchanan oral histories 
in 2015 through a play: “Gator 
Tales,” which told the story of the 
integration of UF and local schools.
Written by theatre and dance profes-
sor Kevin Marshall, the play is UF history 
brought to stirring life.
Evelyn Moore Mickle, the ﬁ  rst black grad-
uate of our College of Nursing, tells how she 
was ﬁ  rst invited to attend UF, then neither 
welcomed nor offered help, then quickly in-
vited to leave. She stuck it out after a heart-
to-heart with her mother.
Ron Coleman, a track and ﬁ  eld student-
athlete who was UF’s ﬁ  rst black scholarship 
athlete, remembers eating meals alone be-
cause white athletes would not sit with him.  
This ended when Jack Youngblood, a defen-
sive lineman who became a legendary Gator 
athlete, came up and pointedly asked, “Can 
I sit with you?”“That right there put an end to any type 
of prejudice from within the athletic side,” 
Coleman says.
For me, oral histories help me fully grasp 
how we arrived at the realities and chal-
lenges of the present and gain insight into 
the high personal cost of achieving positive 
change – and the sacriﬁ  ce required of indi-
viduals who blazed that trail.
Which brings me back to Starke.
Amid his career in investment banking 
and energy consulting, he became an ac-
tive alumnus and valued supporter of UF, 
including receiving a Distinguished Alum-
nus Award in 2009. We will award him an 
Honorary Doctorate of Laws at our May com-
mencement. The honorary doctorate is UF’s 
highest honor.
I remain grateful to Starke and his fellow 
pioneers for contributing to the cause of civil 
rights, for integrating our university and for 
sharing their oral histories for posterity.
Through history we better the world – 
one interview, one symposium, one play at 
a time.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. His col-
umn appears monthly.In praise of history that makes our hearts race: In honor of Joel BuchananColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019
Around the other side of the van, the 
4-by-6-foot blue tent is his home. 
“I don’t consider myself homeless. I con-
sider myself under-housed,” Venzke said. 
“My tent is my home, and it should be treat-
ed as such by others.”
Organizations fighting homelessness in 
North Florida emphasize that people can’t 
fight addiction or abuse without stable hous-
ing, said Mona Gil de Gibaja, the president 
and CEO of United Way of North Central 
Florida,
Gil de Gibaja said the fair market rent, a 
standard measurement used by housing au-
thorities, for a one-bedroom apartment in 
Alachua County is about $800. A two-bed-
room is about $900.
“That’s a lot of money, and that’s not 
necessarily including utilities,” Gil de Gibaja 
said. 
People without financial means and no 
housing options left in Gainesville turn to 
places like St. Francis House.
The green building, opened in 1993, sits 
between the Milam Funeral Home and the 
old firehouse building downtown. Inside, 
homeless families find refuge in the commu-
nal living shelter.
St. Francis House offers temporary hous-
ing specifically for families, said Kent Vann, 
St. Francis House Gainesville executive di-
rector. Along with temporary shelter, it also 
offers permanent affordable housing options. 
Arbor House, housing exclusively for sin-
gle women and children, has 30 units, where 
rent is no more than $400 a month includ-
ing utilities. Sunrise Apartments, affordable 
housing for both men and women, has 33 
units.
In January, 92 percent of people who 
stayed at St. Francis House found permanent 
housing, Vann said.
Ellen Miller is one of those people. 
She spent nine months living in St. Fran-
cis House, writing letters to God. It helped 
her cope with being homeless. Now that she 
works there as a receptionist, she still writes 
to God during her 12-hour overnight shifts. 
Miller worked as a property manager for 
an apartment complex in Gainesville, but she 
quit the job, confident she could find other 
work. After five months of searching, she ran 
out of money and ended up living in her car 
with her teenager. 
She eventually moved into St. Francis 
House after living in her car for three months.
“You may have an image of what a home-
less person is, but they don’t all fit that im-
age,” Ellen said. 
As the director of St. Francis House, Vann said he’s proud of what he does and of sto-
ries like Miller’s.
He proudly played an old voicemail from 
a woman with four children, who moved out 
of St. Francis House two weeks earlier. 
“I’m just calling to say thanks so much 
for your help and everything you’ve done for 
my family and I,” her raspy voice played off 
the phone.  
For Vann, helping the children is the most 
important part of his job.
“When you see one sleeping in their cars 
or in a tent or in the woods, think of your-
self,” Vann said. “It would be a nightmare.”
GRACE Marketplace, on the other hand, 
is not a place for children.
Leading into the compound, a man slept 
in a ditch with his pants halfway down his 
legs. A dog barked out the window from a 
car packed with someone’s entire life. 
It’s a low-barrier shelter, meaning there 
are no requirements or police clearance to 
enter.The Alachua County Coalition for the 
Homeless and Hungry opened GRACE in 
2014, which annually receives about $1.4 
million split between the city of Gainesville 
and Alachua County. 
Located across the street from Gainesville 
Regional Airport, GRACE, which was previ-
ously a prison, provides people with shelter, 
showers, meals, health care and other ser-
vices. 
Carlos King, 41, spends his days rolling 
around GRACE marketplace in his wheel-
chair, so he can receive services, like the 
ham sandwich he had for lunch.
Three years ago, King went to bed with a 
smile on his face knowing he had a well-pay-
ing job as a construction worker. The next 
morning he jolted awake in pain. 
He said he was diagnosed with peripheral 
neuropathy, a nerve damage condition that 
left him jobless, homeless and in constant 
pain.  
“Sometimes, it feels like I’ve been thrown down into the pits of hell and walking through 
fire, burning alive in pain,” King said. “But 
that’s life though, you never know.”
His eyes welled with tears and his voice 
grew louder as he recounted one of his great-
est moments at GRACE: his first steps after 
doctors told him he wouldn’t walk again.
“I can’t say nothing bad about this place 
because I took my first steps here,” King 
said. “I got up on that walker and took 54 
steps. Since then, I got up to 180. How ‘bout 
that? ”
There is a discussion among the City Com-
mission to close Dignity Village, a colony of 
hundreds of tents outside of GRACE’s gates, 
City Commissioner Helen Warren said. 
“That as a structure has not been work-
ing very well,” Warren said. “Without hav-
ing 24 hours, seven days a week supervision, 
there are just too many fights that go on out 
there.” 
Last week, a worker was stabbed and 
someone got hit with a log, Warren said. 
Mark Venzke, 62, lives in Dignity Village 
out of his Chevy motorhome.
Some nights, Venzke can smell aromas 
from burning drugs sneaking in through the 
thin walls of his plastic tent. But he said he 
tries to make his neighborhood better. 
He regularly writes emails to the commis-
sion with suggestions on how to improve the 
facilities at GRACE Marketplace and Dignity 
Village. He ran for Gainesville mayor in 2013 
and city commissioner in 2014. He lost each 
election. 
In 2015, he was diagnosed with bone 
marrow cancer. 
But Venzke still has a lot of plans. He’s 
currently renovating his motorhome after 
a rat infestation, but once it’s complete, he 
plans to leave Dignity Village.
“Hopefully, I won’t be here tomorrow, 
but I always think that. Then another month 
goes by, another month goes by, and I’m 
still here,” Venzke said. “I don’t want to be 
here.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgHOMELESSNESS,  from pg. 1GRACE Marketplace receives about $1.4 million
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Outside the GRACE Marketplace cafeteria, Carlos King, 41, shares some of the 
hardships he faced in life after he was diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy, which 
damaged his nerves and left him homeless and in a wheelchair.
SWARMS OF CALLS WERE 
RECEIVED ON MONDAY, 
WEDNESDAY
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Robocalls were sent across the 
city this week saying Mayor Lauren 
Poe and the Gainesville City Com-
mission want to increase GRU rates 
and debt.
The messages were sent on Mon-
day and Wednesday, which were about a week before the March 19 
election where residents will vote for 
mayor and District 4 commissioner. 
Poe is seeking his second term as 
mayor and is running against Mar-
lon Bruce, Jennifer Reid and Jenn 
Powell.
The city commission’s adminis-
trative phone received 40 to 50 calls 
for about two hours Monday, said 
Shelby Taylor, a city spokesperson. 
Calls were also made Wednesday for 
over an hour.
It is unknown where the robo-calls originated. The Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections office has no 
information on these calls or their 
history, said TJ Pyche, the election 
office spokesperson, in an email. 
Poe said that dark money was 
used to pay for these robocalls. Dark 
money is untraceable, unreported 
money spent during campaigns, and 
it is used to try to influence city’s 
elections, he said.
These types of anonymous robo-
calls are new in city elections and 
didn’t give residents helpful voting information, he said.
“It’s a little concerning that’s hap-
pening in local races,” Poe said. “I 
don’t believe that really helps the 
democratic process.”
In 2012, the Federal Communica-
tions Commission added to its Tele-
phone Consumer Protection Act that 
robocallers must have written con-
sent from consumers before robo-
calls are made. The act also requires 
telemarketers to provide an opt-out 
mechanism, according to the com-
mission. The robocalls made this week did 
not follow the protection act.
Treasurers for all four mayoral 
candidates said all donations have 
been reported to the supervisor of 
elections and denied dark money us-
age.
“It is disingenuous to call it dark 
money,” said Marlon Bruce, who is 
his own treasurer. “I have no prob-
lem with them. I don’t disagree with 
the calls’ content.” 
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgIllegal robocalls call out mayor, City CommissionGainesville homelessness in 
2018 by the numbers
T otal number of documented 
homeless people on the street and 
in shelters in Alachua County: 641
People on the street: 450
People in shelters: 191
People in jail: 84
People in the hospital: 27
Fair market rent for one-bedroom 
apartment in Alachua County: $800FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
THE BAT WAS NAPPING 
IN THE LIBRARY
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Its origins are mysterious. So 
is its gender. 
We know how it left, but we 
don’t know how it got there.
We do know it likes sleeping in 
libraries. So much so, it’s named 
after one: Libatty West.
Misty Colson, an executive as-
sistant for the UF Dean of Librar-
ies ofﬁ  ce, was walking through a 
hallway to get to her ofﬁ  ce for the 
day at 7 a.m. Wednesday when 
she stumbled upon a small, furry 
brown bat taking a snooze in a 
vent by the restrooms on the ﬁ  fth 
ﬂ  oor of Library West.
“You don’t normally come 
into work and see a bat hanging 
from the ceiling,” she said. “But 
I was surprised in a good way. I 
thought it was cute.”
Several months ago, a librarian 
made a donation to name a cam-
pus bat and chose Libatty West. 
So it only seemed natural for the 
staff to give that title to the over-
night visitor, who was asleep for 
most of the morning, said Sarah 
“Moxy” Moczygemba, the social 
media specialist for Library West. 
Libatty West, about the size of an egg, was only awakened when 
the UF Environmental Health and 
Safety team safely removed it by 
about 10 a.m.
“We were joking that it was 
Libatty West,” Moczygemba said. 
“Because when you look at the 
certiﬁ  cate, it says you have the 
power to point to any bat from 
the bat house and call it by what-
ever name you choose.”
As an animal lover, Colson 
said she wasn’t scared of the bat, 
but did worry for its safety.
Library West staff, including 
Colson, had been in a similar situ-
ation before when a young hawk got stuck on a window ledge, so 
she knew to call UF Environmen-
tal Health and Safety when she 
met Libatty. 
“I love animals, so I was wor-
ried about the emotional health of 
the bat,” Colson said. 
Libatty West is thought to have 
been from the UF Bat Houses, but 
their origins are not completely 
known. But after their sleepover 
at the library, they will have a 
safe home with other bats.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgLibatty West: Nocturnal visitor stays the night at Library West
Bat Facts according to the 
Florida Museum UF Bat Houses:
The most common species in the UF Bat Houses is the Brazilian 
free-tailed bat, T adarida brasiliensis. 
The bat houses also house the Southeastern bat, Myotis 
austroriparius, and Evening bat, Nycticeius humeralis.
About 450,000-500,000 bats occupy the houses and barn, but 
they can hold close to 750,000 bats.
More than 2,500 pounds of insects are consumed by these bats, 
or about 2.5 billion insects each night. These include moths, 
beetles, mosquitoes, flies, gnats, leafhoppers, midges and 
winged ants.Courtesy to The Alligator
Libatty West, a furry brown bat the size of an egg, was safely 
removed Wednesday morning when it was found sleeping in 
Library West. Libatty’s origins are unknown.
Bat Facts according to the 
Florida Museum UF Bat Houses:
Florida Museum UF Bat Houses:
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019
Ana Escalante / Alligator Contributor
Students, organizers and Immokalee workers marched through campus from 
Norman Field to Tigert Hall Thursday to urge UF to remove the Wendy’s 
from campus. 
PROTESTORS WANT WENDY’S 
LOCATIONS TO BE REMOVED 
FROM UF CAMPUS
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 300 UF students, Immokalee workers 
and Gainesville residents marched from Norman 
Field to Tigert Hall Thursday in an effort to re-
move Wendy’s restaurant from the Reitz Union.
They bobbed their signs, some reading “Boy-
cott Wendy’s” and “Wendy’s Modern Slavery,” 
up and down as they chanted “Hey, Hey. Ho, 
Ho. Wendy’s has got to go.”   
The Coalition of Immokalee Workers part-
nered with UF students to protest Wendy’s be-
cause the international company has not signed 
into the coalition’s Fair Food Program, which 
assures more than 35,000 migrant farm workers 
protection from exploitation and abuse.
The coalition is from Immokalee, Florida, 
near Naples, and represents tomato farmers who 
supply Wendy’s restaurants across the nation, 
said coalition volunteer Billy Hackett, a 21-year-
old UF political science and international studies 
junior.  
On March 8, the Gainesville City Commission 
passed a resolution that supported the move-
ment’s call to have UF cut ties with Wendy’s.
Here are three things to know about the 
movement and Wendy’s on campus:
1. University administration said it is not 
encouraging the negative treatment of work-
ers because a different company provides its 
produce.
The produce for the Wendy’s on campus is supplied by Aramark, which provides food for 
Gator Dining, said Margot Winick, a UF spokes-
person. The company uses a different supply 
chain for its tomatoes that is not connected to 
what franchised Wendy’s restaurants use.
Aramark also signed the coalition’s Fair Food 
Agreement in 2010, Winick said.
However, Hackett said it’s important to ac-
knowledge that UF misses the point. 
“While the tomatoes on campus may be 
‘fair,’ there are much bigger issues at scale,” 
Hackett said. “The Wendy’s corporation contin-
ues to profit off of the tie that it has with the 
university.”
2. The march is the final stop on a nation-
wide tour to bring awareness to issues of mi-
grant workers.
Dubbed “The 4 for Fair Food Tour,” the 
march has been brought to universities like the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Ohio 
State University and the University of Michigan, 
Hackett said. The final stop was Gainesville, just 
a four-hour drive from Immokalee where the 
movement began.
3. The Immokalee community first began 
the Fair Food Program in 2011. 
Nelly Rodriguez, a Mexican-born migrant 
worker, has been working the Immokalee to-
mato fields for more than 15 years.
She was part of the group of farm workers 
who started the Fair Food Program in 2011, she 
said. Immokalee tomato fields had been known 
in the country as “ground zero,” she said.
Rodriguez said several human rights viola-
tions take place every day and workers are de-
prived of water, shade and breaks. She also said 
4 in 5 farmworker women are sexually assaulted.Three things to know about the #BoycottWendy’s marchBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
Tired of Hurricanes? South Alabama para -
dise with affordable housing, lake houses 
and waterfront lots. Only 90 minutes from 
the beaches. Call Outlaw Realty 1-251-362-
0997.      3-15-1-5
Mid-Coast Maine Auction 29 Water’s Edge 
Drive in Lincolnville: custom home, 1.36 
acre on Penobscot Bay with 193 ft. of ocean 
frontage. Selling to the highest bidder over 
$300,000. Paul McInnis Lic. #AUC217 - 
(603) 964-1301. Auction subject to all Terms 
of Sale view more at www.paulmcinnis.com     
3-15-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
Suburban Heights. Multi-family yard sales 
of everything all over our neighborhood! 
Neighbors are setting up sales of kitchen 
ware, furniture, electronics, garden tools, 
clothing, books. Drive through our neigh -
borhood and you will find many sales. Sat., 
March 16. NW 13th Ave - 23rd Ave, NW 43rd 
St - 50th Ter     3-15-19-1-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!" Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300      3-15-1-10
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Part Time / Temporary
Clerical worker needed.
Student
Must have some knowledge of Excel.
10 Hours/week
Any time between: 
Tuesday & Friday. 8am & 5pm
Minimum wage pay rate.
Please email: elight@alligator.org
No phone calls please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu -
dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan 
sales from April – September. Approx. 20 hrs 
a week, $11/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours 
and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy 
interacting with others in a professional man -
ner and have a positive attitude. Retail, cus -
tomer service or volunteer experience is a 
plus. Apply online for requisition #: 222980 at 
www.gatordining.com      3-20-19-3-14  
$100K first year potential. Greatest Home-
Based Opportunity of Your Life Certain with 
this Company. Dead Serious ONLY apply! 
FREE to Register. FREE website. 1-888-
611-1951     3-15-1-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Wanted. Driver w long-bed pickup
to take king bed frame and its owner
to Hollywood, FL on 3/16/19.
Call 352-359-3787.      3-15-4-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
WEEKEND SERVER NEEDED
Country Foodly is now hiring. Please drop off 
a resume during our operating hours (7AM to 
1PM). Open six days a week and closed on 
Tuesdays. 5240 NW 34th Blvd    3-25-5-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   1 3 AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.     3-15-1-15
MEDICAL OFFICE TRAINING PROGRAM! Online training for Medical Billing &amp; Coding career! NO PRIOR TRAINING IS REQUIRED! CTI can have you trained &amp; ready! 1-888-471-3711 AskCTI.com     3-15-1-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
MAKE $100,000 - $1 Millionbefore you graduate!
Great Crypto Trading & Investment 
Education program!
FREE info at www.ExpWealth.info     3-15-
19-3-20
LEARN HOW TO MAKE an extra $500
per week doing surveys as a student.
Go to:  www.collegeopportunity.today     3-15-19-3-20
Learn how to make an extra $400a week filling out surveys as a student.
Go to uniopportunity.club       3-20-195-20
Experience HU, The Sound of Soul!
 Brings you insight, calm, awareness
Sun., March 17, at 1:00 PM
Courtyard By Marriott
3700 SW 42nd Street
352-378-3504
TheSoundofSoul.org
Everyone welcome!
3-15-1-20Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By Susan Gelfand©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 03/15/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/15/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, March 15, 2019
ACROSS
1 No-way man?
5 Shade-loving 
plant
10 Brainiac14 At Dodger 
Stadium, briefly
15 Playwright 
Fugard
16 London’s __ 
Park
17 Walk, e.g.18 Electrical 
problem
19 “Makes sense 
to me”
20 High-quality 
tennis venue?
23 Made amends24 Fireplace shelf25 Noteworthy 
stretch
28 Earned29 Legal tender  
with an  
8-Down
32 Kind of network34 Well-known 
boxing venue?
36 Udon cousin39 Texting format, 
briefly
40 Infatuated41 Virtual golf 
venue?
46 Early morning hr.47 Catch sight of48 Maple output51 Art nowadays?52 MLB player 
nickname since 2005
54 Em, for one56 Attractive soccer 
venue?
60 Declare62 Starting word 
containing five of the letters of what it starts
63 Street __64 Fashionable 
Christian
65 Curt66 Ship’s spine67 Like the Marx 
Brothers
68 Trade shows69 Loudness unitDOWN
1 Something to put 
together
2 Running by itself
3 Comfy shoe4 Polished off5 Orthodox Jewish 
sect
6 Emperor after 
Galba
7 Toots in a 
restaurant
8 Statue of Liberty 
feature
9 Pennsylvania 
railroad city
10 Spinning sound11 Frenzied state12 Suffix with ox-13 Middle of 
Venezuela?
21 “The Scarlet 
Letter” letter
22 Means of getting 
around town
26 Summoned, in 
a way
27 Pond growth30 Odds-and-ends 
abbr.
31 St. __ Fire33 Craving34 More susceptible 
to sunburn
35 Bats
36 Sectional __37 Words before 
before
38 Very long time42 Da __, Vietnam43 Spring (from)44 Raid targets45 Word after 
Double in a cookie name48 Assembly with 
speakers?
49 Quinn of  
“Annie”
50 Hawk53 Fax ancestor55 Steals, in British 
slang
57 Out of kilter58 Md. athlete59 __ facto60 Wood shaper61 Routing term
By Alan Olschwang©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 03/14/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/14/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, March 14, 2019
ACROSS
1 Grammy
category word
6 “And here it is!”
11 Pickup spot,
perhaps
14 Take a break
15 “Return of the
Jedi” forest moon
16 Fashion or sense
preceder
17 *Like power lines19 Band booking20 Conspiring (with)21 Cake invitation
Alice accepted
23 Does, say24 *End an
engagement?
27 Alternative rock
genre
29 “Come on in!”30 Any member of
ABBA
33 What a birdie
beats
34 Aromatic herb37 ’90s game disc38 *Teddy kin42 One of the fire
signs
43 Pull a fast one on45 Served, as time46 Brilliance48 One-footer, e.g.50 Gray shade51 *Feature items
in some annualsales
55 World-weary
words
59 Up60 Babe __, only
woman inESPN’s Top 10North AmericanAthletes of the20th Century
62 Life-saving pro63 Simple card
game, andwhat’s hidden inthe answers tostarred clues
66 __-disant: self-
styled
67 Ancient Aegean
region
68 “The Wreck of the
Mary __”
69 Channel that airs
many RKO films70 __ closet
71 John of “The
Addams Family”
DOWN
1 Agricultural pest2 “Rawhide” singer3 Taps player4 Brought (in)5 Like a footnote
that explainsfootnotes
6 Locale7 Early stage8 Dictator played
by Forest
9 Leicester toilet
10 Journalist Peter11 Time of one’s life12 Cartoon genre13 Continued
unabated
18 “The one who 
makes it, takes it” breakfast brand
22 Breezed through25 Recipe verb26 Crucifix letters28 Fellows30 Beach letters31 Try to attract32 Lacking humility33 Third deg.?35 Verdant patch
36 Auction unit39 “Gotcha!”40 Singer Vannelli41 Some RIT grads44 After-hours47 Supplies power
to
49 #2, for one50 ’60s-’70s tennis
great Arthur
51 Extract forcibly52 Bleachers sign53 David and Ricky’s
dad
54 Israeli hero
Moshe
56 Drum kit part57 Motherly
introduction?
58 German steel
center
61 Operatic princess64 Versailles
monarch
65 Taylor of fashion
1.____, Switzerland
1.Male or female5.More modern
2.____, Rhode Island6.____ tree
3.Rendition7.Made amends
4.ActuallyEAEGNV
EREGNDWERNE
VEOIL
PRTENOW
RONIVSETAEDNO
DEIEDNANSWERS: 1A-Geneva  5A-Newer  6A-Olive  7A-Atoned
1D-Gender  2D-Newport  3D-Version  4D-Indeed  B-New England3-15-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This region is home to about 15 million people.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Oliver Crawford and the Florida 
men's tennis team face Georgia on 
Friday at 5 p.m. and T ennessee on 
Sunday at 1 p.m.Fifteen swimmers invited to NCAA Championships
The UF men's swimming team saw 15 swimmers receive invitations to the 
2019 NCAA Championships in Austin, T exas on March 27. Those 15 swim-
mers will appear in at least 14 different events.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
The intensity matched the 
stakes.
Three-straight losses to end the 
regular season left the 17-14 Flori-
da Gators (9-9 SEC) in a must-win 
situation against the Arkansas Ra-
zorbacks on Thursday in Nashville, 
Tennessee.
No. 8-seed Florida bested No. 
9-seed Arkansas in the second 
round of the SEC Tournament be-
hind a suffocating defense and 
a career-best performance from 
freshman forward Keyontae John-
son.
The Gators secured a 66-50 win 
at Bridgestone Arena and added a 
critical victory to their NCAA re-
sume.
UF advances to the SEC Tourna-
ment quarterﬁ  nals to face top-seed-
ed LSU on Friday at 1 p.m.
Johnson led Thursday’s scoring 
effort with a 20-point, 12-rebound 
double-double and a team-high six 
offensive rebounds.
The Gators shot at a 38-percent 
clip, going 21 of 55 overall but fell 
behind at the start thanks to some early offensive deﬁ  ciencies.
While the Razorbacks made 
seven of their ﬁ  rst 12 shots, Florida 
went 4 for 12 in the opening nine 
minutes. Its poor shooting was 
compounded by four turnovers 
during that span, allowing Arkan-
sas to jump out to a 17-9 lead. 
Arkansas couldn’t take care of 
the ball either. The Razorbacks’ 
offensive onslaught was met with 
nine ﬁ  rst-half turnovers, which 
gave the Gators room to work a 30-
28 halftime lead after trailing by as 
many as eight.
Ten UF offensive boards helped, 
and Florida went on a 13-6 run in 
the ﬁ  nal seven minutes of the half.
Johnson and senior guard KeV-
aughn Allen already reached dou-
ble-digit scoring by that point with 
10 apiece, and Florida outrebound-
ed Arkansas 19-14.
Allen, a Little Rock, Arkansas, 
native, scored 17 against the Ra-
zorbacks after only managing 12 
combined in his last three games.
After the break, Florida 
stretched its lead to as many as 
16 as it continued to dominate the Defense, Johnson lead Gators past Arkansas in SEC Tournament
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Keyontae Johnson drives toward the basket during UF's loss to Kentucky on Feb. 2. 
BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
A surging offense will meet one of the 
best pitching staffs in the SEC this weekend 
at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium when Florida 
hosts Mississippi State in its second-consec-
utive top-10 matchup.
The No. 5 Gators (14-5) have remedied 
their offensive woes that led to some mid-
week slip ups against lesser opponents ear-
ly in the season and just trounced Florida 
State. The No. 7 Bulldogs (16-1) boast a 1.69 
team ERA and are riding a 12-game winning 
streak.
Here are the storylines to watch as both 
teams begin conference play Friday night:
Dog pound dominates the mound
Mississippi State holds a clear advantage 
on the mound over Florida.
The Bulldogs’ Friday night starter Ethan 
Small (1-0) has 40 strikeouts, the ﬁ  fth-most 
in the nation, and a 1.50 ERA. JT Ginn (4-0) 
follows Small on Saturday with a 1.80 ERA, 
and a few of the Gators players have faced the freshman ace in the past. Coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said that freshmen Kendrick Cali-
lao, arguably the best hitter for the Gators 
this season, and Jud Fabian both faced Ginn 
and struck out on three pitches.
“Hopefully we’ll have some better at-bats 
on Saturday night,” O’Sullivan said.
James Keegan (2-0) rounds out the week-
end rotation for the Bulldogs with a 1.80 
ERA. All three weekend starters have below 
2.00 ERAs. 
The same cannot be said for the Gators.
Tommy Mace (4-0) recently moved up 
to the Friday night starter role after Tyler 
Dyson (2-0) struggled in the same position. 
Mace has a 3.55 ERA and is second on the 
team with 20 strikeouts. Dyson was relegat-
ed to the Sunday role as his 3.57 ERA is the 
highest of any pitcher on the team with more 
than 12 innings pitched. Jack Leftwich (4-0) 
will throw on Saturday. He leads the team 
with 25 strikeouts, and his 2.05 ERA is the 
lowest on the weekend rotation.
Both teams have stellar closers. Florida Florida hosts MSU to open SEC playJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
The Florida men’s bas-
ketball team ﬁ  nally 
captured that coveted 
18th win.
It went to Nash-
ville, Tennessee, and sound-
ly defeated Arkansas 66-50 
in the second round of the 
SEC Tournament. The Gators 
earned the right to face No. 
1-seed LSU on Friday at noon, 
and (as of this writing) we don’t know 
how this game will go down. 
A victory against the Tigers should all 
but lock in UF’s bid for an NCAA Tourna-
ment appearance next week. But I don’t 
believe this game actually matters.
I think Florida already secured an in-
vitation to March Madness with its win 
over the Razorbacks. It seems tough to 
say, because beating Arkansas isn’t near-
ly on the same level as beating a team like LSU, but hear me out for 
a second.
Many bracketologists, 
like ESPN’s Joe Lunardi, had 
Florida bubbled in as a “Last 
Four In” team heading into 
the conference tournament. 
Losing its ﬁ  rst game would 
have obviously kicked it out 
of contention. 
The win also gives the 
Gators some leeway. They aren’t going to 
win the SEC Tournament with teams like 
LSU, Kentucky and Tennessee also par-
ticipating, but they can add a win or two 
that can boost their argument as to why 
they belong in the NCAA Tournament. An 
18-15 record seems a lot better than a 17-
15 one. 
Florida also hasn’t messed up too 
much during its season. If you look at Win over Arkansas should be enough 
to put UF in NCAA Tournament  
Jake 
Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
The Florida women’s basketball season 
came to an end last Thursday in Greenville, 
South Carolina, with an 87-56 loss to Mis-
souri in the second round of the SEC Tour-
nament.
It concluded what was a mostly disap-
pointing season for the Gators.
Just eight wins in 31 games. A 3-13 con-
ference record. One road win all season. 
Where does Florida go from here?
The team’s leading scorer, Funda Na-
kkasoglu, concluded her college career 
with the loss to Missouri. The guard’s 
16.6 points per game this year was over 
six points better than fellow guard Delicia 
Washington, the team’s second-leading 
scorer. Nakkasoglu also finished her career 
with the second-most three-pointers made 
in a season (84) in program history.
It is not all bad news for Florida, how-
ever, despite its poor record and the loss of 
its leading scorer. 
Nakkasoglu’s loss will be felt immedi-
ately, but the Gators have a player with the 
natural talent to step up in her absence in Washington. It’ll be important for Wash-
ington, the team’s most experienced player 
next year, to avoid another suspension for 
“an undisclosed team matter” like the one 
she served at the end of the regular season 
in February.
Danielle Rainey is another guard who 
has the potential to take a step forward 
next season. Rainey was one of Florida’s 
top scorers after missing the early part of 
the season due to NCAA transfer rules. She 
will almost certainly have a bigger role next 
year with Nakkasoglu gone. In addition to 
Rainey, guard Ariel Johnson and forward 
Zada Williams should also benefit from an-
other year of experience.
The return of forward Kristina Moore, 
who missed the last 11 games this year with 
a left arm injury, should also bode well for 
UF. Moore, who will be a sophomore next 
season, was the only Florida player to start 
every game before her injury. 
Perhaps more important than the play-
ers returning are the players soon to join. 
Coach Cam Newbauer garnered the most 
heralded recruiting class of his tenure with 
a quartet of four-star prospects. The class 
features two nationally ranked players (ac-cording to Prospects Nation) in guards Lav-
ender Briggs and Brylee Bartram, in addi-
tion to guard Cavina Rickards and forward 
Faith Dut. 
Briggs is the highest ranked of the bunch 
at No. 13 among guards and No. 53 overall.
Bartram, however, might be the most 
exciting prospect despite her lower ranking. 
The Seffner, Florida, native set the national 
record for most three-pointers made in a 
high school career (among boys and girls) 
in February with 521. 
Her free-shooting mentality fits perfectly 
with a Newbauer offense that was second 
in the conference in three-pointers attempt-
ed this year, and she’ll be instrumental in 
filling the hole left by Nakkasoglu. 
In two years as Florida’s coach, New-
bauer’s record is 19-42. The Gators lose 
only Nakkasoglu to graduation, so New-
bauer’s third campaign will be critical to 
their development. 
“I’m proud of the growth we’ve shown 
this year,” Newbauer said in a release af-
ter the loss to Missouri. “I’m excited about 
what’s next for us.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgHow does Florida recuperate after a disappointing 2018-19 season?
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu led the team 
with 16.6 points per game this season.
BY THE NUMBERS
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The No. 7 Gators softball team started SEC play 
with a series loss to Tennessee, and they travel to 
No. 9 LSU for a series starting on Saturday. 
The pitching problems in the first two games of 
the Tennessee series caused some to question the 
quality of this team’s pitching staff. In this week’s 
AlligatorSports “By the Numbers” edition, we an-
swer the question, “Do the Gators have the best 
pitching staff in the SEC?
It’s impossible to discuss Florida’s pitching 
without bringing up senior Kelly Barnhill. The se-
nior from Marietta, Georgia, is not just one of the 
best pitchers in the SEC, but the entire country. She 
has been as advertised so far this season, sporting a 
14-2 record, a 1.19 ERA and striking out 122 batters 
— the second-highest total in the country. 
There were significant questions before the 
season as to how the Gators would perform when 
Barnhill is not in the circle after the graduation 
of Aleshia Ocasio. Sophomore Natalie Lugo has 
stepped into the No. 2 starter role quite well so far, 
as she is 6-2 on the season with a 1.63 ERA and 68 
strikeouts. 
So how do we evaluate these teams’ pitching 
staffs? Let’s look at who they’re returning and use 
Game Score to judge returning talent along with 
Field-Independent Pitching (FIP) to see how teams 
are performing so far this season. 
Game Score takes typical stats found in a box 
score for a starting pitcher and turns them into one 
number. 
Equation: Game Score= 37+2(Outs) + # of 
strikeouts – 2(Hits)-2(Walks)-3(Runs)-6(Home 
Runs).
(The 37 is to ensure that the average Game 
Score is around 50, and we’re only going to count 
pitchers with at least 15 starts last season)
The Gators had the best Game Score as a team 
last season, and they return the second-best pitcher 
by Game Score last season in Barnhill. She had the 
highest Game Score of any returning SEC pitcher 
(63.3). Barnhill’s performance in the circle means 
that the Gators need just middle-of-the-pack pitch-ing behind her, as the Gators’ nearest competition 
last year was Georgia, who was over five points 
behind Florida. 
The nearest competition for Florida is Arkansas 
and Auburn, who return the second- and third-best 
pitchers by Game Score in sophomore Mary Haff 
and senior Makayla Martin. Both were on the Pre-
season All-SEC Team with Barnhill, and all three 
were the only pitchers on the USA Softball Colle-
giate Player of the Year Watch List. 
FIP: Field-Independent Pitching evaluates pitch-
ers independent of their team’s fielding and is gen-
erally seen as a better evaluator of pitching talent 
than ERA.
Equation:  2.24 +  ((13*HR)+(3*(BB+HBP))-
(2*K))/IP.
Florida had the best FIP in the SEC last season, 
and that is still true this season, even with the tran-
sition from Ocasio to Lugo. Barnhill (0.08) and 
Lugo (0.48) are first and third in the SEC in FIP, 
respectively, so far this season out of pitchers with 
at least 25 innings pitched. 
As for the rest of the SEC, Alabama freshman 
Montana Fouts is a name to keep an eye on. She al-
ready won SEC Freshman of the Week three times, 
hasn’t given up more than two runs in a start this 
season and has the second-highest FIP in the con-
ference. Alabama’s pitching depth isn’t as good as 
Florida’s, though, which prevents them from being 
one of the best in the SEC.
Arkansas, with Haff (0.81) and junior Autumn 
Storms (0.88), is Florida’s closest competition.
Conclusion: Florida’s pitching staff, as it 
stands, is the SEC’s best so far. The Gators are 
returning one of the best pitchers in the country 
in Kelly Barnhill, and Natalie Lugo has been solid 
when Barnhill needs a rest. If the Gators get even 
SEC-average pitching from Lugo, that should still 
be enough to be one of the best in the SEC. It’s 
a small sample size to draw from, for sure, but it 
looks like the Gators do have an elite pitching staff. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgDo the Gators have the best pitching staff in the SEC?
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 2019
St. Patrick’s 
Day
$4 Triples
ALL DAYBeat-the-Clock
starts @ 2pm
$1 Irish Whiskey (up $1 each hour) 
$1 Guinness (up $1 each hour) 
$3 Car Bombs (up $1 each hour)
$4 Green Tea Shots (all day)
No Cover for the first 400 people (21 & up)
LIVE DJ 9 pm 
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University Avenueopen @ 1pm
LIVE DJ @ 1pm18 & UP
18 & UP
 restaurant & rooftop barTHEsome of the teams it lost to, 
you’ll see what I mean. Florida 
State, Oklahoma, Michigan State, 
South Carolina, Tennessee, TCU, 
Mississippi State, Kentucky and 
Auburn are all projected tourna-
ment teams. They account for 11 
of UF’s losses, and it should have 
lost all of those games, with the 
only exception being the TCU 
game.
The Gators lost to Butler in the 
Battle 4 Atlantis tournament, but 
they avenged it nearly a month 
later on Dec. 29 in a one-sided af-
fair. Florida also traded wins with 
LSU, which served as its best vic-
tory of the season. 
Its only bad loss came against 
Georgia on March 2, a team it was 
supposed to beat.
The point I am making is 
simple: The Gators are a medio-
cre team. They fall to teams they 
aren’t supposed to win against, 
and they defeat the ones they're 
supposed to.
But being mediocre doesn’t 
mean you should miss out on the 
tournament. It just means you 
aren’t going to make it far. 
Florida has the resume it 
needs. It reached 18 wins with the 
win over Arkansas, also avoiding 
a four-game losing streak to end 
the season. It went from a team 
sitting around .500 to a team on 
the rise, thanks to a ﬁ  ve-game 
win streak at the end of February. 
So if the Gators beat LSU, then 
great. It would have earned its way 
into the NCAA Tournament. But I 
think it has already done enough.
Jake Dreilinger is the sports editor 
of the Alligator. Follow him on Twit-
ter @DreilingerJake and contact him 
at jdreilinger@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
freshman Nolan Crisp’s seven saves have him 
tied for the most in the nation, while Gordon 
Cole (2-0) has ﬁ  ve saves for Mississippi State.
Bats to watch
Florida’s Brady McConnell is riding a 15-
game hitting streak and has 28 hits on the sea-
son, the second most in the SEC. McConnell is 
hitting .389 and has a .457 on base percentage. 
His ability to get on base in the two hole 
has been a huge part of Calilao’s success at the 
plate. The freshman hits cleanup for the Gators 
and is tied for ninth in the nation with 25 RBIs 
on the season. He continually hits well with 
runners on base and already has two grand 
slams this season.
Jake Mangum bats leadoff for Mississippi 
State and leads the team with a .366 batting 
average. He’s just behind McConnell in hits 
with 26 and is a huge threat when he gets on 
base (which he does 44.6 percent of the time). 
Mangum’s 12 steals put him among the na-
tion’s best on the bases, and the Gators do not 
fare well against the steal.
Both teams hit north of .300 on the sea-
son. Florida holds a slight advantage in power 
hitting (21 home runs to MSU’s 17), but the 
Bulldogs strike out far less than the Gators (98 
strikeouts to Florida’s 147).MSU handily swept UF in 2018 in Starkville, 
Mississippi. The Bulldogs outscored the Gators 
31-13 in the three-game series to close out the 
regular season.
Mississippi State’s ﬁ  rst road game of the 
campaign is Friday night in a conference show-down that will be the biggest test of the young 
season for Florida.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Calilao has two grand slams this season
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida ﬁ  rst baseman Kendrick Calilao is tied for ninth in the NCAA in RBIs with 25. 
glass. UF totaled 41 rebounds on the day to 
Arkansas’ 26. 
After allowing the Razorbacks to shoot 50 
percent in the opening frame, a stiﬂ  ing Florida 
defense didn’t allow a ﬁ  eld goal in the ﬁ  nal 
eight minutes. It held the Razorbacks to 37 
percent shooting overall and their lowest point 
total of the season.
Forward Daniel Gafford — Arkansas’ lead-ing scorer — scored 15 points with eight re-
bounds. Meanwhile, the Razorbacks couldn’t 
turn stops into points in the second half, mak-
ing just six ﬁ  eld goals.
Florida’s offense started to match the inten-
sity of its defense down the stretch. The Gators 
scored 18 second-chance points with 19 offen-
sive boards. They moved the ball as well as 
they have all season and got to the free throw 
line in the second half, converting 14 of 18 at-
tempts.With 2:39 left to play, freshman guard An-
drew Nembhard made his ﬁ  rst ﬁ  eld goal of the 
game, nailing a crushing three-point shot to 
give UF a 61-48 advantage.
Johnson hit a three a minute later, which 
seemed to deﬂ  ate any energy Arkansas had left 
and close out a much-needed tournament win 
for the Gators.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.org MEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14Gators scored 18 second-chance points of 19 ofensive rebounds