We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Is Trump Jr., Guilfoyle’s speech legal?
Local lawyers explain the law behind the speech, pg 5
Another on-campus sexual battery reported 
University Police are looking for the man, pg 4Gators demonstrate ‘next man up’
It may be cliche coachspeak, but Kyle Wood 
thinks UF can make it a reality, pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 21
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
HE WILL SPEAK AT 
UNIVERSITY AUDITORIUM 
NOV . 12
By Ashley Lazarski and 
Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writers
The Turning Point USA 
founder will speak at UF next 
month.
Charlie Kirk, the conservative 
non-proﬁ  t’s founder, will stop 
at  the University Auditorium on 
Nov. 12 at 7 p.m. as part of his 
Culture War Tour. 
Kirk will present for an hour, followed by a 30-minute Q&A 
session, said Sarah Allen, the 
UF Turning Point USA vice 
president and a 19-year-old 
telecommunications sophomore. 
Kirk is not being paid by UF.
She said Turning Point UF is 
excited to host its founder.
“He stands for free speech, free 
markets, the second amendment 
and limited government and it 
will be fantastic to see those 
principles be shared on the UF 
campus,” Allen said. 
Tickets are available through 
Turning Point UF’s Facebook 
page. Any unclaimed seats will 
be given to the standby seating line, Allen said. A student ID is 
not required to attend. 
Kirk’s rental rate for the 
auditorium is discounted due 
to the organization’s non-proﬁ  t 
status, Allen said. 
Renting the space in the 
University Auditorium costs 
$400, according to the University 
Auditorium Rental Policy 
Manual. Allen said she could not 
disclose the total rental cost of 
the speaking event.
Kirk’s presence at Colorado 
State University in February 2018 
sparked clashes between white 
nationalists and Antifa protestors, 
according to local newspaper the Coloradoan. 
Katie O’Sullivan, a 19-year-
old history and political science 
sophomore and member of 
Students for Bernie Sanders, said 
Kirk’s message would not identify 
with college students who are not 
right-wing.
“UF needs to include left-wing 
voices on campus because having 
two conservative speakers in 
a row is overkill,” she said. 
“Students need to be exposed to 
new, intellectually honest ideas 
because that’s the purpose of 
being in an academic setting like 
UF.”jkalman@alligator.org
@jordynkalman
alazarski@alligator.org 
@ashleylazarski
THE COLORFUL CROSSWALKS 
ARE DOWNTOWN 
By Melissa Hernandez
Alligator Staff Writers
Rainbow crosswalks have been in cities 
around the country from  Atlanta to Seattle 
to New York. This week, Gainesville will 
add itself to the list.
The city’s Public Works Department 
started painting the crosswalks at North-
east First Street and Northeast First Ave-
nue by City Hall, and Southeast First Street by the Hippodrome Theatre in celebration 
of National Coming Out Day.
The annual awareness day was desig-
nated by the Human Rights Campaign in 
1988 to “promote a safe world for LGBTQ 
individuals to live truthfully and openly.” 
The Pride Community Center of North Cen-
tral Florida approached city commissioners 
with the idea earlier this year, and it was 
approved unanimously, said City Commis-
sioner David Arreola.
The community center also set up a Go-
FundMe fundraiser seeking $7,000 for the 
costs of painting the crosswalks. The paint-ed crosswalks are expected to be done by 
Friday, in time for the annual Gainesville 
Pride Parade and Festival next weekend.
Painting began Tuesday at the intersec-
tion of Northeast 1st Street, with half the 
crosswalk already sporting the colors of 
the rainbow. But, not everyone is in favor 
of the new crosswalks. 
Some members of Holy Trinity Episco-
pal Church have reached out to city com-
missioners to express their opposition, de-
scribing the pride ﬂ  ag as “divisive” and “a 
political symbol.”
“From a personal viewpoint, I lived in Austin prior to moving to Gainesville and 
experienced the divisiveness that the move 
to install rainbow crosswalks caused in 
back 2014 both with downtown church-
es and the public at large,” Ed Brewer, a 
member of Holy Trinity Episcopal Church 
wrote in an email to City Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos. 
Brewer added the city did not consult 
with the church prior to approving the 
change, referring to it as “an illegal gov-
ernment action and in contravention of the STUDENTS PREPARE 
TO WATCH SPEECH, 
PROTEST 
By Alex DeLuca and 
Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writers 
The UF Student Body 
is preparing for Donald 
Trump Jr. and Kimberly 
Guilfoyle’s Gainesville ar-
rival. 
The University Audito-
rium box ofﬁ  ce is out of 
tickets. About 840 tick-
ets were distributed by 
2 p.m., said Henry Fair, 
ACCENT Speakers Bureau 
chairman. Ticket distribu-
tion for Thursday’s speak-
ing event was scheduled to run from 10 a.m. until 
4 p.m. Tuesday at the Uni-
versity Auditorium box 
ofﬁ  ce. 
Juan Suarez, a 25-year-
old UF urban planning 
master’s student, picked 
up a ticket for the free 
event. Suarez is looking 
forward to hearing what 
the speakers say about 
the president’s 2020 cam-
paign, he said. 
“We’ve [Republicans] 
been kind of thrown off to 
the side a lot, and you can 
feel that a lot, for exam-
ple, here on campus,” he 
said. “I think that events 
like this kind of demon-
strate that level of support 
that we have on campus.”
While many ticket holders will likely end 
up watching the speech 
Thursday night, some 
said they have other plans 
for their ticket stubs. 
Arielle Hernandez, a 
19-year-old UF architec-
ture sophomore, has a 
ticket but isn’t planning 
on  attending the event, 
she said. Hernandez 
wants one less seat to be 
ﬁ  lled. 
“I just wouldn’t feel 
safe in that environment,” 
she said. 
Now that all tickets 
have been distributed, 
students are looking for 
alternative ways to attend 
the speech. Daniel Shin, a 
Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk to speak at UF
Gainesville paints crosswalks rainbow to celebrate Coming Out DayAll Trump Jr. tickets given out
YOM KIPPUR
SEE REACTIONS,  PAGE 3
SEE RAINBOW,  PAGE 3Kirk
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Yosef Glaser, a 21-year-old rabbinical student from Chicago, reads from his prayer 
book Tuesday before the Yom Kippur ceremony begins. Glaser is studying to be a rabbi 
and came to Gainesville to help with Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. He said it is 
customary to read a verse from the prayer book aloud to yourself before the ceremony.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  82° LOW  68°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
Correction: The 
#CHOMPTRUMP article was 
updated to reflect that the 
correct price that comes out of 
student's tuition is $19.06 per 
credit hour. The Alligator pre-
viously reported differently.
WHAT'S HAPPENING
2019 Sustainable 
Transportation Fair and 
Electric Vehicle Expo 
When: Today, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: NE corner of the Reitz 
Union Lawn behind the Hub and 
Marston
What: Come out to learn 
more about the sustainable 
transportation options on campus 
and in the community through 
interactive tabling activities, 
an electric vehicle expo, pedal-
powered smoothies, free bike 
repair, e-bike demo rides and 
more. The event is free and 
open to all UF staff, faculty and 
students. For more information, 
visit http://sustainable.ufl.edu/
sustainable-transportation-fair/ 
or e-mail info@sustainability.ufl.
edu.National Coming Out Day
When: Friday, 2:30 to 4 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Room 2210
What: Join LGBTQ Affairs in 
conversations about what it 
means to come out and how to 
cope with potential invalidation. 
The group will be discussing 
coping and survival skills 
to help with self-validation, 
non-comformity and more. 
Any person who has recently 
transitioned and is looking for 
clothing is welcome to bring 
a bag and take items from the 
Queer Closet. 
Jimi Hendrix Tribute
When: Friday, 8 p.m.
Where: Bo Diddley Plaza
What: The Free Fridays Concert 
Series presents Michael Derry 
and Friends, who will play a 
tribute to the music of Jimi 
Hendrix. Michael Derry (guitar/
vocals) is joined by Paco (guitar/
vocals), Lothar Weinmann 
(guitar/vocals), Ron Thomas 
(bass/vocals) and Rob Thorne 
(drums). The Hendrix tribute 
concert is one of the select “Free 
Fridays” classic rock concerts 
that are sponsored by classic 
rock radio station WIND-FM 
(92.5, 95.5, 107.9).ButterflyFest 
When: Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History, 3215 Hull Road
What: Explore the lives of bats, 
bees, birds and butterflies at 
the 14th annual ButterflyFest. 
Learn about butterfly 
gardening, native pollinators, 
conservation, backyard wildlife 
and more during this free event. 
Experience butterfly releases and 
come dressed in your favorite 
pollinator attire for the pollinator 
parade. Visit the #ButterflyFest 
webpage for more information 
and a full schedule of events at 
www.floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
butterflyfest. 
Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
When: Oct. 18-20, 7 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, 874 SE 
Fourth St.
What: Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
is a free music festival for people 
to celebrate the Gainesville 
native and music legend. Over 
20 local and national bands will 
perform on two stages at Depot 
Park. While tickets are free, 
interested guests can upgrade 
their experience with Petty For 
The People Packages to receive 
additional merchandise and 
support the local nonprofit 
program, UF Health Shands Arts 
in Medicine. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 21
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1
Jacksonville, Florida
Gators vs. Dawgs
FALL EXHIBITION BASEBALL GAME
followed by a concert featuring 
BRETT YOUNG
and CHASE RICE
Tickets
  $15
FLGAJAX.COM
 The Ultimate Florida-Georgia Fan Experience
The Ultimate Florida-Georgia Fan Experience
CONCERT 
PRESENTED 
BY
Be a part of something BIG
GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
20-year-old computer engineering 
sophomore, said he wants to buy 
one from another student because 
he was in class Tuesday when 
they were handed out.
Shin would spend $10 to buy 
a ticket from another student, 
although the tickets were meant 
to be free. Although he identiﬁ  es 
as Republican, he said he doesn’t 
have opinions on Trump Jr. 
He’s not surprised all the tick-
ets were distributed, he said. Shin 
heard that students from “the oth-
er party,” were claiming tickets. 
But, he doesn’t mind this tactic.
“It’s the same concept with 
football tickets,” Shin said. “Hon-
estly, it’s capitalism. I support 
capitalism, I guess.”
Across the street from ticket 
pickup, the #CHOMPTRUMP pro-
test organizers hosted a press conference attended by about 20 
students. 
Protestors are calling for Fair, 
Student Body President Michael 
Murphy and Student Body Trea-
surer Santiago Gutierrez to apolo-
gize and resign. 
The biggest student organiza-
tions on campus — Jewish Stu-
dent Union, Black Student Union, 
Hispanic Student Association, 
Asian American Student Asso-
ciation, Pride Student Union, 
Inter-Residence Hall Association, 
Women’s Student Association, 
Islam on Campus and Volunteers 
for International Student Affairs 
— announced they are relaunch-
ing the Together UF campaign, 
which began when white nation-
alist Richard Spencer spoke at UF 
in 2017.
Israa Ilyas, a 21-year-old in-
dustrial engineering senior and 
president of Islam on Campus, 
attended the press conference in solidarity with her Muslim com-
munity. 
In March, Islam On Campus 
held a vigil for the victims of the 
Christchurch shooting in New 
Zealand. Although students out-
side of her community attended 
to show support, Ilyas said those 
same students have become 
numb to increased oppressive 
dialogue in the U.S. and are silent 
in response to Trump Jr. coming 
to speak. 
“Instead of standing there with 
a candle with a bunch of people, 
it’s not gonna do anything. Those 
lives have been lost,” she said. 
“Continuing to give these people 
a platform is what causes these 
tragedies.”
adeluca@alligator.org
@alexldeluca
aescalante@alligator.org
@AEscalante22
First Amendment.” Crosswalks 
and sidewalks are considered 
public property. 
Sarah Montgomery, wife 
of Reverend J. Fletcher Mont-
gomery who is the rector at 
Holy Trinity, also expressed 
her disdain about the cross-
walks in an email to Commis-
sioner Hayes-Santos.
“While Holy Trinity is wel-
coming to the LGBTQ+ com-
munity, the rainbow ﬂ  ag con-
tinues to be a divisive symbol 
in our very diverse commu-
nity…,” Sarah Montgomery 
wrote in the email. “I do not 
think anyone should be forced 
to cross a political symbol on 
their way to worship.”
Hayes-Santos could not be reached for comment as he is 
out of the country.
Despite reservations from 
some members, Rev. Mont-
gomery shared praise about 
the crosswalks in an email to 
Hayes-Santos. 
Montgomery wrote that he 
was pleased to hear about the 
rainbow crosswalk. 
“It is my sincere hope that 
this colorful symbol of unity 
through diversity will be rec-
ognized as a bridge that will 
bring the people of Gainesville 
ever closer to real unity and 
peace.”
@melissamh_
mhernandez@alligator.orgREACTIONS,  from pg. 1
RAINBOW,  from pg. 1More than 840 tickets were distributed
‘Symbol of unity...’
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
A pedestrian walks past one of the rainbow crosswalks Tuesday evening in downtown Gainesville near Bo 
Diddley Plaza.Alex DeLuca/ Alligator Staff
UF students wait in line to get tickets Tuesday morning for Donald 
Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle’s speaking event at the University 
Auditorium Thursday. 4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICRAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 1222 
W. University Ave.Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its 
Northern end and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside 
the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-
9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection:  World’s Best Coffee, 
Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily since 
1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-
375-0376. Your order will be ready when you arrive 
5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open every-
day 5am — 7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Maude’s Classic Cafe:    Serving 
locally roasted coffee and a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. 
Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the 
Side Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, excellent 
wine selection. Open Late
Electric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!50 SENATORS NOT 
PRESENT AT MEETING
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Senators elected into UF Student 
Government two weeks ago still 
can’t start their new jobs.
SG Senate met Tuesday night 
to send off its retiring senators and 
welcome newly-elected senators into 
their seats. Senators said their good-
byes, which quickly turned into at-
tacks on SG, and students spoke on 
Donald Trump Jr.’s speech at UF 
Thursday during public comment. 
But new senators were never seated. 
After rules and ethics committee 
chair Abigail Morris took role, Sen-
ate President Libby Shaw said Senate 
couldn’t vote on resolutions or cer-
tify the Fall 2019 SG election results 
because it didn’t meet its required 
quorum of 50. Shaw and Senate 
pro-tempore Emily Dunson didn’t 
respond to emails requesting to com-
ment on why 16 senators weren’t 
present.
“Quorum has not been estab-
lished because we only have 34 sen-
ators present,” Shaw said. “We can’t 
vote on anything.” 
One resolution set to be voted 
on was the “Resolution Condemn-
ing the Use of Students’ Activity and Service Fees to Host Donald Trump 
Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle at the 
University of Florida.” 
Anton Kernohan, a 20-year-old 
UF political science sophomore and 
#CHOMPTRUMP protest organizer, 
listed demands from the resolution 
that weren’t voted on, including: 
- The reapportionment of $50,000 
to fund student organizations.
- Increased Counseling and Well-
ness Center availability to students 
who may feel unsafe.
- Requiring diverse speakers at 
UF from ACCENT Speakers Bureau.
- Public apologies and resigna-
tions from Student Body President 
Michael Murphy, Student Body 
Treasurer Santiago Gutierrez and ACCENT Chair Henry Fair. 
“To directly address the individu-
als in the room, I will say you have 
to opportunity to stand on the right 
side of history,” Kernohan said. 
Kernohan said if the demands 
aren’t met by Thursday, there will 
be a protest outside University Au-
ditorium. 
Inspire Caucus Leader Ben Lima 
shared said while the Senate didn’t 
meet quorum, the SG Constitution 
doesn’t explicitly state that quorum 
must be met to conﬁ  rm seats.  The 
constitution states the student Sen-
ate shall validate the election results 
in the next regularly scheduled Sen-
ate meeting, which didn’t occur.  
The SG Rules and Procedures’ rule 18  states the constitution super-
sedes the Rules and Procedures and 
Student Body Statutes. 
“Senate leadership violated the 
Student Body constitution tonight by 
not validating election results,” Lima 
said.    
As the Senate meeting ended, 
newly elected Inspire Sen. Colin 
Solomon said SG leadership isn’t do-
ing its job and is trying to take seats 
away from new senators. 
“The fact that these people are 
elected and they don’t have the de-
cency to show up...it’s disgraceful,” 
he said.
emcavoy@alligator.org 
@EmmaMcAvoy1
WEEK LASTS 
OCT. 6 TO OCT. 12  
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alachua County Commissioner Robert 
“Hutch” Hutchinson and his colleagues 
found a way to celebrate an organization 
involved with livestock and community 
service that he said saved his life.
The Alachua County Commission 
declared Oct. 6 through Oct. 12 as National 
4-H Week in Alachua County during a 
meeting Tuesday. 
Hutchinson said when he was a 
member 55 years ago, he received a blue 
ribbon in the county fair for a lamp he 
made out of chestnut wood. The lamp, 
which sat next to his bed, was struck by 
lightning one night.
“Had it not been properly grounded, it 
might have gotten me,” Hutchinson said. 
“So 4-H saved my life.”
Alachua County 4-H President Madison Hurm, 17, spoke on behalf of the program, 
which has about 2,500 members and more 
than 100 volunteers. Besides raising and 
showing animals such as horses, cows 
and pigs, members give back to the 
community through food drives, military 
care packages and nursing home visits, 
she said. 
The program, part of the UF Institute 
of Food and Agricultural Sciences, is open 
to children 4 to 18 years old, Hurm said. 
She and nine other 4-H members showed 
gratitude for the board’s proclamation. 
“Without them, 4-H wouldn’t be 
possible,” Hurm said. “Having their 
support by everything we do is just a great 
feeling — that they have our backs and we 
have theirs.”
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org SG Senate in limbo while new senators wait for conﬁ  rmation
National 4-H Week proclaimed Sexual battery reported Saturday
UPD LOOKING FOR 
MAN ACCUSED OF ATTACK
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police are trying to ﬁ  nd a man 
accused of sexually battering a woman who 
was on her way to Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium 
Saturday.
The woman was leaving a tailgate on cam-
pus to walk toward the football game. She 
was separated from her friends and met a man 
who led her off Stadium Road between the In-
ﬁ  rmary and the Florida Gym, according to a 
UF public safety alert. 
The alert didn’t specify what occurred fur-
ther than saying it was sexual battery.
Police are looking for a white male, about 
5 feet 8 inches tall between 18 to 25 years old, 
according to the alert. He was described as 
having straight, dark blonde hair and wore 
khaki pants.
The attack is believed to have happened 
at about 3 p.m. It was reported to authorities 
Sunday evening.
This is the fourth sexual attack to occur on UF’s campus since August after Ian Milaski, a 
21-year-old UF resident assistant, was arrested 
and accused of attempted sexual battery.
The most recent on-campus sexual battery 
shared with the public happened in Rawlings 
Hall in September.  
Anyone with information about this most 
recent attack can contact UPD at 352-392-1111 
or use the UPD Silent Witness link at https://
police.uﬂ  .edu/contact/silent-witness/.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org
If you or someone you know has been 
a victim of sexual assault or rape, the 
National Sexual Assault Hotline is 
avalible 24 hours at
 1-800-656-4673. 
If you or someone you know has had 
thoughts of suicide or struggled with 
their mental health, the National Suicide 
Hotline can be reached at 
1-800-273-8255. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
BROADIE WILL TAKE THE 
POSITION IN SPRING 2020 
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer 
Paul Broadie II was one of 62 ap-
plicants competing to be Santa Fe 
College’s next president. Then he 
was one of two. 
Now he isn’t competing against 
anyone at all. 
Broadie was told he would 
be Santa Fe’s next president last 
Thursday. Current President Jack-
son Sasser announced his upcom-
ing retirement in January, and will 
be showing Broadie how the college 
operates before he transitions to 
president in Spring 2020.“I knew 
right away 
that Santa Fe 
College was 
where I want-
ed to spend my 
career,” Broad-
ie said. “I’m 
just excited to 
have the op-
portunity.” 
Edward Bonahue, Santa Fe’s 
provost and vice president for aca-
demic affairs, was the other ﬁ  nalist. 
As president, two major proj-
ects fall into Broadie’s hands: or-
ganizing the new Blount campus 
and continuing the Opening Doors 
Campaign. 
Santa Fe’s current Blount Center in downtown Gainesville will be ex-
panded into a full campus offering 
classes, tutoring, counseling and a 
ﬁ  nancial aid ofﬁ  ce, Broadie said. 
The project, which begins in Janu-
ary 2020, costs $36.4 million and 
will be ﬁ  nished in Spring 2021, ac-
cording to the Gainesville Sun. 
“It’s a really great way to make 
sure that we’re reaching out deep 
into the community and closing eq-
uity gaps,” he said. 
Broadie said he wants to raise 
$10 million for the Opening Doors 
Campaign, which Sasser started 
during his presidential term and 
looks to beneﬁ  t students in Alachua 
and Bradford counties by providing 
scholarships and support services.
Santa Fe Student Body President Kate Santacruz said students have 
been receptive to Broadie. About 40 
showed up for a student forum on 
Sep. 24 that Santacruz moderated.  
“They really did like him be-
cause he was relatable,” she said. 
“He had already done this, and I 
think that’s kind of what gave stu-
dents conﬁ  dence. They felt like we 
were in good hands.” 
Santacruz sits in on Board of 
Trustees and Student Government 
meetings, but she’s noticed a lack 
of conversation. It feels more like 
monologues than dialogues, she 
said. 
“On the student side, it’s more 
like, ‘He said, she said,’ It’s not so 
much about knowing what the col-
lege president thinks,” Santacruz said. “It’s important for student 
leaders to have a conversation with 
the president to know what is actu-
ally going on.” 
Broadie said he wants to make 
sure students, faculty and staff are 
well-informed — a principle that he 
plans to extend into the larger com-
munity.
“Santa Fe will be well represent-
ed through the president through-
out the community,” he said. “It’s 
something I’ve done throughout my 
career, and it’s a very important as-
pect of what a college should be. It 
should be a part of the fabric of the 
community.” 
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.org
THE SPEECH IS THURSDAY AT THE 
UNIVERSITY AUDITORIUM
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle’s 
upcoming speech at UF has divided students, 
with some questioning if the event is legal.
Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle, the president’s se-
nior campaign adviser, will be paid $50,000 for 
speaking at UF on Thursday, according to UF’s 
contract with the speakers. However, ACCENT 
Speakers Bureau, the UF Student Government 
organization bringing the speakers, did not 
specify how the money will be split between 
them, nor what they will talk about.
The Alligator spoke with local lawyers and a 
Federal Election Commission representative to 
examine the legalities of the event. 
The legal experts said the event could be 
considered illegal after the fact if the speakers 
spend the whole time vying for the president’s 
re-election or if the $50,000 funds go toward the 
president’s re-election campaign.
If Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle came to UF for 
a fundraising event, expenses would need to 
be disclosed to the FEC, said the commission’s 
deputy press ofﬁ  cer Chistian Hilland. As of 
now, the event does not fall under the commis-
sion’s jurisdiction.
“That really wouldn’t have to do with the presidential campaign or 
the FEC,” he said. “They’re 
there in their own capac-
ity.” 
While it is tradition 
for people who speak on 
behalf of a campaign to 
attend without pay, this 
tendency is not law, ac-
cording to American Public 
Media’s Marketplace. 
In 2015, after Hillary Clinton announced her 
presidential campaign, her daughter, Chelsea 
Clinton, spoke at different universities, said Mi-
chael Massey, a civil rights attorney at Gaines-
ville’s Massey & Duffy. She was paid and sent 
her fees to the Clinton Foundation, according to 
the Washington Post. 
“At the end of the day, and in 99 percent 
of the cases that I do, it’s ‘follow the money,” 
Massey said. “If you follow the money, you’re 
probably going to ﬁ  gure out what’s really going 
on.” 
The First Amendment protects political 
speech, and it’s unlikely that there won’t be any 
at the event, considering the speakers’ back-
grounds, Massey said. 
“Do [ofﬁ  cials] deny someone the right to 
speak under the First Amendment at a state-
run university because they think there’s go-
ing to be political speech?” Massey said. “That 
would be a violation of the First Amendment, even if the person, in their 
own mind wasn’t going to 
do political speech — just 
denying them based on the 
idea that they could have.”
Frank LoMonte, direc-
tor of UF’s Brechner Center 
for Freedom of Informa-
tion, said it is safe for the 
speakers to cover a variety 
of issues as long as they 
don’t cross lines that come with talking about 
the presidential campaign or commercial sub-
jects for too long. 
If Trump and Guilfoyle stick to discussing 
their roles in the campaign and their takes on 
political issues, the event is ﬁ  ne, LoMonte said.
Another student concern, including 
#CHOMPTRUMP protest organizers, is if the 
event is a conﬂ  ict of interest because Student 
Body President Michael Murphy’s father was a 
campaign contributor to President Trump and 
has connections to Trump Jr. LoMonte said the 
event is legal as long as the process to contract 
the speakers wasn’t coercive.
“If you have an in with somebody famous 
that you can get come to campus, you’d prob-
ably be tempted to want to use that,” LoMonte 
said. 
Organizers of No Nazis UF called for UF 
President Kent Fuchs to resign from his posi-
tion on the basis that he has a responsibility to cancel the event. According to Florida Statutes, 
Fuchs can veto the budget once a year, but only 
sees line items. LoMonte said this process hap-
pens before speakers are selected. 
LoMonte said the content of the keynote ad-
dresses will tie back to many of the protestors’ 
claims. 
“They can share their conservative philoso-
phy,” LoMonte said. “What they can’t do is turn 
the whole thing into a taxpayer underwritten 
campaign rally.”
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgPaul Broadie II selected as new president of Santa Fe College 
‘Follow the money:’ Understanding the legality behind Trump Jr. visit    
ACCENT speakers since April 2017: 
• Josh Peck
• Hasan Minhaj
• Kevin O’Leary
• John Kasich
• Aly Raisman
• Pitbull
• Jay Pharoah
• Byron Pitts
• Jodi Kantor
• Jim Jefferies 
• Dan Mullen
• T erry Crews
• Carly Fiorina
• R.L. Stine
• Kal Penn
• Chelsea Handler
• Ben ShapiroTrump Jr.
Broadie
Guilfoyle
EditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsUF raised its rank but lowered its standards
Editor’s Note: This letter was sent anonymously. It was fact 
checked by The Alligator’s copy desk. 
“The University of Florida is a Top 7 Public University.”
Students, professors, administrators and alumni boast about 
UF’s rising status endlessly, and it is a badge of honor for the 
university. However, UF has become so focused on celebrating 
its title that it seemingly lowered its standards, especially for cam-
pus leaders.
Last month, UF President Kent Fuchs wrote, “as UF moves up 
in the rankings, I wonder if we are at risk of losing the values, 
attributes and culture that are important to who we are.”
It looks like this might be the case.
In yet another recent controversy, the ACCENT Speakers Bu-
reau is using $50,000 of student fees to pay Donald Trump Jr. 
and Kimberly Guilfoyle to speak on campus. It may not be much money for the president’s son and his girlfriend, but it is almost 
10 times the $5,600 Student Body President Michael Murphy’s 
father already donated to the Trump campaign. How could this 
have been approved?
UF administrators justification is that the event’s purpose is 
for the exchange of ideas and that giving student funds to politi-
cal campaign leaders isn’t illegal. 
The administration calls for students to be civil and “dem-
onstrate the highest ideals of our university and set an example 
for our guests and for the nation,” while student programs are 
underfunded, student safety is disregarded and student voices are 
ignored. Fuchs’ fear has already come true.
As UF’s ranking elevates, what will endure? Maybe we should 
look to the university’s leaders for the answer: Their actions seem 
to give a clear explanation.
In honor of former President Jimmy Carter’s 
95th birthday on Oct. 1, I would like to take a 
moment to discuss the most underrated presi-
dent in modern U.S. history. His presidency 
is often considered a failure, despite all of its 
successes. Carter was ahead of his time with his 
foresight into climate change and human rights. 
It would be difficult to find someone who cares 
more about this nation than Carter.
During his presidency, Carter was a proponent 
for the use of alternative energy and renewable resources. His 
background in, and thorough knowledge of, agriculture motivat-
ed these changes. He worked harder in the late 1970s and early 
1980s to prevent climate change than we are in 2019. He pledged 
$10 billion to improve public transit systems to reduce the use 
of single-occupant vehicles, lowering carbon dioxide output. He 
also was the first president to install solar panels at the White 
House. Carter even had 1,000 square meters of solar panels pro-
viding heat at his inauguration.
The former president said in a speech in 1980, “Every act of 
energy conservation like this is more than just common sense, I 
tell you it is an act of patriotism,” according to Slate. Carter aimed 
to obtain 20 percent of the U.S.’ energy needs from renewables 
by the millennium. We should take notes from Carter’s book and 
begin to care more for our planet. 
Carter’s strong suit was foreign policy, despite what his repu-
tation and involvement with the Iran Hostage Crisis. Carter was 
responsible for the first Middle East treaty between Israel and 
Egypt, according to his former domestic policy advisor, Stuart Ei-
zenstat. The Camp David Treaty was a beacon to the successes in 
his presidency partly because it was deemed impossible. He also worked to improve the U.S.’ foreign relationships. He established 
a diplomatic relationship with China and granted Panama control 
over the Panama Canal, finishing Nixon’s work. Outside of the 
White House, the 39th president continues to work 
on a global scale. 
The Carter Center, founded in 1982 by Carter and 
his wife, Rosalynn, is committed “to human rights 
and the alleviation of human suffering. It seeks to 
prevent and resolve conflicts, enhance freedom and 
democracy, and improve health,” according to its 
website. Even beyond the presidency, Carter com-
bines his skills and passions to improve human lives 
across the planet. 
The Carter Center works on developing nations 
by providing access to clean water and health care. It also aims 
to promote democracy by overseeing elections. As well as co-
founding the Carter Center, the former president received the 
Nobel Peace Prize in 2002 due to “decades of untiring effort to 
find peaceful solutions to international conflicts, to advance de-
mocracy and human rights, and to promote economic and social 
development.” 
Carter serves his community by leading Sunday school at Ma-
ranatha Baptist Church in his hometown, Plains, Georgia, and 
builds Habitat for Humanity homes. Despite breaking his hip in 
May, the Georgia native will be constructing houses again this 
year. The former president won’t let anything get in his way of 
serving his fellow Americans. 
We should all strive to be more like Carter. Find something 
you’re passionate about and devote your life to it. Whether it’s 
climate change, human rights, healthcare, democracy or all of the 
above, we can make the world a better place by following role 
models like Carter. 
Happy birthday, President Carter. Thank you for your service. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English juniorLetter to the Editor
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.How to be safe in 
an uncertain world
As college students, we’re used to neglecting 
our personal needs. Endless nights of study-
ing and partying comes with the job descrip-
tion, and we tend to remove taking care of 
our health from the equation.
In light of recent events, we ask that you make 
yourself a priority.
The world is a dangerous place, especially when 
you’re surrounded by people that may not agree with 
you. We recently published an editorial explaining 
the dangers of activism and having an opinion, but 
now we would like to address the ways in which you 
can protect yourself while speaking your mind.
Protests are a great way to make your opinion 
heard, but they are also great places to get hurt in 
the process. Many students have yet to experience the 
true nature of a protest, and the ones planned against 
Donald Trump Jr.’s speech might be one of the most 
difficult places to start.
So how do you adequately prepare for a protest?
Organizers want to ensure that students are cared 
for on the day of the protest, said #CHOMPTRUMP 
spokesperson Jovanna Liuzzo. Participants can ex-
pect water stations, cool-down stations, a medic and 
possibly even a legal observer on site. Liuzzo said the 
student’s safety is one of their top priorities. 
Seeing that UF failed to establish any of these ser-
vices in recent protests, this level of concern can’t be 
expected from the university — unless keeping stu-
dents safe equates to spending $500,000 on security, 
according to Campus Reform. 
Despite the precautions in place, it is not the sole 
responsibility of UF or the protest organizers to ensure 
your safety. There are some simple measures that you 
can take to ensure sure you leave happy, healthy and 
satisfied with your public showcase of mild anarchy.
Family and friends are important, especially when 
there is a potential for you to get hurt. Before you 
participate in a protest, make sure someone knows 
where you’ll be or what you’ll be doing. 
This one should be obvious, but make sure to stay 
hydrated. You can’t stop corruption if you’re thirsty, 
and you certainly can’t make a statement if you pass 
out. 
If, by chance, you see someone else pass out, make 
sure to help them. We are our own best assets. Look-
ing out for another person could potentially save their 
life, or at least save them from an expensive medical 
bill. 
Of course, using only these few tips won’t always 
work. When we are faced with people who have an 
ideology that goes against our own, things tend to get 
hostile. Don’t let your feelings overwhelm you. Try 
to think about the situation, your surroundings and 
what you truly want to accomplish. 
You might be fighting for a cause, but it would be 
nothing without people to back it up.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORHonoring hero Jimmy Carter
Hannah Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Gators soccer breaks into top 20
It’s the ﬁ  rst time they have been ranked all season. 
Pg. 12THE HIPPODROME’S 
UPCOMING SHOW 
PREMIERS OCT. 11
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff WriterThe Hippodrome Theatre is con-
tinuing its season theme of “Break-
ing Boundaries” by posing to au-
diences an impossible question: 
“What would you say to the father 
of the man who killed your son?”
“The Blameless,” written by Nick Gandiello, is the Hippodrome’s sec-
ond show this season and is playing 
from Oct. 11 through Nov. 3. 
“The Blameless” gives the audi-
ence, profound insight on an un-
thinkable loss — the Garcia family 
honoring the one-year anniversary 
of the death of their son, Jesse, who 
died in a school shooting. The eve-
ning is further complicated by their 
dinner plans, as the Garcias invite 
to their home the father of the man 
who took their son’s life.
The show dives into a pool of 
political and emotional severity with 
an artful approach, using the humor, 
heartbreak and ultimate hope of the 
Garcia family to bring to life a situ-
ation that, for most, would be un-
imaginable.
“It’s an important journey,” 
Stephanie Lynge, the director of the 
show, said. “I think it opens up a 
great human space for us all to be 
in together.”Diana and Alex Garcia, portrayed 
by actors Maryann Towne and Al-
berto Bonilla respectively, paint a 
stellar picture of two parents doing 
everything they can to survive a gut-
wrenching loss. Though neither ac-
tor has any children, audiences are 
left without any doubt that the death 
of their son turned the Garcias’ lives 
upside down — and they are desper-
ately trying to put them back togeth-
er again, even a year later.
Undeniably the most complex 
character to empathize with is Drew 
Davis, the father of the man who 
took the lives of Jesse and ﬁ  ve other 
students, played by actor Tim Alt-
meyer. Altmeyer’s Drew is a man 
with unthinkable sorrows; as others 
call for justice and refer to his son 
as a monster, Drew barely manages 
to grieve the loss of the boy that he 
loved. He is a character audiences 
don’t go in expecting to sympathize 
with, but Altmeyer’s organic acting leaves it impossible for audiences to 
hate him.
“The Blameless” is a show that is 
as emotional as it is enjoyable, dis-
cussing a controversial topic in a do-
mestic, personal way that cannot be 
found in the news. The show doesn’t 
offer answers, but instead provides 
closure, and it is this hope for the fu-
ture that best characterizes the jour-
ney of the play.
“I think we become acutely 
aware of daily life when somebody 
whom we possibly take for granted 
is gone,” Altmeyer said. “The idea 
of grief and loss being explored, not 
legal battles, not the legal ramiﬁ  ca-
tions of the issue, the human loss, 
that is why I like this play so much.”
“The Blameless” premieres this 
Friday at 8 p.m. Tickets can be pur-
chased on the Hippodrome’s website 
now.
@marcar313
marlenacarrillo@uﬂ  .edu
ONE OF 2019’S BEST AND 
MOST DIVISIVE FILMS YET
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
Love it or hate it, this ﬁ  lm pres-
ents a never-before-seen motion pic-
ture portrayal of the iconic Batman 
supervillain. 
“Joker” premiered at the Ven-
ice Film Festival in September and 
waltzed out with the festival’s big-
gest prize, the Golden Lion, for best 
ﬁ  lm. This immediate acclaim was 
soon followed by debates over the 
ﬁ  lm’s dark themes, causing theaters 
to ban fans from dressing up to see 
it. Despite the controversy, “Joker” 
broke the U.S. box ofﬁ  ce record for 
October openings — debuting with 
$93.5 million in domestic earnings.
Joaquin Phoenix plays Arthur 
Fleck, a clown for hire who has nev-
er had a good break or happy day 
in his life. His growing indignation 
pushes him over the edge, from so-
cial outcast to mass murderer. 
Arthur lives a pitiful existence on 
the dangerous margins of society. 
When he is not making people un-
easy with his uncontrollable laugh-
ter, which is induced by his anxiety, 
he kills time at his thankless job or in 
the dimly lit shoe-box apartment he 
shares with his mother. As the ﬁ  lm 
goes on, his childlike questions and contemplations about humanity’s 
cruelness boils into a deep-seated 
contempt.  
Arthur’s rail-thin body seems to 
grow weaker and increasingly fa-
tigued as his character faces heart-
crushing rejections. His uncontrol-
lable laughter looks as though it 
physically pains him. His misery is 
etched on his deeply creased face. 
This changes as Arthur begins to 
look healthier and livelier as he tran-
sitions into his Joker persona.
Gotham City is a wasteland in 
this new incarnation. Director Todd 
Phillips, best known for “The Hang-
over” trilogy, and cinematographer 
Lawrence Sher create a Gotham that 
bears an uncanny resemblance to 
the grittiness of New York City in 
Martin Scorcese’s “Taxi Driver.” In-
stead of Robert De Niro delivering 
lines about his disdain for the city’s 
people, it’s Phoenix.  
The ﬁ  lm’s brightest move was 
casting Robert De Niro to play a 
famous talk show host, closely re-
sembling Jerry Lewis’ character in 
Scorsese’s “The King of Comedy.” In 
the ﬁ  lm, it was De Niro who was the 
talentless comedian who attempts 
to breathe the same air as his idol. 
Now, the roles are reversed, and he 
is the one in the big chair looking at 
an obsessive fan. 
Phoenix’s Oscar-worthy perfor-
mance leaves nothing to be desired. 
He completely embodies the dark-ness of Arther Fleck’s collective 
life experiences. His changing 
moods make for an unnerving 
viewing experience. Phoenix’s 
role features a lot of physicality;   
he lost upwards of 50 pounds in 
preparation for the ﬁ  lm.
For the entirety of its over-two-
hour runtime, “Joker” is clouded 
by the dark wish fulﬁ  llments of its 
central character. Arthur’s delusion-
al thoughts are presented as they 
would be in his mind; leaving view-
ers to question what is fantasy and 
what is reality. For a movie about 
one of ﬁ  ction’s most unreliable nar-
rators, audiences should expect 
nothing less. 
“Joker” is shot gorgeously and 
submerges the viewer into the 
murky waters of this character’s 
subconscious. Phoenix gives a per-
formance that can undoubtedly con-
tend with every on-screen version 
of the infamous supervillain. Fur-
thermore, the cello-heavy score, by 
Hildur Gudnadóttir, does a great job 
of making suspenseful scenes even 
more nail-biting. The penultimate 
climax, where the chaos really un-
folds, features a great payoff to the 
momentum that had been brewing 
since the opening scene. 
Phillips’ “Joker,” forces the view-
er to have conﬂ  icting thoughts on 
each character. There are no clear 
“good guys” or “bad guys.” The peo-
ple of Gotham are just as terrible as 
the villain. A mother snaps at Arthur 
for attempting to make her child 
smile by making funny expressions. 
Arthur’s talk-show-host idol turns out to be just as smug as the elite 
businessmen who jumped him, and 
his “caring” mother is revealed to be 
quite the opposite. Gotham is over-
ﬂ  owing with wealthy, middle-class 
and poor people who are all looking 
for any excuse to tip into cruelty. 
“Joker” is an allegory for what 
happens in a society where cruelty 
reigns and empathy is forgotten. This 
ﬁ  lm may ask viewers to empathise 
with its central protagonist, but it 
doesn’t ask us to forgive Arthur for 
his increasingly evil actions. The ﬁ  lm 
knows he is deranged and should 
not be romanticized, but merely un-
derstood. This is a testament to Phil-
lips’s sharp direction, and Phoenix’s emotional performance. 
“Joker” is a ﬁ  lm that is complete-
ly open to interpretation. It offers no 
easy answers to the unsettling ques-
tions it raises about a cruel society 
in decline. The ﬁ  lm has clear inspira-
tions, and sometimes they can be so 
glaring that they momentarily blind 
the viewer. Nevertheless, Todd Phil-
lips does a great job in carving out 
his own space in the oversaturated 
anti-hero movie market.   
In a world where comic book ad-
aptations are a dime a dozen, at least 
“Joker” begs you to ask questions. 
Score 8/10
@chrstophercann
christophercann@uﬂ  .edu
Areas of focus for UF-LSU matchup
What Gators football needs to do as they prepare to face the 
Tigers in Baton Rouge on Saturday. Pg.11Photo Courtesy of Michael Eaddy
(L -R) Actors Alberto Bonilla, Tim Altmeyer, Maylin Castro and 
Maryann T owne at the dinner table in the Hippodrome’s “The 
Blameless. ” 
Courtesy of  Niko T avernise and Warner Bros. Pictures
Joaquin Phoenix as Arthur Fleck in Warner Bros. Pictures, 
Village Roadshow Pictures and BRON Creative’s tragedy 
“JOKER, ” a Warner Bros. Pictures release.
‘The Blameless’ opens conversation with story of loss, hope
Rate and Review: ‘Joker’
THEATRE
MOVIESTHE BACOPA LITERARY REVIEW 
PUBLSIHED  ITS 10TH EDITON IN 
SEPTEMBER
By Samantha Scribano
Avenue Staff Writer
There was not an empty seat in the 
room, yet people continued to ﬁ  le in. The 
air buzzed with excited chatter then settled 
to a quiet calm. Only the turn of a page and 
a single voice broke the silence.
Eleven local authors were invited to 
read their newly published mix of prose 
and poetry pieces at the Bacopa Readings 
Sunday at the Millhopper Branch Library. 
Each author’s work was accepted into the 
2019 edition of the Bacopa Literary Review.
The Bacopa Literary Review is an in-
ternational print journal published by the 
Writers Alliance of Gainesville. Each year, 
writers, editors and fans gather for a read-
ing to celebrate the new edition.
While this was the 10th annual event 
and publication, it was the ﬁ  rst year all 
local authors had the opportunity to read 
their published pieces to the audience. 
Roughly 50 people gathered to hear them 
speak.
This year, 11 local pieces were added to 
the journal, exceeding the editing team’s 
expectations. They chose approximately 
80 pieces blindly from over 1,170 interna-
tional submissions, unexpectedly revealing 
a high proportion of local talent.  
J.N. Fishhawk, 49-year-old freelance writ-
er and poetry editor of the journal, said they 
choose the pieces based on merit.
“Tough choices were made,” he said. “It was a process of narrowing it down 
to a pool of the best quality pieces, and 
then choosing the best of the best in each 
genre.” 
Fishhawk is a co-host of the Poetry 
Jam, an open-mic poetry reading taking 
place every Thursday at the Civic Media 
Center, and he strongly encouraged his 
peers to partake in the submission process 
for Bacopa.
J. Nishida, 48-year-old writer and moth-
er, took Fishhawk’s advice and it paid off.  
She was one of the local writers published 
in the international journal this year.
“He commanded that everyone he knew 
submit something, and I obeyed,” Nishida 
said.
She ﬁ  rst shared her creative writing at 
one of the Poetry Jam events. Now, Nishi-
da is a co-host of the event with Fishhawk 
and continues to grow as a writer.
Nishida’s poem, “Pantoum: Admirable 
Men,” addresses repetitive aggressions 
against women in society using para-
phrased voices from men she either ad-
mires or people around her that she has 
grown up with.  
“I want to emphasize that all of the 
voices, these are paraphrased voices from 
poets, they’re from artists, they’re from 
historians,” Nishida said. “One is a monk, 
one is a Dalai Lama.  All of these are people 
that genuinely, I admire as human beings, 
or the people around me, the people that 
I’ve grown up with. That’s what makes it 
complicated. Because I’m not interested 
in attacking anyone, I’m just interested in 
pointing out the attacks.”
Laughter and tears were just two of the audience reactions to the writers. They 
followed along in their personal copies of 
the journal, transforming what might have 
been a solitary activity into a shared ex-
perience.
The writers’ lives colored the pieces 
they presented at the reading, putting them 
in a vulnerable position behind the micro-
phone.  
Regardless of the sensitive subject mat-
ter and variation across pieces, the room 
ﬁ  lled with applause at the end of each 
reading.  
Mary Bast, senior editor and ﬁ  ction edi-tor of the journal, was touched to see the 
personal presentation this year.  She said 
the past readings have felt more formal 
and less emotional.
She urges people of all ages to engage in 
the writing process to help make a positive 
impact on society.
“Your words can make a difference and 
the world needs help,” she said.
@samscribano98
sscribano@alligator.org
THIS WILL BE THE DUO’S 
THIRD GAINESVILLE 
SHOW THIS YEAR
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Staff Writer
Stereo RV will continue to fos-
ter a community which connects 
with their deeply human music as 
they play their ﬁ  rst headlining gig 
at the Heartwood Soundstage on 
Oct. 27. 
It will be the third show the 
Portland-based husband-and-wife 
duo play in Gainesville this year 
as they close out their STYLE Fall 
Tour. The show will start at 8 
p.m. and and will feature indie-
folk duo Faith & Majesty. 
Myra Gleason is Stereo RV’s 
33-year-old singer-songwriter. Her 
husband, Gabe Gleason, 26, beat-
boxes and plays the harmonica and 
acoustic guitar. Together they cre-
ate emotional pop music, which 
Myra Gleason said is rooted in her 
experiences working with children 
in the foster care system.
“When we ﬁ  rst started writ-
ing, we were writing all these lit-
tle love songs,” she said. “It was 
really hard for me to go back to writing love songs when I expe-
rienced so many [children] who 
never had a complete foundation 
to it.”
She said part of the way she 
helped those children, who she 
worked with for about seven 
years, was by taking them to the 
studio and allowing them to re-
cord their writing or poetry.
“It became this really amazing 
experience, being able to show 
somebody how to express them-
selves through song,” she said.
The duo’s story found its way 
to Brandon Telg, the 30-year-old 
city leader of Gainesville’s Sofar 
Sounds, in 2017 through an on-
line article. 
“It was really a 21st century 
connection,” Telg said. “I don’t 
think it could have happened in 
another generation.”
He said their work resonated 
with him because he was in the 
process of adopting his son out of 
foster care. 
“I connected on their heart 
and what they’re trying to give to 
the world with their music,” Telg 
said.
In September 2018, he invited 
them to play at Sofar Sounds. When they returned to play 
Heartwood Music Festival a few 
months later, Myra and Gabe 
Gleason were surprised at the 
turnout.
“We were expecting maybe 10 
people to be there,” she said. “We 
had standing room only. I think 
people saw the shock on our fac-
es. One guy was like, ‘We’re here 
to see you.’”
Telg said the duo building a 
“huge, die-hard fan base” in such 
a short time is unlike the experi-
ence of many other artists.
“They have an ability to really 
break down the artist-audience 
barrier and connect as humans,” 
he said.
The duo quit their jobs one and 
a half years ago and have spent 
that time touring, curating their 
set list and focusing on growing 
an “organic fan base.”
“Live shows are our absolute 
favorite,” Myra Gleason said. “It 
gives us the chance to explain the 
heart behind the songs and the 
stories. We get to look at people, 
and hug them, and have the most 
fantastic conversations.”
She said their music aims to 
remind people of their humanity.“We want people to remember 
that, one, it’s hard being human, 
and it’s totally OK to be where 
you’re at, and two, the talents 
and gifts that they have are abso-
lutely needed,” she said. 
Myra Gleason said Gainesville 
has been the highlight of their 
touring experience.
“Being from the West Coast, 
having a following in a place you 
didn’t know you would have one 
is really cool to us.”
She said although they’re not 
in the inner circle of Gainesville’s 
music scene, they know a lot of 
artists in the community. 
“We’re like the in-laws,” Gabe 
Gleason joked.
Myra Gleason also said word-
of-mouth contributed to their ex-
posure in Gainesville.
“We had 10 people reach 
out for house shows [while in 
Gainesville], and we could only 
accept three of them,” she said. 
“They were all packed.”
She said their ﬁ  rst headlining 
show later this month will test if 
their music “is a real thing.”
“We’ve done so many house 
shows,” she said. “The next step 
in this city, and this market, would be, let’s see if we actu-
ally have numbers to do ticketed 
shows. It’s our ﬁ  rst stab at our 
ﬁ  rst headlining gig.”
Their Gainesville show will be 
the last of their STYLE Fall Tour, 
which is based around “STYLE,” 
a single released Sept. 20 and 
draws inspiration from popular 
artist Lizzo.
“We needed to write a song 
that’s just about owning who you 
are and not even apologizing for 
it,” Myra Gleason said.
Once their tour concludes, 
they will return home to Oregon 
and begin preparing for their next 
release in early 2020.  
“We’re really looking forward 
to ending our last tour of the year 
in Gainesville, because it has 
been such a huge support to us, 
even since the beginning,” Myra 
Gleason said. “It’s magic, the way 
you guys take care of artists and 
support them. If Gainesville sees 
something they like, they just 
hold on to it.”
@morgangoldwich
mgoldwich@alligator.org8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
Samantha Scribano //  Alligator Staff
Hugh E. Suggs reads his piece, “From One Field to Another, ” to the audience. 
Local authors celebrate their newly-published work
Stereo RV to headline at Heartwood Soundstage
LIFESTYLE
MUSIC SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13DThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Part-time bilingual office assistant (English/
Spanish) for law office. Please send your 
resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com.    10-21-
19-8-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished8 Electronics 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
SOLUTION ON PG. 10SOLUTION ON PG. 1010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
SHARED NANNY in a family home. I have 2 
full time spots available. Providing exceptional 
& loving care for children of busy professionals. 
Bilingual. Small groups. FT or PT. Over 25 yrs 
exp. FHdaycare.com 352-213-5375    10-14-
19-10-15
Today in history — 1967: Socialist revolutionary 
Ernesto "Che" Guevera is assassinated by the 
U.S. backed Bolivian army.
PhD tutor in Spanish or English
$20 per hour.
donaldar@cox.net 352-332-1818       10-14-
5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
*Upto $3,500/ Month
Taking Paid Surveys Online. 
Hurry, Jump to:  www.SurveysLifestyle.com          
10-14-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.20 Events/Notices 15 Services
1.  Board, launch
1.  Baby bird of prey 5.  ____ Kelly
2.  ____ statement6.  Putty ____
3.  Dizzy, staggering 7.  Platforms
4.  WelcomesRABMKE
TGAEELRGCAE
FIKEN
BKALTEN
ELIRGENSGSAET
TERES GANSWERS: 1A-Embark  5A-Grace  6A-Knife  7A-Stages
1D-Eaglet  2D-Blanket  3D-Reeling  4D-Greets  B-Great Lakes10-9-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are approx. 35,000 
islands in the ____ ____. BONUS
By Craig Stowe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/09/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/09/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, October 9, 2019
ACROSS
1 Washington’s 
Sea-__ Airport
4 Bubble bath spot
7 Model S and 
Model X electric 
cars
13 “Snowy” bird
14 “Movin’ __”: 
“The Jeffersons” 
theme
16 World Cup chant
17 Chinese 
chairman
18 Henry VIII’s sixth 
wife Catherine
19 Like an ideal 
situation
20 How some get 
across town
22 “I’m __ a robot”: 
phrase with 
captcha tests
24 Percussion pair
25 Sack opening?
27 Leg bone
29 Holly’s “Raising 
Arizona” role
31 Summer in 
Quebec
32 “Orinoco Flow” 
singer
35 Good scents
36 “The Giving Tree” 
author Silverstein
38 __ pal
39 Fire truck wail
40 Toronto-to-D.C. 
dir.
41 Handy
43 Lodge member
44 Guthrie at 
Woodstock
46 Walk-in health 
facility
47 City on the 
Rhône
49 Word with drum 
or trumpet
50 Distorts, as data
51 Do over
53 Royal Norwegian 
name
54 Let up
56 __-mo replay
58 “The Jetsons” 
son
61 Chanted phrase
63 Word on U.S. 
coins
65 Luau instrument
66 Consume67 Personnel note
68 “Roth” savings 
plan
69 Political pundit 
Myers
70 __ Antonio
71 Street covering
DOWN
1 Grant’s __: NYC 
landmark
2 See 7-Down
3 1971 Kubrick 
film, with “A”
4 Big cheese
5 Article in El País
6 “Sick insult, 
dude!”
7 With 2-Down, 
type of zone in 
which parking is 
restricted
8 Nobelist Root
9 Declining in old 
age
10 Easy pickings, 
and a hint to the 
four other longest 
Down answers
11 Et __: and others
12 Dispatched
15 Clue character 
with a bow tie21 “Yu-Gi-Oh!” 
genre
23 10% donation
26 Faux __
28 Four-winged flier
29 Artistic stand
30 Deadpan
33 New Haven 
student
34 Smart fellows?
37 Yoga-inspired 
athletic brand
40 Closes forcibly42 __ pool
45 Irish actor 
Stephen
46 Fiscal VIP
48 Brought home
52 Song section
54 In the thick of
55 Downfall
57 Small bills
59 Gumbo ingredient
60 Junior or senior
62 Had a burger, say
64 Actress Thurman
By Debra Hamel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/08/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/08/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 8, 2019
ACROSS
1 How headless 
chickens may run
5 Argo and Titanic
10 Email asking for 
money, perhaps
14 Pedi partner
15 “A Confederacy 
of Dunces” author 
John Kennedy __
16 Gyro bread
17 Ocular arch-
shaping cosmetic
19 Like Felix Unger, 
e.g.
20 Forbidden 
regions
21 Mom’s brother
22 __ Lanka
23 1/60 of an hr.
25 “The cow is of 
the bovine __; / 
One end is moo, 
the other, milk”: 
Ogden Nash
26 Robby the Robot, 
e.g.
32 Miss. neighbor
33 High school stat
34 Loewe’s lyricist
37 Dog pack leader
40 One or more
42 Spanish “I love 
you”
43 Get by
45 Article in Die Zeit
47 Up to, briefly
48 Backyard cooker
52 N, E, S or W
54 Golf teacher
55 Portuguese saint
56 UPS driver’s 
assignment
58 Not one to pass 
up a porterhouse
64 King of Siam’s 
Broadway dance 
partner
65 Tentative “It’s 
a date” ... or a 
hint to the starts 
of 17-, 26-, and 
48-Across
66 The Stones’ 
Jagger
67 One-eighty
68 Distort, as rules
69 Throbbing pain
70 Pro bono promise
71 Boats like Noah’s
DOWN
1 Last word before 
digging in?
2 BLT condiment3 10 C-notes
4 Put the __ on: 
squelch
5 Attic function
6 Sewing machine 
inventor Elias
7 Corn Belt state
8 Outmoded TV 
type
9 __ symbol
10 Wing 
measurement
11 Where Reds play
12 In the least
13 2018 Best Actor 
Rami __
18 Hard to find, to 
Caesar
21 Like some 
expectations
24 Feeling poorly
26 Palindromic 
address
27 “Enchanted” film 
title girl
28 Naval officer on a 
cereal box
29 Beer initialism
30 “I’m on it!”
31 “We __ 
Farmers”: 
insurance slogan
35 Pianist Gilels
36 Winning streak
38 “Yeah, right!”39 With jaw 
dropped
41 Affirmative vote
44 Do something 
human?
46 Stephen King’s 
kid lit counterpart
49 Awaken
50 Sometimes it’s 
unmitigated
51 Self-moving 
vacuum
52 Certain queen’s 
bailiwick53 Greek column 
type
57 Word before part 
or heart
59 Sufficient, in texts
60 “Back forty” unit
61 Swerve
62 Kindle technology
63 Gps. of drinks
65 “The lowest form 
of humor—when 
you don’t think 
of it first”: Oscar 
Levant
10/07/09
Even Exchange
answers
1. Plate, Place
2. Sister, Sitter
3. Donkey, Monkey
4. Radio, Ratio
5. Think, Thick6. Gaggle, Giggle
7. Alter, Altar
8. Tamer, Timer
9. Locket, Locker
10. Picky, PinkyPUZZLE SOLUTIONS
belowSOLUTION BELOWFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Swain and Davis earn SEC Player of the Week honors
Receiver Freddie Swain and safety Shawn Davis were named SEC Offensive 
Player of the Week and SEC Co-Defensive Player of the Week, respectively.
Swain had 146 receiving yards and a touchdown Saturday, and Davis tallied 
an interception and ﬁ  ve tackles.UF tight end Kyle Pitts was 
named honorable mention for 
the John Mackey Tight End 
of the Week award. Pitts had 
eight catches for a career-high 
65 yards against Auburn. 
Kyle Trask perfectly embodied a com-
mon coachspeak cliche as he ad-
dressed reporters on Monday.
Trask, a redshirt junior quarter-
back, was sporting a compression 
sleeve and a knee brace hidden behind the 
lectern at which he stood. A place that he 
would not have seen any time at if it weren’t 
for a season-ending ankle injury quarterback 
Feleipe Franks suffered against Kentucky.
Since then, Trask has assumed Franks’ 
spot on the podium  and under center, 
which brings us to that cliche he represents.
Next man up.
Coaches and players alike utter the three-word phrase 
in response to questions about injured (or in other cases, 
suspended) teammates. While it can largely be discount-
ed as “just an expression” or coachspeak, Trask was the 
next man up for Franks, and he has delivered.
Since he became QB1, the redshirt junior has led a 
comeback on the road, thrown for over 800 yards on bet-
ter than a 70 percent completion rate and is 3-0 as the 
starter. His most recent feat was taking down a top-10 
team in Auburn that, at the time, had the best resume in 
college football.
Trask is the most prominent display of this cliche on 
the team, but he’s not the only one. The next, next man 
up showed up in a big way on Saturday. When Trask left 
the game with a knee injury in the second quarter, Em-
ory Jones stepped in seamlessly and led a scoring drive.
Jones went 5 for 7 for 28 yards, added 13 yards on 
the ground and set the Gators up for an Evan McPherson 41-yard ﬁ  eld goal. 
This scoring drive forced Auburn to 
score a touchdown, not kick a ﬁ  eld goal, 
to take the lead (they ultimately did neither 
and were shutout for the remainder of the 
game). But it was not only strategic; it was a 
moral victory, too.
The crowd of more than 90,000 had no 
clue if the quarterback curse had descended 
upon Gainesville and taken a second signal 
caller from their team. But in that moment, 
Jones showed that he too could be plugged 
into the machine and execute.
Florida has had three different leading rushers in 
six games and four different leading receivers. Running 
backs Lamical Perine, Dameon Pierce and even wide re-
ceiver Josh Hammond have all led UF’s rushing attack in 
separate games. On the other hand, receivers Hammond, 
Van Jefferson, Tyrie Cleveland and Freddie Swain have 
all led the team in receiving.
The Auburn game was the ﬁ  rst time in 2019 a Florida 
receiver surpassed 100 yards, and not for lack of talent. 
A deep, unselﬁ  sh receiver room can be credited for that.
The next guy on the depth chart can always step in 
and make a catch, or run for a ﬁ  rst down or quarterback 
a top-10 program.
I guess that’s part of that Gator standard coach Dan 
Mullen preaches
Trask, despite the brace, will be a go for Florida’s sec-
ond straight top-10 bout against LSU this weekend. But 
were he not, the next man up would surely be there to 
take his place.Florida deﬁ  nes 'next man up' mentalityKyle's Files
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Kyle Trask is 3-0 as a starter since taking over for 
Feleipe Franks. He has thrown for over 800 yards and is completing 
more than 70% of his passes.
Kyle Wood
Twitter: @Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFOOTBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
The Gators haven’t faced LSU in 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, in nearly 
three years. The rivals played their 
last two games in Gainesville thanks 
to an arrangement stemming from 
Hurricane Matthew in 2016.
Only a handful of Florida players 
were on the roster for that game, but 
those that were remember it well.“That was crazy,” redshirt senior 
center Nick Buchanan said. “Death 
Valley is an unbelievable atmo-
sphere when you go down there.”
This year’s bout has higher stakes 
than that one did. Both teams are 
ranked in the top 10, but the Gators 
ﬁ  nd themselves nearly two touch-
down underdogs against the Tigers. 
If they’re going to replicate the suc-
cess they had against Auburn in the 
Swamp in a hostile road environ-ment, there are several aspects of 
their game they should focus on.
Forcing mistakes from Burrow
LSU quarterback Joe Burrow has 
been one of the best passers in the 
nation through ﬁ  ve games. He’s 
thrown for 1,864 yards, 22 touch-
downs and only three interceptions. 
He’s second in the FBS in passing ef-
ﬁ  ciency — trailing Oklahoma’s Jalen 
Hurts — and has three games with at 
least ﬁ  ve touchdown passes. 
He likely presents the toughest 
challenge UF’s secondary will face 
in the regular season. That’s why it’s 
imperative the Gators force him to 
turn the ball over.
Luckily for UF, that’s its special-
ity. Florida's defense is tied for ﬁ  rst 
in the nation with nine interceptions.
Graduate transfer edge rusher 
Jonathan Greenard has revitalized 
Florida’s defensive line, and the unit 
is tied for second in the nation in 
sacks with 24. Bringing the pressure 
was key in the victory on Saturday.
UF harassed Auburn's true fresh-
man quarterback Bo Nix all game 
long, forcing three interceptions.
Burrow threw two picks and lost 
a fumble in Florida’s upset victory over LSU last year. With the way the 
Tigers’ offense is clicking, it could 
take a similar performance from one 
of the best defenses in the nation to 
prevent a shootout.
Giving Trask time to throw
Redshirt junior quarterback Kyle 
Trask has been phenomenal in his 
ﬁ  rst three starts, as long as he’s 
granted protection.
He has six passing touchdowns 
and two picks since taking over for 
the injured Feleipe Franks, but was 
strip-sacked three times by an Au-
burn defensive line that may be the 
best in the nation. LSU’s defensive 
line will present a different challenge 
to UF’s front, which has struggled 
this season, according to John Heve-
sy, UF’s co-offensive coordinator/of-
fensive line coach.
“I think they’re probably — and 
not to take anything away from Au-
burn by any means — but they’re a 
little more athletic in terms of pass 
rushing and using their hands and 
getting around things,” he said. “So 
to me it’s a matter of, we’ve got to 
stop the push and still be ready to 
sit down and get ready for that coun-
ter.”
Florida’s turnovers gave Auburn 
opportunities to stay in the game, 
but the Tigers failed to capitalize. 
Against Burrow and LSU, the Gators may not be so lucky.
Silencing Death Valley
Receiver Tyrie Cleveland knows 
how it feels to quiet the raucous 
Tiger Stadium crowd. His 98-yard 
game-winning touchdown catch in 
2016 shocked a heavily favored LSU. 
“It feels good, just the whole 
crowd to go silent like that,” he said. 
“It’s big momentum for us.”
It will likely require big plays 
like that to take the crowd — which 
should number close to a full-capaci-
ty 102,321 — out of the game.
Receiver Van Jefferson also 
played at LSU in his time with Ole 
Miss. He said the crowd noise can be 
a difference-maker.
“That atmosphere was crazy,” he 
said. “That’s probably the loudest 
stadium I’ve been in and played in.”
Florida’s crowd made communi-
cation difﬁ  cult for Nix last week, and 
the Gators face the same challenge 
going on the road this week. But Bu-
chanan said that these are the games 
the team lives for.
“You know it’s going to be loud,” 
he said. “They’ve got everything you 
can ask for when it comes to a big-
time college football atmosphere.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgAreas of focus for UF-LSU matchup
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Receiver Tyrie Cleveland caught a game-winning 98-yard 
touchdown pass the last time Florida played LSU in Death Valley.
12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeSOCCER
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Six straight wins.
Following Florida soccer’s 
3-1 victory over Texas A&M 
on Sunday, the United 
Soccer Coaches’ poll placed 
the Gators on the list of 25 
for the ﬁ  rst time in 2019. UF 
barely missed last week’s cut 
with the most votes (44) of 
any team left off. However, 
after a sixth consecutive 
victory and a 4-0 SEC start 
to conference play, Florida 
found itself at No. 19 on 
Monday’s ballot.
A month ago, this recent 
success seemed unlikely. 
This season had a 2018 
feel to it when coach Becky 
Burleigh’s squad dropped 
four straight, something UF 
did twice last season. 
However, a 4-0 
annihilation of Florida Gulf 
Coast on Sept. 12 seemingly altered the attitude of the 
entire team. UF (8-4, 4-0 SEC) 
has dramatically  improved.  
Here are a few reasons why: 
Susi Espinoza’s aggression 
In those six wins, Susi 
Espinoza has only allowed 
three goals. A huge reason 
is that the redshirt junior 
waits for nothing. Even well 
placed through-balls from 
the opposing attack are met 
by Espinoza at the top of the 
18-yard box and sometimes 
even beyond it. That causes 
favorable angles for strikers 
to become signiﬁ  cantly 
worse for the team not in 
orange and blue. 
Kit Loferski’s presence
Redshirt junior Kit 
Loferski only has two goals 
on the season, but she has 
had a direct impact on ﬁ  ve more. With four assists  on 
the year plus drawing a 
foul inside the 18-yard box 
against the Aggies to force a 
successful penalty kick, the 
defender has contributed in 
some way towards seven 
goals. Before the win streak 
began, UF only had 10 goals 
on the season altogether, so 
her penetration has had a 
signiﬁ  cant effect. 
Vanessa Kara’s emergence
Vanessa Kara has made 
the biggest impact on the 
Gators in this run statistically 
by a massive margin. The 
transfer from Drexel won SEC 
offensive player of the week 
on Sept. 16, after scoring 
three of Florida’s seven goals 
against FGCU and Miami. 
This week, Kara claimed 
the honor again after her 
two-goal outing against the 
then-top 15 Aggies. Earlier in the season, a problem for UF 
was not capitalizing on ideal 
chances. There was not a 
player outside of the injury-
plagued Deanne Rose that 
showed the capability to end 
chances well. Kara has proven she is 
that player. She has eight 
goals in the last six games. 
Without these factors 
for the Gators, they lost 
four straight and were not 
close to a top-25 ranking. With them, UF has beaten 
two top-15 teams in a row, 
and outscored its last six 
opponents 17-3. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgGators move inside the top 20 after being unranked all season
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Florida goalie Susi Espinoza has only allowed 14 goals in 12 games this season. She 
currently averages 1.16 goals against per game and carries an 8-4 record. 
Alligator File Photo
Oliver Crawford ranks No. 3 in the nation.
MEN’S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s tennis team has pre-
pared for what could be its biggest chal-
lenge of the fall season.
The Gators begin play Wednesday in 
the main draw of the ITA All-American 
Championships, which is held on the 
campus of the University of Tulsa in Okla-
homa. The ﬁ  ve-day tournament includes 
six of the top 10 players in the country. 
UF has two of them in No. 3 junior Oliver 
Crawford and No. 10 sophomore Sam Rif-
ﬁ  ce.Rifﬁ  ce and Crawford earned automat-
ic qualiﬁ  cation to the main draw, as did 
UF’s top-two doubles teams: No. 4 senior 
Johannes Ingildsen and junior Brian Ber-
dusco and No. 49 Crawford and Rifﬁ  ce.
Four other Florida players — Ingildsen, 
Berdusco, sophomore Lukas Greif and ju-
nior Josh Goodger — all had to go through 
the qualifying rounds to make it to the 
main draw. 
Berdusco was the only Gator to fall on 
Monday, losing a three-set match to Min-
nesota’s Stefan Milicevic. Greif, Goodger 
and Ingildsen all picked up wins on Mon-
day and Tuesday to advance to the main draw.
In 2018, Crawford reached the quarter-
ﬁ  nals in singles along with junior Andy 
Andrade, who advanced to the doubles 
semiﬁ  nals. Ingildsen and Berdusco also 
reached the quarterﬁ  nals in doubles in 
last year’s ITA All-American Champion-
ships.
The tournament concludes on Sunday 
night, with the men’s ﬁ  nal airing in prime 
time on ESPNU, in what would be the 
team’s ﬁ  rst time on TV this season.  
    @noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida suits up for ITA championships