We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaTHURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 87
Membership is open to students , faculty and staff of the  University 
of Florida, UF Health, and all residents of Alachua County!4
• No monthly fee and no minimum balance requirement2• $150  Cash Bonus when you open a FREE Checking Account2
• Instant-issue debit cards Receive your debit card the same day 
     at one of our convenient service center locations.
• CAMPUS Online & Mobile Banking with Mobile Deposit3Call 335-9090 and press 5 
or visit any CAMPUS Service CenterWIN A & GET SOME SCOOT LOOT!WIN A & GET SOME SCOOT LOOT!WIN A & GET SOME SCOOT LOOT!
Enter to win!1
1. No purchase or payment of any kind is necessary to enter or win this sweepstakes. Sweepstakes begins May 1, 2019 and ends July 31, 
2019. Entries may be made by legibly printing your name, address (including zip code), telephone number (including area code), and email 
address (optional) on a 3” x 5” card and sending it to CAMPUS USA Credit Union Attn: Scooter Sweepstakes, P .O. Box 147029, Gainesville, FL 
32614-7029. For additional sweepstakes rules, please visit www.campuscu.com/scooter. The fair market value of the scooter is $1449 and 
may be considered taxable income. Always consult your tax advisor when filing personal tax returns. 2. Credit approval required and initial $50 opening deposit required. Offer is for new checking accounts only. Offer subject to change without notice. Member must 
elect to receive eDocuments within the first 90 days, deposit over $200 per month for the first 3 months, and use their debit card 6 times within the first 3 months. If 
the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be 
reported on IRS Form 1099-INT. 3. Credit approval and certain eligibility criteria required. 4. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required. Federally insured by 
the NCUA.
Become a CAMPUS member and you can own part of this local , not-for -profit co -op!THE RESTAURANT WAS 
OPEN FOR A LITTLE OVER 
A YEAR
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
The Taco Bell at Midtown will 
live no más as it was abruptly 
closed.
The location, 1404 W. Univer-
sity Ave., closed on Monday, said 
Craig Carter, the realtor oversee-
ing the leasing of the space. The 
franchise was owned by private 
owners who Carter couldn’t name. 
The cantina-style version of the 
franchise, which featured a custom 
menu and alcoholic beverages, 
opened in Gainesville in December 
2017. The Taco Bell had a modern design, an open kitchen and no 
drive-thru.
The location was listed on the 
Taco Bell website, with pickup or-
ders unavailable, until Wednesday 
morning.
Kevin Fernandez, a 21-year-old 
economics and philosophy senior, 
said he visited the restaurant at 
least once every two weeks.
“Most of my classes tend to 
cluster in the buildings along Uni-
versity Avenue. Taco Bell was a 
convenient, cheap and delicious 
option,” Fernandez said. “It was 
my emergency lunch.”
Taco Bell corporate could not 
be reached for comment, and lo-
cal Taco Bell franchises declined to 
comment. 
rosmeryiza@uﬂ  .edu 
@rgizaguirreTaco Bell across campus stripped and shut down
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
The T aco Bell located across campus on University Ave. shut down Monday. It opened in December 2017.
THIS IS THE THIRD 
CONSECUTIVE YEAR 
FLORIDA RANKED NO. 1
By Meleah Lyden 
Staff Writer
Florida isn’t just gaining na-
tional attention for lovebugs and 
strange crimes. It’s also known for 
higher education.
U.S. News & World Report 
ranked Florida’s higher education 
system in ﬁ  rst place for the third 
year in a row, said Syd Kitson, 
vice chair of the board of gover-
nors. The ranking is determined 
by a variety of factors but includes 
components like graduation rates 
and the cost of education. Kitson said he believes Florida 
has done a good job when it comes 
to these factors. 
The tuition in Florida’s higher 
education system has not been 
raised in ﬁ  ve or six years, Kitson 
said. However, different types 
of students pay different rates. 
At UF, out-of-state students pay 
about 4.5 times more than in-state 
students, according to U.S. News 
& World Report.
“We are really trying to keep 
tuition low and down,” Kitson 
said. 
Part of keeping the tuition 
down includes graduating stu-
dents in four years, because they 
are not accumulating additional THREE OF THE STUDENTS 
ARE RETURNING HOME
By Kelly Hayes
Staff Writer
Although no students were 
physically harmed while being 
robbed at gunpoint on a UF-sanc-
tioned trip to South Africa, the 
university is preparing to provide 
treatment for emotional damage. 
UF is working to provide more 
counseling resources for the Lom-
bardi & Stamps Scholarship pro-
gram students upon their return 
from South Africa, Mark Law, di-
rector of the UF Honors Program, 
wrote in an email. 
The University of Pretoria 
provided immediate counseling 
services to the students after Mon-
day’s incident in Pretoria, South Africa. UF also reached out to its 
Counseling and Wellness Center to 
ensure support to any participants’ 
needs upon return. 
“We’re relieved that they are 
physically safe, but we want to en-
sure they have access to counseling 
if they need it,” Law said. 
Three UF students are still in the 
process of returning to the U.S. after 
the robbery, said UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando. The 18 remaining 
students will continue the program 
as planned –– staying until May 26. 
The students from the incident 
are part of the UF Honors Pro-
gram. They were accompanied by 
UF faculty member Todd Leedy, 
and Honors Program staffer Regan 
Garner. 
Both Leedy and Garner have 
been communicating updates to 
the university, Orlando said. 
Leedy told Orlando Wednesday that the students in the program 
went into the school they were vis-
iting to calm the kindergarten chil-
dren inside immediately after the 
robbery. 
In response to the incident, the 
university will be evaluating this 
program and its location. This is 
the ﬁ  rst major issue to occur on the 
South Africa trip, which has been 
held every two years since 2009, 
said Susanne Hill, executive direc-
tor of the UF International Center.
“This is a very, very unusual in-
cident,” she said. 
UF study abroad programs are 
generally safe, in many cases safer 
than Gainesville, Hill said. Most 
of the issues students face involve 
petty theft, like losing a wallet or 
mobile phone. 
To prepare for these situations,  Florida ranked No. 1 
in higher education UF to counsel robbed abroad students
SEE RANKING,  PAGE 4SEE ROBBERY,  PAGE 4
One last chance
Softball players Kelly Barnhill and Amanda Lorenz 
have accomplished almost everything as Gators — 
except a national championship, pg 11
Threesome leads to severe head trauma
A husband and wife attempted to have a threesome with anoth-
er individual, but it ended with the husband taking a broomstick 
to the head, pg 5
Kristin Chenoweth to perform at UF
She will be at the Phillips Center at 7:30 p.m. Sunday, pg 7FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsSocial Media StrategistHIGH  90° LOW  65°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 87
Lindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie DeFrietas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Mariangel Acosta
Chris King
Sam ThomasKaylyn Ling
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Emily Perpich,The Alligator Open House
Interested in being a part of The 
Alligator? Join us in Weimer 
Hall for our open house today! 
Our staff is looking for copy edi-
tors, contributing writers, sports 
writers, a social media strategist 
for the Avenue and more. Enjoy 
free pizza as you get to know 
the staff from every section. The 
event is from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in 
Weimer Hall room 1074.
Summer GatorNights
Kick back and relax at the sum-
mer kickoff GatorNights. Enjoy 
waffles & ice cream sundaes, 
stuff your own safari animal, 
create a flower pot wind chime, 
watch Lego Movie 2 and more!  
The event is free for UF students. 
It starts at 8 p.m. Friday at the 
Reitz Union.
Brews For Tree 'Roos
Visit Swamp Head Brewery, 
3650 SW 42 Avenue, tonight for 
an evening of education, activi-
ties, and delicious food and beer 
in support of the tree kangaroos! 
Activities kick off at 4 p.m. when 
the silent auction, which ben-
efits the species survival plan, 
starts in the tasting room. The 
brewery will serve a beer made 
specifically for the occasion. It 
will donate $1 per purchase of 
this beer and its Wild Night beer 
throughout the night.
Yoga with Jackie
Tonight at 6 p.m. join in on this free yoga class in Bo Diddley 
Plaza. Jackie Morone teach-
es this combination of Hatha 
and Vinyasa yoga class every 
Tuesday and Thursday evening 
at the same time. Bring your 
own mat and an open heart.
Storytelling Meetup: Roommate 
Stories
Go to The Bull, 18 SW 1st 
Avenue, tonight at 7:30 p.m. to 
enjoy a storytelling meetup. The 
event is hosted by Self Narrate. 
It said the theme is open to inter-
pretation, so guests should feel 
free to share stories about their 
dogs, significant others, grand-
pas and anyone or anything else 
they've lived with. Each story 
should be between five and sev-
en minutes.
Pop Punk Emo Night
Enjoy your angsty roots at The 
Atlantic, 15 North Main Street, 
Friday night. The event starts at 
9 p.m. and lasts until 1:45 a.m. 
DJs Vi and Jimbo will bring the 
crowd a mix of Paramore, Fall 
Out Boy, Panic! At the Disco, 
and many more! The event is for 
those 18 and up - guests under 
21 will pay $8 admission and 
those older need to pay $5.
Final Celebration Before 
Celebration Pointe
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, lo-
cated at 112 S Main St., will 
host a “Final Celebration Before 
Celebration Pointe” on Saturday 
at 8 p.m. before closing its doors for good. The co-owner, Brad 
Heron, is moving on to focus on 
The Keys, a seafood restaurant 
opening in Celebration Pointe.
An Intimate Evening with Kristin 
Chenoweth
UF will host award-winning sing-
er and actress Kristin Chenoweth 
at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts on Sunday at 
7:30 p.m. Glinda the Good Witch 
in "Wicked" on Broadway will 
be singing songs and recalling 
her experiences from the stage 
and screen. Tickets range from 
$10 for UF students to $45 in the 
balcony to $75 for the pit.
Corrections: In an article titled 
"UF students robbed at gunpoint 
on South Africa trip" that ran in 
Tuesday's edition, the gunmen 
did not order the group off the 
bus. The Alligator reported oth-
erwise based on the information 
given by the university spokes-
person at the time. 
In the Tuesday edition, we ran a 
photo alongside the article titled 
"UF graduate and family housing 
to remain open amid rumors of 
closing." In the photo's cutline, 
Maguire Village was misspelled.
The Alligator strives to be accu-
rate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an er-
ror, call our newsroom at 
352-376-4458 or email 
editor@alligator.orgPhotographersTHURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Ashley Pringle, a 24-year-old UF nursing graduate and a building coordinator at the 
O’Connell Center, leads about 45 members of the Titletown Gator Club around the 
arena Tuesday night to tour the facilities. The tour lasted about an hour and members 
were shown areas including the home basketball locker room, swimming and diving 
facility and the Center Court Club.T om Phaneuf, a director of the Titletown Gator Club, points out where he usually 
sits during the Gators Men’s Basketball games Tuesday night on a Titletown 
Gator Club tour of the O’Connell Center. The club hosts events for UF alumni 
and members of the UF Alumni Association living in Alachua County. The Stephen C. O’Connell Center originally opened in 1980 and is named after the sixth president of UF. The building underwent a $64.5 million renovation in 2016. 
In the renovation, the entire interior area was demolished and rebuilt with the addition of a large hanging scoreboard and luxury suites. the gymnastics and swim-
ming areas and locker rooms were improved, and a new entrance was built facing the stadium. 
There’s no place like O’Dome
There’s no place like O’Dome
There’s no place like O’Dome
 UF gives 45 people special access to the O’Connell Center
Photos by Chris King
Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 16, 20191. Internship Credit Hours  Earn credit hours while interning
2. Valuable Skills Team work and client relations
3. Ability to become a Sales Representative
4. Build Your Resume
5. Hands On Training
6. Flexible Schedule
7. No Weekends!ADVERTISING INTERNS
Available for Summer 2019
E-mail Resume to Intern Coordinator
intern@alligator.org
Applicants must be enrolled in classes at 
the University of Florida or Santa Fe CollegeHELP WANTED
· No Weekends
· Gain Sales Experience
· Flexible Work Schedule
· Learn Prospecting SkillsADVERTISING SALES REP POSITION
Available for Summer 2019
E-mail Resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
***Applicants must be enrolled in classes at the University of Florida or Santa Fe College***HELP WANTEDUF presents pre-departure orienta-
tions for faculty and students going 
on these programs, she said. For the 
South Africa program, the faculty 
orientation occured in April. 
An emergency response hand-
book is shown at the orientation, 
and provided online, Hill said. A 
phone tree is established, which 
shows who needs to be called de-
pending on the severity of the situ-
ation –– this can range from UFIC 
assistant director to the U.S. Em-
bassy. 
In this situation, the U.S. Em-
bassy was immediately contacted. 
“Once we hear of an emergency, 
we establish these phone trees very, very quickly,” Hill said. 
They also establish who is going 
to answer to the media if necessary. 
In this case, it is UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando. 
Parents are also given updates, 
and for the situation in South Af-
rica, the university is currently 
sending updates to the parents as 
it receives information from onsite 
faculty.
“We try to communicate as best 
as we can with with everybody in-
volved,” Hill said. “Including par-
ents of course, who are understand-
ably very, very anxious.” 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgdebt or paying more for courses, he said. 
Many students graduate with nearly no debt 
because of grants and scholarships. This includes 
funding from Pell Grants and Bright Futures, mech-
anisms that help bring the cost down for students, 
who end up paying an average of less than $10,000 
for a degree, he said.
“Graduating students in four years is very, very 
important,” he said. “They’re getting into the work-
place quicker, which is great for the economy.” 
For Kitson, this success is rooted in Florida’s fo-
cus on performance-based funding and student suc-
cess and outcomes. 
“It’s making certain that the degrees that students 
are earning translate into the workplace, so when 
they graduate, they can hit the ground running and 
be successful early on in their careers,” Kitson said. 
But even though Florida’s higher education is ranked in the top, Florida’s K-12 system stands at 
27th in U.S. News & World Report. States ranked 
higher than Florida for K-12 education are concen-
trated in the Northeast, including Massachusetts in 
first. 
“K-12 is sort of a different animal,” Kitson said. 
“They also need to have not just education, but the 
proper guidance. Not everyone should be going to 
university.” 
UF also responded to the state’s ranking news, 
which are independent of individual university 
rankings from the U.S. News & World Report, ac-
cording to UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
The university released a statement that said it 
is honored to be part of Florida’s university system 
and is proud of the recognition from the report. It 
also acknowledges state policymakers and leaders 
in their success. 
“Our amazing students and dedicated and tal-
ented faculty are truly the keys to our success,” the 
statement read. 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.org18 students are staying K-12 ranked 27thTHE GRANT COULD ULTIMATEL Y 
PREVENT DEATH AND INJURY IN 
OLDER HOSPITALIZED PATIENTS
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
UF researchers are looking to make hospital 
stays of older patients a safer experience.
Two UF researchers have received a $2.57 
million grant to begin a project aiming to pre-
vent death and injury in older hospitalized pa-
tients, said UF Robert Lucero, associate profes-
sor of nursing. 
The five-year grant was awarded to Lucero 
and assistant professor Ragnhildur Bjarnadottir. 
It is funded by the National Institute on Aging 
at the National Institutes of Health, Lucero said. 
“We put our heads together, me as the expert 
in manipulating the structured data and [Bjar-
nadottir] as the expert in manipulating the text 
data,” Lucero said. “And we wrote this grant, 
and, for lack of better words — hit big.”
This project will look at registered nurses’ ob-
servation notes and examine those patients, spe-
cifically older patients, who are at a higher risk 
of hospital-induced falls and delirium.
The two researchers submitted their grant in 
June 2018 and were awarded the funding in late 
March. “Usually we have to submit these grants mul-
tiple times, but we submitted it once and were 
funded on the first submission,” he said. 
The researchers hope to discover things not 
previously known about the care of patients from 
the nurses’ notes, Lucero said. They also hope to 
construct a method to process those notes more 
efficiently, so that they’re usable by hospitals and 
researchers. 
But the main goal of the project is to answer the 
question of the safety of older adults in hospitals. 
In the first two years of the grant, five faculty 
members are funded. At least eight faculty mem-
bers will be funded in the final three years, he said.
Since UF has received the funding for the 
grant, student interest in the matter has grown, 
Lucero said. 
For Carly Reeves, a 22-year-old UF graduate 
with a bachelor’s in nursing, studying these proj-
ects and pursuing this research would be valuable 
because she said  many future careers and poten-
tial graduate schools require a research compo-
nent.
“Just from my clinical experiences, falls related 
to delirium and other causes occur so often and 
could [be more so] prevented,” Reeves said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgUF College of Nursing researchers awarded a $2.57 million grant
Courtesy of Jesse Jones, UF Health
Ragnhildur Bjarnadottir, Ph.D., left, and Robert Lucero, Ph.D., plan to use nurses’ 
notes for their project to improve the safety for hospitalized older adults.
RANKING,  from pg. 1 ROBBERY,  from pg. 1THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE VICTIM WAS 
TRANSPORTED TO SHANDS
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Three’s a crowd for this couple. 
What started as an attempted three-
some landed a Gainesville man in the 
emergency room with severe head trau-
ma early Monday morning.
Kytonda King, 28, was arrested by 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office depu-
ties after attacking her husband, accord-
ing to an ACSO arrest report. 
Her husband attempted to have a 
threesome with King and her friend be-
fore King became angry. 
King approached her husband as 
he lay on the couch and hit him in the 
head with a broomstick. The husband stood up and pushed King onto the floor 
before sitting back down on the couch. 
King hit her husband again in the back 
of the head with an unknown object. 
The husband fell unconscious onto the 
living room floor.
Emergency services also responded 
to the call and transported him to the UF 
Health Shands Trauma Center. During 
the husband’s interview with police, he 
fell in and out of consciousness multiple 
times, according to the report.
A witness to the incident answered 
the Alligator’s phone call, but termi-
nated the call after we introduced our-
selves. King was charged with aggra-
vated battery and released on her own 
recognizance Wednesday afternoon. 
She could not be reached for comment. 
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgAttempted threesome ends 
in severe head traumaHOLIDAY FOR DISASTER 
PREPARATION SALES
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Gov. Ron DeSantis signed a 
bill into law Wednesday that 
will provide Floridians with a 
tax-free period for disaster pre-
paredness sales in light of the 
impending hurricane season.
House Bill 7123 was signed 
during the annual Governor’s 
Hurricane Conference in West 
Palm Beach, Florida. The bill 
will provide approximately 
$121 million in tax relief for families and businesses across 
the state.
The tax-free period will oc-
cur from May 31 to June 6. Tax-
free items will include flash-
lights and lanterns costing $20 
or less; radios and tarps costing 
$50 or less; coolers and bat-
teries costing $30 or less; and 
generators costing $750 or less, 
according to the law.
Hurricane season in Florida 
begins June 1 and lasts until 
Nov. 30. The Alachua County 
Emergency Management web-
site suggests each individual 
should have enough supplies 
for 72 to 96 hours. Disaster supply kit suggestions include 
water, food, basic first aid sup-
plies, clothing and bedding.
Thomas Dunnum, assistant 
manager of Rural King located 
at 2801 NW 13th St., said he 
expects this hurricane shopping 
season to mirror past ones.
“People come in about two 
to three days before [a major 
storm],” Dunnum said. “Year 
before last we were wiped out.” 
The law also supports a 
back-to-school sales tax holiday 
from Aug. 2 to Aug. 6 for school 
supplies, 
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.org
LOCAL ADVOCACY 
GROUPS JOINED
By Lina Ruiz
Staff Writer
The Alachua County Commis-
sion declared May 2019 as “Men-
tal Health Awareness Month” at 
Tuesday’s committee meeting. 
County Commissioner Robert 
“Hutch” Hutchinson presented 
the proclamation alongside eight 
mental health advocates from 
organizations including the Na-
tional Alliance on Mental Ill-
ness (NAMI), Meridian Behav-
ioral Healthcare and the Alachua 
County Crisis Center.
Art Stockwell, 57, the board 
president of the Gainesville chap-
ter of NAMI, thanked the com-
mission for the contributions to 
the non-profit organization. It offers courses, support groups 
and outreach functions for those 
struggling with mental illness.  
“The folks that have some-
body helping them have a better 
chance of winning the best lives 
that they can,” Stockwell said. 
“[For] the ones that are on their 
own — of course, it’s far more 
difficult.” 
A video about the crisis cen-
ter, which featured volunteers 
and staff, was shown by Alachua 
County spokesperson Mark Sex-
ton before the proclamation was 
later made by Hutchinson.
Ali Martinez, director of the 
center, said the center interacts 
with about 45,000 people from 
the community yearly through 
mobile outreach and counseling 
services. Volunteers of the Alach-
ua County crisis line answer calls 
from people in distress 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
“Our incredible team of crisis 
line counselors are so proud to 
be able to provide that space and 
that compassion and that listen-
ing ear,” Martinez said. “But I re-
ally urge the whole community to 
be that ear.” 
Sexton said it’s unique for a 
government entity to fund a crisis 
center, and the county commis-
sion is keenly aware of the needs 
relating to mental health. 
“We may be the only one in 
the country, but we’re certainly 
— if not the only one — one of 
only a handful of government 
entities that have that as an in-
house division of our community 
support services,” Sexton said. 
“We’re very proud about that.”
@Lina_Ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgTHE STORE WILL OPEN IN 
JUL Y
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Yoga lovers, rejoice: preparations are 
underway for a Lululemon pop-up shop 
on Archer Road. 
The women’s athletic-leisure cloth-
ing store is projected to open in July. 
The pop-up shop will temporarily move 
between Alumni Hall and Zoe’s Kitch-
en, where Pink Narcissus is currently 
located, at 3730 SW Archer Road, said 
Mary Reichardt, the marketing director 
at Butler Enterprises.
Pink Narcissus is scheduled to open 
a new permanent location on May 15 at 
the new Butler Town Center, located at 
3597 SW 32nd Court, Suite 50.
The purpose of this shop is to test the 
market, Reichardt said. If it does well at this location, Lululemon may look for a 
more permanent location within Butler 
Plaza. The current lease will last for six 
months, but there will be several exten-
sion opportunities. 
Based on ongoing requests from 
Gainesville residents, Reichardt and 
others at Butler Enterprises have been 
reaching out to Lululemon for more 
than a year to ask the company to take 
a look at the market in town. After some 
examination, Lululemon executives re-
sponded that they like Gainesville’s de-
mographics and the fact it is a university 
town, Reichardt said. 
Though this will only be a pop-up 
shop for now, the square footage of the 
store is very close to that of a normal 
store, Reichardt said. 
@ashlazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgFlorida bill provides tax-free holiday
County commission makes May 2019 
Mental Health Awareness MonthLululemon pop-up to open 
ColumnTHURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words. They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer 
shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words 
about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial Letter to the Editor
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey 
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark 
Stine
EDITORIt’s the ﬁ  rst week of classes, but it seems like 
Student Body President Michael Murphy has 
already failed his ﬁ  rst test.
He was already having issues with getting 
his executive appointments approved when 
news broke of the College of Liberal Arts and Sci-
ence ceremony getting rained out in the stadium.
It was an early test of leadership for Murphy, 
but it seems like he forgot to show up to take it.
Remember last year’s CLAS ceremony when a 
multitude of people got shoved off stage? It took 
former Student Body President Ian Green three 
days to release a statement. That’s pretty slow, but I’m hap-
py he eventually broke out his crayons to scribble something 
together. I haven’t seen Murphy do the same, but I’m happy 
to send him some color pencils if that’s more his speed.
I just don’t understand the cause for the radio silence. 
We all know Murphy walked the border of plagiarism during 
his now infamous “Wyoming cowboys” inaugural address 
(courtesy of the Wall Street Journal’s editorial board). I won-
der why he didn’t just copy Green’s statement and change up 
a few of the words. Perhaps he’s making good on his pledge 
not to listen to the “students that make the most noise.”
To quote Murphy: “As your next Student Body President, 
I will always stand up for students.” What happened, dude? 
Even if you’ve been doing stuff, you have to be transparent 
about it. People have to know you’re actually doing your job.
Then again, if Student Government was more transpar-
ent, perhaps people would be even more upset with them 
for failing to represent the students to UF’s administration.
Green’s statement said that he would co-chair a com-
mittee with the now-ousted VP of Student Affairs Dr. David 
Parrott to reevaluate how commencements are conducted. 
I thought that was a funny move given how a “commence-
ment committee” already existed within the university. 
If there was any sort of place for students to voice their 
grievances and suggestions regarding commencement, I be-
lieve it would have been either of these two committees. It’s 
quite a shame that I didn’t hear a peep from either over the past year. To my understanding, Student Govern-
ment has a hand in the nomination process for 
many university committees, which is probably 
why the student representatives tend to be so un-
derwhelming.
Well underwhelming or, in the case of the 
original commencement committee this past year, 
absent. It appears that the committee met once in 
the 2018-2019 school year and only half of the 
four students appointed to the committee decided 
to show up. Amusingly, one of the students who 
didn’t show up was the Senate President at the 
time. The other, two weeks later, shared an article about the 
revisions to the Fall 2019 ceremony with the caption “ARE 
YOU SERIOUS.” You can’t be mad if you don’t show up.
I believe that this committee, whose number one respon-
sibility is to “examine and review the present commence-
ment procedures and make recommendations for future 
commencements,” would have been a good place to suggest 
that maybe, just maybe, we shouldn’t have had the CLAS 
ceremony in the stadium because we live in unofﬁ  cial (but if 
you live here you know it’s ofﬁ  cial) Rainesville.
Full disclosure: The minutes for the meeting indicate that 
the discussion was over the Fall 2019 ceremony. While I be-
lieve that the students should have brought up potential is-
sues with the spring graduation, it might have been rather 
late in the game to do so.
Of course, there was that second commencement com-
mittee that Green co-chaired, which had all the time to make 
sure commencement didn’t turn out the way it did this year. 
I don’t know who ended up serving on that committee, how 
many times they met and what changes came about from the 
committee’s work, but I do know that this past commence-
ment for CLAS was disappointing, and it’s probably at least 
partially their fault.
Great job, Student Government. Keep it up.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.SG failed students regarding commencement 
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgSummer session has arrived in the swampy marsh that is 
Gainesville. 
You’re fresh off the high of completing spring exams, but 
you’ve somehow found yourself back in the rut of classes. 
As you walk around campus, the ting of missing your friends 
creeps up on you. “Where the hell has everyone gone?” you 
say to yourself. You check the Find my Friends app, and you’re 
distraught to ﬁ  nd how zoomed out the map must go to see your 
friends’ geographical location. They’ve abandoned you. You’re 
alone in Gainesville to fend for yourself, while they travel to far 
off cities… without you. 
You scroll social media to virtually escape this ghost town 
and dually self-inﬂ  ict some undeserved FOMO. A selﬁ  e in the 
Amalﬁ   Coast here. A video of an elephant sanctuary there. Each 
one sprinkled with comments of “ugh jealous” and “this is so 
freaking awesome.” You keep scrolling, hoping to ﬁ  nd some-
thing entertaining enough to make you forget where you are 
and where you are not. Then you see it...
Darts & Laurels   
Remember Mr. Ratburn from the children’s show “Ar-
thur”? Well, he got married in the season 22 premiere, 
and we’re giving a laurel to him and his new husband. 
LGBTQ+ representation in children’s media is impor-
tant in showing young minds diversity. “Arthur” has 
been known for addressing serious topics children may come 
across in real life like divorce and death. Mr. Ratburn’s wed-
ding presents children with the reality heterosexual is not the 
only kind of relationship that exists. Hopefully, this wedding 
episode and all that comes after is a wake-up call to bring more 
LGBTQ+ representation in children’s media.
The city of San Francisco banned the police use of facial rec-
ognition technology on Tuesday. We are giving a laurel to this 
prohibition. It institutes rules that force city departments to re-
ceive board approval ﬁ  rst before buying and using this software. 
Privacy is growing more paramount in the current technological 
climate. According to an Associated Press article, some worry 
the technology goes against citizens’ privacy while others argue 
it helps police identify suspects and missing people quickly and 
cheaply. In addition, many worry law enforcement’s use of this 
technology may further racial bias in the justice system as it 
may have in the case of Willie Lynch in Jacksonville.  
On Mother’s Day, The New York Times published an opin-
ion article alongside a video with Olympic runner Alysia Mon-
taño alleging Nike tries to cut its sponsored athletes’ pay if they 
become pregnant. We’re giving a dart to the “Swoosh” com-
pany for the irony that surrounds the whole ordeal given it just 
recently released an ad campaign telling girls to “dream cra-
zier.” The problem with the current contract is Nike can reduce 
an athlete’s pay during a six-month competition-break period 
and stop paying them after those six months if they still do not 
compete. As The New York Times article describes, this clause 
has injuries in mind but does not take pregnancy and postpar-
tum recover into consideration. 
Wednesday night, Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey approved a law 
banning all-stage abortions with only allows exception: if the 
mother’s life is at risk. Results of rape or incest must be car-
ried to term. Last week, Georgia passed the “heartbeat” law, 
which bans abortions after six weeks — while most women 
do not know they are pregnant until at least the sixth week. 
We’re giving a dart to the Alabama and Georgia government 
and the elected ofﬁ  cials who passed these laws. Both are direct 
attacks on a woman’s right to privacy in regards to decisions 
about reproductive health, which is constitutionally enshrined 
by the Fourth and Fourteenth amendments as established in 
the Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade opinion. Both laws in-
clude prison sentences for doctors who perform abortions: the 
Georgia law includes a possible sentence for one to 10 years, 
while the Alabama law gives those doctors a life sentence or 
up to 99 years. The April 11th showdown at the UF 
Student Government Supreme Court 
was a milestone in the history of online 
voting regardless of its success. The 
argument itself was not about wheth-
er online voting should be legal, but 
rather if the court had the power to re-
count votes in a way that would make 
it illegal (namely, counting abstentions 
as votes against). However, the case of 
whether online voting is still legal has 
yet to be made.
There is a case to make about 
whether the Supreme Court ruling is 
invalid because it infringed upon the 
Senate’s constitutional authority to 
judge elections. However, there is a 
more concerning strategy used by the 
Supreme Court, which has applied an 
ex post facto (retroactive) capacity to 
its case laws. These case laws allow the 
Supreme Court to retroactively fail al-
ready-ratiﬁ  ed amendments to the con-
stitution. This is worrying considering 
the effect of these case laws essentially 
violate the due process by which the 
constitution should be amended.
The original argument was that the 2016 Supreme Court decision contra-
dicts state law by counting abstentions 
as votes against constitutional amend-
ments. Since SG is governed by Florida 
law, then the 2016 ruling is illegal and 
invalid. Of course, the 2016 decision 
was upheld on April 11 despite the pe-
tition submitted by Global Vote, estab-
lishing the precedent that SG doesn’t 
have to fully follow state law. However, 
the legality of the decision to retroac-
tively annul certain amendments to the 
constitution can still be questioned.
Suppose there was an American 
presidential election where a candi-
date is leading in the electoral college 
but falling behind in the popular vote. 
Suppose that this candidate wins the 
electoral college, and the opponent 
challenges the validity of the election 
by claiming the electoral college as 
unconstitutional. If the Supreme Court 
rules the electoral college unconsti-
tutional, the candidate who won the 
popular vote would assume the presi-
dency. However, would the Supreme 
Court have the power to retroactively 
annul all executive orders signed by the illegally elected presidents of the past?
It should be understood that to do 
so is not an expressed power of the 
Supreme Court’s judicial review and 
such a bizarre example is very similar 
to what our own court achieved with 
the 2016 decision. If we hold that the 
Supreme Court cannot retroactively 
change the constitution, even if state 
law does not apply to SG’s vote count-
ing, it still did not have the power to 
make a ruling that could be applied in 
the capacity of an ex post facto law.
We have to consider that online vot-
ing has been legal since 2016 and that 
it continues to be legal. The Supreme 
Court does not have the power to ret-
roactively apply changes to the consti-
tution to the effects of constitutional 
amendments, so the 2016 amendment 
legalizing online voting should still be 
in effect. 
If something is law, but there is no-
body to enforce it, does it still apply?
The answer is yes, and if we accept 
that online voting has been legal since 
2016, then we should hold the persons 
tasked with its implementation to the 
expectation that the next elections shall 
offer it. 
Alfredo Ortiz is a UF philosophy SG must uphold online voting THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Florida’s season ends in NCAA Regionals
Pg 11Student fashion feature: keeping it casual and daring to 
be different
Two students share the inspiration for their personal style. Pg 8KRISTIN CHENOWETH 
TO TAKE THE STAGE AT 
THE PHILLIPS CENTER  
By Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
Her vocal range: chilling. Her 
stage presence: electric. Her per-
formance at UF intimate. 
Broadway actress Kristin Che-
noweth is set to take the stage at 
the Curtis M. Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts on Sunday at 
7:30 p.m. 
In her solo act, “An Intimate 
Evening with Kristin Chenoweth,” 
the star will sing hit songs and 
share personal experiences as a 
performer.
Her performance was origi-
nally scheduled for January, but 
the show was pushed back to 
May due to interference in Che-
noweth’s TV recording schedule, 
according to the UF Performing 
Arts website.
Tickets purchased for the Janu-
ary performance are valid for Sun-
days.
Tickets are available online at 
the UF Performing Arts website. 
The prices range from $45 to $75 
depending on placement in the theater with $10 UF student tick-
ets.
Chenoweth, a Tony award-
winning actress and singer, is 
best-known for playing Broadway 
roles Glinda the Good Witch from 
“Wicked” and Sally Brown from 
“You’re a Good Man, Charlie 
Brown.” 
The distinguished perform-
er also starred in the TV series 
“Pushing Daisies” and won an 
Emmy for her quirky character, 
Olive Snook. The list of roles Che-
noweth has played goes on, with 
appearances on “Glee,” “Sesame 
Street” and more. 
Her successful career is stir-
ring up excitement in Gainesville 
among students and theater buffs 
alike. Caroline Doyle, a 20-year-
old UF biomedical engineering 
sophomore, is excited for the 
show and the opportunity to keep 
her love of theater alive. 
“I thought it was really cool 
that students would get the op-
portunity to see a real Broadway 
star without ever having to leave 
campus,” Doyle said. 
Beyond her fans, Chenoweth 
also has special ties with one par-
ticular group at UF. 
Chenoweth was a member 
of the Gamma Phi Beta sorority while she attended Oklahoma City 
University. Alumni and current 
members of the UF chapter plan 
to attend the show in support of their sister. 
Any who come to listen to the 
Broadway star will be enchanted 
by what many call a class act.    
@harleyj_smith
harleysmith@uﬂ  .eduA ‘wicked’ good Broadway star to perform at UF 
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Chenoweth is known to include famed “Wicked” hit “For Good” in her performance sets.  
SAY “HELLO” TO THE 
2019/2020 UF PERFORMING 
ARTS SEASON
By Brittany Wallace 
Avenue Staff Writer
Energetic clapping and cheers rang out 
as “The Book of Mormon” was announced 
as a future show in the UF Performing Arts 
2019/2020 Season. 
This musical was one of more than 40 
performances announced on Tuesday by 
the Director of UF Performing Arts, Brian 
Jose, as he hosted the UF Performing Arts 
2019/2020 Season Preview at the Phillips 
Center. 
Guests were ushered into the theater 
around 6:45 p.m. and handed a canvas bag 
with a program booklet containing the per-
formances of the 2019/2020 season, and 
other items like pens and stickers. Attached to the front of the book was an 
array of rainbow-colored tabs that Jose en-
couraged audience members to use through-
out the presentation as a way to keep track 
of the shows they wanted to see. 
At the start of the show, Jose honored 
performances from last season like Com-
plexions Contemporary Ballet. He then jubi-
lantly went on to explain each of the perfor-
mances for this season. There were videos 
paired with most announced performances 
to give the audience a taste of what is to 
come. 
In an interview after the show, Jose ex-
plained how they start looking for artists 24 
months in advance for each performance 
season. He said he wanted artists who are 
committed to doing work beyond the stage.
“Of course, we want them to be great on 
stage,” said Jose, “but it’s important that 
they can also be in a class here on campus, 
they can go to Haven Hospice or they can go 
to elementary or middle school.”Jose said he wants the artists this year 
to bring joy to the Gainesville community, 
connecting everyone through performance.
For example, the Actors From the Lon-
don Stage, a touring Shakespeare company, 
not only performed “Hamlet” last October 
but also went into UF theater classes to 
teach students about acting, Jose said.
As Jose listed performances this season, 
four musicals were announced: “Waitress,” 
“A Bronx Tale,” “Beautiful: The Carole King 
Musical” and “The Book of Mormon.” All 
musicals will be performed at the Phillips 
Center as part of their national tours.
Jazz bands, performance artists, orches-
tras, classical pianists and more are includ-
ed in this season’s performances.
One of the performing groups this year 
has over 3.9 million subscribers on You-
Tube — Postmodern Jukebox is known for 
bringing an old-style twist to modern pop 
songs. 
Cliff Haynes, a clinical assistant profes-sor for UF’s College of Education, had a 
2019/2020 season book ﬁ  lled with sticky 
notes, but he said Postmodern Jukebox was 
at the top of the list this year. 
“I watch them all on YouTube, so to hear 
them live is going to be so exciting,” said 
Haynes.
Jose almost pleaded with audience mem-
bers to go see “Compagnia TPO: Farfalle,” 
which is an interactive visual show that 
tells the story of a caterpillar turning into a 
butterﬂ  y. This show engages all the senses 
equally, making it great for people with sen-
sory disabilities, Jose said. 
As the night ended around 8 p.m., Jose 
reminded people that most tickets go on 
sale on Aug. 24.  Tickets for “The Book of 
Mormon” go on sale Sept. 15.
@BtNwallace
bwallace1@uﬂ  .edu   New UF performing arts season revealed 
THEATER8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
Photo Story by 
Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
Imani Selvon is a 20-year-old 
UF dance sophomore. Her usual 
outﬁ  ts for school consist of a T-
shirt with leggings, because she 
is a dance major. Don’t let her 
casual look fool you, she is com-
pletely dedicated to fashion in 
her spare time. She is constantly 
getting inspired by magazines, 
TV shows and Instagram. Selvon 
likes to DIY her own clothing 
sometimes, too.
Vanessa Villarreal, a UF 
20-year-old sociology junior, 
doesn’t have cash to blow. Luck-
ily, she loves to thrift her outﬁ  ts 
from head to toe. She enjoys 
loud prints, but her choice comes 
down to how she is feeling that 
day. Comfort is important and 
she keeps the weather in mind 
when picking outﬁ  ts.
@BtNwallace
bwallace1@uﬂ  .edu   Student fashion feature: Keeping it casual and daring to be diﬀ  erent
FASHION
Imani Selvon Vanessa VillarrealTHURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDHouse for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,000/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-30-19-102-2
4 LARGE BR / 1 BA, 1 BLK TO UF Campus 
Credit Union, School of Ed, Steps to bus. 
$410 / room or $1640 / mo. Patio, wood, car-
pet throughout. Kitchen & bath renovated. 
Pvt parking avail. Call or text 352-222-4141    
5-21-19-5-2
GREAT FOR UF STUDENT
3BR/3BA, 2-story condo behind Gainesville 
Sun Office. July 1st, $875 / mo each. nghe@
msn.com or phone 352-327-2931    5-30-19-
6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
Time to sell your Pogs? Your Transformers 
collection? Looking to buy some? Check out 
the For Sale section for great results. 
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy if running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Night Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time night shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
jbourne@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '19
Notetakers
Editors
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-16-19-4-14
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals will bring you ‘round!1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished7 Computers 12 Autos 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Please recycle this newspaper.
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
P/T babysitter,$12/hr, help take kids age 10-
16 to summer activities. Experience babysit-
ting, car needed. I pay for gas as well. Email 
to rosenson@ufl.edu      5-28-19-5-14
OFFICE ASSITANT $8.75/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-6-19-
8-14
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
Time to sell your Zac Efron poster? 
Your Tickle-Me-Elmo? Looking to buy 
one? Check out the For Sale section 
for great results. 
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy if running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestaaaaaaaaaaa MASTER YOUR Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found YOU in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
 FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 5:30 
- 7:30 p.m. on 5/20 – 5/23.  Verbal on M&W, 
Math on T&R.  To register and learn the room 
location, go to the TC website www.teach-
ingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on “Study Skills" 
then "Workshops.”      5-21-19-3-20
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
1.  Famished
1.  Commandeer 5.  ____ account
2.  ____ one6.  Lift, throw 
3.  Take back7.  Type of radiation unit
4.  Serious GNHYUR
HCAJKINIJTO
EEAHV
REEINTH
RCETRATONOPTR
OSENMLANSWERS: 1A-Hungry  5A-Joint  6A-Heave  7A-Proton
1D-Hijack  2D-Neither  3D-Retract  4D-Solemn  B-Johnny Cash5-16-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ appeared on TV shows such as 
“Little House on the Prairie” and “Columbo.”
BONUS
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, May 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 Expert in Islamic 
law
6 Classroom tools
12 Nation partly in 
the Arctic Circle
14 Left
15 “I didn’t lie!”
16 Select, as a jury
17 Classic 1818 
novel
19 Otoscope target
20 Unnamed 
character in 
17-Across
24 In a calculating 
way
27 Antipoverty agcy.
28 Actor Stephen
29 Prefix with plus
31 Reduce in  
status
35 Author of 
17-Across
37 Slapstick 
reaction
39 Borrow, but not 
really
40 “__ you 
serious?”
41 Talk and talk
43 Namely
47 1974 portrayer 
of 17-Across
52 “__ scale of 1 to 
10 ... ”
53 1931 portrayer 
of 20-Across
56 King in 1 Kings
59 Shoulder piece
60 Like some rural 
bridges
61 July 4, 1776, 
notables
62 Green field?
63 Campus figures
DOWN
1 Kind of heart 
valve
2 Easily led astray
3 Rich dessert
4 Something to do
5 Map box
6 “Did my heart 
love till now?” 
speaker
7 Detach, as a 
dress pattern8 Isn’t straight
9 Big stretch
10 Deeply regret
11 Mo. town
12 High winds
13 Honolulu-born 
singer
14 Go back for a 
second helping
18 A dandelion’s 
are called 
blowballs
21 Fox NFL  
analyst  
Aikman
22 “Ick!”
23 Fled
25 Future JD’s 
exam
26 Mongolian tent
30 Shaggy rug from 
12-Across
32 Kosovo 
neighbor: Abbr.
33 Surfeit
34 How-to 
presentation
35 Bearing
36 Prominent  
New York City 
feature
37 Give a little38 Not post-
42 Short dogs, for 
short
44 Like some 
scarves
45 Works out
46 Last family to 
keep a White 
House cow
48 Dangerous virus
49 Lennon love 
song50 Twist
51 Fleet
54 Heated state
55 Large green 
moth
56 One may  
be choked  
back
57 Dedicatee of 
49-Down
58 __ alone: not to 
mention
By Chuck Deodene
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/15/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/15/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, May 15, 2019
ACROSS
1 Passport stamps
6 Improvised knife
10 MRI output
14 Capital of Ghana
15 “Say Anything...” 
actress Skye
16 “__ and Abel”: 
Jeffrey Archer 
novel
17 Sports page 
table
20 Plaza payment
21 Feel remorse 
over
22 Winter hrs. in St. 
Louis
23 Blog entry
25 Dissociative 
condition
29 “Who __ to 
complain?”
30 Woman college 
basketball coach 
Summitt with an 
NCAA record 
1,098 career 
wins
31 Nairobi’s country
32 Insulin-producing 
gland
36 Left or right 
ending
37 Makes a case for, 
with “of”
42 Knot-tying vow
43 Like big lottery 
winners, 
presumably
44 __ pad
47 Old Mideast org.
48 Reggae 
precursor
49 Intraoral  
piercing
52 Carnival
53 Brightness nos.
54 6-Down’s sib
55 River swimmers
57 Talk show drop-
by ... and a literal 
feature of 17-, 
25-, 37- and 
49-Across
63 Repast
64 Char on a grill
65 Popular Google 
service
66 About
67 Singer from 
County Donegal
68 Leaf under a 
petalDOWN
1 Actor Kilmer
2 Floe makeup
3 Perform like Ella
4 Insider lingo
5 TV lawyer 
Goodman
6 54-Across’ sib
7 Trending
8 Going nowhere, 
career-wise
9 Playhouse, say
10 Navigate slopes
11 High-kicking 
dance
12 Showing 
insecurity
13 Snapple rival
18 Wee toymaker
19 Matching office 
accessories
23 Dad
24 Shortstop 
Vizquel with 
11 Gold Glove 
Awards
26 __ the crack of 
dawn
27 House-warming 
option
28 Aquarium beauty
33 Stage prompting
34 Stronghold
35 That, in Toledo36 Online chats, 
briefly
38 Subdued hue
39 “Simple as can 
be”
40 __ torch: luau light
41 What a tattoo 
may cover
44 Mark of shame
45 Kitchen toppers
46 Put into power
47 2019 Pebble 
Beach event50 Wipe
51 “Weeds” law  
org.
52 Moth attractor
56 Units of energy
58 __ Poke: retro 
candy
59 Settle
60 Time to 
remember
61 “Homeland” org.
62 Turn in the 
plumbing
05/14/1919 Connections 21 Entertainment 14 Help Wanted 23 Rides
1. MOVIES: What was the name of 
the team in the movie “Major League”?
2. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
first president to be born in the 20th 
century? 
3. ANATOMY: In the human body, 
where are the islets of Langerhans 
located?
4. HISTORY: Who commanded the 
first space shuttle into space?
5. GEOGRAPHY: On which Hawai-
ian island is Pearl Harbor located?
6. TELEVISION: What tagline 
described this 1960s cop drama as “one 
white, one black and one blonde”?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What was the name of the horse that 
won the Triple Crown in 2018?
8. MUSIC: Where was the house in 
“The House of the Rising Sun” located?
9. PSYCHOLOGY: What is gam-
ophobia a fear of?
10. ADVERTISING: Which popular 
brand of cigarettes was named after an 
animal?
Answers
1. Cleveland Indians
2. John F. Kennedy
3. Pancreas
4. John Young
5. Oahu
6. “The Mod Squad”
7. Justify
8. New Orleans
9. Marriage or commitment
10. Camel
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 13, 2019King Features Weekly ServiceFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/sportsSenior Yanis David was named the 
USTFCCCA National Athlete of the 
Week after sweeping the long jump 
and triple jump titles at the SEC 
Outdoor Championships.Florida baseball takes on Missouri this weekend
The Gators will head to Columbia, Missouri, for their final series of the 
season before the SEC T ournament. UF (30-23) is in danger of missing the 
NCAA T ournament for the first time since 2007.GOLF
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s golf team 
needed a near-perfect Day 3 to keep 
its season alive and advance to the 
NCAA Championships.
It had nowhere near that, post-
ing the fourth-worst round of the 
day and concluding its season in 
Pullman, Washington, on Wednes-
day.
“Today ends a very frustrating 
season. Every year our expectations are to win championships and we 
did not meet those expectations this 
year,” coach JC Deacon said in a re-
lease. “I think this will add fuel to 
the fire for the 2019-20 season.”
The Gators entered the  final 
day of the Pullman Regional Tour-
nament in eighth place, needing a 
top-five finish to advance. Palouse 
Ridge, however, gave the Florida 
golfers trouble throughout the day, 
with only one of the five finishing 
under par. The team dropped to fin-
ish in a tie for ninth place and shot 2 under in its final round of the tour-
nament.
Sophomore Chris Nido excelled 
for Florida in his best round of the 
tournament. He had a bogey-free 
day, posting five birdies along the 
way (four of those coming on the 
back nine) to finish the tournament 
at 9 under. Nido’s individual finish 
was the highest of any Gator, fin-
ishing on the leaderboard tied for 
seventh. Florida's season ends in NCAA Regionals
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 12Alligator File Photo
Kelly Barnhill is Florida's all-time strikeout leader with 1,160. She broke the record last month. 
FEATURE
SOFTBALLBy Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Kelly Barnhill’s phone lit up. It 
was from Amanda Lorenz.
All it said was a simple phrase: 
“Go Gators!”
Lorenz and Barnhill were the 
No. 1 and No. 2 recruits of the 
2015 recruiting class, according to 
FloSoftball. Lorenz had been com-
mitted to the Gators for years, but 
Barnhill’s recruitment process was 
much longer, more meticulous 
and more difficult.The process took the Marietta, 
Georgia, native across the coun-
try. Her stops included visits at 
the usual schools in the SEC (Ten-
nessee, South Carolina, Ole Miss), 
a couple trips to the Sunshine 
State (Florida, South Florida), 
and outside of the South to Stan-
ford, Northwestern and Princeton. 
Barnhill even acknowledged that 
she might be forgetting some vis-
its.
Most softball recruits commit 
in their freshman or sophomore 
year of high school, but just weeks ahead of signing day, Barnhill still 
hadn’t made a decision.
She narrowed it down to Flori-
da and Stanford, two schools dedi-
cated to elite softball and academ-
ics.
Barnhill took an official visit to 
UF on the second weekend of Oc-
tober, where she met Lorenz and 
all of the other Florida commits. 
Barnhill was the only one who 
hadn’t committed.
Lorenz had taken every oppor-
tunity to recruit Barnhill to Florida. 
Once, ahead of a friendly between Lorenz’s team and Barnhill’s team 
at the Premier Girls Fastpitch Na-
tionals, Lorenz, meeting Barnhill 
for the first time, dropped some 
hints about where the pitcher 
should play in college.
After an official visit, Lorenz 
got ahold of Barnhill’s phone num-
ber and regularly texted Barnhill.
A week and a half later, Barn-
hill sent a text to Lorenz and the 
other commits.
“Hey guys, I can’t wait to be a 
Gator with you …”
Florida’s softball program 
has never had a pair like Barn-
hill and Lorenz.
Both players have been 
among the best in the SEC (and 
perhaps the country) at their 
respective positions, and they 
have defined the last four years 
of Gators softball.
They also have a litany of 
awards attached to their names.
Lorenz is a two-time First Team All-American and the first 
player in UF history to be First 
Team All-SEC all four years of her 
career. She also won SEC Fresh-
man of the Year in 2016 and SEC 
Player of the Year in 2018.
Barnhill is also a two-time All-
American, earned All-SEC First 
Team honors twice and won SEC 
Pitcher of the Year in both 2017 
and 2018. She was the USA Soft-
ball Collegiate National Player of 
the Year and won an ESPY for Best 
Female Collegiate Athlete in 2017.
The Florida softball team has 
had stars before, but the Gators 
have never had two players as tal-
ented as Barnhill and Lorenz come 
in and leave at the same time.
Barnhill will leave the program 
at the end of the season as the 
school’s all-time strikeout leader 
and arguably the best pitcher in 
UF history. She tossed a perfect 
game against Georgia Southern in 
2018 and has eight no-hitters in her 
four years at Florida.
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
After capturing its second-
consecutive SEC Tournament 
championship this past week-
end in exhilarating fashion, the 
Gators softball team returns 
to the field on Friday for the 
NCAA Regionals.
No. 5 nationally-seeded 
Florida (44-15) will square up 
against Boston University (37-
18) at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium on Friday at 2:30 p.m.
The Gators solidified their 
position as a top-16 team na-
tionally and secured Gainesville 
as a regional host via their 
conference tournament vic-
tory. Should Florida continue 
through the double-elimina-
tion Gainesville Regional that 
also includes Stanford and 
Boise State, it would remain in Gainesville to host one of eight 
NCAA Super Regionals.
Florida has little experience 
against BU in its history, pos-
sessing a 1-1 record against the 
Terriers in two prior contests, 
the last of which came more 
than 19 years ago.
The trip to Gainesville will 
be a first for the Terriers, who 
collected their second-consecu-
tive Patriot League Tournament 
championship (and seventh in 
11 years) last weekend with a 
14-7 victory over Lehigh Uni-
versity.
The Gators will rely on ace 
Kelly Barnhill to deliver a strong 
performance against a solid BU 
lineup. The senior — who was 
recently crowned SEC Tourna-
ment MVP — will look to con-
tinue her dominance against a 
team that averaged over four Kelly Barnhill and Amanda Lorenz look to complete legacy
Gators set to open 
NCAA Regional against 
Boston University
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 12SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 12•   •   •
12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Sophomore John Axelsen finished the 
tournament at 4-under and tied for 27th 
place after an even final day. He tallied two 
birdies and a bogey in a three hole stretch on 
the front nine, before carding three bogeys 
in five holes to set himself back.Senior Gordon Neale stayed in the mid-
dle of the pack with his 2-over final round, 
giving him a 53rd place finish with a 3-over 
three round total. Neale notched two birdies 
on holes four and seven but wouldn’t card 
another for the remainder of the round. He 
tallied four bogeys in his last UF appear-
ance. 
Redshirt senior Ryan Celano began the round with three consecutive bogeys, result-
ing in a 3-over front nine. Celano improved 
on the back nine with two birdies, giving 
him a 1-over finish on the round and overall.
Redshirt junior Blake Dyer rounded out 
the tournament with Florida’s toughest day 
on the links. Dyer carded two double-bo-
geys, along with three additional bogeys for 
a 6-over final round. The redshirt junior en-
tered the day just 1 over for the tournament, 
but finished tied for 57th place at 7 over. 
Texas A&M, BYU, Oklahoma, Georgia Tech and Colorado State were the five teams 
to advance from the Pullman Regional, while 
Florida, along with eight other schools, went 
home empty handed. 
“We are looking forward to a clean slate 
and getting the University of Florida back to 
where we belong, at the top of college golf,” 
Deacon said.
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgGOLF,  from pg. 11Deacon: "Frustrating season"
Lorenz will be viewed as one 
of the best all-around hitters the 
Gators have ever had. The Moor-
park, California, native has never 
had a season with an on-base per-
centage below .500, has swatted 
double-digit home runs in three-
straight seasons and knocked in at 
least 40 runs every year. She also 
holds the Florida record for the 
most walks in a season, with 70 in 
2018.
In the four years that Lorenz 
and Barnhill have been at Florida, the team has gone 214-43 (.833 win-
ning percentage) overall and 72-23 
in arguably the best conference 
in the nation. It has won the SEC 
regular-season championship three 
times, the SEC Tournament twice, 
and made two trips to the College 
World Series in 2017 and 2018.
But the one thing that both play-
ers are missing is a national cham-
pionship.
When Barnhill and Lorenz joined 
the Gators for the 2016 season, the 
team was coming off back-to-back 
national championships and re-tained much of the same roster. 
However, the graduation of Lauren 
Haeger, one of the best players in 
Florida softball history, left a gap-
ing hole in the roster.
Still, the Gators were ranked as 
the top team in the country, and 
Barnhill and Lorenz were impact 
players from Day 1.
Or Game 2, rather.
The second game of the season-
opening USF Wilson-DeMarini 
Tournament had the Gators face 
No. 2 Michigan in a rematch of the 
previous year’s Women’s College 
World Series. FEATURE,  from pg. 11Lorenz has 11 home runs this year
runs per game and led the confer-
ence in home runs.
Freshman Emily Gant or sopho-
more Ali DuBois could start in the 
circle for BU against Florida. Both 
Gant (13-7, 1.56 ERA) and DuBois 
(23-9, 1.32 ERA) earned All-Tour-
nament team honors for their per-formances this past week and can 
pose a challenge to Florida’s some-
times inconsistent lineup.
The Gators have found their 
stride with the bats as of late, how-
ever, led by outfielder and reigning 
SEC Player of the Year Amanda Lo-
renz, who is hitting .421 on the year.
The Gators hold a 41-19 overall 
record in NCAA Regional play and 
are 36-7 during Tim Walton’s 15-year tenure as head coach. History 
and home-field advantage, espe-
cially on the road to the Women’s 
College World Series, should give 
Florida a significant advantage over 
BU come Friday. 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 11UF is 41-19 all-time in regional play
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Amanda Lorenz leads Florida in batting average and slugging.Read the rest online at alligator.org•   •   •