We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Another Dunkin’ Donuts?
See what restaurants are coming to Gainesville and which are 
closing, pg. 9
One step toward plastic-less
The Gainesville City Commission may cut out plastic, pg. 9Reﬂ  ecting on UF’s conference-
opening loss
The Gators men’s basketball team had their 
weaknesses exposed on Saturday, pg. 17
MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 43
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Jimmy T oney, the 45-year-old pastor of the Pentecostals of Gainesville, leads a vigil for the victims of the I-75 crash Thursday  
that killed seven people. People ﬁ  lled the church Sunday evening to support the families of the victims and pray for their recovery. 
“They’ve been stuck in hospitals with doom and gloom and death, ” T oney said. “I just think it meant the world. ” 
FOUR UF STUDENT AND 
FACULTY DECAL TYPES WILL 
HAVE RELOCATED PARKING.
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Katie Johnson drives to the com-
muter lot before taking the bus the rest 
of her way to class. The 19-year-old UF 
political science sophomore has a green 
decal, one of the decal types that will 
have to ﬁ  nd a new parking spot this se-
mester.
The northern half of the commuter 
lot on Gale Lemerand Drive was closed 
for construction Sunday. Temporary 
parking for those with student green, 
orange, blue or staff commuter decals 
will be provided. 
“Not sure why they didn’t build up 
instead of out to begin with,” Johnson 
said. “It’s hard enough to time your ar-
rival with a bus, let alone not being able 
to ﬁ  nd a spot.”
The area will become Garage 14, a 
$3 million project that will add 2,000 
new parking spaces by February 2020, 
according to the Transportation and 
Parking Services website. However, 
construction will close about 700 of the 
1,100 spaces in the meantime.
Blue decal alternative parking is 
found at Fiﬁ  eld Field, Archer Field and 
the southern portion of the commuter 
lot.
Staff commuter and green decal 
parking is found at Fiﬁ  eld Field and the 
southern portion of the commuter lot.
Orange decal parking is found at 
Norman Field, Flavet Field, Fiﬁ  eld Field, 
and the southern portion of the com-
muter lot.
There will be more than 1,000 spaces 
in four new lots to offset the temporary 
loss of the commuter lot, said Scott Fox, 
director of Transportation and Parking 
Services, in an email.
“We’re very sensitive to the needs 
of our customers. ... We know that we 
need to provide them with alternative 
parking,” Fox said.
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgParking garage 
construction 
closes down 
north part of 
commuter lot
THE PENTECOSTALS OF 
GAINESVILLE WILL PAY FOR THE 
BURIAL PLOTS OF THE CRASH 
VICTIMS.
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez, 
Josephine Fuller 
and T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writers
Pastor Jimmy Toney hasn’t left the injured 
victims of a crash on Interstate 75 alone. 
“It was sad, but at the same time hum-bling and an honor to be able to serve some-
body when they’re at their weakest and low-
est point,” said Toney, of the Pentecostals of 
Gainesville, about the victims of the crash. 
On Sunday night, about 400 people came to 
the church’s vigil to honor the seven people, 
including ﬁ  ve children from Louisiana who 
were on their way to Walt Disney World, who 
died in a ﬁ  ery crash on I-75 Thursday.
Families of the victims sat in the front row. 
Sounds of snifﬂ  ing and crying could be heard 
throughout the service as people prayed.
During the service, Toney announced that 
the church will pay for the burial plots of 
the ﬁ  ve children who died. He also thanked the ﬁ  rst responders, doctors and nurses who 
worked with the injured.
He also bought Chance Bernard, 9, who was 
among the eight injured, a plane ticket home so 
he wouldn’t have to travel back in a vehicle. 
When Pastor Eric Descant from Avoyelles 
House of Mercy Church in Marksville, Louisi-
ana, spoke at the vigil, he expressed how he 
hasn’t been able to get over the thought of his 
granddaughter, who died in the crash, and the 
other young victims were in “nonchalant black 
bags somewhere.” 
“I cried so much this morning,” he said. 
“My tears felt like lava ﬂ  owing out of a vol-
Church remembers I-75 victims
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
In a landmark vote last elec-
tion, Florida voters approved to 
give most felons their right to 
vote back.
In November, 64.6 percent voted for Amendment 4, accord-
ing to Florida Election Watch.
It will be put into effect Tues-
day, restoring the rights of felons 
who completed their sentenc-
ing, excluding those convicted of 
murder or felony sexual offens-
es, said TJ Pyche, the director of outreach for the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce.
About 1.4 million felons will 
have their rights restored, Pyche 
said. The elections ofﬁ  ce esti-
mates that about 10,000 people 
in the county will be affected by 
the new law.On March 19, those who reg-
ister by Feb. 19, the registration 
deadline, will be able to vote 
for mayor and District Four city 
commissioner in the city regular 
election.
On Feb. 4 at 6 p.m., a work-
shop for new voters will be held 
at the elections ofﬁ  ce, at 515 N. Gainesville prepares to implement Amendment 4  SEE I-75,  PAGE 4
SEE FELONS,  PAGE 4Felons will be able to register to vote on Jan. 8.T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Inspired by Cuba! 
An exhibit of almost 400 pieces 
of Cuban-themed ceramics will 
open at 3:30 p.m. at the Smathers 
Library in Room 100 on West 
University Avenue and will be on 
display until April 5. The exhibit 
will feature fine china, tobacco 
jars and baseball memorabilia. 
An opening reception will feature 
a presentation and will have a 
book signing with author Emilio 
Cueto. To visit the exhibit after 
the reception, email exhibits@
uflib.ufl.edu.
IRHA’s Involvement Safari
The UF Inter-Residence Hall 
Association will partner with 
Campus Diplomats and more 
than 30 other organizations for 
an organization fair at the Reitz 
Union North Lawn from 11 a.m. 
to 2 p.m. This will give students a 
chance to get to know about the 
different ways to get involved on 
campus. For students who visit 
the tables of nine organizations, 
there will be a chance to win a 
free Involvement Safari T-shirt.
TUESDAY
The National Symphony 
Orchestra of Romania
Taking the stage at 7:30 p.m. 
at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, at 3201 Hull 
Road, the National Symphony 
Orchestra of Romania will show 
off Romanian musicians between 
the ages of 18 and 35 in a classical 
music setting. The orchestra will 
partner with Andrei Ioni��, who 
received a gold medal at the 2015 
XV International Tchaikovsky 
Competition. Tickets range from 
$10 for UF students to $65 for 
general admissions. 
WEDNESDAY
National Ballet Theatre of Odessa
In their first visit to the U.S., the 
National Ballet Theatre of Odessa 
and 55 of its ballerinas will per-
form Swan Lake in four acts with 
an intermission. The show will 
start at 7:30 p.m. at the Phillips 
Center, at 3201 Hull Road. The 
ballet is based on Russian folk-
lore and German legend and fol-
lows a prince as he works to free 
a swan maiden from an evil spell. 
The production will be set to 
the music of Pyotr Tchaikovsky. 
Tickets range from $39 to $59. 
UF students can get a 20 percent 
discount. 
MicroBREWology
The Cade Museum, at 811 S. Main 
St., will provide First Magnitude 
beer, bread and pickles in the 
museum’s Creativity Lab from 6 
to 8 p.m. and foster a lesson on 
the process of how beer is made. 
Tickets are $30 each and are only 
open to those 21 and up. THURSDAY
Museum Nights: I, Too, Sing 
America
The Harn Museum of Art, at 
3259 Hull Road, is offering a 
chance to view photographs of 
the people behind the Civil Rights 
Movement from the 1950s to the 
1960s from 6:30 to 8 p.m. Visitors 
can hear poetry and prose that 
highlight the struggles for justice. 
Admission is free, and food will 
be provided. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  75° LOW  51°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Digital News Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Lindsey Breneman, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Alexandria Ng, ang@alligator.org
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Hanna Gibson,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesMayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Lourdes Hernandez, Blake TrauschkeMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday January 8 thru 
Friday January 12
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 43MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 Hangry?
Good to go.
From grab and go Chobani smoothies
to granola bars, shop and save close to campus.
Your Campus T arget
Just north of campus on
University and /one.lf /three.lfth St
© 2019 T arget Brands, Inc. The Bullseye Design and T arget are registered trademarks of T arget Brands, Inc. C-000807-03-0114   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
JACKSON SASSER HAS 
SERVED AS PRESIDENT 
FOR 17 YEARS. 
By Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Jackson Sasser wore a wool top-
coat his ﬁ  rst day as president of 
Santa Fe College. It was unusually 
cold outside as he walked to con-
vocation, but Sasser immediately 
felt at home, he said.  
On Friday, Sasser announced 
that after 17 years at the college, he 
will retire Feb. 1, 2020. 
The decision to retire was a dif-
ﬁ  cult one, Sasser said, but he is excited to be able 
to spend more 
quality time with 
his four grand-
children. 
“It has scared 
me to death to 
contemplate for 
three or four 
years retirement because I’m one 
of those people who love my job,” 
Sasser said. “But it’s just been 
driven by very practical reasons, 
like how much you have left to 
spend quality and energetic time 
with those you love.” 
During his 17 years as presi-
dent, Sasser said he was able to ex-pand Santa Fe’s international pro-
gram, have four employees become 
Fulbright Scholars, a program that 
sends American faculty members 
abroad to teach or research, and 
grow the Honors Program at the 
college by accepting incoming stu-
dents with 4.0 GPAs.
Sasser was also able to partici-
pate in a 2018 study about eco-
nomic inequality in the Gainesville 
area. He said there is more that 
needs to be done to address these 
issues. 
“The new president has to join 
with the city and the county and 
the chamber to make a big differ-
ence in that area,” Sasser said. “It must be done.”
Many faculty members were 
shocked by the news and will miss 
Sasser after he departs, said Mayor 
Lauren Poe, an economics and gov-
ernment professor at Santa Fe.
“I was extremely happy for him 
but extremely sad for the college,” 
said Poe.
One of Poe’s favorite moments 
with Sasser was when he was a 
student for a day in Poe’s class. 
Sasser sat in the back of the class-
room and tried ﬁ  tting in with the 
students but “stuck out like a sore 
thumb,” Poe said. 
“He’s just been an outstanding 
leader and an inspiration to me personally,” Poe said. “He really 
had a vision for the college that re-
ally set us up as a model institution 
for colleges around the country.” 
Sasser said he is appreciative of 
his time at Santa Fe but looks for-
ward to this next chapter in his life. 
“I love this place. I love this col-
lege. I love the area that we serve,” 
Sasser said. “I’m excited for the 
opportunity for the new president 
because it’s a dream job for some-
one to come in and take us to the 
next level.”
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.org Santa Fe College president announces retirement 
THE STUDY SENT 6,452 
EMAILS TO SCHOOLS IN 29 
STATES. 
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
New evidence suggests that dis-
crimination toward applicants with 
special needs may be taking place 
in charter schools.
In December, a study conducted 
by Isaac McFarlin, a UF assistant 
professor of education and eco-
nomics for the UF College of Edu-cation, shows charter schools are 
less likely to respond to special 
needs students in comparison to 
traditional public schools.
The study took four years to 
complete and cost about $125,000, 
McFarlin said. The study sent 6,452 
emails to charter schools and tra-
ditional public schools in 29 states 
and Washington, D.C.
All emails sent came from ﬁ  c-
titious parents of potential appli-
cants asking about how to apply 
to the school, McFarlin said. Each 
“parent” deﬁ  ned their child with varying attributes ranging from 
students with straight-As, behav-
ioral issues or special needs. 
“We were interested in ques-
tions of disparities in tradition-
al public schools and charter 
schools,” McFarlin said. 
From the responses, research-
ers found that charter schools were 
less likely to respond to potential 
applicants with special needs com-
pared to traditional public schools, 
he said.
The study also found evidence 
suggesting that choice schools re-sponded less to parents with His-
panic-sounding names, McFarlin 
said. This evidence was strongest 
in schools with a majority white 
student body.
“I think that all schools can do 
better,” McFarlin said. 
The study showed a 53 percent 
baseline rate of response, meaning 
that regardless of characteristics, 
parents only had about a 50/50 
chance the schools would respond 
at all, McFarlin said.
Charter schools in Alachua 
County have independence in ac-ceptance of applicants, said Kim 
Neal, the director of state reporting 
for Alachua County Public Schools. 
This means the county has no say 
in how charter schools handle ap-
plicants, she said. However, the 
county provides special opportuni-
ties such as the McKay Scholarship 
to students with disabilities.
“We do deﬁ  nitely try to take 
those things into account,” she 
said. “We’re really looking to ﬁ  nd 
a ﬁ  t for each student.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgStudy ﬁ  nds discrimination among special needs charter school applicantsSasser
cano.” 
The ﬁ  ve children killed were Joel Cloud, 
14; Jeremiah Warren, 14; Cierra “Cece” 
Bordelan, 9; Cara Descant, 13; and Brieana 
Descant, 10, according to the Florida High-
way Patrol.
Alexis Ikerd, 18, of Marksville, Louisi-
ana, was Bordelan’s cousin. Ikerd said the 
girl was very excited about the Disney trip 
and she had just seen her for the holidays.
“Cece was so little. She loved to mess 
around when she came by,” Ikerd said. 
“Now we don’t get that back. It’s devastat-
ing.”
Several other vigils for the victims took 
place in Louisiana near Avoyelles House of 
Mercy.
Shawn Chenevert Davis, of Hessmer, 
Louisiana, started a GoFundMe page to 
help the families of the victims. Davis is a 
member of the Avoyelles House of Mercy, 
where the passenger van came from.
Davis raised more than $3,000 in two 
days from both Gainesville and Louisiana 
donors and is planning to give the money 
to the church, according to the GoFundMe 
page. 
Neither Avoyelles House of Mercy nor 
Davis could be reached for comment. 
The crash occurred at about 3:40 p.m on 
Thursday, according to FHP. A semi-truck 
going northbound on I-75 struck another 
vehicle in a northbound lane. The cause of 
the initial crash remains unknown.
Both cars were sent through the guard-
rail and into the southbound lanes. The 
passenger van from Avoyelles House of 
Mercy and another semi were struck by 
the vehicles. The van overturned, ejecting some passengers and both semis caught on 
ﬁ  re.
A ﬁ  fth vehicle, a Chevrolet truck driven 
by Mark Houghtaling, 61, of Gainesville, 
who wasn’t injured, hit at least one of the 
ejected passengers, according to FHP.
Sara Galvan, 32, of Schaumburg, Illi-
nois, passed by the scene at about 10 p.m. 
on her way back from a vacation in Siesta 
Key, Florida.
“Our hearts sank once we saw the con-
dition of the wreck,” Galvan said. “We had 
seen the road delays stretched for miles and 
that the accident happened hours before.” 
Steve Holland, 59, of West Palm Beach, 
and Douglas Bolkema, 49, of Albuquerque, 
New Mexico, were the drivers of the semi-
trucks involved in the crash. Both died in 
the crash. 
Holland, who drove the semi-truck that 
began the crash, had received eight trafﬁ  c 
citations in Palm Beach County since 2003 
including one for careless driving, accord-
ing to court records.
None of the fatalities were alcohol re-
lated, according to FHP. It’s unknown if the 
children had seatbelts or child restraints on. 
Three patients who were involved in the 
crash have been treated and released from 
UF Health Shands Hospital. Noah Joffrion, 
14; Chance Bernard, 9; and Robyn Rattray, 
41, were those released, wrote UF Shands 
Marketing Coordinator Leah Harms in an 
email.
Karen Descant, 50; Trinity Woodward, 
9; and Amy Joffrion, 45, were still at the 
hospital in fair condition as of Saturday 
night, Harms said.
According to Shands’ newsroom web-
site, fair means “vital signs are stable and 
within normal limits. Patient is conscious 
but may be uncomfortable. Indicators are favorable.”
Chelsea Laborde’s, 11, family didn’t  
want any of her information released, 
Harms said.
Chelsea Laborde was transported to 
Shands, according to FHP.
Ali Laborde, 30, and Amy Joffrion were 
sent to North Florida Regional Medical Cen-
ter after the crash with serious injuries, ac-
cording to FHP. 
@katwf98
kwallacefernandez@alligator.org    
@jomarieUF 
Jfuller@alligator.org
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgI-75,  from pg. 1Five children and two men died.
Main St., to inform them about what to expect, such 
as where to go and what will be on the ballot, Pyche 
said. 
“The whole idea is to show people that the vot-
ing process isn’t difﬁ  cult,” Pyche said. “It’s for peo-
ple who have never voted or haven’t voted in a very 
long time.” 
The elections ofﬁ  ce will partner with community 
organizations, like the League of Women Voters of 
Alachua County, to raise awareness of the new law. 
Carole Fernandez, 66, advocated for Amend-
ment 4 as the president of the league. Now she’s 
working to make sure it’s properly implemented, 
she said.
“We want people to know what they need to 
register,” Fernandez said. “[Felons] don’t need a 
piece of paper or anything like that. They are just 
responsible to know if they have completed their 
sentencing.” 
The application to register asks new voters if 
they’ve been convicted of a felony and if they’ve 
had their rights restored, Fernandez said. 
The voter is also responsible for knowing if they 
have paid any fees or restitutions, Pyche said.
He said that it is then up to the state to check 
whether the applicant qualiﬁ  es to vote.
Those planning to register can verify that they’ve 
completed their sentencing with the clerk of the 
court in the county they were convicted in. 
The elections ofﬁ  ce will remain open until 7 
p.m., two hours later than its regular closing, on 
Tuesday to encourage people who will be newly eli-
gible to register in person. 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgFELONS,  from pg. 110,000 will be afected.
TRAFFIC TIMELINE:
Thursday at 3:40 p.m.:  Two 
semitrucks and two vehicles crashed 
at mile marker 394. All north and 
southbound lanes were closed for 10 
miles. 
Friday at 8:52 a.m.: Florida 
Department of Transportation 
opened two of three southbound 
lanes and trafﬁ  c moved at a pace of 
20 to 25 mph. 
2:29 p.m.: FDOT closed two 
southbound lanes to begin road 
repairs. 
5:30 p.m.: Asphalt damage repairs 
began and lasted overnight. 
Saturday at 1:15 a.m.: Road work was 
completed and all I-75 trafﬁ  c opened 
after nearly two days of closures.MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
· CRIME ROUNDUP · 
HE WAS CHARGED WITH 
RESISTING AN OFFICER 
WITHOUT VIOLENCE.
A man who iden-
tiﬁ  ed himself as 
“your mama” was 
arrested Saturday by 
Gainesville Police.
Thirteen-time  
offender Travis 
Lamont Hale, 39,  
of Gainesville, was 
charged with resist-
ing an ofﬁ  cer without violence, accord-ing to court records. 
At about 12:30 p.m., Hale was stand-
ing next to a car in the middle of the 
road in the 900 block of Northeast 17th 
St., according to an arrest report. The 
car was blocking trafﬁ  c. 
The area is known for drug sales, po-
lice said. It is common for a pedestrian 
to approach the driver of a vehicle in 
street drug sales, ofﬁ  cials said. 
Police went to the driver and Hale, 
the report said. Hale refused to identify 
himself because he said he was in his 
grandmother’s yard and didn’t have to. 
When more ofﬁ  cers arrived, Hale 
ran away, the report said.  He was ar-rested a block away and when asked for 
his name he said “your mama.” 
Hale had an active warrant for an 
aggravated battery committed on Aug. 
31, according to court records.  He was 
accused of pushing a man off his bicycle 
because he thought he broke into his 
home. He then chased the man on foot 
and bicycle with a wooden mop handle 
and beat him with it.
He also has an open case for an ac-
cused unarmed robbery on Oct.19, ac-
cording to court records.
Hale remains in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $60,310 bond.
A man accused of hiding cocaine and 
ﬂ  eeing from a Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cer 
was arrested Thursday.
Joseph Ther-
on Miles, 39, of 
Gainesville, was 
charged with posses-
sion of cocaine with 
intent to sell, resist-
ing an ofﬁ  cer without 
violence and driving 
with a suspended li-
cense, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report.
At about 11 p.m., Miles was driv-
ing on the 100 block of Northwest 12th 
Street when a police ofﬁ  cer found his 
license was suspended, the report said.
When Miles left a McDonald’s drive-
thru, at 1206 W University Ave., police 
pointed at him to pull over, police said. 
Miles then drove into the Gator Bever-
age Inc. parking lot, at 1126 W Univer-
sity Ave., and walked in. The ofﬁ  cer saw 
Miles duck down and move throughout 
the store, police said. The ofﬁ  cer arrested him and discov-
ered Miles had left a child between 5 to 
8 years old in the front passenger seat of 
the car, the report said.  
When Smith retraced Miles’s path in 
the store, he found a baggie with 11.6 
grams of cocaine wedged between cases 
of beer, according to police. 
Another ofﬁ  cer heard the child say 
that his father sells the cocaine to make 
extra money, the report said. 
Miles remains in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $185,000 bond.Police arrested two men Friday 
accused of stealing a $23 pizza.
Caleb Stephen Hernandez, 21, 
of Parker, Colorado, and Chauncy 
Thomas McLaren, 20, of West Palm 
Beach, were charged with unarmed 
robbery and conspiracy, according 
to an Gainesville Police arrest re-
port.  
At 1:40 a.m., Hernandez and 
McLaren conspired to order a Dom-
ino’s pizza and not pay for it, the 
report said. 
McLaren got into the pizza deliv-
ery driver’s car, took the pizza and 
threw $2 at him before he and Her-
nandez drove away, police said.
Alvarez followed them and called 
the police, olice said. Hernandez stopped the vehicle, 
and McLaren approached Alvarez saying, “Stop fol-
lowing me. I’m about to f--- you up.” 
McLaren then opened the car door, punched Al-
varez in the face and ran back to Hernandez’s car. 
Hernandez drove to his residence, police said.
An ofﬁ  cer saw McLaren run into an apartment, the 
report said. After an announcement was made, both 
stepped out of the apartment. 
Hernandez admitted to conspiring to steal a pizza, 
according to the arrest report. He also admitted to eat-
ing a slice of pizza during announcements. 
McLaren remained in the Alachua County Jail on 
Sunday in lieu of a $13,500 bond. Hernandez was re-
leased at 1:30 p.m. Friday on a signature bond, ac-
cording to the jail. Police arrest man identifying as ‘your mama’
GPD: Man arrested for hiding cocaineMen accused of 
stealing pizza
Hale
Miles
Hernandez
McLaren
All Stories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez    |   Alligator Staff Writer 
Twitter: @katwf98    |   Email: kwallacefernandez@alligator.orgThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsCreating a New 
Home at UF
Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORAlexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Changing Politics
Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cor-
tez has made her way into the hearts 
of liberal millennials across the nation. 
Her quirky demeanor, unrivaled confi-
dence and leftist progressive platform 
are just some of the reasons why she has quick-
ly gone from political newcomer to Democratic 
icon in a matter of months.
Since her election, the congresswoman has 
been heralded for establishing her so-called 
“girl squad” within her Congressional class and for clap-
ping back at Republican attacks on her with unbothered 
fervor. I argue, however, that the true value of Ocasio-
Cortez lies beyond her most distinguished attributes. Her 
value is instead rooted in her ability to bring humanity 
back into politics.
By virtue of her widespread adoration, Ocasio-Cortez 
has garnered a significant social media following — 1.5 
million followers on Instagram and 2.1 million on Twitter. 
While most politicians use their social media outlets to 
enhance their image and to advocate for more personal 
and party support, Ocasio-Cortez uses the tools in a 
different way. Her accounts are used mainly to educate 
her supporters on the legislative process and to interact 
with them on an intimate level.
Most notably, the congresswoman streamed a video in 
November on Instagram Live during which she answered 
questions submitted by her followers about herself, her 
goals and the legislative process.
The real kicker came when she did this all while making 
herself macaroni and cheese and singing along to Janelle 
Monáe. This informal conference caused many people to 
start obsessing over the 29-year-old New Yorker.
This video is just one example of how she has managed 
to break down the wall between the public and the gov-
ernment. Ocasio-Cortez is creating a friendship between her and the public. She has made herself relat-
able to young people who would otherwise turn 
their noses up at politics. She has successfully 
established an e-relationship with not only her 
constituents, but citizens in every state. Through 
her simple outreach approaches, this political 
novice has helped America start to return to a 
reality where politicians actively engage with the 
public.
Her devotion to establishing a personal con-
nection with her constituents has been clear. During her 
campaign for office, Ocasio-Cortez was known to have 
documented every step on social media to establish trans-
parency with her supporters. She has also argued that she 
won her seat in the U.S. House of Representatives as a 
result of the doors she knocked on.
Ocasio-Cortez’s first pair of campaign shoes, now 
tattered, discolored and unusable, were added to an 
exhibition at the Cornell Costume and Textile Collection 
titled “Women Empowered: Fashions from the Frontline.”
Some political traditionalists have expressed upset over 
her modern tendencies and casual approaches to reaching 
the public, but her tactics are nothing new. Her strategies 
are tailored to the present day. Her Instagram Live ses-
sions and Twitter conversations are a modern-day equiva-
lent of the fireside chats that FDR would hold in the 1930s 
and ‘40s. 
Ocasio-Cortez’s devotion to the public and valiant 
efforts to bring constituents into the legislative process 
are things that other representatives should look at with 
respect. I can only hope that Ocaso-Cortez is the start of 
a new wave of politicians — ones who are determined to 
bring humanity back into politics.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science and journalism 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgFor about three weeks a year in December, UF becomes 
vacant, a school without it’s students. It loses its heart: 
the students, professors and staff who create an entire 
world that revolves around the university. When these 
people return, UF once again becomes the thriving well-
oiled machine it was meant to be.
Remembering that everyone is a part of what makes the 
university go around is comforting. It gives students and fac-
ulty alike a place in a community of more than 40,000. To say 
it’s easy to get lost in the crowd seems to be an understate-
ment. If you were to walk through campus in the time between 
classes, you would see masses of people; some would be hus-
tling, some laughing and some sluggishly getting through their 
day. People are all living their lives, thinking about their next 
paper to write or about a formal at the end of the week.
To say it simply, UF is a home, filled with the most dys-
functional of families. It’s made up of people from different 
backgrounds and experiences, and UF wouldn’t be the same 
without any of them. It’s what makes coming back from a 
month-long break a little bit easier. It’s the opportunity to fall 
back into a place where you belong, where nights at the li-
brary don’t seem so long next to your favorite people or where 
you get to go back to your favorite club meetings every week.
UF students have to leave home every semester, wherever 
that home may be. Whether it’s a 20-minute drive or a 20-hour 
plane ride to Gainesville, leaving behind your home and your 
family isn’t always easy. Leaving home tends to mean you’re 
leaving a place of relaxation and hometown friends. Being a 
college student means saying goodbye to people constantly, 
but on the flip side, it also means saying hello constantly.
UF’s new semester isn’t something you have to dread; it’s 
something to look forward to because it means coming back 
to your second home. It’s returning to a place where you have 
memories on every corner. As college students, we can look 
at it as something fortunate that we get to experience two 
homes: One we are born into, and one we’ve created around 
ourselves.
UF needs us just as much as we, the students, need it. 
Without us, UF has no one rushing across Turlington Plaza, 
and without UF we don’t have our memories of nights spent 
on the floor of our freshman dorm hall. Dreading a new se-
mester is understandable but realize some of the reasons that 
a new semester is a good thing. We get to continue building 
our home in Gainesville and setting roots that we never knew 
we needed.
A new home isn’t something that is made overnight; it’s 
something that takes time to build. It means putting yourself 
out there, going to different club meetings and finding new 
hobbies. This home is strange, filled with teenagers and young 
adults without any sort of supervision, but we all play our 
part in the family. We’ve all done what we can to better it and 
make it the strongest it can be.
If you’re feeling a little lonely or upset about leaving your 
friends and family back in your hometown, remember that UF 
is there to welcome you back. Your favorite Starbucks barista 
will be there, writing down your order before you get a chance 
to speak. Krishna will be there ready to pile your plate high. 
What makes UF a home is the students and faculty who file 
back every semester. We need you. You are what makes UF a 
home, and you are what keeps UF moving. MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Mental health, I be-
lieve, is not given 
the attention it 
deserves. This can 
result in a lack of 
happiness and contentment 
and at worst, tragic and pre-
ventable suicides for those 
struggling with their own 
mental health. College ex-
acerbates stress and mental 
health issues, warranting an 
abundance of mental health resources. 
However, this is often not the case. 
As a student at UF, and one who 
struggles immensely with anxiety is-
sues, I do not think UF does enough to 
address students’ mental health. The 
anxiety levels among fellow students 
here often run high, yet there are not 
adequate resources to combat such 
mental health issues. The Counseling & 
Wellness Center is a fantastic resource, 
but there are more than 1,000 students 
per one counselor, resulting in exces-
sive wait times. From personal experi-
ence, I know it is nearly impossible to 
get an appointment scheduled that is 
less than a month away. In times of se-
vere anxiety, this isn’t sufﬁ  cient. 
It is my hope that better access to 
therapy and psychiatry could help stu-
dents by treating mental health issues 
and preventing suicides. Groups like 
Awareness Wellness Ambassadors 
Reaching Everyone, a mental health 
ambassador program, associated with 
the center are an important asset on 
campus, as they destigmatize mental 
health treatment. GatorWell also has 
some therapy and stress management 
programs. However, funding for pro-
grams such as these is often scant. 
In a 2017 letter to the editor, Student 
Government Senator Zachariah Chou 
(Inspire, Murphree) wrote about the 
travesty of denying increased perma-
nent funding for the center. The pro-
posed funding would go toward hiring 
12 new counselors, in efforts to lower the student-to-counselor ra-
tio. The local fee committee, 
which, while not a commit-
tee within Student Govern-
ment, consists of SG ofﬁ  -
cials, had the opportunity to 
potentially permanently fund 
more counselors. This would 
make access to mental health 
help readily available, yet the 
proposition was denied and 
the fee increase of 71.4 cents 
per credit hour would fail to alleviate 
the wait times for the CWC. I whole-
heartedly agree with Chou’s take – this 
denial of funds for the primary mental 
health resource on campus was a moral 
failure. 
Luckily, after a major outcry from 
the general student body, the provost 
intervened and provided the permanent 
funding needed to support these new 
counselors. In Fall, the local fee com-
mittee was more responsive to mental 
health needs, approving proposals for 
increased funding for both the Disabil-
ity Resource Center and the Dean of 
Students Ofﬁ  ce. These rescources have 
missions that mention helping students 
with their mental health. 
While this is a step in the right di-
rection, I question the committee’s mo-
tives. Do members genuinely under-
stand the importance of mental health 
resources, or do they want to save face 
after a tumultuous 2017? I would hope 
for the former, but I fear that is not the 
case.  
Despite past failures, the increased 
funding for the CWC, Disability Re-
source Center and Dean of Students Of-
ﬁ  ce is a promising step in the right di-
rection. Hopefully, it is the case that the 
administration, SG and student body in 
general at UF are starting to realize the 
severity of mental health issues.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English 
sophomore. Her column appears on 
Mondays.UF needs to put more effort 
into mental health rescources Column
We are now ofﬁ  cially in 2019. With 
the coming of the new year, many 
people make New Year’s resolu-
tions for things they want to im-
prove on. However, it doesn’t just 
have to be individuals who make New Year’s 
resolutions. For my ﬁ  rst column of both the 
new year and the new semester, I’d like to 
offer some New Year’s resolutions for UF:
Race and diversity on campus: UF has 
long struggled to expand opportunities for 
minorities on campus and to make everyone 
feel included. Only 7 percent of UF’s student 
body is African American. For comparison, 
8.3 percent of Florida State University’s stu-
dent body is black, while the number is 11 
percent for the University of Central Florida. 
Even beyond the numbers, major media 
outlets like the Tampa Bay Times have dis-
cussed the isolation and separation felt by 
many black students at UF, and when a mar-
shal at last May’s graduation forcibly moved 
students along the stage, the perception that 
black students were being singled out raised 
the possibility that the incident was racially 
motivated. While UF and student body presi-
dent Ian Green have launched the Bridges Minority Outreach Program to help 
underrepresented students pre-
pare for and visit UF, this univer-
sity can do more, such as expand-
ing the African American Studies 
program, hiring more black faculty 
and naming buildings and other 
structures after prominent African 
Americans at UF (such as Virgil 
Hawkins, whose battle to enroll at 
UF’s College of Law led to a court 
order desegregating UF).
Free speech: Issues of free speech on 
campus have also been contentious. The 
most notable example is when notorious 
white nationalist Richard Spencer spoke at 
the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts 
in October of 2017, before being drowned 
out by protestors in the audience. What fol-
lowed was a new state law governing free 
speech on campus. However, as I discussed 
in a previous column, this law also made 
the university liable to lawsuits if protestors 
“materially disrupted” a scheduled speech, 
which disincentivized the university to bring 
in potentially controversial speakers for fear 
of protests and subsequent lawsuits from the speakers. And given that less 
than a month ago the UF chapter 
of Young Americans for Freedom 
ﬁ  led a lawsuit against the uni-
versity alleging that UF has in-
fringed on their free speech rights 
by denying them funds to bring 
in speakers, it seems the conse-
quences of this new policy are be-
coming apparent. In the new year, 
UF should do more lobbying of the 
Florida Legislature to craft a new college free 
speech law, one that balances free speech, 
public safety and the rights of protesters and 
counter-protesters. Until then, UF needs to 
set an example, allowing students of all polit-
ical orientations to speak out and have their 
views represented, while also managing any 
protests so they don’t run afoul of the law.
Greater focus on mental health: Just 
like individuals often make resolutions to fo-
cus on their mental health, so too should UF. 
The UF Counseling & Wellness Center, while 
providing invaluable services, is sadly under-
funded, with reports of wait lists sometimes 
a whole semester long. Outside help is avail-
able, but it could be out of reach for some students due to transportation issues, and 
frankly, the university has an obligation to 
help all its students instead of dumping them 
on the community (which also has to deal 
with plenty of non-student residents in need 
of mental health care). The obvious answer 
would be for the university to fund the Coun-
seling & Wellness Center more so they can 
hire more counselors or maybe even open an 
additional location. While I would fully sup-
port that, I think the issue goes deeper. UF 
should also team up with campus organiza-
tions like Stronger Than Stigma and Out of 
the Darkness to inform people about mental 
health, and to lessen the stigma around it. 
Above all, mental health needs to be a bigger 
priority, both among students and adminis-
tration.
While these aren’t the only areas UF can 
improve in, these are probably the biggest 
and most consequential. As we head into 
2019, it is my hope that UF can navigate 
these issues to create a healthier, freer, and 
more diverse student community.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.New Year's resolutions are not just for students: changes UF needs to makeColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgIt’s a new year, and some of us re-
turning Gators are returning with 
some serious baggage from the 
holiday season. When we leave 
behind our plebeian friends for 
the golden ﬁ  elds of Gainesville and 
our top 8 public university, a new life 
begins. Most students experience a de-
parture from the old as they struggle 
through college to discover the new, 
and this departure often sentences old 
friendships to death by distance. 
At UF, these old companions and the tried-
and-true high school routines they ﬁ  t neatly into 
are exchanged for the uncertain freedom of a 
loose class schedule and a half-decent nightlife. 
Maintaining these old friendships can seem like a 
chore at times, especially when new friends enter 
to ﬁ  ll the void, and old friends seem to move on. 
However, after spending three weeks with an old 
friend, one whom I grew distant from during my 
time at college, I’ve realized how important it is to 
keep the people important to you in your life. 
It was a rainy December night as I drove down 
U.S. 19 in Tarpon Springs, my home town, next to 
one of my oldest friends.
As speciﬁ  c as that sentence is, it is actually 
true of three separate occasions during this win-
ter break. Three different nights I drove with three 
passengers on the same road; it was just a sad but 
predictable coincidence that it was raining each 
time. These late-night drives are easy to accom-
plish over winter break, the three week gap in re-
sponsibilities that seems like a respite from reality. 
The typical college student will enter their home 
delirious and nutrient-deprived from ﬁ  nals cram-
ming and spend most of their break wasting their 
parents’ gas, money and food. It is a careless time, 
and parents are so happy to see their little adults 
that they let the wrecking balls that once were 
their kids obliterate their lives out of love. 
Against these circumstances, as well as the fa-
miliarity of the holidays at home and the absence 
of any of new friends, spending time with old 
friends is a natural outgrowth of winter break. It is 
simple, not to mention, fun. It feels right. Catching 
up with your hilarious middle school best friend 
or your breathtaking high school sweetheart, you 
realize how much you both have changed (hope-
fully for the better).
It is important to realize, though, that  this is 
not all that life is. As nice as it would be to spend 
our days in an eternal limbo between Dec. 20 and Jan. 1, it neglects any of the trials that 
deﬁ  ne our characters and our spirit as 
Gators. There are places for eternal 
laziness and partying, they are called 
Tallahassee and Orlando. 
It is imperative that we calibrate 
our lives to handle the hardest parts, 
as fun as it may be to dote on the de-
tails of simple days. This means ﬁ  nd-
ing a place for old friendships that we 
realize we require in our lives inside 
the struggle that is attending UF. It is different for 
every friend, too. Friends are like cups of coffee 
at different diners. They each require a unique 
amount of cream and sugar to come out right, and 
it’s never the same at any place you go but if you 
get it right the taste is perfect. For maintaining 
old friendships, this translates to some needing a 
call every other week while others are ﬁ  ne with a 
Snapchat once or twice a month. This depends a 
lot on the independence of the person, as well as 
how close your relationship was when you were 
younger. Sometimes, too, a friend occupies a place 
in your life that cannot be ﬁ  lled by a stranger you 
met at the bar at White Buffalo or in the seats of 
the football stadium. When this is the case, and 
many times it is, making time to ﬁ  t in a person 
feels nothing like the chore that it looks like on 
paper. 
While keeping up with old friends is to a per-
son’s life as “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” 
was to the reality television industry, it is also true 
that we can’t neglect our present in favor of the 
past. New friendships are necessary, and the ab-
sence of these friendships can leave as great a void 
as the emptiness of losing old ones. So go to a 
study group, join a few clubs, attend that event 
in your major, slide to Midtown on a Friday night 
and hit up the boys for a “Super Smash Bros” tour-
nament or the ladies for a wine night to spill the 
tea. Enjoy college and all of the amazing people 
enjoying it with you, but remember who made you 
into the person you are. New friends are vital to 
your college experience and your mental health, 
and your family or best friends from home can-
not take their place. However, new friends cannot 
usurp old ones. It isn’t a battle between who is 
more important and which way is best to divide 
your attention in your life, it is an equilibrium 
between developing brand new relationships and 
maintaining old ones. 
Kyle Cunningham is a UF history major. His col-
umn appears on Mondays.Old friendships and what they mean for homeColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
IT WILL GO INTO EFFECT 
OCT. 1 IF PASSED. 
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
A new bill proposed in the Florida 
House of Representatives would pro-
hibit using a phone while driving.
On Dec. 17, Florida State Rep. 
Jackie Toledo proposed the bill that 
would make texting and driving a 
primary offense, allowing police to 
pull over a driver if they see him or her on the phone, Toledo said. The 
bill would prohibit the use of phones 
while driving, with some exceptions. 
“In order to save lives and change 
behavior, you have to have strict 
laws,” Toledo said. 
Texting and driving is a second-
ary offense in Florida, meaning the 
driver must be doing something il-
legal, like speeding or running a red 
light while texting, she said. 
This often makes the law difﬁ  cult 
to enforce, said Gainesville Police Chief Inspector Jorge Campos. Mak-
ing the law a primary offense would 
make it easier to identify and cite the 
offender.
“Texting and driving is deﬁ  nitely 
an issue in Gainesville,” Campos 
said. “And it’s more than just texting 
and driving — it’s distracted driv-
ing.”
More than 3,400 people were 
killed in 2016, and 391,000 were in-
jured in crashes involving distracted 
drivers in 2015, according to the National Highway Trafﬁ  c Safety Ad-
ministration. At least nine people are 
killed daily because of a distracted 
driver, according to the Centers for 
Disease Control.
Florida is one of four states with-
out a primary offense ban on texting 
and driving, Toledo said. If passed, 
the bill would be effective Oct. 1. 
“If we can save one life, it’s worth 
the ﬁ  ght,” Toledo said.
Sarah Cantor, a 21-year-old UF 
graphic design junior who drives a scooter to campus, said the new bill 
could help prevent crashes.
But Cantor worries it might be 
hard to discern what qualiﬁ  es a 
ticket, especially when people use 
Google Maps on their phone. 
“I haven’t been directly affected 
by it,” she said. “But there are in-
stances in the past where I’ve been 
using my phone and something has 
almost happened.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgFlorida state representative proposes bill to ban texting while drivingIN 2016, ALACHUA COUNTY 
RANKED SECOND IN THE STATE 
FOR OPIOID ADDICTION 
AMONG ADOLESCENTS.
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
Newberry Mayor Jordan Marlowe decided 
to take action after a former student who strug-
gled with drug addiction died by suicide last 
spring.  
Within weeks after the student’s death, 
Marlowe, who is an English and history teach-
er at Newberry High School, met with the Ala-
chua County Health Promotion and Wellness 
Coalition to learn about drug use in teens.
Based on statistics from the 2016 Florida 
Youth Substance Abuse Survey, he learned 
that the county ranked second in the state for 
opioid addiction among teenagers. Marlowe said that his loss and shock about 
the extent of the problem prompted him to 
start a task force to ﬁ  ght opioid use among 
teens in the county.  
The coalition deﬁ  nes opioids as pain-reliev-
ing prescription drugs. 
“The end goal would be that I never lose 
another student and protect my own children,” 
he said.
In 2016, 4.8 percent of high schoolers in 
Alachua County were using opioids, more 
than double the state average of 2 percent, said 
Francelette Garcia, program director of the co-
alition.
New numbers from the 2018 survey show 
that opioid use among high schoolers in the 
county and state decreased but increased for 
middle schoolers. 
“The numbers have gone down,” Garcia 
said. “But the problem is worse because kids 
are using younger and younger.” 
In 2018, the survey showed use among high schoolers at 1 percent and the state average at 
1.4 percent, Garcia said. For middle schoolers, 
the state average for opioid use was 1 percent 
and the county was at 1.4 percent. 
The task force was started to help raise 
awareness of the addiction problem, Marlowe 
said. Members will be appointed later this 
month and will begin to create an initiative to 
ﬁ  nd the cause of the problem. 
Marlowe launched the Newberry United 
website in late October to fundraise and pro-
vide resources for people who are or know of 
someone struggling with opioid addiction. 
Garcia said she believes there is a problem 
with opioids among younger children because 
pills are easy to access, conceal and take. 
 “It’s easy to take it and put it in your pock-
et,” Garcia said.
Marlowe plans to continue the campaign 
with a strong presence on social media and a 
billboard funded by the coalition in Newberry. 
He said he received overwhelming sup-port after he reached out to the Newberry, 
Gainesville and Alachua County commissions, 
as well as the Alachua County School Board.
“We certainly are shocked that this was 
under the radar,” said Gainesville At-large City 
Commissioner Helen Warren.
Marlowe also partnered with local busi-
nesses and organizations, including Warm 
Hearts, a Buchholz High School club. The 
group makes care packages and tie dyes T-
shirts for the homeless in Gainesville.
Warm Hearts will identify high school 
students to participate in a study designed to 
better understand how much students know 
about drug use and addiction, said Natalia 
Andraka, an 18-year-old Buchholz senior and 
founder of Warm Hearts.
“The most dangerous possibility is not to 
have anyone or anywhere to go,” Andraka 
said. “Especially when you’re so young.” 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgNewberry mayor ﬁ  ghts against teen opioid addiction in countyMONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
Local Color
Paintings, ceramics, photography, fiber art, 
glass, mixed media and more
                        handcrafted by more than 50 area artists
201 SE Second Place, Suite 113, Union Street Station
www.artisansguildgallery.com   Phone: 352-378-1383
Hours: Mon-Sat 10 am—7 pm, Sunday noon—5 pm
Bring in this ad for 20% off through March 15, 2019
THE LAW WOULD BAN THE 
USE OF PLASTIC BAGS 
AND FOAM CONTAINERS.
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville City Commission gave its ﬁ  rst 
approval to an ordinance that would ban the use 
of plastic bags and foam containers at a meeting 
Thursday evening. 
The approval passed 7-0, and the ordinance 
will be made law on Aug. 1 if it receives a second 
approval later this month.
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos said 
other places have started a similar ban such as 
Jamaica, which banned single-use plastic bags, 
foam and straws on Jan. 1.
“They are a much poorer country than the 
City of Gainesville,” Hayes-Santos said. “I think 
we should take a stand that protects our environ-
ment.”
During the meeting, there was some debate from Commissioner Helen Warren and Commis-
sioner Gigi Simmons about the lack of a hardship 
exemption for businesses that would ﬁ  nancially 
struggle.  
“I don’t feel that we’ve had a deep enough 
conversation about the option,” Warren said.
Peter Yñigo, the owner of Mi Apá Latin Cafe, 
expressed similar concerns to the commission 
and shared his experience with switching from 
foam to paper.
“I don’t know how many local small restau-
rants are going to be able to absorb the costs,” 
he said. 
During public comment, residents like Gina 
Hawkins, 59, executive director of Keep Alachua 
County Beautiful, said she supported the law.
“If anyone doubts this is an issue in the envi-
ronment for our health and safety, then I invite 
you to come out on the MLK day of service and 
pull bags and styrofoam out of creeks and road-
ways,” she said.
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgGainesville City Commission is 
stepping closer to banning plasticRestaurant Roundup
2019 WILL BRING TWO NEW 
RESTAURANTS TO THE 
GAINESVILLE AREA.
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
From American classics to treats served 
around the world, Gainesville is expand-
ing its food scene while saying goodbye 
to a bar known for trivia nights. As 2019 
begins, ﬁ  nd out which restaurants have 
set up shop, closed their doors or opening 
soon.
Recently Opened
Dick Mondell’s Burgers and Fries
What started out as a project for a 
course in culinary school is now Gaines-
ville’s newest burger restaurant. With 
menu items ranging from $5 to $10, Dick 
Mondell’s is open for people of varying di-
etary preferences, said co-owner Connor 
Castelli. 
Dick Mondell’s Burgers and Fries, at 
412 SW 4th Ave., opened Dec. 6, Castelli 
said. Castelli and co-owner Chris Lecker-
ling painted the burger joint with vintage 
orange and blue, trying to bring the nov-
elty of a ‘60s-style drive-thru to current-day 
Gainesville.
“We’re serious about the food,” Castelli 
said. “But we don’t want people to take it 
too seriously where it’s not any fun.”
The drive-thru serves different types 
of burgers, including a double-patty melt 
called “‘The Original’ Big Dick,” and the 
vegan “Impossible Burger,” a plant-based 
alternative to a beef burger, Castelli said. 
The restaurant also sells milkshakes made 
with homemade ice cream, including va-
nilla, chocolate, coffee and orange cream-
sicle blends.
Dick Mondell’s locally sources many of 
the ingredients from other establishments 
in the north Florida area, such as Village 
Bread in Jacksonville, where it gets its 
buns, Castelli said. 
Bubbles and Bites
Rachel Tsou’s favorite snack growing 
up was a Hong Kong wafﬂ  e. The 19-year-
old remembers eating it while on vacation 
in Hong Kong and during strolls through 
Chinatown in Manhattan, New York, 
where she used to live.“It’s something we wanted to bring to 
Florida,” Tsou said.
Bubble and Bites, a family-run bubble 
tea shop in Oaks Mall, opened Nov. 16, 
said Tsou, the owner’s daughter and a 
server at the shop. The restaurant serves 
“bubble tea,” a sweet milky tea-based 
drink with boba, or soft, chewy tapioca 
balls, at the bottom. 
The shop sells yogurt drinks, coffee 
and fruit teas with ﬂ  avors like strawberry, 
peach and mango. Most items are about 
$5.
Closed
The Brass Tap
It’s closing time for The Brass Tap on 
Archer Road, which means the end of the 
restaurant’s nearly ﬁ  ve-year span and bi-
weekly trivia nights.
The Gainesville location of this regional 
bar chain closed Dec. 14., said The Brass 
Tap marketing manager, Jessica Buchta. 
The decision to close was made by the 
bar’s owner, Harvey Allen Hessell, she 
said. Hessell could not immediately be 
reached for comment. 
Coming Soon
Newk’s Eatery 
With dozens of locations around the 
nation’s southeast, Newk’s Eatery will 
open its ﬁ  rst store in Gainesville at Butler 
North in January 2019, Mary Reichardt, di-
rector of marketing for Butler Enterprises, 
wrote in an email.
The restaurant serves salads, sandwich-
es, pizza and mac and cheese, according to 
its online menu. 
The ofﬁ  cial opening of Newk’s Eatery, 
which will be located at 4041 Plaza Blvd., 
will be announced soon on ShopatButler 
social media pages, Reichardt said. 
Dunkin’ Donuts
Gainesville residents will have a new 
drive-thru location for morning pastries 
and coffee, with a new Dunkin’ Donuts 
opening in 2019.
The restaurant will be located near the 
intersection of Waldo Road and University 
Avenue, according to city planning records 
from a Nov. 26 meeting. This will be the 
national chain’s ninth shop in Gainesville. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgGainesville gets new Dunkin’ 
Donuts, tea shop in Oaks Mall
THE CITY RANKED 18TH OVERALL 
AND THIRD AMONG MIDSIZE CITIES.
By Lakshmi Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville is one of the best cities for col-
lege students when it comes to cost of living, 
academia and economic growth. 
On Dec. 11, WalletHub, a personal ﬁ  nance 
website, published a list of the best and worst 
college cities in the U.S. for 2019. Gainesville 
ranked 18th overall and third among 151 mid-
size cities, which have populations between 
125,000 to 300,000 people.
WalletHub looked at 415 cities across three 
categories: social environment, cost of living, 
and academic and economic opportunities. The 
categories were examined using 30 metrics, in-
cluding housing costs, students per capita and 
job growth rates. Each city received a weighted 
average across all metrics. Gainesville scored highest in academic and 
economic opportunities and received a total 
score of 54.95 out of 100 points, according to 
the report. 
UF helps the city of Gainesville gain recog-
nition as an innovation hub, said Margot Win-
ick, a UF spokesperson. Alumni who stay in 
Gainesville help the community develop busi-
nesses and medical advances, she said. 
“This ranking is validation of what many al-
ready know,” Winick said. “That this is a great 
college town.”
Rankings like these help spark an interest in 
tourism, said Sean Plemons, the content man-
ager of Visit Gainesville, Alachua County, FL.
Gainesville’s attractiveness comes from its 
nightlife, student population and opportunities 
for development, Plemons said.
“In a nutshell, there’s a lot more to see and 
do here than in a normal small town in Flori-
da,” he said. 
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.org  Gainesville lands spot as one of the 
best college cities in the country  HE WAS 24 YEARS OLD.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
Kevin Kimbrough was many 
things: a son, a big brother, a UF 
fraternity brother, a video game 
enthusiast. 
But he was 
not meant to be 
a dancer. 
His tall and 
lanky posture 
made his danc-
ing look awk-
ward and clum-
sy. He had no 
curves, said a friend of his, So-
phia Marchetti. 
Still, he didn’t let his composi-
tion stop him. He embraced it and 
danced for sick kids who couldn’t 
each year. 
Kimbrough was born 24 years 
ago on Nov. 4 in Memphis, Ten-
nessee. His death by suicide Dec. 
15 shocked friends who knew him 
as the person who wanted every-
one around him to be happy.
Kimbrough was involved in 
his fraternity, Delta Tau Delta, 
and other student leadership or-
ganizations during his years at 
UF. The Miracle Network Dance 
Marathon, a fundraiser for the lo-
cal Children’s Miracle Network 
Hospital, was his favorite event. 
Marchetti, a 22-year-old UF 
business administration ﬁ  fth 
year, met Kimbrough four years 
ago at the 26.2-hour-long charity 
event. Since they met, it was ob-
vious he loved to make everyone 
laugh, she said.
A short blue wig, body glit-
ter and a beaming smile was her 
ﬁ  rst impression of the quirky 
Kimbrough. The more-than-6-
foot-tall, brown-haired kid was 
dressed up as “Ana Conda,” one 
of his many alter egos. 
Marchetti laughed and said 
she was surprised at how well his 
drag queen makeup matched his pale skin tone.
The blue-wigged “Ana Conda” 
was just one of Kimbrough’s odd-
ly humorous personas. 
Students across campus may 
have encountered him when he 
brought a fake handwritten re-
sume scribbled on a trifold board 
to the UF Career Showcase. His 
character, “Harold Holder,” 
walked around lugging the poster 
board with a fake cigarette snug 
in between his lips. 
He said he wanted to make the 
nervous students and exhausted 
employers smile.
“He was always happy and 
smiling. Whenever he stepped 
into a room, he lit it up and was 
immediately noticed,” Marchetti 
said. “Kevin was funky and hilari-
ous in the most unique way.”
Drew Nelson, a 20-year-old UF 
information systems junior, met 
Kimbrough in 2016 in Delta Tau 
Delta. 
Nelson, a freshman at the time, 
admired how involved the soon-
to-be-senior Kimbrough was, he 
said. He was seen as the frater-
nity’s ambassador.
“Delt is unique and fun. Every-
one has their own adjectives and 
is different,” Nelson said. “Kevin 
was the face of that.”
Ashley Kimbrough, 22, and her 
brother grew up in Arkansas for 
nine years and moved to Florida 
with their parents Kathleen and 
Kevin Sr. when she was 9 and he 
was 10. The two were always get-
ting into “random shenanigans,” 
she said. 
Whether they danced around 
the house to the “Chitty Chitty 
Bang Bang” theme song with plas-
tic hockey sticks in hand or snuck 
into each other’s rooms after bed-
time to hang out, they could be 
found doing something together. 
When Kimbrough moved to 
Gainesville for college, their re-
lationship never changed. Their 
hour-long phone calls often 
turned into deep conversations with each other, she said. 
“He would let you forget 
about any worries or fears 
that you had about something 
and just have a good time,” 
she said. 
The original small church 
picked for Kimbrough’s ser-
vice had to be changed to a 
larger venue because hun-
dreds of people marked they 
would attend only an hour after 
the Facebook event was posted, 
Ashley Kimbrough said. 
Hunter Hedman, a 23-year-old 
UF alumnus, attended the Dec. 21 
service and said it ended with a 
video of Kimbrough dancing. Ev-
eryone left teary-eyed. But more 
importantly, they left smiling. That’s the way Kimbrough 
would have wanted it, he said.
A Dance Marathon donation 
page was created in his honor 
with the goal of raising $1,000. As 
of Sunday, the donations totaled 
$9,193. 
Kimbrough last served as a 
Dance Marathon Morale captain, 
meaning he committed to rais-
ing a minimum of $1,250 for the organization. Once each cap-
tain raised the money, he or 
she was rewarded with a blue 
hospital band to represent the 
ﬁ  ght against childhood illness. 
Each captain wrote a mes-
sage on the band and chained 
them together so that the stu-
dents could read them for 
inspiration throughout the 
event. 
Among the bands is Kim-
brough’s: “Dance. Smile. Be 
weird. Together.”
Kimbrough will be remem-
bered as many things, especially 
a dancer. 
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.org10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
3527 SW 20th Ave
352.415.4900 | west-20.com
GET $250
LIMITED TIMEEyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Afternoon Views
Summer Levinson, a 21-year-old UF marketing senior, and Robert Matias, a 21-year-old UF 
chemical engineering senior, eat sandwiches and watch the sunset over Lake Alice Saturday.  
Kimbrough
UF student, Dance Marathon leader remembered after his death
MENTAL HEALTH RESOURCES:
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline:  
1-800-273-8255
UF Counseling & Wellness Center: 
352-392-1575
Alachua County Crisis Center:  
352-264-6789MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
THE 111-ACRE FOREST WILL 
LIKEL Y FEATURE TRAILS AND 
OBSERVATION PLATFORMS.
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County has bought a 
111-acre forest to protect it from be-
coming a land development in the 
future.
County officials and The Ala-
chua Conservation Trust, Inc. — a 
group dedicated to protecting natu-
ral, historic, scenic and recreational 
resources in north-central Florida 
— purchased the Serenola Forest 
for $3.2 million on Dec. 6, said the 
Alachua Conservation Trust Execu-
tive Director Tom Kay. The forest 
is located between Williston Road 
and the Paynes Prairie Preserve State 
Park. 
Compared to its 21,000-acre 
neighbor, Paynes Prairie, the forest 
isn’t big, but Kay said the new infra-
structure will make the land a buffer 
area for terrestrial wildlife when they lose their habitats.
“With the water level fluctuating, 
it’s nice to have a place where wild-
life can retreat and not have to worry 
about their home being turned into 
a subdivision or more student hous-
ing,” Kay said.
The county purchased the land 
through the Alachua County Forever 
program, which used more than $2.9 
million to purchase 103 acres, Kay 
said. The funds were generated from 
the Wild Places & Public Spaces half-
cent sales tax, which was approved 
by voters in 2016.
Alachua Conservation Trust 
raised more than $300,000 to pur-
chase the remaining acres, Kay 
said. It ran the Save Serenola Forest 
campaign and received donations 
as large as $100,000. The campaign 
started in September and hit its goal 
near Christmas. This funding was 
one of the driving factors that al-
lowed the deal to go through. 
“The way the community came 
together was amazing,” he said. 
Fifty acres of the land has never been developed, and the rest has old 
construction debris and about 2.5 
miles of hiking trails, some of which 
has been there for years, Kay said.
Alachua Conservation Trust will 
manage the project and put in new 
infrastructure, he said. The existing 
infrastructure will be used as a base 
to build off of. 
Kay said Alachua Conservation 
Trust is hoping to open the forest to 
the public by April and will begin 
construction in February. The forest 
will feature information kiosks, trails 
compliant with the Americans with 
Disabilities Act, bike racks, parking 
off of Williston Road, an observation 
platform, picnic tables and benches.
Kay said the Alachua Conserva-
tion Trust hopes the success of the 
project inspires others to continue 
working on similar issues. 
“The biggest takeaway is how 
successful it was because of people’s 
persistence,” Kay said. “I hope peo-
ple will love it.” 
Pablo Luna, a 19-year-old UF bio-
medical engineering freshman, said he’s excited to explore the Serenola 
Forest to find new hiking spots and a 
place to hang his hammock. 
“For parks, all I want is clear paths and pavilions,” Luna said.
                                 @JomarieUF     
                      jfuller@alligator.orgAlachua County buys Serenola Forest for $3.2 million
Courtesy to The Alligator
This sitemap for the Serenola Forest shows how it was able to 
avoid development, unlike the land around it. 
MORE THAN 300 UNIVERSITIES, 
COLLEGES AND HIGH SCHOOLS 
PARTICIPATED IN THE 
2018 DANCE MARATHON.
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Dance Marathon team took second 
place in the nation for its 2018 fundraising total. 
The team, one of 300 teams that fundraise for 
pediatric hospitals, raised $3,026,420.19 in 2018, 
as announced on Facebook by the national Dance 
Marathon program last week. 
Also in the top 10 was Florida State University 
in fourth place with $2.15 million and the Univer-
sity of Central Florida in sixth with $1.58 million, 
said Brian Golden, the content development direc-
tor for Dance Marathon. Indiana University came 
in first place with $4.18 million. 
All the money raised from UF’s Dance Mara-
thon goes to support UF Health Shands Children’s 
Hospital, Golden said.
“It’s this generation fighting for the next,” he 
said. “College students across the country are lead-
ing this movement on their own.”
Back in March, 5,000 participants from UF also 
broke the school’s fundraising record in the 2018 
Dance Marathon, said Caroline Rollosson, the pub-
lic relations director for UF Dance Marathon.  
Dance Marathon members hope to beat their 
previous goal this coming March, but the main ob-
jective will always be to fundraise for children’s 
hospitals, Rollosson said.
“We say that ‘every penny is a miracle,’” Rol-
losson said. “I really think it was the sense of to-
getherness that UF has that made this possible.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgUF Dance 
Marathon team 
ranks second in 
the nationBy Samuel Schaffer
Alligator Staff Writer
A new way to test for malaria could 
hit the market as soon as 2020. 
Last week, Erada Technology Alli-
ance Ltd, a South African technology 
company, announced the launch of a 
device developed by Rhoel Dinglasan, 
a UF associate professor of infectious 
diseases and a team of researchers. The 
device can detect if a person has a para-
site that causes malaria — a mosquito-
borne infection that results in fever, 
chills and flu-like symptoms — said Jo-
anna Scott, a spokesperson for Erada.
“I feel that this is a groundbreaking 
new tool,” Scott said. “Given the num-
ber of people that malaria affects glob-
ally, anything that can help eliminate 
and prevent malaria has got to be good 
for the people, good for the world.” 
The Saliva-Based Malaria Asymp-tomatic and Asexual Rapid Test works 
to detect a protein secreted by one of 
five parasites that causes malaria in hu-
mans from a person’s saliva, Dinglasan 
said. 
Product development has taken 
place for five years and is in a proto-
type stage, Dinglasan said. During that 
time, the researchers tested the tool by 
administering it to people in countries 
such as Cameroon, Kenya, Peru, Thai-
land and Zambia.
“I take the opportunity when I’m 
there to be influenced by what I see to 
kind of guide our invention, our innova-
tion,” Dinglasan said.
The tool is not available for public 
sale because the commercialized ver-
sion is pending approval from the World 
Health Organization, Dinglasan said.
The current method for testing ma-
laria, which was developed in the ‘90s, 
is a blood test that needs high levels of training to administer and 10 parasites 
in the blood to detect. The saliva test is 
less invasive and less stressful for fami-
lies with children, Dinglasan said. 
The test can detect malaria with only 
0.7 parasites in a person before the 
infected person even begins to show 
symptoms, Dinglasan said. 
More than $300,000 from the Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation, the State of 
Maryland and the Department of De-
fense was donated to research, test and 
develop the current version of the tool, 
Dinglasan said.
Overall, the goal is to create an ac-
cessible test to easily detect malaria 
with a lower parasite count in a body, 
Dinglasan said.
“Premature to say that we’ve made a 
difference, but we like to think that we 
are somehow going in that direction,” 
Dinglasan said.
@sa5mschaffer
sschaffer@alligator.orgUF professor develops tool to test for malaria
THE POPULATION GREW TO 
MORE THAN 21 MILLION IN 
2018.
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Real estate agent Kristen Thompson is 
concerned that finding affordable hous-
ing may become an issue next year.
In 2019, Florida is expecting to gain 
300,000 new residents, according to the 
U.S. Census Bureau. The state’s popula-
tion is expected to increase from 20.98 
million to 21.3 million in 2019. 
“I feel like our community is pretty transient in general,” Thompson said. 
The new data covers national and 
state populations, said Stefan Rayer, 
the population program director at UF’s 
Bureau of Economic and Business Re-
search. Local estimates, including for 
the city of Gainesville, will be released 
in March. 
Since 2010, Gainesville’s population 
grew 6.4 percent, and Alachua County 
grew by 7.9 percent, according to the 
2017 U.S. Census Bureau report. In com-
parison to other Florida cities, Tallahas-
see grew by 5.4 percent and Orlando, a 
larger city, grew by 17.4 percent.
This year, Florida had the highest lev-
el of domestic migration in the country, with 132,602 people moving to the state, 
Rayer said. Florida is also home to 4.3 
million foreign-born residents, according 
to the American Community Survey, an 
ongoing survey conducted by the U.S. 
Census Bureau. 
When recovering from the national 
recession in 2008, Florida had a dip in 
domestic migration, Rayer said. 
“The housing market also played a 
role,” Rayer said. “If you can’t sell your 
house, moving to another part of the 
country may not be an option.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgFlorida ranked second in state population growth  The tool may be on the market in 2020.By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Arlene Zavocki Stewart 
spent months trying to ﬁ  nd 
the perfect dog before she 
found 7-year-old Fred. 
But on Dec. 16, a pit bull 
attacked and killed Fred 
during a walk in the Savan-
nah Station neighborhood 
in the city of Alachua, ac-
cording to an Alachua Po-
lice incident report. 
Stewart, 51, told police that at about 12:50 
p.m. she and Edna Zavocki, Stewart’s 82-year-
old mother, were walking Fred when the at-
tack happened, the report said. Henry Rabell, a realtor who was preparing 
an open house when he saw the incident, said 
he saw a pit bull run out of an unfenced yard 
and attack Fred while Zavocki was walking 
him using her motorized wheelchair.
“It quickly lunged out and ripped [Fred] out 
of its leash and started to bite at it,” Rabell said.
Fred lived with the Stewart family in the 
neighborhood for about a year and a half. He 
has never had an issue with neighbors or their 
dogs until the incident, Stewart said.
“The whole neighborhood knew him,” she 
said. “Everyone loved him.” 
Fred, a pug and beagle mix, was adopted 
from the Pug Rescue of Florida in May 2017, 
Stewart said. 
“He just had a wonderful light in his eyes,” 
she said.
Buster, the pit bull, was still biting Fred af-ter he killed him when Rabell started recording 
a video on his phone.
“I, as well as several other nearby neighbors 
and the pit bull’s owner, attempted to pull the 
dog off the pug, but there was virtually nothing 
that could stop the dog’s ferocious attack,” Ra-
bell wrote on a Facebook post with the video. 
The video has been viewed about 111,000 
times, receiving 542 reactions and 697 shares, 
as of Sunday evening.
Stewart said she suffered bites and bruises 
to her hands while trying to end the mauling.
The dog’s owner, Gretzaly Gonzalez-Tor-
res, 35, told police her dog unexpectedly es-
caped through the back door when she was 
taking out the trash. 
“We feel very sad,” Gonzalez-Torres said. 
“It was the ﬁ  rst time that we’ve had this inci-
dent with him. He’s not like this.”
Gonzalez-Torres said Buster, an 8-year-
old American Staffordshire Terrier, which is a breed of pit bull, has been around small dogs 
before and never exhibited this behavior.
Gonzalez-Torres surrendered Buster over 
to Alachua County Animal Services, where he 
was being held under a 10-day rabies quaran-
tine and will most likely be euthanized, said 
Ed Williams, the director of animal services, 
on Dec. 16.
Police turned the incident over to animal 
services, said the Alachua Police Department 
spokesperson Sgt. Jesse Sandusky. 
In recent months, there have been other 
dog attacks in Alachua County.
On Sept. 22, three pit bulls escaped from 
their owner’s, Nathaniel Thomas Pettiford Jr., 
home on the 5800 block of Northwest 29th Ter-
race and attacked and killed a woman’s emo-
tional support dog, according to a Gainesville 
Police arrest report. The dogs were euthanized. 
@katwf98
kwallacefernandez@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
In Honor Of The 
Man And His Dream
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertisingThe DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 23 is 
Friday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m.Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
DISPLAY: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463
The Alligator will not be publishing on Monday, 
Jan. 21 due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday.
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertising
The DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 23 is 
Friday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m.
Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
TEACHERS CAN EARN 
$5,400 OR $1,200 WITH 
THE PROGRAM.
By Samuel Schaffer
Alligator Staff Writer
Eleven counties across Florida 
will take part in a program later this 
year that will change the way sci-
ence, technology, engineering and 
math are taught in public schools.
In September, the U.S. Depart-
ment of Education awarded a $5 mil-
lion Supporting Effective Educator 
Development grant for the program 
to Nancy Ruzycki, a UF professor 
and director of undergraduate labo-
ratories in the Department of Materi-
als Science and Engineering. 
The program is called Engaging 
Quality Instruction through Profes-
sional Development. The goal is to train more than 250 teachers across 
the state to use higher level technol-
ogy, such as sensors and probes, 
to educate students in kindergarten 
through ninth grade, Ruzycki said.
The goal of the program is to 
transition teachers from using sim-
pler devices like thermometers and 
powerpoints to more advanced 
equipment, Ruzycki said. This will 
allow schools to implement a more 
comprehensive use of core concepts 
in their curriculum.
“Even if students in elementary 
don’t wind up becoming STEM col-
lege graduates, they’re still going to 
have a better understanding of how 
things in the world work,” she said.
Counties such as Hillsborough, 
Palm Beach and Sarasota were cho-
sen for the program because they 
are not being assisted by a federal 
grant and account for 30 percent of 
the schools placed on a list of the 300 lowest performing elementary 
schools created by the Florida De-
partment of Education, Ruzycki said.
To determine the efﬁ  cacy of the 
program for the ﬁ  rst two years, Ru-
zycki will teach 100 “intervention” 
teachers, who will learn how to use 
the advanced technology, she said. 
Then, researchers from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Greensboro 
will compare those teachers to 150 
control teachers, who will not be 
taught the new technology.
In the third and ﬁ  nal year, inter-
vention teachers will train control 
teachers to use the equipment. 
Intervention teachers can earn 
up to $5,400 annually if 240 hours 
are put into the program, and con-
trol teachers can earn up to $1,200 
a year, both of which are funded by 
the grant, Ruzycki said. Any teacher 
in the participating counties can ap-
ply for the program. Coaches, who will help oversee the program, will 
also be included and will receive 
payment.
The UF Board of Trustees and the 
Herbert Wertheim College of Engi-
neering will give Ruzycki $3.7 mil-
lion over the course of three years to 
spend on the program, she said. 
The university, alongside public 
schools within the counties, will be 
responsible for providing about 30 
percent of the funding because it is a 
matching grant. To accomplish this, 
UF, in addition to the participating 
counties and technology companies, 
like Vernier and Sesto Robotics, will 
donate equipment and instructors. 
Having a grant like this one is a 
positive for the engineering college, 
said Diane Choate, a spokesperson 
for the UF Herbert Wertheim College 
of Engineering. The long-term goal 
is to teach STEM to teachers, so that 
Florida students may one day take over jobs in the evolving technology 
workforce.
“It’s a wonderful thing because if 
our economy and the global econo-
my is beginning to depend more on 
STEM,” Choate said. “I would feel 
that you would want people who are 
well educated in STEM to be teach-
ing and the students to be learning.”
@sa5mschaffer
sschaffer@alligator.org UF professor receives $5 million grant to improve Florida public schools
Hillsborough
Palm Beach
Hardee
Hendry
Okeechobee
GladesDeSoto
Highlands
St. Johns
Sarasota
ManateeFred
Video captures pit bull killing small dog in Alachua 
COUNTIES INCLUDED 
IN THE PROGRAM:The video has been viewed about 111,000 times.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
Centrally located on bus route. This is a nice 
investment opportunity for parents looking 
for student housing. New Home, no main -
tenance, no yard work, pool included with 
HOA,3 bed/2 bath, luxury master bath. Low 
utility bills. Must see! Call Lou Thurmond- 
Broker/Owner: 352-213-2413
1-7-19-3-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
HOUSES FOR RENT
Starting August 1st, 2019
Walk or bike to campus. 
See: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 
Call or text 352-339-2342     1-7-18-7-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsMONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Lloyd Clarke Sports
Hiring PT and FT associates. Must have 
consistent availability including either Sat or 
Sun. each week. Only energetic, positive, 
team minded people please. Apply in person 
only to 1504 NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF on 
13th St.      1-9-19-5-14
NEED SOME CHRISTMAS CASH? 
Get paid to test our apps on your phone. 
It's easy! It's fun! It pays! 
>>> www.CollegeCash.online <<      1-7-19-
3-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-7-19-
3-14ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
*RESIDUAL INCOME:
Discover the power
of SMS marketing at smsbiz.net
1-11-19-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/07/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/07/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, January 7, 2019
ACROSS
1 “Forever” mail 
attachment
6 Time travel 
destination
10 __ and chips
14 Deed holder
15 Drink with a polar 
bear mascot
16 “The __ Ranger”
17 Specialized vocab
18 Workers with 
antennae
19 Had bills to pay
20 Psych 101 
subject
21 Sommelier
24 Range above 
tenor
25 ’60s pop singer 
__ Lee
26 Court spot for 
giving testimony
31 “The Gift of the 
Magi” author
32 Years and years
33 Litter cry
36 Organic smoke 
detector
37 Uppercut target
38 Bavaria-based 
automaker
39 Adorns with 
Angel Soft, briefly
40 Sandler of “Hotel 
Transylvania” 
films
42 Bit of corn
44 One constantly 
fretting
46 Major road
49 Strips of 
developed film, 
briefly
50 Lightweight 
jacket, and a hint 
to 21-, 26- and 
44-Across
53 Proofs of age, for 
short
56 Hyped-up
57 Hard-to-resist 
feeling
58 Harriet’s TV 
hubby
60 Like kitten videos
61 Dark movie genre
62 Africa’s Sierra __
63 Risked a ticket
64 Boys, to men
65 Gave false hope 
to
DOWN
1 Fish served 
“amandine”
2 Bit of kindling3 Part of A.D.
4 “Little Women” 
woman
5 Cat, or cat burglar
6 Upright and 
grand
7 Clearasil target
8 Tennis match 
segments
9 Nuclear restraint 
topic
10 Moved like water
11 Hawkeye State 
resident
12 McCarthy’s friend 
Mortimer
13 Ibsen’s “__ 
Gabler”
22 __-bitsy
23 Sea eagles
24 “Worst Cooks in 
America” judge 
Burrell
26 “This __ take 
long”
27 Breakfast chain
28 Thomas Hardy 
heroine
29 Disreputable
30 Stranded driver’s 
need
33 City bond, 
informally
34 Garden locale in 
a Sistine Chapel 
mural35 Like animals in 
the Serengeti
37 Cookie container
38 Torah holders
40 Choice of two
41 Practice 
exercises
42 Replaceable 
joint
43 Chinese 
appetizer
44 Squeezed (in)
45 Comic book 
artists46 Spy plane 
acronym
47 Construct 
haphazardly
48 Govt. security
51 Suffix with sock
52 Not fer
53 Longtime seller of 
Lacoste shirts
54 “The Flintstones” 
pet
55 Observed
59 Middle of 
Arizona?
By Ed Sessa
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/06/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/06/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, December 6, 2018
ACROSS
1 Free-speech 
inhibitor
7 Rep.’s opponent
10 Southwest art 
colony
14 From the 
beginning
15 Blood type  
letters
16 Palindromic 
French pronoun
17 Heist that really 
puts a burglar on 
the map?
20 Seeded
21 Corrida cheer
22 Cable network 
that airs vintage 
sitcoms
23 Place for rest and 
exercise
24 AFL partner
25 Retro renege?
32 “Me too”
33 Word with goal or 
detail
35 Remote power 
sources
36 Bucks
38 Top of le corps
39 Purplish reds
41 Oil __
42 Unexpected  
visit from a 
hippie?
45 Two for dinner?
46 Made a getaway
47 Performer with a 
record 21 Oscar 
nominations
51 ESPN 
broadcaster 
Shriver
52 Energy units
56 Scene-stealing 
understudy?
59 Sushi seaweed
60 Trauma ctrs.
61 Delicate
62 Did 90, say
63 Took a load off
64 Relaxed
DOWN
1 Speaks freely
2 Spherical hairdo
3 Went up a size
4 Low-fat5 Say “pretty 
please,” say
6 Actress 
Goldberg
7 Oasis fruit
8 Weaken
9 Wednesday’s 
mom
10 Blue-green hue
11 __-Seltzer
12 Lena of “Alias”
13 Really excite
18 __ Bator
19 Call to mind
23 Master moguls
24 Fenway great 
Yastrzemski
25 Corporate body
26 Red who put out 
fires
27 Jerry’s neighbor
28 Help for a child at 
a parade
29 Like some bar 
offerings
30 Development 
sites
31 Grand __ 
National Park
32 __ bunt: 
productive MLB 
out34 Mink lair
36 Marshmallow-
filled treats
37 Burden
40 Clip
41 “__ appétit!”
43 “Shoot!”
44 Wyndham-
owned chain
47 Taxpayer IDs
48 Firebird roof 
option
49 More than pink50 City near Vance 
Air Force Base
51 Hissed attention-
getter
52 Pop singer 
Brickell
53 “Mazes and 
Monsters” 
novelist Jaffe
54 Inner workings
55 Lid problem
57 FDR agency
58 __ King Cole
1.  Bowling ____
1.  Fall5.  Type of parrot
2.  Block, jam6.  ____ Jack
3.  Roaring, yelping7.  Federation 
4.  Blood ____PYHTOR
MULEBTCAAWM
ONNUI
CUELOCD
NGOHLWIGEEALU
RNAEOGANSWERS: 1A-Trophy  5A-Macaw  6A-Union  7A-League
1D-Tumble  2D-Occlude  3D-Howling  4D-Orange  B-Motorcycle1-7-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Gottlieb Daimler invented the 
first gas-powered ____ in 1885.
BONUS1. In 2017, Pittsburgh’s Josh Bell 
set the National League record for 
most homers in a season by a rookie 
switch-hitter (26). Who had held the 
previous mark?
2. Two Texas Rangers pitchers 
tossed a no-hitter during the 1970s. 
Name either one.
3. Between 2007 and 2017, how 
many of the 11 Heisman Trophy win-
ners were either freshmen or sopho-
mores?
4. Name the last second-round NBA 
draft pick before Milwaukee’s Mal-
colm Brogdon in 2018 to win the 
NBA Rookie of the Year award.
5. Who took over as head coach of 
the Detroit Red Wings after Scotty 
Bowman retired following a Stanley 
Cup championship in 2002?
6. In 2018, Joey Logano won the 
NASCAR Cup Series championship 
while driving a Ford. Who was the last 
Ford driver before him to do it?
7. In what year did tennis great Rod 
Laver win his first Wimbledon men’s 
singles title?
Answers
1. Atlanta’s Chipper Jones, with 23 
homers in 1995.
2. Jim Bibby (1973) and Bert Bly-
leven (1977).
3. Six.
4. New York’s Willis Reed, in 1965.
5. Dave Lewis.
6. Kurt Busch, in 2004.
7. It was 1961.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 7, 2019King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets 25 Lost & Found
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators swimming sweeps opponents in home opener
Both the men's and women's swimming teams defeated ranked opponents 
in Ohio State and Kentucky. Sherridon Dressel won seven out of the eight 
events she participated in. Maxime Rooney won two events on the ﬁ  nal day 
to lead the men's team.Florida guard Kiara Smith scored a 
season-high 15 points in UF's game 
against Auburn on Sunday. Find out 
how the rest of the team fared, pg. 18MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s basketball team 
ﬁ  nished its non-conference schedule in 
a respectable manner. UF squandered 
an opportunity to upset No. 8 Michi-
gan State, but it took care of business 
against Mercer and Florida Gulf Coast 
before manhandling Butler on Dec. 29. 
Florida avenged its only non-conference 
loss against an opponent not currently 
ranked in the AP Top 25 in the Bulldogs.
Coach Frank Martin’s South Carolina 
squad limped into Gainesville on 
Saturday night sporting a 5-7 record 
which included a 20-point loss to 
Wofford and a stumble against a 4-10 
Wyoming team. It strutted out of town 
with a 1-0 mark in the SEC after shocking 
the Gators in the ﬁ  nal minutes, winning 
71-69.
Florida’s deﬁ  ciencies were on full 
display against the Gamecocks after it 
showed tremendous progress during the 
month of December.
It was a messy and physical game, 
as both teams entered the double bonus 
early in the second half. That played to 
the Gamecocks’ advantage, as starters 
Keith Stone and Kevarrius Hayes land-
ed in foul trouble early on. Hayes, the team’s vocal leader and most powerful 
presence underneath the basket, played 
a season-low nine minutes on Saturday.
He missed nearly the entire second 
half, and his absence was noticeable. 
South Carolina narrowed the gap in the 
ﬁ  nal minutes, overcoming a 14-point 
Florida lead with 11:05 left in the game. 
When Hayes was on the court at the 
end, he missed what would have been 
the go-ahead free-throw with three 
seconds to play, and then proceeded 
to allow Gamecocks star forward Chris 
Silva to sneak behind him for the game-
winning dunk on a home-run inbound 
play.
Hayes wasn’t the only Gator to 
struggle behind the charity stripe. Free 
throws have been a problem all year 
for UF, and it only hit 12 of 18 in the 
second half. This kept South Carolina 
in the game, and the Gamecocks took 
advantage of their opportunities on the 
other end, hitting 11 of 13 free throws in 
the second half.
Senior guard Jalen Hudson saw 
quality minutes due to early fouls from 
Deaundre Ballard and Stone. He man-
aged eight points in 17 minutes but only 
shot 25 percent. Hudson was billed as 
the leader of the team during the offsea-Loss to South Carolina highlights Florida’s shortcomings
FOOTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer 
Coach Dan Mullen and the Florida Gators 
ended 2018 on a sweet note with a decisive 
victory over Michigan at the Chick-Fil-A 
Peach Bowl, but they welcomed 2019 with 
an equally chipper attitude toward their in-
coming recruiting class.
The 2019 group currently sits at No. 11 
overall according to 247Sports, ﬁ  fth-highest 
of all the SEC schools. It may not be the 
ﬂ  ashiest class — that honor belongs to the 
likes of Alabama (who locked-up 24 four-
stars) and Georgia (who bagged ﬁ  ve ﬁ  ve-
stars) — but Mullen added critical depth to 
the program at positions of great need. 
Foraging Fresh Commits
The newest and highest-rated commit 
of UF’s newcomers is four-star cornerback 
Chris Steele.  The Belleﬂ  ower, California, native de-
committed from Southern California on Oct. 
18 and revealed his decision to join Florida 
during the third quarter of the Under Ar-
mour All-America Game. 
Steele is the highest-rated recruit (No. 40 
according to 247Sports) that Florida’s netted 
since Antonneous Clayton (No. 27) and Ty-
rie Cleveland (No. 34) made their commit-
ments as part of Jim McElwain’s 2016 class. 
The 6-foot-1 corner is key to solidifying a 
big-time class for cornerbacks coach Charl-
ton Warren. The Gators already have four-
star Jaydon Hill (No. 29 corner) and Chester 
Kimbrough (No. 47 corner), but adding the 
nation’s ﬁ  fth-best corner makes their young 
secondary one of the deepest in the country. 
Four-star wide receiver Arjei Hender-
son is Florida’s most unexpected commit-
ment. The 6-foot-1 pass catcher from Rich-
mond, Texas, hasn’t even ofﬁ  cially visited Gators gather sneaky-good 
incoming recruiting classJake's on a Plane / Opinion
The confetti has fallen. The 
stands are empty. 
There’s not a soul to be 
seen, minus the workers clean-
ing up and the media still 
working in the press box in the 
upper bowl of Mercedes Benz 
Stadium. 
Football is over, and it is 
kind of leaving a hole in the 
hearts of Gators fans every-
where.
The excitement of a 10-3 season -- a year 
removed from a four-win season, might I 
add -- and a Peach Bowl win is now put on 
hold until August, just when that enthusi-
asm for UF sports has reemerged.
Luckily for you, Florida fans, UF has 
plenty of amazing sports to support in the 
spring, some that are poised to do just as 
well as, if not better than, the football team.
No matter what game and no matter 
what sport, the alligatorSports staff will be 
there to provide you with some high-quality coverage of your favorite sports 
teams.
Here’s a rundown of who to 
follow for what sport:
Men’s Basketball: Fol-
low online sports editor Alanis 
Thames, Tyler Nettuno and 
myself all season long as the 
Gators attempt to make it back 
to the NCAA Tournament. The 
team has been struggling. Last 
season’s leading scorer, guard Jalen Hud-
son, has gone cold and can’t ﬁ  nd the basket. 
Freshman Noah Locke continues to estab-
lish himself as a threat from beyond the arc.
Baseball: Evan Lepak and Kyle Wood 
are on the beat and ready to tackle Florida’s 
grueling schedule, which includes a tough 
SEC slate, three games against FSU and a 
home series with Miami. UF will need some 
of its young pitchers to step up with the loss 
of Brady Singer, Jackson Kowar and Michael 
Byrne to the MLB draft. Expect players like Introducing the Spring 2019 
Alligator sports staffChristopher King / Alligator Staff
A last-second, full-court heave to South Carolina forward Chris Silva helped the Gamecocks 
earn a 71-69 win over the Gators on Saturday at the O'Connell Center.
 SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE  19
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE  19 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE  19
Jake Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake18   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s basketball team need-
ed big performances from its two leading-scor-
ers in Funda Nakkasoglu and Delicia Washing-
ton to win on Sunday. They didn’t deliver. 
Despite the best efforts of sophomore guard 
Kiara Smith to fill the void, Auburn (13-2, 1-1 
SEC) pulled away late at the O’Connell Center 
to defeat the Gators (4-11, 0-2 SEC) 64-56.
“You have to learn that in the SEC when 
you get punched you can’t flinch, you can’t 
falter,” coach Cam Newbauer said. “We just 
kinda flinched a little bit at the wrong time and 
got away from what our game plan was.”
It was a back-and-forth affair for the first 
30 minutes of the game. Florida had its best 
stretch right when it looked like Auburn was 
ready to pull away in the second quarter, going 
on a 12-0 run to end the half after being down 
by six. The teams continued trading blows into 
the fourth, when the Gators trailed by just one 
with under eight minutes left.
Auburn’s full court press, which the team 
utilized for most of the afternoon, finally start-
ed to wear Florida down in the fourth quarter. The Gators committed a series of turnovers 
that enabled Auburn to pull away with an 8-0 run. UF never recovered.
Auburn guard Daisa Alexander scored four 
of the eight Auburn points during the run on her way to a season-high 22.
Although the Gators fought, it was always 
going to be an uphill battle with Nakkasoglu 
and Washington struggling. Nakkasoglu, who 
was averaging 18.8 points a game before Sun-
day, went just 4-12 from the field and scored 
11 points. Washington, who was averaging 
13.1 points a game, fared even worse, going 
1-8 from the floor en route to just three points.
Smith was UF’s leading scorer against Au-
burn with a season-high 15 points.
Defense was the least of Florida’s worries 
on Sunday a game after it blew a 20-point lead. 
The Tigers were averaging over 80 points a 
game coming into the contest but only man-
aged 64 against UF. That trend will need to 
continue on Thursday for the Gators to have 
success in Columbia, South Carolina, against 
the No. 23 Gamecocks and its SEC fifth-ranked 
offense.
“The [loss] is no indication of where we go 
from here,” Newbauer said. “It’s another part 
of the process for us to just keep getting better 
with the young team we have.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgFlorida falls to Auburn in second-straight conference loss
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Since UF gymnastics took home 
the NCAA title three years in a row 
from 2013-2015, it has made repeated 
trips deep into the postseason, reach-
ing the Super Six twice.
This year, the No. 3 Gators look to 
reclaim the magic of that run as they 
start the season off against Missouri 
at the O’Connell Center. High ex-
pectations for UF gymnastics are not 
the exception, but the norm, and the 
team certainly isn’t lacking any fire-
power to meet them this time around.
 
Freshman Class
Here’s what isn’t different about 
Florida’s recruiting class: it’s No. 1 in 
the nation.
The Gators have had a recruiting 
class placed within the top two spots in nine of the last 10 seasons, and 
their 2019 freshman class is its sev-
enth No. 1 placing during that streak.
Here’s what’s different: the Gators 
boast six freshmen for the class, 
which is their largest since 2005. De-
spite the increase in volume, each 
freshman’s resume is ample proof 
that fans shouldn’t expect a decrease 
in quality.
Two freshmen, Trinity Thomas 
and Sydney Johnson-Scharpf, come 
to Florida with ties to the U.S. Senior 
National Team. Thomas was a part of 
the U.S. squad that took gold at the 
2018 Senior Pan American Cham-
pionships. Johnson-Scharpf was a 
member of the U.S. Senior National 
Team from 2015-2016 and appeared 
in two events for the squad.
The remaining four freshmen—
Leah Clapper, Nya Reed, Savannah 
Schoenherr and Halley Taylor—have all found their way to the Junior 
Olympic Level 10 Nationals.
After the team’s intramural Or-
ange and Blue meet early in Decem-
ber, junior Rachel Gowey gave the 
incoming class praise for its perfor-
mance.
“I think the freshman did amazing 
under pressure, just like they did in 
practice,” she said.
 
Veteran Presence
While the freshman class for UF 
is impressive, its returning veterans 
look to continue the program’s domi-
nance in 2019.
Sophomore Alyssa Baumann is 
aiming to replicate the consider-
able success from her team-awarded 
“Newcomer of the Year” freshman 
campaign, which included first-team 
All-America honors, All-SEC honors 
and distinction of becoming the sec-
ond freshman in the school’s history 
to score a 9.975 on the beam (a feat 
she pulled off twice).
Alicia Boren returns to Florida for 
her senior year after claiming 14 All-
American nods and an All-SEC bid for 
the last three years in a row.
Of the Gators’ returning members, 
two gymnasts will return to competi-
tion after season-ending injuries.
The Gators’ other senior, Amanda 
Cheney, suffered a knee injury in 
training that kept her out of competi-
tion for the 2018 season, and this sea-
son will be her last chance to end her 
collegiate career with more than just 
academic awards. Vaulting and floor 
exercise specialist Sierra Alexander 
tore her Achilles tendon in January 
last year, so she’ll return to action 
this year as a junior.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgNational title aspirations no stretch 
heading into UF’s 2019 campaign
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Alyssa Baumann earned First-T eam All-America and All-
SEC honors in her freshman campaign with the Gators. 
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Guard Delicia Washington managed only three points on 1-of-8 shooting in UF’s 64-56 
home loss to Auburn on Sunday. It was her second-lowest output of the season.
NFL
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
 
A total of 45 former Gators 
were on 24 NFL teams by the 
end of the 2018 regular season.
A few of them stood out 
among their peers in 2018, in-
cluding a couple rookies, and 
twin brothers that will team up 
in the Pro Bowl.
Cleveland Browns wide re-
ceiver Antonio Callaway made 
a notable impact in his first year 
in the league. He was thrust 
into the starting lineup after the 
Browns traded wide receiver 
Josh Gordon to the New Eng-
land Patriots. Callaway finished 
the season with 43 receptions 
for 586 yards, averaging 13.6 
yards per reception. The rookie 
also caught five touchdown 
passes, which led all Browns 
receivers.
Los Angeles Chargers center 
Mike Pouncey anchored the of-
fensive line, starting every game 
of the 2018 season. His twin 
brother, Maurkice Pouncey, 
also started 16 games for the 
Pittsburgh Steelers. Both of the 
Pouncey twins earned a trip to 
the Pro Bowl, but only the Char-
gers made the playoffs. Mike 
and Los Angeles finished the 
season 12-4, clinching the fifth 
seed in the AFC.
Tight end Trey Burton 
signed a four-year, $32 million 
contract with the Chicago Bears 
just weeks after throwing a 
touchdown for the Philadelphia 
Eagles in last year’s Super Bowl. Burton was overshadowed 
by Zach Ertz in Philly, but he 
was the starting tight end this 
year for the Bears. The former 
Gator played in every game 
of the season, racking up 54 
receptions for 569 yards and six 
touchdowns.
On the defensive side of the 
ball, Detroit Lions linebacker 
Jarrad Davis led the team in 
tackles (100), recorded six sacks 
and forced a fumble. The Lions 
and Davis missed the playoffs in 
Matt Patricia’s first year as head 
coach, finishing at the bottom 
of the NFC North with a 6-10 
record.
Defensive end Carlos Dun-
lap and the Cincinnati Bengals 
also finished the season 6-10. 
Dunlap was a bright spot in a 
defense that ranked dead last in 
yards allowed and third-worst 
in points per game. The veteran 
pass rusher ended the season 
with eight sacks, trailing only 
Geno Atkins for most on the 
team.
Former Gator punter Johnny 
Townsend had a busy rookie 
season with the Oakland Raid-
ers. Townsend punted the ball 
70 times for an average of 43.2 
yards, which ranked at the bot-
tom of the league. 
With Jachai Polite, Chaunc-
ey Gardner-Johnson and Vose-
an Joseph declaring for the 2019 
NFL Draft, it will be interesting 
to see how well these Gators 
play at the next level.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators in the NFL: 
2018 Season ReviewMONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019   ALLIGATOR   19  
son, but he hasn’t proven to be the same 
scorer he was last year. He lost his starting 
spot in November to true freshman Noah 
Locke and has been fighting to see the 
court since.
Locke, on the other hand, is quickly 
becoming Florida’s most consistent scorer. 
He hit five threes and scored 17 points 
against South Carolina. He still takes 
questionable shots, however, as he only 
hit five of his 16 attempts. Fifteen of those 
attempts were from three.
He and fellow freshmen Andrew 
Nembhard and Keyontae Johnson are 
some of the lone bright spots on the team. 
With veterans struggling, coach Mike 
White will likely require them to grow 
up fast, because the path only gets more 
difficult.
The Gators travel to Arkansas on 
Wednesday to play a 10-3 Razorbacks 
team that’s always tough to knock off 
in Fayetteville, and on Saturday, No. 3 
Tennessee comes to Exactech Arena. 
The Volunteers are fresh off their most-
lopsided SEC win in 53 years, drubbing 
Georgia 96-50.
This Florida team is not devoid of talent, 
but it may be time to look elsewhere for 
leadership. If it doesn’t, the Gators could 
start conference play with three losses.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg17Locke scored 17 points off 5-of-15 from beyond the arc
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Jalen Hudson scored eight points through 17 minutes during 
Saturday's loss to the Gamecocks. He shot 25 percent from the field.
Gainesville (he’ll be on campus 
Jan. 11), and he’s set to visit Flor-
ida State on Jan. 25. 
Henderson is the 22nd-ranked 
receiver in the country. The 
Gators have four seniors on their 
receiving corp entering the 2019 
campaign, so adding a top talent 
will be a luxury for the crowded 
unit. 
However, nothing is certain 
regarding Henderson’s future. 
He previously decommitted from 
Oklahoma on Nov. 26.
Stealing OL from Miami
The offensive line is easily 
Florida’s deepest unit among its 
incoming recruits. O-Line coach 
John Hevesy secured seven signa-
tures on Early Signing Day, and 
two of them were December de-
commits from Miami. 
Four-star tackle Michael Tar-
quin of Citra, Florida, and three-
star guard Kingsley Eguakun  
both committed to the Hurricanes 
until early December, when they 
realigned their allegiances to the 
Gators. Maybe they had some 
foresight about Mark Richt’s re-
tirement. 
Tarquin is UF’s highest-rated 
tackle. He’s No. 24 overall and 
the 40th-best player in Florida, 
and he measures in at 6-foot-6 and 290 pounds. 
Eguakun, a Jacksonville na-
tive, is a quality depth grab given 
that departing guards Tyler Jor-dan and Fred Johnson are leaving 
a huge hole to fill on the depth 
chart. Landing the Lakeland Trio
The Gators vaulted from 22nd 
in the 247Sports class rankings to 
15th of the over a span of about 15 minutes on Early Signing Day. 
The surge was thanks to the 
commitments of Lakeland High 
School’s Deyavie Hammond  
(four-star guard), Lloyd Sum-
merall (four-star defensive end) 
and Keon Zipperer (four-star 
tight end). 
Each contributed majorly to 
Lakeland’s Class 7-A state cham-
pionship, and each were uncom-
mitted before signing with UF.
Hammond (6-foot-3, 353 
pounds) comes in as the nation’s 
12th-best offensive guard and 
174th-overall player. He is Heve-
sy’s highest-ranked incoming of-
fensive lineman, and he may need 
to contribute next season given 
how thin Florida is at guard. 
Summerall (6-foot-5, 220 
pounds) is the only true defensive 
end in the recruiting class and the 
No. 15 weak-side defensive end 
in the country. He has outstand-
ing size and length and will learn 
behind a cast of experienced vet-
erans at his position.
Zipperer (6-foot-2, 240 pounds) 
is joining a tight-end group that’s 
depleted after the exit of C’yontai 
Lewis and Moral Stephens, as 
well as Kyle Pitts' switch to wide 
receiver. He’ll be one of four tight 
ends, and his size will make him 
an important blocker, a skill the 
Gators are lacking in that unit. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 17UF landed 15 four-star commits, tied for second-most in SEC Tyler Dyson, Jack Leftwich, Tommy Mace and Jor-
dan Butler to make that jump.
Gymnastics: One of the most popular sports at 
UF is back, and River Wells is your man for every-
thing Florida gymnastics related. Florida will try to 
fill the void left behind with the graduation of Alex 
McMurtry, Kennedy Baker and Rachael Slocum. A 
young, promising freshman class could help them 
win their first NCAA title since 2015.
Softball: Assistant sports editor Mark Stine re-
turns to the softball beat and he’s bringing Brendan 
Farrell along with him. Pitcher Kelly Barnhill and 
outfielder Amanda Lorenz are back for one final 
ride as they look to end their careers with a Wom-
en’s College World Series ring.
Women’s Basketball: Sam Campisano and 
Dylan Rudolph have covered the team since the 
start of the season in the fall. While the Gators 
haven’t been consistent through most of their games 
so far, they can still rely on the veteran leadership of 
guards Delicia Washington and Funda Nakkasoglu.
Lacrosse: Bryan Matamoros will be there on 
Feb. 14 as coach Amanda O’Leary and the Gators 
take on Maryland in the home opener. The team is 
looking to bounce back from an NCAA quarterfi-
nals loss to James Madison last season and fill roles 
left by graduating seniors Shayna Pirreca and Aniya 
Flanagan.
Women’s Tennis: Florida is looking to return to 
prominence as a collegiate tennis powerhouse, after 
a down year following an NCAA championship in 
2017. The young team has one junior, one fresh-
man and four sophomores. You can follow Victor 
Prieto for all your women’s tennis updates.
Golf: Both Bryan and Victor will be teaming 
up to provide you top-notch coverage of both the 
men’s and No. 3 women’s teams as they near the 
NCAA tournament.
Jake Dreilinger is the sports editor of the Alliga-
tor. Follow him on Twitter @DreilingerJake and 
contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg 17
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Coach Dan Mullen and the Florida Gators currently have the nation's No. 11 recruiting class according 
to 247Sports. The incoming class is the fifth-highest in the Southeastern Conference. 
20   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
$3 Mini 
Quesadillas
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail  
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week7pm – 12am
2 - 4 - 1  
Appetizers 
2 - 4 - 1  
Craft Cocktails
2 - 4 - 1 
Top Shelf  
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia 7:30pm 
Free pool @ 10pm
7pm – 12am
$6.99 Chicken 
Tenders w/ Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Budlight Bottles
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Regular, Taco or  
Buffalo Chicken )
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Select Craft 
Pints
Buzz’d 
Spelling Bee 7:30 pm NIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Cocktail  
on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Green Tea 
Shots
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAYBLOWOUT
MONDAYS2-4-1  
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
$5
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pm