We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
GROUP WILL UNVEIL NEW 
GUN CONTROL PLAN 
By Alex DeLuca
Alligator Staff Writer
When Florida lawmakers postponed a bill 
to arm teachers in April, March for Our Lives 
activists vowed to return to the Florida State 
Capitol to carry on their ﬁ  ght to end gun vio-
lence. 
Next week, they’re fulﬁ  lling that promise, 
and this time, they’re showing up with their 
own plan. 
March for Our Lives Gainesville will 
go to Tallahassee next Thursday with the 
Orlando, Parkland, Tampa and Tallahas-
see branches to meet with representatives 
and unveil their Peace Plan for a Safer Florida, a six-step agenda to prevent gun 
violence in Florida. 
The six steps in the plan follow the acro-
nym C.H.A.N.G.E, said Alexa Fishman, the 
outreach director for March for Our Lives 
Gainesville.
1. Change the standards of gun owner-
ship
2. Halve the rates of gun-related deaths 
in 10 years
3. Accountability for the gun lobby/in-
dustry
4. Name a Director of Gun Violence Pre-
vention
5. Generate community-based solutions 
6. Empower the next generation
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperFall’s almost over. What has SG done?
UF Student Government has not passed any legislation, pg 3
Alachua County needs more ﬂ  u vaccine mist
Only one-third of county’s orders came, pg 5Diagnosing UF’s oﬀ  ensive ills
The Gators had their worst offensive 
performance of the year against the Bull-
dogs. Here’s what went wrong, pg 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 34
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff 
Dylan Finucan, a UF 20-year-old political science junior, takes the first swing at the “Berlin Wall” that Young 
Americans for Freedom set up in the Plaza of the Americas lawn. YAF set up the wall at 10 a.m. and invited 
students to paint on it. The actual Berlin Wall was destroyed 30 years ago in November 1989.
MICHAEL REUSCHEL ’S 
SENTENCING LIKEL Y 
IN DECEMBER
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A six-person jury found a 
Gainesville man guilty of try-
ing to kill his wife and lying 
about it to authorities after 
more than ﬁ  ve hours of delib-
eration Thursday afternoon. 
Michael Reuschel, 63, was 
found guilty of attempted 
murder, false imprisonment, 
obstruction and tampering 
with evidence. His sentenc-
ing is set for December. 
Michael Reuschel was ﬁ  rst arrested in February 2018 af-
ter his wife, Susan Reuschel, 
told Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce deputies he stabbed 
her multiple times and forced 
her to stay in bed as she bled 
profusely. He then cut him-
self so they could die togeth-
er, according to the initial ar-
rest report. 
The two were separated 
and not living together at the 
time of the incident. Accord-
ing to the arrest report, Susan 
Reuschel returned to their 
west Gainesville home to dis-
cuss their marriage when the 
conversation quickly escalat-
ed into a ﬁ  ght over a poten-tial divorce. Michael Reus-
chel then allegedly grabbed a 
kitchen knife and repeatedly 
stabbed his wife and himself.
Susan Reuschel was not 
present when the six female 
jurors reached their verdict 
Thursday. 
During his testimony on 
Wednesday, Michael Re-
uschel told a story of inno-
cence. He said his wife had 
a history of abuse and he 
claimed that she tried to kill 
him and pleaded with him to 
create a false story to protect 
her from arrest. 
Calm and collected on the ‘The truth would have died with her’: 
Husband found guilty of trying to kill wife
SEE MFOL,  PAGE 3
TEAR DOWN THIS WALL
March for Our Lives Gainesville to 
rally at State Capitol next week 
SEE TRIAL,  PAGE 3‘FLORIDA ICON’  
W. GEORGE ALLEN 
WAS 83 
By Tranelle Maner
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s ﬁ  rst black alumnus 
and civil rights activist W. 
George Allen died, his family 
conﬁ  rmed Thursday.  
Allen graduated from the 
UF College of Law in 1962. At 
the time, the college was not 
yet integrated and Allen be-
came the ﬁ  rst African Ameri-
can to graduate from UF. 
“I was admitted to Harvard 
and the University of Califor-
nia at Berkeley, but I’m a na-
tive Floridian, and I felt that 
somebody had to integrate 
the University of Florida,” he said in a 
2013 inter-
view with 
Florida Trend. “The racists 
told me I didn’t belong there 
and I’d never graduate.” 
In 2015, Allen returned 
to his alma mater to speak to 
the Black Law Students Asso-
ciation and the Josiah T. Walls 
Bar Association. He offered ca-
reer advice based on his more 
than 50-year-long career prac-
ticing law. 
In a post on the UF Asso-
ciation of Black Alumni Face-
book page, his son, Jonathan 
Allen, deemed him a, “Flori-
da icon, ﬁ  shing icon, family 
icon and a very distinguished 
gentleman.” 
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgFirst black UF 
alumnus dies
Allen
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  71° LOW  52°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT'S HAPPENING
UF SG Constitution Revision
When: Friday, 1 p.m.
Where: 229 Bruton-Geer, Student 
Center
What: The UF Student 
Government Constitution 
Revision Commission will be 
holding a public hearing for 
the purpose of receiving public 
comments regarding the current 
SG operating constitution and 
any recommendations to that 
document.
Observe Transit of Mercury
When: Monday, 8 a.m. to 1:15 
p.m.
Where: UF Campus Teaching 
Observatory
What: The UF Department of 
Astronomy will have a special free public session on Veterans 
Day to observe the transit of 
Mercury.
Mercury will be passing in front 
of the Sun. Several telescopes will 
be set up with a safe solar filter 
to observe the event. Park in the 
parking lot on Museum Road, 
south of the Welcome Center. 
For more information visit: www.
astro.ufl.edu/outreach/Public_
Nights.html
Hoedown Throwdown: A 
Disney Channel Rave
When: Nov. 15, 10 p.m. to 1:30 
a.m.
Where: The Range, 10 SE 2nd 
Ave.
What: Pure Nostalgia presents a 
dance event for all the ‘90s Disney 
kids. DJ Jandro and DJ Dopio will blast guests through the past with 
the biggest 2000s Disney anthems 
and today’s current festival hits. 
There will be throwback hits from 
artists such as Hannah Montana, 
Lizzie McGuire, The Cheetah 
Girls, High School Musical, Demi 
Lovato, Selena Gomez and the 
Jonas Brothers. Doors open at 10 
p.m. and tickets cost $8 for those 
21 and older and $15 for those 18 
to 20
Fulbright Luncheon with Gary 
Monroe
When: Nov. 19, 11:30 a.m. to 1 
p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, Room G-320
What: The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee and the International 
Center are holding a free luncheon 
event as part of International 
Education Week. Gary Monroe's 
photographic work is featured 
in "The Last Resort" on Netflix. 
As a two-time Fulbright scholar, 
Monroe seeks to understand the 
migration of Haitians to Miami 
and the impact they make on 
South Florida's landscape. 
Lunch will be provided. Please 
RSVP by Nov. 10 by emailing 
UFFulbrightRSVP@gmail.com.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 34
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Vieo, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
(352)281-9310
125 NW 23rd Ave
Suite #21
Yes, we deliver!
(352)281-9310
(352)281-9310
Yes, we deliver!
Yes, we deliver!
(352)281-9310
(352)281-9310
Yes, we deliver!
Yes, we deliver!
Yes, we deliver!
Yes, we deliver!
15% off with Student ID*
*Must show ID. In-store only.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 witness stand, 
he said he had 
nothing to hide 
and that Susan 
slit her own 
wrists that eve-
ning. He said 
the delayed call 
for help, while 
his wife lay in her own blood and 
vomit, was per her own wishes 
and that she told him the police 
would question what happened.
“She pleaded not to go to jail,” 
Michael Reuschel said Wednes-
day.
During closing statements 
Thursday morning, Michael Reus-
chel sat emotionless in the court-
room with his legal counsel.
State attorney David Byron 
stressed that Michael Reuschel 
lied to law enforcement and other 
officials throughout the case. He said it isn’t plausible that Susan 
Reuschel lay in bed for hours cov-
ered in blood, vomit and feces of 
her own free will. 
“He wove little pieces of truth 
into the lie,” Byron said. “If she 
had died, the truth would have 
died with her.” 
Byron showed the jury pic-
tures of scars and stitches on 
Susan Reuschel’s neck, claim-
ing that her husband’s “intent 
to kill is apparent.” 
Defense attorney Ann Finnell 
said it didn’t make sense for Su-
san to wait to get help if she was 
attacked. If Michael intended to 
kill her, he would have and could 
have, the attorney said.
“What he did was totally rea-
sonable,” she said. “If somebody 
is attacking you with a knife, you 
try to get ahold of the knife.” 
Finnell said Michael “gave his 
wife everything she wanted and 
then some,” but she was abusive 
toward him physically and emo-tionally when she drank. Susan 
admitted to texting Michael on 
their wedding anniversary, “I hate 
you, you d***,” the defense attor-
ney said. 
“Please do not let Michael Re-
uschel get sucker-punched in this 
case,” Finnell told the jury. 
The defense could not imme-
diately be reached for comment 
after the verdict or by phone. 
When the judge discussed Dec. 
13 as a potential date for sentenc-
ing, one defense attorney noted it 
was an “unlucky day.” She was 
shrugged off by the judge, who 
said it is when his schedule is free. 
The prosecution looks forward to 
sentencing.
“We’re very happy with the 
verdict and we believe justice has 
been served,” Byron said.
Lina Ruiz contributed to this 
story.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgFishman, a 19-year-old UF po-
litical science freshman, said moving 
forward with gun violence resolutions 
has been a challenge. She hopes rep-
resentatives take action after discuss-
ing the Peace Plan.
“This is something that’s really 
good,” she said. “And if we could just 
get representatives to even agree with 
some points on the bills, that would 
be great.”
In April, March for Our Lives 
Gainesville went to Tallahassee to 
take part in a Day of Action, which 
included a rally, protest and press 
conference in opposition to Senate 
Bill 7030 and House Bill 7090, both of 
which would allow classroom teach-
ers in Florida to carry guns. 
Alyson Moriarty, the president of 
March for Our Lives Gainesville, said 
their last visit to the Capitol involved 
meetings with representatives on 
their approach to gun violence pre-
vention tactics.However, next week’s meetings 
will be with representatives who sup-
port the Peace Plan and have bills that 
coincide with its goals, as well as with 
those who stand against it, she said. 
“This time, we have a bigger goal, 
like it reaches more people and more 
bills,” Moriarty said. “So I feel like 
that just means more representa-
tives.” 
With Florida’s 2020 legislative 
session just a few months away, 
Moriarty said she hopes to open up 
the minds of representatives on both 
sides of the political spectrum and 
encourage them to stand behind the 
Peace Plan. 
Gun control is expected to be a 
heavily discussed topic in both the 
2020 presidential election and law-
making. 
“March for Our Lives, to me, is 
more than like a political thing,” she 
said. “It’s life or death.”
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgMFOL,  from pg. 1For some students ‘it’s life or death’
Reuschel
THE WOMEN GATHER 
FOR PLANT THERAPY 
EVERY THURSDAY
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
Four days before Veteran’s Day, 
two women sat in the UF Wilmot 
Botanical Gardens planting rabbit 
ear plants and basil. They spoke to 
each other as they worked under the 
greenhouse fans, carefully placing 
the plants into pots full of damp soil. 
The women, almost two decades 
apart, were there for the same rea-
son: women veteran horticulture 
therapy.
The plant therapy class is held 
every Thursday and was started 
Spring 2019 by Leah Diehl, director 
of therapeutic horticulture at Wilmot 
Botanical Gardens and a lecturer for 
the UF Environmental Horticulture Department at the Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences.
“My goal is to create a sense of 
community,” Diehl said. “This is a 
place just for them, I want them to 
know they belong here.”
Diehl said the program gives 
women a sense of purpose by teach-
ing them about plants and garden-
ing. The women extend the therapy 
to their homes, and the two grow 
together. 
The free class meets from 11 a.m. 
to noon every Thursday and is open 
to women who are veterans or suffer 
from the effects of war. Usually, two 
to five people participate. They have 
at least one regular attendee from 
each branch of the U.S. military. 
Dessie Robinson, a 70-year-old vet-
eran who has attended the class since 
it began, said the program is a nice 
break from her daily life.
“This is me time,” Robinson said. 
“I meet other people and veterans who are so friendly and nice, and we 
don’t talk about war. This is a dis-
traction from everyday life.”
Jamie Woodreus, a 22-year-old 
UF biochemistry senior, has volun-
teered for the program since the start 
of this semester.  
“I saw how the veterans were af-
fected by this and how it changed 
their mood,” Woodreus said. “It’s 
kind of an escape from reality for 
them.”
Woodreus encourages other stu-
dents interested in helping out veter-
ans to volunteer as well. She said she 
has been able to form strong connec-
tions with the women.
“I love interacting with the peo-
ple here and learning their stories,” 
she said.
@noroneill
noneill@alligator.org 
MAJORITY OF MEETINGS SPENT 
DEBATING ELECTION RESULTS
Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
Does UF Student Government have enough 
time to pass resolutions? Senators only have 
three school weeks left to do so.
The semester has been a rollercoaster for 
SG after: a protest for blue lights on Fraternity 
Row, a minority party victory, Donald Trump 
Jr.’s speech, published emails between the Stu-
dent Body president and a Trump campaign of-
ficial and calls for said president’s resignation 
and impeachment. 
But no policy has been passed during this 
ride.
With only a handful of SG Senate meet-
ings left in Fall 2019, the likelihood of any 
legislation passing is slim. Only drafted resolutions have seen the light of day, and 
no policy has been discussed.
After Inspire Party, which is traditionally 
in the minority, won the majority of available 
seats Sept. 25, the confirmation of election re-
sults was delayed and disputed for weeks until 
Oct. 16, when the Senate certified the results. 
Senators then debated who should be the 
judiciary committee chair and who should 
earn new committee seats. 
None of Gator Party’s platform points, 
such as installing a ramp between the Mar-
ston breezeway and the Reitz Lawn or library 
capacity counters, or Inspire Party’s platform 
points, like expanding free printing locations to 
include Marston Library or expanding the Uber 
Safe Rides discount, were ever brought up in 
Senate meetings.
After University Police announced it 
will install four blue lights on Fraternity 
Row, the blue light issue was out of SG’s 
hands, and Inspire senators no longer had to advocate for it in Senate. 
The only new legislation brought up were 
drafts of resolutions, which are non-legally 
binding statements that do not relate to poli-
cy or any platform points students voted for. 
These resolutions condemned SG’s “misuse” 
of students’ activity and service fees to bring 
Trump Jr. to campus, and supported sexual as-
sault survivors and the UF law student group 
“We Believe Survivors” in light of Supreme 
Court Justice Clarence Thomas teaching a 
Spring law class. 
“I think the way we can use our time more 
effectively is by actually considering legislation 
on its merits and not for what’s politically ad-
vantageous for the majority party,” said Inspire 
Caucus leader Sen. Ben Lima. 
One of the most pressing campus issues is 
the revision of the SG 800 funding codes. UF’s 
largest student organizations representing mi-
nority communities, referred to as the Big 9, 
demanded action following SG’s reallocation of funds due to a $66,000 lawsuit against UF 
by the Young Americans for Freedom organi-
zation. 
Gator Treasurer Richard Doan said while 
the time spent on reviewing election results 
was necessary, he would’ve liked to see the 
Senate dedicate time revising codes to allocate 
funds for the Big 9 organizations rather than on 
other debates. 
“I think working on the funding process 
is something that is especially important dur-
ing this time because it deals with money that 
would help student orgs run their day-to-day 
activities,” Doan said.
Doan said he does not know why SG spent 
more time debating than affecting policy.
“I think that’s everyone’s question,” he 
said.  
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.orgVeterans dig deep at UF therapeutic horticulture program
No UF SG legislation passed as semester comes to a closeNora O’Neill/ Alligator Staff
Dessie Robinson, a U.S. veteran and regular attendee of horticulture 
therapy, transfers young rabbit ear seedlings into pots. Robinson has 
attended the program for two semesters after hearing about it from 
the social work department at the VA.
TRIAL,  from pg. 3The stabbing happened Feb. 2018SG ANALYSIS4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019
Jewish
UF Hillel 
Join UF Hillel for 
Shabbat Friday nights for 
student led services 
at 6:00 pm
Followed by a free dinner
at 7:00 pm
All are welcome!
www.ufhillel.org
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Presbyterian
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship: 8:30 & 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after 
Sunday worship
College Fellowship: Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, Bible 
study and recreation.
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.org
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482
Brandon Grandison, a 19-year-old UF math and environmental science 
sophomore, adds beads to his keychain during a beadwork demonstration 
Wednesday afternoon at the UF Multicultural and Diversity Affairs center.Duane Whitehorse, of the Kiowa Nation, leads a beading workshop Wednesday 
afternoon at the UF Multicultural and Diversity Affairs center. Students gathered 
around him to watch as he demonstrated beadwork techniques.In celebration of Native American Heritage Month, the Indigenous-American 
Student Association, the department of American Indian and Indigenous Studies 
and UF Multicultural and Diversity Affairs hosted a beadwork demonstration. 
The event was Wednesday afternoon in the Reitz Union at the Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs center. The workshop was facilitated by Duane and 
Maria Whitehorse of the Kiowa Nation, who educated students and faculty on 
authentic Native American beadwork. Attendees were then taught to make 
their own beaded keychains.Students celebrate Native American heritage, learn beadwork 
Photo Story by Allison Veliz / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
,RESEARCH  ROUNDUP
ALACHUA COUNTY RECEIVED 
ONE-THIRD OF AMOUNT 
OF DOSES ORDERED
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
As health experts predict a severe ﬂ  u 
season in the U.S., Alachua County faces a 
shortage in a popular nasal ﬂ  u vaccine, which 
could put elementary schoolers at risk.
Due to a shortage in the national sup-
ply of FluMist, Alachua County will only 
receive one-third of the FluMist doses the 
county requested, said Paul Myers, the ad-
ministrator for the Florida Department of 
Health in Alachua County. The shortage 
was caused by manufacturing constraints 
experienced by AstraZeneca, the company 
that produces FluMist. 
The shortage has forced Control Flu, 
a program that provides free ﬂ  u vaccina-
tions to pre-K through 12th grade students 
in Alachua County, to reserve the limited 
number of FluMists for elementary school 
students, Myers said. Students in middle 
and high school will only receive traditional 
ﬂ  u shots.
Using FluMist, which administers the 
ﬂ  u vaccine as a nasal spray, increases the 
number of students who get vaccinated be-
cause kids are less scared of the no-needle 
option, Myers said.
Efforts to eliminate ﬂ  u outbreaks mainly 
focus on children because they shed more 
ﬂ  u viruses for longer periods of time than 
adults do, and young immune systems 
have not been exposed to the virus as much 
as adult immune systems usually have, My-
ers said. 
“The only thing predictable about ﬂ  u season is its unpredictability,” Myers said. 
“Getting a ﬂ  u vaccine, wherever you get it 
and whatever kind you get, that is the pri-
mary means of preventing infection.”
During the 2016-2017 and 2017-2018 
ﬂ  u seasons, the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention discontinued FluMist 
after data showed it was inefﬁ  cient. In 
2016-2017, when FluMist was pulled off 
the shelves, there was a 40 percent overall 
decline in the vaccination rate for students 
in Alachua County, according to a study 
published by UF Clinical Associate profes-
sor Kathleen Ryan. 
Jerne Shapiro, a UF epidemiology lec-
turer and the county’s former epidemiolo-
gist, said a typical ﬂ  u season lasts from the 
end of October to April at the latest. She 
said ideally everyone should be vaccinated 
by November before the peak of ﬂ  u season.
Children, adults over 65 and people 
with weakened immune systems are at a 
higher risk of contracting the ﬂ  u and po-
tentially dying than the general population, 
Shapiro said.
This year is expected to be a more in-
tense ﬂ  u season than normal, Shapiro said. 
Australia had its worst ﬂ  u season in recent 
years this past winter. As its climate is simi-
lar to Florida’s, Australia’s ﬂ  u season usual-
ly foreshadows what the Florida ﬂ  u season 
will be like, she said. 
“Because of the potential that it has to 
cause a very large impact, both in making 
people sick and mortality, we really track 
this and invest a lot of our public health 
resources into this particular disease,” 
she said.
@jordynkalman
jkalman@alligator.orgCounty short on ﬂ  u vaccine mist
Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Juliet Maynard, 1, eats ice cream in a firefighter hat while walking at the Run with 
the Cops event. Her mom, Jessica Maynard, 32, said it was fun to go to the event and 
see the community.GUIDE SHOWS WHICH PLANTS 
KILLS OTHERS 
By Eli Rosen
Alligator Contributing Writer
They are in your backyard and at the bor-
der of your fence, dangerously taking over. 
Florida’s warm, humid and subtropical cli-
mate is a breeding ground for noxious weeds, 
non-native plants that disrupt ecosystem 
functions by causing losses in biodiversity.
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences is combating some of the issues in-
vasive species cause with its Sept. 11 publica-
tion “Lost in The Weeds?: A Comprehensive 
Guide to Florida’s Many Non-Native Plant 
Lists” by Deah Lieurance and Lyn Gettys, an 
associate professor of agronomy with a focus 
on aquatic and wetland plants science.
It includes information homeowners may 
need when making an addition to their gar-
den to ensure they are not introducing plants 
into natural areas that could negatively im-
pact the environment, said Lieurance, an 
invasion ecologist and assistant extension 
scientist at IFAS. 
“We try to be as transparent as pos-
sible and provide a list that you can sort 
on our website by plant type, origin, 
conclusion type and whether or not it’s at risk of invasion,” she said. 
Nicole Barbieri, the coordinator of the 
Gainesville Greenway Challenge, a year-
round event that handles invasive species in 
nature parks around the city of Gainesville, 
said the events educate about the impacts 
of invasive species and reduce the effects of 
their population.
“With most invasive, non-native spe-
cies, the reason why they’re so harmful is 
because they have no native predators,” she 
said. “There is nothing here to control it.”
Suppliers and buyers have a shared re-
sponsibility to keep invasive species out 
of the natural environment, said Gina 
Hawkins, the executive director of Keep Ala-
chua County Beautiful.
“If people are selling a product, they 
should have some understanding of the im-
plications of that product,” Hawkins said.
The list covered in their guide is just one 
way of educating the public on how to halt 
the introduction of invasive species to be-
gin with, but invasive species will never be 
gone, Lieurance said. 
“The work that we are doing here at the 
university can get invasive species down 
to a level where we can still enjoy our 
natural areas and ecosystem function,”  
Lieurance said.UF challenges spread of invasive 
weeds species with new guide
THE STUDY CONTRADICTS 
PREVIOUS FINDINGS 
By Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
After almost seven years of research, UF 
scientists are beginning to understand Gaines-
ville’s nocturnal residents a little better. 
The Kawahara Lab at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History published a paper Oct. 
21 contradicting previous ﬁ  ndings about the 
hearing organs of moths. 
Scientists previously believed moths de-
veloped hearing organs to sense echoloca-
tion from their primary predators: bats. The 
Kawahara Lab found moths actually devel-
oped hearing organs millions of years before 
bats existed.
The study has far-reaching implications 
in the Gainesville community where the UF 
Bat Houses are a popular attraction for stu-
dents and tourists, said Akito Kawahara, the  
study’s leader and a UF associate professor of 
entomology and museum curator. 
Noise pollution created by humans disori-
ents moths, a species unaccustomed to car 
horns or factories, and makes it difﬁ  cult for 
them to search for mating partners at night. 
This leaves moths vulnerable to other preda-
tors, which results in less food for bats, Kawa-
hara said.Scientists still don’t know why moths de-
veloped hearing organs, but some predict it 
was to hear predators other than bats, Kawa-
hara said.
“The only way you’d know is if you went 
back 100 million years ago and looked at 
these bugs,” he said. ”So that’s our best hy-
pothesis at this point.”
The research study was funded by the U.S. 
National Science Foundation, China National 
GeneBank, the BGI group and the German 
Research Foundation. The study took place 
at the McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and 
Biodiversity within the Florida Museum. The 
study began in 2013 and was authored by 20 
international scientists.
David Plotkin, 30, is a doctoral student 
in the UF Department of Entomology and 
Nematology and works in the Kawahara Lab. 
Due to the fragility of insects, moth fossils re-
quired expert identiﬁ  cation. A fossil that the 
team initially thought was a moth actually 
turned out to be a leaf. 
The study could not have been completed 
without the help of a large team, Plotkin said. 
“It deﬁ  nitely is more than a one-person 
job, and that’s why there are over a dozen 
people on this paper,” Plotkin said.
@priya_dames
pdames@alligator.orgGainesville noise leaves moths 
disoriented, study shows
FUN RUNEditorialFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
Your major doesn’t even matter, just graduate 
We’ve all heard the phrase “Education is the 
key to success,” and it’s especially thrown in 
the face of college students. Choosing a major 
during freshman orientation can seem like a 
monumental decision that dictates the trajec-
tory of the rest of your life. I’m here to attest to the fact 
that it’s a lie.
It’s all a lie. 
I’m a fourth-year student attending the University of 
Florida majoring in marketing and advertising. Three 
years ago, I chose both of my majors because they made 
sense. I attended an International Baccalaureate high 
school, and after that traumatizing experience, I prom-
ised myself I’d never take another science, physics or 
calculus class again, so STEM was definitely out. As a 
kid, I loved ads and catchy jingles, and I always had 
an interest in communications and the creativity that’s 
needed to be successful in the field. Therefore, marketing 
and advertising made sense.
The summer of 2018, I traveled to Dublin for an in-
ternship at a public relations firm, an opportunity that 
perfectly aligned with my majors. I was so excited to ex-
perience communications within a different culture and 
even more excited to get hands-on experience. 
Spoiler alert: I hated it. At that moment, I knew that 
there was a possibility my career would have nothing 
to do with my majors; that was the moment my heart 
dropped. No one told me what to do when I entered my 
final year of college and came to the realization my po-
tential career path and the majors I prematurely chose 
wouldn’t align. 
This feeling of misalignment is quite common among 
college students. According to the National Center for 
Education Statistics,  30 percent of students in the U.S. change their majors at least once. In fact, college students 
change their major approximately three times while en-
rolled in their institution. There’s no handbook that tells 
you how to do college right. Nowhere is it written you 
must obtain a career within the field of your bachelor’s 
degree. Approximately 91 percent of employers say “a 
candidate’s demonstrated capacity to think critically, 
communicate clearly and solve complex problems is 
more important than his or her undergraduate major.”
After the Irish fiasco, I applied to internships in in-
dustries I wouldn’t normally pursue, including an Xbox 
Category Manager internship. Initially, I was extremely 
skeptical because the position fell under technology, 
something I promised myself I’d never pursue. I stepped 
outside of my comfort zone, got the position and fell in 
love with the company. I applied creative problem-solv-
ing skills to dynamic situations, integrating key aspects 
of marketing and advertising within day-to-day tasks. 
Not being a gamer became an asset, and I was able to 
provide a fresh perspective. At the conclusion of the 12 
weeks, Xbox extended me a full-time offer despite the 
fact that my degrees didn’t align with my position. 
A bachelor’s degree is simply an indicator that you 
completed college; experience is what speaks volumes. 
Pick a degree based on passion. Figure out what you’re 
genuinely interested in and what you may want to pur-
sue long-term. If your passion changes during your col-
lege career, it’s okay. Be comfortable with the change 
and make decisions that are best for you. Your life’s just 
starting, cut yourself some slack and graduate. You’ll fig-
ure out the rest along the way. 
Brianna Lowder is a UF marketing and advertising 
senior.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.You’ve spent an hour jogging on this nature trail, but 
you’ve already started regretting coming into exis-
tence. Walking along a bustling stream seems like a 
nice idea on paper, but no one ever talks about the 
mosquitoes in their poems. 
Your friend is jogging ahead of you with their AirPods blasting 
away. They seem to be enjoying themselves, at least. You, on the 
other hand, are having difficulty avoiding the several roots and 
twigs on the path.
Unfortunately, you finally meet your match, and a rock sends 
you tumbling down a hidden ledge.
Your body slams into the ground. You hear a loud crack and 
quickly inspect yourself. Nothing is broken, but you now have 
a few bruises accompanying the bug bites. You look up and see 
the distance you fell, quickly giving up on any notion of climbing 
back up. There’s at least 100 feet of dirt and grass above you. 
You’re lucky to be alive, if being trapped in the middle of a 
forest is considered lucky.
You look around and see if there are any other ways of escape.  
Behind you, you see a man-made tunnel and start walking to-
ward the entrance screaming your friend’s name in the hope that 
they’ll come searching for you.
As soon as you step inside of the tunnel, you stop dead in 
your tracks.
Its walls are engraved with strange shapes and symbols you 
can’t really decipher, and you’re not even sure you want to. 
Hesitating, you take a step closer.
Across the walls you see...
Darts & Laurels
The holiday season is officially upon us now that Starbucks 
has brought back its holiday flavors. We have to give Starbucks 
a laurel for gifting us with coffee that really shouldn’t be con-
sidered coffee, but tastes good nonetheless. Nothing says happy 
holidays like peppermint or eggnog mixed with an unhealthy 
amount of sugar. 
Another food company has gotten into the holiday spirit. Jay-
son Gonzalez, a college student in Minnesota, has been reselling 
Krispy Kreme doughnuts in order to pay his college tuition, and 
Krispy Kreme is completely on board with it. A laurel goes to 
Krispy Kreme for knowing the struggle is real and helping him 
fight through it.
Getting through college is hard, but getting through elections 
as a minority candidate is even harder. We have to give a laurel 
to nearly 100 LGBTQ+ candidates who were elected this Tues-
day. It’s nice to see progress in areas that really need more LG-
BTQ+ representation.
Unfortunately, it seems like we are still regressing in other 
areas.
Sen. John Kennedy of Louisiana recently called House Speak-
er Nancy Pelosi “dumb” for starting the impeachment inquiry 
against President Donald Trump. Do we think he would’ve used  
“dumb” if Pelosi was a man? Probably not. Do we think that he 
used “dumb” due to its close association with a profanity against 
women? Absolutely. We have to give Sen. Kennedy a dart for 
using an insult from elementary school, while also being sexist.
It seems a lot of people are overlooking women for stupid 
reasons, even other women. Julie Vidaud, a 911 dispatcher su-
pervisor in South Florida, was streaming a Netflix movie while a 
woman attempted to call about a shooting. 
The woman called a total of three times, and help didn’t ar-
rive until more than an half an hour later. Not only are we giving 
Vidaud a dart for being terrible at her job but also for putting 
people’s lives at stake.
Thanks for ruining Netflix at work for everyone, Vidaud. We 
hope “I Am Mother” was worth it.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
According to the American Psychi-
atric Association (APA), ethnic 
and racial minorities often bear 
a disproportionately high burden 
of disability resulting from men-
tal disorders. Yet, by 2044, models show  
more than half of all Americans will belong 
to a minority group. Taken altogether, this 
seems to indicate troubled waters on our 
horizons, and it should speak to the im-portance of cultural sensitivity in 
mental health training. 
Using a few anecdotes from 
my own life, I’m hoping this dia-
logue on health disparities will 
spark more reﬂ  ection and discus-
sion in your own day-to-day rou-
tine. Addressing mental health 
challenges can be a strange and 
confusing battle to wage, as root causes such as stigmas are al-
most invisible. For that reason, 
it’s important to have these con-
versations.
When going anywhere with 
my grandparents, there would 
often be this inevitable moment 
where my brother or I would 
have to assume the role of inter-
preter and mediate between them 
and a third party.  I would often wonder 
what happened when neither of us were 
around. Having spent most of their lives 
in the Peruvian Amazon rainforest, their 
English is surprisingly sound but occa-
sionally missing words. So, English-de-
manding services — such as being on 
the phone with tech-support — were all 
grandson territory. Imagine then, hav-
ing an interpreter convey your mental 
illness. Can you picture the difﬁ  culty in 
relaying your struggle to a counselor or 
therapist? My grandparents live in Mi-
ami, a highly bilingual city; could you 
imagine if they lived in Gainesville? It 
really didn’t surprise me when the APA 
reported a shortage of bilingual or lin-
guistically trained professionals as one 
of the largest barriers to mental health 
care for minorities.
While I was a volunteer with the Tor-
ture Abolition and Survivor’s Support 
Coalition, I worked with refugees from 
around the world who spoke everything 
from French to Amharic. I can attest 
ﬁ  rsthand to how difﬁ  cult it is to have 
to talk about sensitive, personal strug-gles when there is a third-party translator 
in the room. Not only is it uncomfortable, 
but so much personality is lost in transla-
tion. There were more than just language 
barriers, however — these individuals of-
ten had speciﬁ  c issues where signiﬁ  cance 
might not entirely register with profession-
als. 
The immigrant experience in the United 
States is plagued with challenges. Many of 
the survivors I worked with not only had 
pre-existing medical conditions, but now 
had the added stress of needing to integrate 
into a new society. Picture this: You’ve 
been placed in a foreign country and you 
need to ﬁ  nd insurance, learn about mental 
health services available to you and ﬁ  nd 
a specialist who speaks your language (or 
know someone who can) — all while ﬁ  nd-
ing food, shelter and a job. Can you feel 
that stress? A majority of the survivors I 
worked with did that while also having 
zero connections in the United States and 
legally battling the government for asylum 
while under the fear of deportation. 
Please know I’m more than happy to dis-
cuss any of the experiences written above 
in further detail. Immigrants are only one 
of the communities facing these issues. 
Next week, we can continue the conversa-
tion, looking at more barriers to care for 
other people. Until then, pick out an activ-
ity from your daily life and imagine how it 
might have to be accomplished differently 
if you immigrated recently or spoke only 
one of thousands of foreign languages. 
Matthew Diaz is the President of the 
Indigenous-American Student AssociationTalking about mental health disparities in minority communitiesColumn
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.org
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
SEASONED FIREWOOD
DELIVERED
$120 - half cord. 386-292-5219
11-8-3-10
Live & Online Bankruptcy Auction
Thursday, November 14th at 10:00 A.M.
B & B Interior Systems, Inc., Associated 
Craftsmen of America, Inc. and MHB 
Construct. Services, LLC.
6781 West Sunrise Blvd., Plantation, FL 
33313
Furniture, Fixtures, Equipment, Materials 
and Supplies including: vehicles, construc-
tion equipment, power tools, inventory, ware-
house equipment, office furniture &amp; 
equipment and much more. The referenced 
companies provided metal framing, drywall, 
acoustical ceiling installations and related 
services.
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: Day of sale 8:30 AM - 10 AM.
Case No. 19-22413-JKO, Case No. 19-
22412-JKO and Case No. 19-22411-RBR, 
respectively.
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit to 
bid. 10%-13% BP.
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      11-8-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished7 Computers 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      11-18-
19-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
Today in history — 1519: 1st meeting of Aztec 
Emperor Moctezuma II and Spanish Conquistador 
Hernán Cortés in Tenochtitlan, MexicoBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
answers on page 9
By Jeffrey Wechsler
(c)2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/08/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/08/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, November 8, 2019
ACROSS
1 Long-nosed fish
4 Took to the 
cleaners
11 With 29-Down, 
anticipates 
potential trouble
14 Burns wrote one 
on a louse
15 “After this, no 
more questions”
16 Tahiti, to Gauguin
17 Total confusion at 
the creamery?
19 Actor Cage, 
casually
20 Avoided a family 
affair, perhaps
21 Fabled beast
22 Golden __
23 Carefree 
adventure
24 Little tunneler
25 “The L Word” 
co-creator 
Chaiken
26 Giant among 
Giants
27 Alicia Keys 
record label
29 Without markup
30 Foot condition 
seen in oaters?
34 Checked the 
latest blog entry, 
say
35 Comparison of 
a motor coach 
to all other travel 
options?
39 Gershwin classic
41 Ike’s WWII 
command
42 Prefix with 
laryngology
43 Throws the game
44 O’er and o’er
46 Thunderstruck
47 Synagogue 
storage cabinets
48 T’ai __
49 Compassionate 
words
51 TX library 
honoree
52 Barista’s 
occupational 
hazards?
54 “Don’t Bring Me 
Down” gp.
55 Fur-loving de Vil
56 “Who __?”: New 
Orleans Saints 
chant57 Lee follower
58 Beach pest
59 “You __ devil!”
DOWN
1 Visit the engine 
room, perhaps
2 Put on a pedestal
3 Sharp answers
4 Head for the hills
5 Frying medium
6 It’s NW of 
QWERTY
7 Allen of Vermont
8 “See the ___ 
clear’d, and then 
we will depart”: 
“King Henry VI”
9 Grandson of 
Adam
10 __ Arc, Arkansas
11 Require for 
success
12 Ones from afar
13 It may be hard to 
keep
18 State hwy., often
22 “Jo’s Boys” 
author
24 “Storage Wars” 
network
25 “I speak the truth”
27 Brand munched 
by E.T.28 Want badly
29 See 11-Across
31 Boxer’s boxers
32 Gold __
33 Agitated
35 Many a heist
36 E.M. Forster’s 
“__ End”
37 Opposite of 
momentary
38 Reason for a 
cover-up?
39 Less fresh40 Emulate a 
nightingale
44 “Whoop-de-doo”
45 Played a piccolo-
like instrument
46 Needle front?
48 “Downton Abbey” 
countess
49 Deftly
50 StubHub parent
52 IV units
53 2003 holiday 
film
By Sean Biggins
(c)2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/07/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/07/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, November 7, 2019
ACROSS
1 Astrological Ram
6 Cleans out 
badly?
10 __-pitch softball
13 Dry up
14 Old photo hue
15 Equivocate
16 International 
waters
18 Scrabble vowel 
value
19 Focus of a 
modern crisis
20 Branch bit
21 “The Persistence 
of Memory” artist
24 Teleflora rival
25 Ice Capades 
setting
26 Word with string 
or sing
28 Washington post
31 Ulaanbaatar 
native
33 One concerned 
with bites
35 South of France?
36 Trifling amount
38 Former NBA 
exec Jackson
39 “Dumbo” (2019) 
director Burton
41 Off-leash play 
area
44 Like many 
courtside 
interviews
46 Pine detritus
48 New York 
Harbor’s __ 
Island
49 “Mad About You” 
daughter
51 __ Zion Church
53 Actor Alan
54 Runs
55 Audit
58 Holstein sound
59 Politically diverse 
ballot ... and an 
apt description 
of each set of 
puzzle circles
63 New Haven alum
64 L.L.Bean 
headquarters 
locale
65 River in some 
Renoir paintings
66 “Voices Carry” 
pop group __ 
Tuesday
67 Unaccompanied
68 Lauder of 
cosmeticsDOWN
1 Fitting
2 Root word?
3 Hot temper
4 Bouncing off the 
walls
5 Castaway’s 
salvation
6 Lived
7 Slanted page
8 Slant
9 KLM rival
10 Locker room 
feature
11 Red Square 
honoree
12 Luxury watch
14 They’re poured 
at bars
17 Many an 
animated Twitter 
pic
20 Picard’s 
counselor
21 Stops up
22 Vocally
23 Marinated beef 
dish
25 Harmonize
27 Grammy 
category
29 Game console 
letters
30 Member of the 
opposition32 Attachment to a 
car or a boat?
34 Shy
37 Result of 
Googling
40 Natural table
42 Heist units
43 “How to Get 
Away With 
Murder” lawyer 
Annalise
45 Quick looks
47 Clobber, 
biblically49 “Glengarry Glen 
Ross” playwright
50 Garlicky spread
52 Tonsillitis-treating 
doc
55 Row
56 Parts of hips
57 65-Across feeder
59 Texting format, 
briefly
60 Set for assembly
61 Dallas-to-
Memphis dir.
62 Simple top
11/06/19FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-14
Today in history — 1731: Benjamin Franklin opens 1st 
library in the North American colonies in Philadelphia.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Today in history — 1864: Abraham Lincoln elected to 
2nd term as American President.Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Today in history — 1932: FDR elected president.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsBilingual student wanted for part-time work 
as Latin America inside sales rep for local 
software company. Local software company 
in Gainesville (around the corner from SFCC) 
looking for energetic University of Florida or 
SFCC student to help with sales and market-
ing efforts focusing on Latin America in this 
part-time independent contractor position. 
Must be fluent in English and Spanish. We 
offer flexible hours. Earn hourly pay plus 
commission. Email resume and 3 references 
to: GvilleSoftwareCo@gmail.com.    11-20-
7-14
$20/Hr. Personal Assistant for semi-retired 
executive. Flexible hours; min. 15 hrs ev-
ery week. 21 to 55, no small children. Bring 
resume to: Ben Campen’s residence, 5348 
NW 9th Lane, Gainesville  Wedn.11/6 OR 
Fri. 11/8 between 8:15 am- 9:30am    11-8-
19-1-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
How to MAKE EXTRA MONEY PLAYING
VIDEO GAMES explained.
Free E-book tells how at
www.vidgamerz.com
11-25-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
 PUZZLE SOLUTIONS14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 15 Services 23 Rides
1.  Nearly
1.  Diminished5.  Mountain chain
2.  Arbitrate 6.  ____ code
3.  Maintain 7.  ____ shell
4.  Punctual MLATOS
TAEDABSAEDN
RAMLA
EATEMDI
TAUSNISNEAPTU
OPPRMTANSWERS: 1A-Almost  5A-Andes  6A-Alarm  7A-Peanut
1D-Abated  2D-Mediate  3D-Sustain  4D-Prompt  B-Badminton11-8-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This has been a Summer 
Olympics sport since 1992.
BONUS
solution belowanswers below
sudoku
Stickelers1:d, 2:f, 3:c,
4:a, 5:e, 6bGolfer Sierra Brooks 
announced Thursday that she 
will join the Symetra T our in 
2020 to begin her professional 
career, foregoing her senior 
season at Florida. Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium sets color scheme for Vandy
Florida fans are encouraged to match the following color scheme for Satur-
day’s game against the Commodores: BLUE (East and West sides of stadium,
sections 27-44, 1-19 and 501-513) and ORANGE (North and South end 
zones, sections 20-21, 218-229, 318-329, A-H and 47-65). Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
The Gators did it.
They shocked the world by beat-
ing the Bulldogs. It was dodgy at 
times, but despite a late push, UF 
survived, 5-3.
The Florida baseball team, that is.
What did you think we were talk-
ing about? Was there another Gators-
Bulldogs matchup going on in Jack-
sonville last weekend?
I’m pretty sure there wasn’t…
Regardless, Vanderbilt comes to 
town to play Florida at noon on Sat-
urday. Based on recent history, that 
should be a recipe for a low-stress, 
easy-going afternoon that deﬁ  nitely 
won’t get weird as hell.
Secretly, the alligatorSports foot-
ball writers will be hoping the UF-
Vandy game can be wrapped up 
quickly so they can catch the end of 
the most proliﬁ  c matchup of the day: 
No. 2 LSU at No. 3 Alabama. Sports 
Editor Tyler Nettuno and football 
beat writer Dylan Rudolph predict 
the outcome of that one below.
LSU will win because… 
Every streak has to end sometime.
When Florida had beaten Ken-
tucky for 31 straight years, I refused 
to pick the Wildcats to win that game 
until they proved they could. Last 
year, they did.
Beginning with a National Cham-
pionship showdown in 2012, the 
Crimson Tide have scored eight con-
secutive wins against the Tigers. But 
this year’s LSU team is going to be 
the one to change that.
The Tigers have the best quarter-
back in the country in Joe Burrow 
(who has 30 touchdowns and four in-
terceptions this season) and the best 
offensive coordinator in the country 
in Joe Brady, who has modernized 
the LSU offense in less than a year’s 
time.
Meanwhile, Alabama quarterback 
Tua Tagovailoa had ankle surgery 
several weeks ago and is question-PICKS: 
Week 11
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: Noon, Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  INSIDE WRAP
FOOTBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Florida’s worst offensive performance of the 
season came at the most inopportune time this 
past weekend in Jacksonville. The Gators put 
up season-low offensive statistics across the 
box score in their 24-17 loss to Georgia, which 
dropped them to second place in the SEC East.
Up until the World’s Largest Outdoor Cock-
tail Party, the UF offense was a thing of beauty, 
and, by recent standards, rarity. Even with its 
slip-up, this is still the best offensive start for the 
program in a decade.But that’s what makes the implosion against 
the Bulldogs so surprising. Florida’s offense 
is averaging more than 400 yards per game 
through nine contests for the ﬁ  rst time since 
2009. It didn’t come close to that on Saturday.
Here’s a look at some of the offensive fail-
ures exhibited against UGA:
Time of possession battle
Florida isn’t necessarily dominant in time 
of possession. In nine games this season, the 
Gators have won the TOP battle ﬁ  ve times. UF’s 
largest gap in possession time came against 
LSU, when Florida had the ball for almost 
17 more minutes than the Tigers. This game, 
though, is largely an outlier because LSU scored 
so quickly, so the TOP stats were not represen-
tative.
Against Georgia, Florida only had the ball 
for 24:12 — its second-lowest mark of the sea-
son. The lowest TOP by the Gators was against 
Miami. Not surprisingly, that was tied for UF’s 
second-lowest scoring output of the season, the 
Georgia game being its lowest.
UF only had one three and out, but its drives 
did not chew up much clock. Up until its ﬁ  nal 
drive of the game — which took up 6:50 when 
the Gators did not have time to blow — Florida 
did not have a drive longer than four minutes. 
Conversely, the Bulldogs had three and scored 
on all of them.
Number of plays
According to teamrankings.com, the Gators 
run 66.6 plays per game, which is in the bot-
tom half of the FBS. Against UGA, Florida ran 
a season-low 52 plays to Georgia’s 67. Not sur-
prisingly, because UF trailed the entire game, 
the vast majority of those were passing plays. To go with its season-low play total, Flori-
da went to the run just 19 times and ran for a 
season-low 21 yards. Its previous low for rush-
ing plays in a game this season was 27 against 
Kentucky and in all other games the Gators had 
at least 30 rushing attempts.
Possessions
Florida’s eight drives against Georgia were 
a new season-low. Granted, the Bulldogs only 
had the ball eight times as well, but they came 
up empty-handed only three times, as opposed 
to Florida’s ﬁ  ve scoreless drives.
On average, UF has about 12 drives per 
game. The nature of the game being low scor-
ing and the defense being unable to create turn-
overs — something that has plagued it for a 
few games now — naturally limited the Gators’ 
number of drives.
Florida scored just once on its ﬁ  rst six drives 
— a ﬁ  eld goal in the second quarter. It wasn’t 
until the fourth quarter that the offense caught 
on and by then it was too late.
Yardage
Running a low number of plays, only hav-
ing eight possessions and not having the ball for 
very long takes its toll on even the best offenses. 
And the Gators are not an elite offense by any 
means. (They’re No. 31 in passing offense and 
No. 107 in rushing offense.)
Unsurprisingly, Florida put up a season-low 
yardage total to go with its lowest scoring out-
put. UF gained just 278 yards against Georgia. 
That was Florida’s ﬁ  rst time under the 300-yard 
mark this season, and it had been over 350 in 
seven straight games.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgWhat went wrong for UF’s oﬀ  ense vs. Georgia
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Florida is No. 31 in passing offense and No. 107 in 
rushing offense. UF only put up 278 yards vs. UGA.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida-Florida State hasn’t 
been much of a rivalry on the hard-
wood lately, and UF coach Mike 
White is the ﬁ  rst to admit that.
Since White took over the pro-
gram in 2015, the Gators have 
lost to the Seminoles four straight 
times, including two by double-
digits in the last two seasons.
“We didn’t even give those 
guys a game last year,” White said. 
“It was our worst performance of 
the year. We’ll watch a lot of it un-
fortunately as a staff, and then as a 
team this week.”
Blackshear Jr.’s ability is an x-
factor in this season’s matchup
For Florida to beat FSU for the 
ﬁ  rst time since 2013 on Sunday, 
it’ll need to be physical and more 
willing to attack the paint.In the last three contests com-
bined, Florida was outrebounded 
by 29, and in the two double-digit 
defeats, shot under 40 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld.
The Seminoles have been 
known for their size and length 
and presented a tough matchup for 
the undersized Gators.
This season may be different, 
though.
Combine the fact that Florida 
State lost three of its starters from 
a year ago with the arrival of 
graduate transfer forward Kerry 
Blackshear Jr. for the Gators, and 
UF arguably has its best chance to 
defeat FSU for the ﬁ  rst time during 
White’s tenure.
“He gives you the opportunity 
offensively to play in a variety of 
ways,” White said, referring to 
Blackshear Jr. “He scores on the 
interior, he draws fouls and he can 
shoot it.”Florida’s 6-foot-10 Swiss Army 
Knife has already ﬁ  lled the box 
score with a double-double (20 
points, 10 rebounds) against North 
Florida. However, despite some of 
the Seminoles’ departures, they’ll 
certainly pose a steeper challenge 
for Blackshear Jr. and Florida.
Nembhard, the three-point shot 
will be key
While a lot of the attention on 
Sunday will be in the paint, there 
will be a marquee matchup on the 
perimeter between two of the best 
point guards in the country.
Sophomore Andrew Nembhard 
will be tasked with defending one 
of FSU’s top scorers in senior Trent 
Forrest.
During Florida State’s 63-61 
season-opening loss to Pittsburgh 
on Wednesday, Forrest led the 
team in scoring with 19, adding 
two assists and two steals during 39 minutes on the ﬂ  oor. He turned 
the ball over ﬁ  ve times, though, 
and that’s an area Nembhard has 
to exploit.
Additionally, Nembhard and 
the offense will look to keep the 
pressure on FSU and avoid a per-
formance like the one against 
North Florida.
The 6-foot-5, Aurora, Ontario, 
Canada, native, scored just two 
points (1 of 7 from the ﬂ  oor) in 31 
minutes, and the Gators shot just 
20 percent (3 of 15) from the three-
point line.
Against UNF, Florida was able 
to overcome those performances, 
but against the Seminoles, the 
Gators will need for some of those 
shots to fall in order to snap the 
ﬁ  ve-game losing streak to their ri-
val.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgGators hope to shake the past against FSUFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
WOMEN’S BASKETBALLSOCCER
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
To say that Florida’s women’s basketball 
team struggled on the road last season is an 
understatement.
It dropped 13 consecutive games away 
from home before taking down Vanderbilt in 
Nashville, Tennessee, in the ﬁ  nal week of the 
2018-19 campaign.
But this year’s team wasted no time earn-
ing its ﬁ  rst road victory, as the Gators defeated 
Grambling State 72-65 on Tuesday at the Hob-
dy Assembly Center in Grambling, Louisiana.
“I think it gives our kids a lot of conﬁ  dence 
in knowing that we can go on the road early 
and stick together and grit out a tough win,” coach Cam Newbauer said.
UF had trouble ﬁ  nding the bottom of the 
net against the Tigers in the ﬁ  rst half, going 11 
for 32 from the ﬁ  eld. That included a dismal 8 
percent (1 of 12) shooting from behind the arc.
The only player to knock down a three-
pointer was freshman guard Brylee Bartram, 
who made her collegiate debut for Florida. In 
her ﬁ  rst game wearing the orange and blue, 
Bartram registered nine points on 50 percent 
(3 of 6) shooting from downtown in just 14 
minutes of action.
Freshman guards Lavender Briggs and 
Nina Rickards impressed in their ﬁ  rst outing, 
too.
Briggs started the game and played the sec-
ond-most minutes (33) behind redshirt junior guard Kiara Smith (35). Rickards came off the 
bench at the 6:59 mark of the opening quarter 
and was on the court for a total of 25 minutes 
— the most of any reserve player.
Newbauer lauded the trio of freshmen for 
balancing their academic responsibilities with 
their athletic ones, especially in such a physi-
cally taxing preseason that consisted of 20 
hours of practice per week, according to the 
third-year Florida coach.
“To see them have the resolve that they’ve 
continued to have is really exciting,” he said. 
“We’ve just got to make sure that we manage 
them correctly and help them through this, be-
cause their number is going to be called a lot 
this year.”
Briggs ended up with six points and a game-high eight assists, while Rickards posted 
10 points and ﬁ  ve boards.
“They go hard, super hard,” redshirt senior 
forward Zada Williams said. “They don’t re-
ally act like freshmen, so I’m really proud of 
them.”
If things get out of hand in Sunday’s home 
opener against Longwood — a team that ﬁ  n-
ished 3-27 last season — then the freshmen 
may see even more playing time.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgBy Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Two Razorbacks placed three dag-
gers into the heart of Florida’s SEC 
title hopes. 
Top-seeded Arkansas and No. 
5-seeded Florida faced off in Orange 
Beach, Alabama, on Thursday night. 
And after a back-and-forth ﬁ  rst half, 
a dominant second half from the 
Razorbacks brought on a 3-1 ﬁ  nal 
result in favor of Arkansas, ending 
UF’s time on the Gulf Shore.
In the ﬁ  rst four minutes of the 
match, Florida looked overwhelmed. 
Arkansas, the No. 6 team in the 
country, looked as strong as its rank-
ing. The Razorbacks weren’t just 
pressuring UF’s forwards and mid-
ﬁ  elders but its defenders as well. 
The Gators had a Razorback 
within a few feet of them each time 
they received a pass. This resulted in 
a few turnovers that kept the ball in 
the orange and blue half for a major-
ity of the ﬁ  rst 10 minutes. 
However, the constant pressure 
slowed up, and Florida pushed up 
into the Arkansas 18-yard box. For-
ward Madison Alexander brought 
the ball up and played a pass just 
outside the box to forward Vanessa Kara. 
Kara played it immediately back 
to Alexander, who then had a favor-
able shot. She struck it from the right 
side of the box to the left post and 
barely hooked it too far to roll out of 
play. That chance didn’t result in a 
goal, but it did switch the momen-
tum quickly. 
Soon after, at the 14 minute 
mark, midﬁ  elder Kit Loferski drib-
bled from the far right wing, near 
the corner kick ﬂ  ag, and got it all the 
way to the box. She megged a Ra-
zorback defender to get just outside 
the 6-yard box and placed a pass to 
Kara. The forward almost spun a full 
360 degrees to whack a left-footed 
hit toward goal and forced Arkansas 
goalkeeper Katie Lund into a difﬁ  cult 
save. 
Later on, with eight minutes left 
to play in the ﬁ  rst half, the Gators 
had a wonderful opportunity. Mid-
ﬁ  elder Cassidy Lindley played a 
cross in from the left wing. The ball 
scooted across the ﬁ  eld all the way 
to just outside the 6-yard box to the 
left foot of forward Kouri Peace. The 
freshman had subbed in for Kara 
minutes before and had an opportu-
nity to give UF an advantage heading 
into halftime. Peace, having to hit it with her 
non-dominant foot, got no steam 
on the ball and popped it up into 
the air where it softly landed in 
Lund’s gloves. Three minutes later, 
with less than ﬁ  ve minutes remain-
ing in the ﬁ  rst half, the momentum 
switched again. 
Freshman midﬁ  elder Cara Young 
crossed a ball in from the left side 
off a corner kick. Gators and Razor-
backs alike leaped to get a head on 
the ball but missed. It fell to Arkan-
sas midﬁ  elder Stefani Doyle. She got 
a left foot on it over goalie Susi Espi-
noza. Money. 
Advantage Arkansas, scoreline 
1-0. 
Whistle, Whistle. 
The referee’s two blows meant 
halftime, and a half where Florida 
seemingly dominated most of the 
possession and got the best chances, 
presented a 1-0 deﬁ  cit. 
The Razorbacks’ strong ﬁ  nish to 
the ﬁ  rst half, didn’t stop in the sec-
ond. In the 58th minute, forward 
Anna Podojil got another one past 
Espinoza from just inside the 18-
yard box. Avantage Arkansas, 2-0. 
The 63rd minute breathed life 
into the suffering Gators, as a foul 
by the Razorbacks inside the 18-yard box found Kara at the penalty 
spot. Her shot was good enough to 
squeak past goalie Katie Lund and 
brought UF back within one, despite 
looking overwhelmed since the ﬁ  rst 
half. Then, 15 minutes later, the Ra-
zorbacks gave UF reasons to warm 
up the plane to leave Orange Beach. 
Podojil put the ball past Espinoza 
one last time in the 78th minute. 
Whistle, whistle, whistle.Thirteen minutes later, the deci-
sion was ﬁ  nal. UF was ﬁ  nished in 
the SEC Tournament. This may not 
be the end of Gators soccer in 2019, 
as Florida still has the chance to 
qualify for the NCAA Tournament. 
The 64-team ﬁ  eld will be announced 
Monday at 4:30 p.m.
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.org
Freshmen were bright spot in win over Grambling StateFlorida falls 3-1 to Arkansas in SEC Tournament semiﬁ  nal
Lawren Simmons  / Alligator Staff
Forward Vanessa Kara scored the only goal in Florida’s 3-1 loss.
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019
NOW OPEN COME IN AND LEARN MORE318 NW 13TH ST, GAINESVILLE
Must have a Medical Marijuana Use Registry Identification Card to purchase Medical Marijuana.EXPERT ADVICE AND CANNABIS
PRODUCTS YOU CAN TRUSTPHARMACEUTICAL-QUALITY
CANNABIS
M00219able against the Tigers. Coach Nick Saban has hinted that 
he will play — and I’d be surprised if he didn’t try — but 
it’s hard to imagine Tagovailoa will be at 100 percent.
Based on what we’ve seen from backup Mac Jones, that 
could be problematic for the Tide. LSU is rolling, and for 
once, Alabama isn’t going to stand in its way.
— Tyler Nettuno
Alabama (-6.5) will win because…
 
Eight years ago, America had a different president, Por-
tal 2 came out and the Green Bay Packers won the Super 
Bowl. Eight years is a long time, and a lot has changed. 
But one thing remains constant: Alabama will beat LSU.
In 2011, LSU and Alabama met as No. 1 and No. 2 in 
the nation, respectively. Both teams, with hardened de-
fenses, battled it out until LSU came out on top 9-6 in 
overtime after three missed Alabama field goals. It took 
a lot of luck for the Tigers to win that game, luck they 
haven’t had since and won’t again this year. 
Alabama quarterback Tua Tagovailoa — who’s tallied 
2,166 passing yards, 27 touchdowns and only two inter-
ceptions with a 74.7 percent completion rate this season 
— went down with a high ankle sprain against Tennessee 
on Oct. 19. After surgery and limited practice during the 
last two weeks, Tagovailoa remains a “game-time deci-
sion.” But LSU knows it’s not that lucky.
Coach Nick Saban has already hinted at Tagovailoa’s 
return when he told ESPN that the junior quarterback was 
“doing even better than expected.”
Tagovailoa and the Alabama offense, which hasn’t 
finished a game with fewer than 35 points, is primed for 
another huge game against a shoddy LSU defense that’s 
allowed 315.4 yards a game this season.
The Tigers will try to answer with their own pass attack 
led by senior quarterback Joe Burrow — who threw for 
just 184 yards, no touchdowns and an interception in the 
29-0 loss against Alabama last year — but they won’t be 
able to keep up with the Crimson Tide in front of its home 
crowd, and Bama will inch one win closer to a decade of 
dominance over the boys from the bayou.
— Dylan Rudolph
Now onto the picks…
In first at 51-28 is Tyler “Give Me The Prime Time 
Spot” Nettuno, who took to Twitter — and even went so 
far as to tag the ESPN account — to beg for his own TV 
show on prime time. We get it Tyler, you’re THE sports 
editor for The Independent Florida Alligator, and you 
think you’re hilarious, but no one wants to hear your hot 
takes on the Jags, Nick Foles or Baker Mayfield. Thanks, 
but no thanks. 
In second at 50-29 is Kyle “I Gave Him The Click” 
Wood, who couldn’t resist the urge to take a peek at Car-
ron J. Phillips’ recent take on Mama Mullen. At least you 
completely discounted Phillips’ take, you got that going 
for you at least, Kyle. But really, you just couldn’t resist 
and that in itself is abysmal. How dare you give Phillips 
one minute of your time to discredit one of the best college 
football moms in the “deep south.” 
In third at 46-33 is Nick “Skipped Leg Day” De La 
Torre, who had to roast fellow Gators football reporter 
Thomas Goldkamp on his picture of the beloved Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium. We get it, Nick. You’re not a fan of stadi-
ums given the fact you practically live there anyways. But 
if anything, that’s all the more encouragement to work out 
in one of Gainesville’s finest attractions. So, don’t harp on 
Thomas for his stadiums flex.
Tied for fourth at 45-34 is Sam “I’ll Take The Room, 
I Guess” Campisano, who never hesitates to claim the 
most comfortable accommodations when the football writ-
ers travel. Three couches and a spare bedroom? You can 
guess where Sam’s going to try to sleep. He even goes as 
far as to go to sleep first, so he gets his choice of sleep-ing arrangement. It’s fine, Sam. You want to travel the 
southeast in boujee fashion. But you can bet your ass we’ll 
make fun of you for it.
Tied with Sam is Graham “Rise And Grind” Hall, who 
woke up at 4:15 in the freaking morning to get his Star-
bucks red holiday cup. We’re glad you’re feeling super 
festive, Graham. Even if it is only the first week of No-
vember. Just don’t post your overpriced java goodness on 
the internet — that’s what Mari does. For shame, Graham. 
For shame.
In sixth at 44-35 is Dylan “It’s Fine Guys, I’ll Just 
Take The ‘Stang” Rudolph. Dylan didn’t ride with the 
rest of the football crew to Jacksonville on Friday night 
because he had to stay for “an assignment” that he didn’t 
even do. Our only theory is that Dylan wanted to drive up 
alone in his sports car. Sure, you made it really quickly, 
but did you really need to flex on us like that?
In seventh at 43-36 is Mark “Why Are You Like 
This?” Long, who said that Jim McElwain would be “a 
neat hire” at Florida State. As much as Gators fans might 
like that, I’m not sure I see it. Though, I think his “PB&Js-
for-all” policy would play well in the swing states.
Leading off a three-way tie for eighth at 41-38 is Ed-
gar “Golf Reporter In A Football Reporter’s Body” 
Thompson. Edgar only writes about UF football because 
the Orlando Sentinel makes him. If he had his way, he’d 
ditch the boring gridiron entirely for the excitement of the fairway. Seriously, Edgar. First, you show off your swing-
ing technique in the press box at UF’s biggest game of the 
year, and now you’re tweeting about UF golf? I guess the 
heart wants what it wants.
Joining Edgar is Zach “OK, Boomer” Goodall, who 
isn’t too good with the email-machine. Since this has been 
a problem in the past, we’ll spell it out for you in a way 
that even Edgar and Mark would understand. That button 
that says “reply all” responds to everyone. What you’re 
looking for is the one labeled “reply.” No “all.” Think 
about it, Zach. You don’t want us copying your picks so 
we can end up in eighth, too.
The last member of eighth is Mari “Convenient Tim-
ing...” Faiello, who wrote a column about the integrity 
and hard work of the College Football Playoff Committee 
the very same night that her beloved committee put her 
also-beloved Ohio State Buckeyes (No, Mari, I didn’t put 
the THE. You don’t deserve it.) No. 1 in the poll. I’m not 
saying Mari is colluding with the committee, I’m just say-
ing the timing is suspicious. Also, I’m definitely saying 
Mari colluded with the committee.
In last at 39-40 is Brian “Don’t Give Mark Stine The 
Satisfaction” Fox. Brian quote tweeted the former al-
ligatorSports editor’s story, calling it “correct.” It’s OK, 
Brian. You don’t have to stroke Mark’s ego. You can tell 
the world how terrible his takes are.KICKOFF    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR
Tyler (51-28) Kyle (50-29) Nick (46-33)
VANDY @ UF (-26.5) UF UF VANDY
PSU @ MINN (+6.5) PSU PSU PSU
LSU @ BAMA (-6.5) LSU LSU LSU
KSU @ TEX (-7.5) KSU TEX TEX
IOWA @ WISC (-9.5) IOWA WISC WISC
MIZZ @ UGA (-17.5) UGA UGA UGA
ISU @ OU (-14.5) OU OU OU
BAY @ TCU (+2.5) BAY BAY BAY
Sam (45-34) Graham (45-34) Mark (43-36)
VANDY @ UF (-26.5) VANDY VANDY UF
PSU @ MINN (+6.5) PSU PSU PSU
LSU @ BAMA (-6.5) BAMA BAMA BAMA
KSU @ TEX (-7.5) KSU TEX KSU
IOWA @ WISC (-9.5) IOWA WISC WISC
MIZZ @ UGA (-17.5) UGA UGA UGA
ISU @ OU (-14.5) OU ISU OU
BAY @ TCU (+2.5) TCU BAY BAY
Dylan (44-35) Edgar (41-38) Zach (41-38)
VANDY @ UF (-26.5) VANDY UF UF
PSU @ MINN (+6.5) PSU MINN MINN
LSU @ BAMA (-6.5) BAMA LSU LSU
KSU @ TEX (-7.5) TEX KSU TEX
IOWA @ WISC (-9.5) IOWA WISC WISC
MIZZ @ UGA (-17.5) UGA UGA UGA
ISU @ OU (-14.5) OU OU OU
BAY @ TCU (+2.5) BAY TCU BAY
Mari (41-38) Brian (39-40)
VANDY @ UF (-26.5) VANDY VANDY
PSU @ MINN (+6.5) PSU PSU
LSU @ BAMA (-6.5) LSU LSU
KSU @ TEX (-7.5) TEX KSU
IOWA @ WISC (-9.5) WISC WISC
MIZZ @ UGA (-17.5) UGA UGA
ISU @ OU (-14.5) OU OU
BAY @ TCU (+2.5) BAY BAYPICKS,  from pg. 10 ‘‘Expert’’ Picks of the W eekALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2019   KICKOFF
BEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
18 & UP
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
1718 West University AvenueWells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJFUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
 FRIDAY & SATURDAY
1728 West University Avenue
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
GO
GATORS!
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseVOLLEYBALL
SWIMMINGBy Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
After its longest break of the sea-
son, the Gators volleyball team will 
hit the court – for real — for the ﬁ  rst 
time in over a week.
No. 12 Florida will take on un-
ranked Ole Miss on Friday night at 
7:30 coming off a ﬁ  ve-set win over 
No. 24 Missouri on Oct. 30.
The Gators rarely run into any 
problems against the Rebels (14-8, 
6-5 SEC), outrunning their program 
51-3 in the series overall. And UF 
is undefeated against Mississippi in 
three-set matches (45-0). The three 
matches the Gators (18-3, 9-1 SEC) 
did drop, however, all came on the 
road.
So far this season, Florida’s of-
fense has led the way with sopho-
mores Thayer Hall and Lauren 
Dooley, senior Rachael Kramer and 
juniors Paige Hammons and Holly 
Carlton. Together, the ﬁ  ve players have notched 863 of UF’s 997 (87 
percent) kill total.
Because of their offense, the 
Gators rank second in their confer-
ence in hitting percentage (.271). 
UF’s defense has also played an in-
tegral part in its successful season 
thus far, helping the team maintain 
the second-highest opponent hitting 
efﬁ  ciency (.183) and highest blocks 
per set average (2.62).
Libero Allie Gregory unsurpris-
ingly leads the team in digs with 318 
(4.18 per set). But unlike many other 
programs in the country, the defen-
sive responsibilities have been split 
among the team.
Hall, sophomore setter Marlie 
Monserez and Hammons are behind 
Gregory with somewhere north of 
150 digs each.
The Rebels, however, come into 
Friday’s matchup in a much tougher 
situation. The team is on a ﬁ  ve-game 
losing streak after dropping matches 
to: Texas A&M (2-3), Georgia (1-3), No. 18 Kentucky (1-3), Tennessee 
(2-3) and Alabama (2-3).
Florida’s extended break should 
theoretically propel the team into the 
rest of its conference play schedule 
against Mississippi State, LSU, No. 
18 Kentucky, Auburn, Georgia, Ar-
kansas and No. 25 Texas A&M.
Mississippi’s team, however, has 
had less time to recover from its sea-
son so far after dropping its Sunday 
contest to the Crimson Tide in a ﬁ  ve-
set brawl.
Ole Miss’ offense is led by senior 
outside hitter Emily Stroup, who has 
managed to log a team-high 329 kills 
on the season. Stroup ranked second 
in the country last year in kills, regis-
tering 583 by the year’s end, and will 
most certainly be someone to watch 
out for as the Gators take on the Reb-
els on Friday night.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
By Dylan O’Shea
Sports writer
The Florida-Florida State rivalry 
will take on a different look Friday.
This installation of UF vs. FSU 
will feature orange and blue and 
garnet and gold swim caps instead 
of helmets, as the two schools will 
hit the pool at 2 p.m. for the annual 
Sunshine Showdown.
The Gators’ No. 9 men’s team (5-
1) is looking to extend its eight-meet 
win streak against the No. 15 Semi-
noles. UF is 58-23-1 all-time against 
FSU.
UF’s No. 1 women’s squad (6-0) has the opportunity to improve upon 
its stellar 43-3 all-time record against 
No. 20 FSU.
Here’s what to look out for from 
the men and women in the Gators’ 
last dual meet of 2019:
Women try to extend streak
UF’s women’s team has a 10-
meet win streak against FSU, and it 
has a real chance to extend its win-
ning record to start the 2019-20 sea-
son. 
Some athletes that will provide 
Florida with a chance to win include 
long-distance swimmer Leah Bras-
well, sprinter Bella Garofalo and diver Elizabeth Perez.
Braswell is coming off of a per-
sonal-best swim in the 1,000 free at 
9:45.74, while Garofalo claimed a 
win in the 50 free and a runner-up 
performance against Georgia.
Perez shined in place of the in-
jured Ashley McCool with wins in 
the 1- and 3-meter diving events.
“They are deﬁ  nitely a formidable 
opponent,” coach Jeff Poppell said 
of the Seminoles. “They have some 
swimmers that are gonna score at 
the NCAA championships with some 
of the best times in the country.”Award-clad men
Friday’s men’s meet between 
UF and FSU will feature athletes 
who have earned some early-season 
hardware.
UF’s Kieran Smith posted the fast-
est 200 free time in the nation against 
Georgia en route to SEC Men’s Swim-
mer of the Week honors. 
FSU’s Joshua Davidson is a two-
time ACC Men’s Diver of the Week 
award winner after sweeping diving 
events against Duke and Minnesota.
Both athletes have the opportuni-
ty to pick up points for their respec-
tive teams.
The Gators are also hoping to re-peat their sprint swimming success 
against FSU after posting sweeps in 
the 50 free, 100 breast and 100 ﬂ  y 
against Georgia.
Sprint coach Steve Jungbluth 
credits his swimmers’ success to ex-
perience and toughness.
“If you really want to be a great 
sprinter at this level, you have to 
have the ability to go 100 percent,” 
he said. “You have to be comfortable 
being uncomfortable, and not every-
one has the capability to do that.”
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgFlorida gears up for matchup on the road against Mississippi
UF ready to face FSU in annual Sunshine Showdown on FridaySamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Middle blocker Lauren Dooley leads the team in blocks/set at 1.2. 
INSIDE
Florida’s receiving corps is its deepest unit on the field, and the unselfish        
   play of the pass-catchers has set up much of the team’s success.
ONLINE
Follow @alligatorSports on Twitter for live updates from Saturday’s                                           
   game as the Gators take on the Commodores.
WEAPONIZED 
WIDEOUTSWEAPONIZED 
WIDEOUTS
UF’s depth at receiver helped revolutionize its offense.By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Before every game, Freddie 
Swain and Josh Hammond trot out 
to the 50-yard line, ﬂ  anking David 
Reese II for the coin toss. After the 
coin has been ﬂ  ipped, possession 
decided and hands shaken, either 
Swain or Hammond will take a spot 
on the sideline.
Not what you’d expect from a se-
nior captain — taking a spot on the 
bench to start. But it just shows what 
Hammond and Swain both know: 
Start or not, they’ll still get theirs. 
And if not this game, then the next.
Hammond said that he and Swain 
have an understanding with wide re-
ceiver coach Billy Gonzalez that they 
switch up who starts each game.
“Me and Freddie didn’t re-
ally care, so we were like we’ll just 
switch it every week and just roll 
with that,” he said.
And so they did.
“It’s kind of funny, the two guys 
that play the same position are two 
team captains, Freddie and Josh,” 
coach Dan Mullen said. “They play 
the exact same (position). One ques-
tion I can’t answer for you is how 
many games either one of them have 
started this year.
“It just shows their character and 
their leadership and shows their 
understanding of what’s important 
within the team and what they need 
to do to help the team win.”
That character and leadership 
that Mullen lauded at the top of the 
Gators’ deep group of pass catchers 
permeates throughout the receiver 
room.
“I think it starts from coach Mul-
len kind of just sitting all of us down 
and being honest with us, ‘There’s 
one ball and all you guys are great 
talent,’” Hammond said.
“There’s only so much he can do 
to try to get the ball to everybody 
within the game plan. So he kinda 
let us know things might not go our 
way every game, things might not 
sway your way every game. But 
when it does, be ready to make the 
play when your number is called.”
To his point, UF has had a dif-
ferent leading receiver in six of nine 
games this season.
“This is probably the most unself-
ish group of guys I’ve been around 
my entire life,” Hammond said.
Besides Hammond and Swain, 
the receiving corps is headlined 
by Van Jefferson, Tyrie Cleveland, 
Trevon Grimes, Kadarius Toney and 
Jacob Copeland. Honorable mention 
goes to Kyle Pitts, who plays tight 
end but worked with the receivers 
last year and now leads the team in 
receptions and receiving yards.
Everyone has their thing. Ham-
mond, sure hands. Toney and Cope-
land, lightning speed. Cleveland, a 
history of big time catches. Grimes, 
the height to go up and grab jump 
balls. Jefferson, expert route run-
ning. And Swain exhibits the speed 
he shows in bursts on his kick re-
turns and on his routes.
Grimes has said that some of the receivers compare themselves to 
cars based on their playstyle.
After a big catch and run against 
Auburn, he earned the Brinks truck 
moniker.
“An armored truck. That’s what I 
call myself. So after the yards for the 
catch, I ran over to the sideline and 
Freddie was like, ‘You’re starting to 
look like a Brinks truck.’”
“(If) there’s a route where Van 
or Tyrie or somebody runs a slow 
route, we’ll say, ‘You’re like a school 
bus,’ or something. But if they run a 
fast route, it’ll be like, ‘Yeah, that’s a 
Lamborghini.’”
The big play ability — the Lam-
borghini-type plays — is certainly 
there with this group.
Florida is one of six FBS teams 
with seven plays of 60-plus scrim-
mage yards, ﬁ  ve of which have been 
made by receivers. Hammond has 
two by himself: one a 65-yard catch 
against Miami and the other a 76-
yard touchdown run at Kentucky. 
Swain showcased his speed on the 
second play from scrimmage against 
Auburn on a 64-yard touchdown 
catch. He started that game, for what 
it’s worth.
Jefferson had a 69-yard score on a 
deep pass against UT Martin. Toney 
had an early 66-yard touchdown 
grab against Miami, all of which 
were yards after catch. Grimes said 
Toney was like a Bugatti on that 
play.
“Strong, fast, powerful,” he said.But the big plays aren’t always 
long touchdowns. Jefferson, for in-
stance, had a huge block for Swain 
that allowed him to score that early 
touchdown.
“I got a great block from Van that 
allowed me to turn up and kind of 
score with it, so I give credit to Van,” 
Swain said.
And against Miami, Jefferson re-
covered a muffed punt.
It’s no small task what quarter-
back Kyle Trask has been able to 
do this season. He stepped into the 
starting quarterback job seamlessly 
and improved on Feleipe Franks’ 
campaign from a season ago — 
which at the time was the best sea-
son by a Gators quarterback since 
Tim Tebow.
All the praise in the world goes to 
Trask for embodying the next man 
up mentality.
But that transition isn’t possible 
without the deep, diverse and talent-
ed wide receiver room that Florida 
returned.
“We have great receivers, a 
whole bunch of senior receivers,” 
center Nick Buchanan said. “Not to 
say we didn’t have them last year, 
but last year we had a whole crew 
of running backs. Last year we had 
Feleipe playing quarterback and 
more of a runner, adds to the run-
ning game.
“Kyle’s not the athlete that he 
(Franks) is, but Kyle can sling the 
rock around. You just change at-tributes. You just play to your 
strengths more than just trying to do 
something you may not be good at.”
Florida’s strength this season is 
passing and it has leaned on it more 
than in recent years.
The Gators are one of four teams 
in the FBS with four pass catchers 
with 300 yards, 20 catches and two 
touchdowns. Pitts, Swain, Jefferson 
and Grimes are the group that meet 
those marks.
Just looking at each of their stats 
— other than Pitts’ numbers, which 
are among the best in the country for 
a tight end — they’re not particularly 
gaudy.
“They all want the ball, but they 
don’t all talk about it,” coach Dan 
Mullen said. “They’re all just as hap-
py for the next guy to be in there.”
Five receivers have 20 or more 
catches, and 10 different pass catch-
ers have scored a touchdown. Swain 
leads the team with ﬁ  ve receiving 
scores, followed by Jefferson and 
Pitts who both have four each.
“I would like to say he’s not stin-
gy, you know what I mean,” Grimes 
said of Mullen. “He moves the ball 
around.”
Copeland, who missed his en-
tire freshman season with an injury, 
burst onto the scene against South 
Carolina. After a few drops and not 
seeing an uptick in usage after Toney 
was out for several weeks, Copeland 
went for three catches, 89 yards and 
a score against the Gamecocks.He said his teammates — and 
competitors for targets — encour-
aged him when he was down.
“The receivers, like Freddie 
Swain, Van Jefferson, Josh Ham-
mond, Tyrie Cleve(land), Trevon 
Grimes,” he said. “They all kept 
me motivated because I kept deal-
ing with injuries. They just told me 
to stay focused and it’s all going to 
play out.”
“Knowing I got people behind my 
back, knowing I got seniors ahead 
of me, and knowing that they want 
their touches too because they want 
to get out of here and make some-
thing big happen in life, just know-
ing they’ve got my back, that’s love.”
The camaraderie they developed 
off the ﬁ  eld and unselﬁ  shness on it 
developed the tight-knit, successful 
unit that’s been key in Florida’s of-
fensive shift this season.
“We’re really close, we’re like 
brothers,” Hammond said. “We 
spend a lot of time together off the 
ﬁ  eld. We spent a lot of time this off-
season working, trying to be the best 
that we can and you know, we’re 
just a really unselﬁ  sh group and I’m 
happy to be a part of the group of 
guys we have.” 
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgKICK OFF
Editor Tyler Nettuno   Photo for Cover Illustration Chris King
Alligator, Friday, November 8, 2019
Unselﬁ  sh play characterizes UF’s talented receiving corps
Chris King / Alligator Staff
