We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
County commission repeals plastic ban 
The city will discuss a similar ordinance Thursday , pg 4
A woman's wild ride in a patrol car
She's accused of stealing the car and starting a chase, pg 5Young players will contribute in 
UF-UK game
Fans will see fresh faces on Saturday due to in-
juries, pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 9
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
By Tyler Nettuno
Alligator Staff Writer
Former Florida and Oakland 
Raiders linebacker Neiron Ball died 
after a lengthy battle with a brain 
illness early Monday morning.
Ball played at UF under former 
coaches Urban Meyer and Will 
Muschamp from 2010 to 2014. 
He missed the entire 2011 season 
when he underwent surgery for ar-
teriovenous malformation, which 
can cause blood vessels in the 
brain to rupture. The exact cause 
of death is unclear.
His sister, Natalie Ball Myricks, 
announced Ball’s death on Face-
book Tuesday.
“Neiron was a very special and 
loving father, brother and team-
mate,” she said. “Neiron has tran-
sitioned to a place of peace.”
After his recovery, he returned 
to the team, starting 16 games over 
his ﬁ  nal three seasons before being 
drafted by the Raiders in the ﬁ  fth 
round of the 2015 NFL Draft. He 
had nine tackles and a sack in his only professional 
season.
Ball’s condi-
tion worsened 
last September, 
when he suffered 
a brain aneurysm 
that paralyzed all 
four limbs and 
left him in a medically induced 
coma.
According to a GoFundMe page 
created by his family on July 23, 
Ball was “ﬁ  ghting for his life.” 
Since then, the page has raised 
more than $130,000 as of Tues-
day evening, shattering its goal of 
$100,000. More than 2,300 people 
contributed to the page.
Former Gators teammate and 
current Raider offensive tackle, 
Trent Brown, reacted on Twitter to 
the news of Ball’s death.
“Some tears you just don’t be 
prepared for…” Brown posted.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgFormer Gators linebacker 
Neiron Ball dies at 27
BALL SUFFERED FROM A CONGENITAL BRAIN DISEASE. 
By Hope Dean and Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writers
Gov. Ron DeSantis entered a small room packed 
with faculty and media Monday in UF’s Emerson 
Alumni Hall to give a ‘major announcement’: UF is 
now the seventh best public university in the U.S.
The distinction comes from U.S. News and 
World Report, which released its 35th annual col-
lege rankings list for 2020. UF tied with the Univer-
sity of California, Santa Barbara for seventh place 
and moved to 34th on the national ranking of pub-
lic and private universities, up from 35th place in 
the 2019 rankings. 
UF ﬁ  rst entered the Top 10 list in the 2018 
rankings when it tied for ninth place with the Uni-
versity of California, Irvine and the University of 
California, San Diego. It reached the list again in 
the 2019 rankings when it tied with the Georgia 
Institute of Technology for eighth place. 
The rankings were based off of graduation and retention rates, class size, faculty pay, student per-
formance, expert opinion and more, according to 
U.S. News.
DeSantis said this progress not only helps stu-
dents, but also helps the entire state grow econom-
ically. 
“People don’t necessarily realize that our entire 
state university system is ranked number one by 
U.S. News as well. They don’t necessarily know 
that the University of Florida is going to be knock-
ing on the top ﬁ  ve soon,” DeSantis said. “I think 
when people know that, they’re like, ‘Man, we’re 
going to have a lot of talent down in Florida. This 
is a great place to invest.’” 
UF President Kent Fuchs said the new distinc-
tion can increase faculty and student recruitment 
from across the nation, provide new opportunities 
for university-sponsored philanthropy and prove 
that increased funding from the  Florida’s state leg-
islature has paid off. Gov. Ron DeSantis announces UF’s 
rise to No. 7 public university in U.S.
UF was ranked eighth last year 
SEE NO. 7,  PAGE 4THE STUDENT DOES NOT 
WISH TO RELEASE FURTHER 
DETAILS TO POLICE
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student living in Jennings 
Hall told UF Campus Security Au-
thority she was sexually battered less 
than a month ago, according to Uni-
versity Police.
The student reported the incident 
to the security authority and said 
she did not want to disclose further 
details or tell any UF ofﬁ  cial or law 
enforcement ofﬁ  cer the perpetrator’s 
name, according to a UPD release 
sent to students Tuesday evening. 
She said she used to be in a “per-
sonal relationship” with the perpetra-
tor, according to the release.
The reported rape came about 
two weeks after former UF Weaver 
Hall Resident Assistant Ian Milaski, a 21-year-old economics senior, was ar-
rested and charged with battery and 
false imprisonment. A female student 
accused him of repeatedly asking for 
sex, trying to “ﬁ  nger her” against her 
will and coming into her dorm room 
while she was asleep. 
Milaski was released on his own 
recognizance from the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail Friday after his $125,000 bond 
was reduced. A judge granted the 
motion that wrote he was a “high-
achieving” student with ﬁ  nancial 
troubles.
The alert sent by UPD included 
tips to avoid sexual assault or bat-
tery, such as not walking alone, being 
aware of one’s surroundings, staying 
in well-lit areas when walking and 
to walk in the opposite direction of a 
vehicle if it seems to be following an 
individual.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUPD: UF student reported 
she was raped in Jennings
18 YEARS LATER
Samantha Harrison/Alligator Staff
Gator fans hold up an American flag with a sign that reads “Remember 09/11/2001” Saturday 
during the football game against UT Martin. Read our Q&A with a UF journalism professor 
who reported on the Sept. 11 terror attacks while in New York City on page 5.
Ball
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
HIGH  90° LOW  71°
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT'S HAPPENING
Correction: The proper title of 
UF's fine arts college should read 
the "College of the Arts." The 
Alligator previously reported dif-
ferently.
Science on Tap at First Magni-
tude
When: Today, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Company
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History and the Univer-
sity of Florida’s Thompson Earth 
Systems Institute will host “Sci-
ence on Tap: Hurricanes” as part 
of the series “Is Florida Trying to 
Kill Me?” The series will involve 
conversations about different 
natural disasters or accidents that 
frequently occur in Florida. For 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/sot-
hurricanes or call 352-273-2062.
Florida Museum hosts Viva 
Museum
When: Sept. 14, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History
What: The Florida Museum 
is celebrating Latin American 
cultures by showing Peruvian, 
Venezuelan, Mexican and Cuban 
artifacts from the museum’s eth-
nographic collection in celebra-
tion of the 250th anniversary of 
renowned scientist Alexander 
von Humboldt’s birth. This is a 
bilingual, family event. Este es 
un evento biligüe y familiar. For 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/vi-
va-museum or call 352-273-2061.
The Fifth Annual Smithsonian 
Magazine Museum Day
When: Sept. 21, 7 p.m. 
Where: Matheson History Mu-
seum, 1867 Matheson House
What:  The Matheson Museum of 
History is celebrating its 15th an-
nual Smithsonian Magazine Mu-seum Day. This year’s theme is 
“Year of Music” and the museum 
will celebrate journalist and au-
thor Bill DeYoung. His latest book 
“I Need to Know: The Lost Music 
Interviews” includes 23 revealing 
conversations with music artists 
including Tom Petty, The Beatles 
producer Sir George Martin, Bo 
Diddley and others. A book sign-
ing will follow his presentation.
Sugar Mama’s Pop Up Restau-
rant
When: Sept. 21, 6 to 10 p.m.
Where: I-75 Gainesville 
What: Southern food caterer and 
pop-up restaurant Sugar Mama’s 
Foods is making an appearance 
in Gainesville. The restaurant, 
which focuses on family gather-
ings, will pop up in Gainesville 
near the end of the month. The 
menu features southern staples 
like fried chicken and sweet 
potato pie. 
Engaging the World Through 
the Fulbright Program with Dr. 
Christopher Silver
When: Sept. 24, 3 p.m.
Where: 140 Rinker Hall
What: The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee is hosting a lecture by 
Christopher Silver, Ph.D., FAICP. 
Silver, a professor of urban and 
regional planning and former 
dean of the UF College of De-
sign. Light refreshments will be 
served after the lecture. For more 
information, please contact Claire 
Anumba at canumba@ufic.ufl.
edu.
Fall Student Government
Elections
When: Sept. 24 and 25, 8:30 a.m. 
to 8:30 p.m.
Where: Across UF campus 
What: Absentee ballot requests, 
due by Sept. 11 at 5 p.m., should 
be submitted online at www.
sg.ufl.edu/elections. These elec-
tions will determine the 50 sena-
tors who represent the students 
living on and off campus. Party registration will run Aug. 22 at 
9 a.m. through Aug. 28 at 12 
p.m. at the SG Office in the Reitz 
Union. Qualifying and slating will 
take place in Reitz Union rooms 
3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320 as fol-
lows: Aug. 29, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 
Aug. 30, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and 
Sept. 3, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Boss up: Beauties in Business 
Brunch
When: Sept. 28, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Ballroom
What: Hello Beautiful is hosting 
its annual women’s empower-
ment brunch. The brunch will 
include a panel of five women 
sharing their journeys through life 
and development of their brands 
and businesses. Tickets to register 
are available now at hellobeauti-
fulempo.wixsite.com. 
Hearoes for Hearing Benefit 
Concert
When: Sept. 29, 5 to 8:30 p.m.
Where: High Dive
What: Hearoes for Hearing 
presents its second annual benefit 
concert. The concert proceeds 
will benefit the cochlear implant 
patients at the UF Health Speech 
and Hearing Center. There will 
be raffles donated from local 
business sponsors. Soup to Nuts 
Food Truck will be available for 
purchasing refreshments. Tickets 
will be sold on Ticketfly through 
the High Dive website for $10, 
and can be purchased the day of 
for $15.  
October
Friends of the Library Fall 2019 
book sale
When: Oct. 19 to Oct. 23
Where: Friends of the Library of 
Alachua County, 430 North Main 
Street
What: The Friends of the Library 
is holding its annual Fall book 
sale. The sale will be held Sat-
urday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. and 
Sunday through Wednesday from 
12 p.m. to 6 p.m. The sale will 
include multiple items including  
books, comics, manga, artwork, 
posters, puzzles, DVDs, vinyl re-
cords, sheet music and the Collec-
tor’s Corner, which has a selection 
of first editions.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 9
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
F a c e b o o k .   4 3 6  S E  2 n d  S t .   w - s a t  1 1 - 7 ,  s u n  b r u n c h  1 0 - 3   
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 
pm. Serving Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and 
more. 11am - 9pm. 1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 151 1 NW 
2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat. welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made 
on premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your 
order will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 
39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open everyday 
5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts 
and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. In -
door and Outdoor seating. 
Next to the Hippodrome. 336-
9649 . Introducing the Side Car 
Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. 
Open LateFormer Gov. Rick Scott established the 
Florida Preeminence Program in 2013, which 
grants promising public universities extra 
money from the state to improve their academ-
ics and climb national rankings. 
UF was identiﬁ  ed as a preeminent univer-
sity when the program started, Fuchs said. The 
university now receives about $200 million 
more a year than it did before 2013. 
“We have aspirations for doing even more, 
and that will require an even greater invest-
ment by the state,” Fuchs said. “So we can 
prove that we can deliver it if they’ll make the 
investment.” 
The end goal is to be among the top ﬁ  ve 
public universities in the country, which Fuchs 
hopes to accomplish within the next few years 
— and there’s no doubt in his mind that it will 
happen eventually. 
But it won’t happen all on its own, he said. 
He wants to bring an assortment of im-
provements to the university, including new 
and renovated on-campus dormitories, more 
ﬁ  nancial assistance for students in need, in-
creased salaries for faculty and better land-
scaping across campus. 
“We can rest on our laurels and celebrate 
where we are and just be comfortable,” Fuchs 
said. “Or we can sort of feed the ﬁ  re, and that’s 
what we want to do. Just keep it going.”
One of the largest initiatives is to hire more faculty, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said. 
In 2017, UF planned to hire more than 500 fac-
ulty to improve student-to-professor ratios.  
The university has hired more than half of 
its goal, and is aiming to complete the initiative 
to make the ratio 16-to-1 by the end of 2019.  
“The higher we get on the rankings, the bet-
ter education our students are getting,” Orlan-
do said. “Higher ranking means we can recruit 
even more top quality faculty, even more top 
quality graduate students. So it’s really some-
thing that allows everybody to win.”
@hope_m_dean, @alyssashantelle
hdean@alligator.org, afeliciano@alligator.orgNO. 7,  from pg. 1'W e can't rest on our laurels...'
T op 10 public universities in the U.S.
1 - University of California, Los Angeles
2 - University of California, Berkeley
3 - University of Michigan
4 - University of Virginia
5 - Georgia Institute of T echnology & 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
7 - University of Florida & University of 
California, Santa Barbara 
9 - University of California, Irvine 
10 - University of California, San Diego 
*6 and 8 are not ranked because of the schools 
that tie.Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Gov. Ron DeSantis smiles after he is presented with a UF-themed jersey 
with his name and the number seven. DeSantis came to Gainesville Monday 
morning to announce that the U.S. News and World Report has named UF the 
seventh best public university in the nation, up from eighth last year.
THE MOTION PASSED
 IN LESS THAN
 TWO MINUTES 
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Attempts to eliminate plastic 
countywide were overturned on 
Tuesday. 
The Alachua County Commis-sion unanimously voted to repeal 
the ordinance which bans poly-
styrene containers and single-use 
plastic bags. The motion passed 
in less than two minutes with one 
citizen commenter brieﬂ  y giving 
his support to repeal. 
The lone citizen, who did not 
identify himself, said the commis-
sion showed good insight when 
passing the ordinance.
“But of course the state, which doesn’t believe in us taking care 
of ourselves and exercising our 
own right for home rule, has 
said otherwise,” he said. “I sup-
port your revoking [of] that ordi-
nance.”
The commission originally 
proposed the plastic ban in April, 
trailing the Gainesville city com-
mission by about three months, 
according to Alligator archives. 
Plans to start the ban on Jan. 2, 2020 were derailed after the Third 
District Court of Appeals ruled in 
favor of the Federal Retail Federa-
tion against Coral Gables involv-
ing a similar plastic ban. 
Gainesville City Commission-
er Adrian Hayes-Santos said the 
city and the county don’t have 
to repeal the ordinance, but the 
chances of the boards winning a 
lawsuit decreased after the case. 
“We're looking at ways that we can enact legislation here at 
the local level, but we also need 
to focus on statewide and making 
changes to the state legislature," 
Hayes-Santos said.
The fate of the city’s repeal will 
be decided at the second reading 
of the ordinance at Thursday’s 
city commission meeting, he said.  
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgCounty commission unanimously repeals plastic ban JOURNALISM PROFESSOR 
HERBERT LOWE SHARES 
HIS EXPERIENCE
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer 
On the morning of Sept. 11, 
2001, Herbert Lowe was covering 
the primary election as the south-
east Queens reporter for Newsweek. 
Lowe, a native of Camden, New 
Jersey, realized it wasn’t a normal 
day on the job when his editor told 
him to turn on the TV. 
He watched a plane fly into the 
World Trade Center.
The Alligator spoke with Lowe, a 
UF College of Journalism and Com-
munications professor, about his 
experience covering the terrorist at-
tacks 18 years ago on Ground Zero 
and how that morning changed 
American life for years to come. 
The Alligator reporter is repre-
sented in bold text.
Were you even remotely pre-
pared at all to see what you saw?
I stopped to vote, so I wasn’t in 
that much of a hurry. Honestly, it 
wasn’t until I came up the subway and that man said, ‘Run run run,’ 
and I didn’t know why everyone 
was running... It wasn’t until I came 
up from the subway I realized this 
wasn’t a day like any other. 
You kind of stopped, and one of 
the first thoughts that you had was 
that you were going to die.
I didn’t know what was going 
on. I was thinking that this was 
Pearl Harbor and people were fly-
ing by and shooting down at the 
ground, and I didn’t know where to 
go... I felt like I was a sitting duck.
Being 18 years ago, is every-
thing a bit fuzzy or do you re-
member anything vividly?
I remember the man running to-
wards us. I remember people being 
caked with ash. I remember being 
outside that cigar shop and people 
smoking cigars while I first get a 
look of the video of the Trade Cen-
ter falling, and then turning around 
and looking at a man crying because 
he knew his brother had died in the 
tower. I remember a lady hollering 
at me because I didn’t have a mask 
on… That mask and shoes are still 
in my office. 
Do you think the American 
public went through a kind of 
paranoia?I wouldn’t call it a paranoia… 
Heightened awareness is what I 
would call it. I had come to believe 
that my generation had really not 
experienced anything. 
The generation before me, peo-
ple who are old enough to be my 
parents, they endured the ‘60s... 
Those ‘remember where you were’ 
moments...
I’m going to ask you. I mean, I 
guess Parkland for you, right? Like, 
you remember where you were.
Yeah.
I have 27 students in the class, 
only 25 of those 27 are from the 
state of Florida. They knew every 
detail of what was going on…. 
I was doing my job that day, and 
my assignment that day became the 
most memorable assignment that I 
would ever cover.
As a professor, has this pro-
found experience affected your 
day-to-day life, the way you 
teach students or the little things 
that you do? 
In 18 years that its gone by, I’ve 
had a lot, a lot, a lot to be thank-
ful for in terms of the experiences 
I’ve had, and I know there are 3,000 
people who can’t say that… 
Every day there’s at least one thing that causes us to be blessed 
or understand how blessed we are 
to have the next day come, because 
you never know. A plane can come 
through the building you’re stand-
ing in. This Q&A was edited for clarity 
and brevity. Listen to the full inter-
view on alligator.org.
@aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
Smoking Causes 
Immediate 
Damage 
to Your Body. 
You Can Quit. 
For Free Help Call
1-800-QUIT-NOW
 1-800-QUIT-NOW. 
www.cdc.gov/tips
#CDCTips
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF professor Herbert Lowe ran for his life on the streets of Manhattan 
the morning of Sept. 11, 2001. The shoes he wore that day are still 
covered in soot and dust from the collapse of the World Trade Center. 
SHE HAS A $95,000 BOND 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Handcuffs and a probation violation 
didn’t stop a Gainesville woman from steal-
ing a patrol car and getting in a car chase 
with three law enforcement agencies on 
State Road 121.
On Monday evening, 30-year-old Mary 
Fritz was arrested at the High Springs Police Department for stalking and harassment, 
according to an arrest report. While in the 
back of a patrol car, Fritz slipped her hands 
from behind her back, climbed through the 
vehicle’s partition and sped off.
The dashcam footage is not available for 
release because it is evidence, said Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office spokesperson Art For-
gey.
According to authorities, Fritz was send-
ing threatening text messages to and follow-
ing the stalking victim, who drove to the 
High Springs Police Department. Police ar-rested Fritz for violating a condition of her 
probation, no violent contact with the vic-
tim. 
Following her escape, the Gainesville 
Police Department, High Springs police and 
ACSO deployed cars with activated emergen-
cy lights and sirens as Fritz was tracked via 
onboard GPS, according to the arrest report. 
The chase ended when authorities did a pre-
cision immobilization technique maneuver, 
halting the stolen vehicle.
Authorities said they used a stun gun on 
Fritz after she refused to exit the vehicle and did not comply with commands to lie down 
on the ground. 
Fritz remains in the Alachua County Jail 
on a $95,000 bond on charges of fleeing with 
disregard to safety, resisting an officer with-
out violence, grand theft auto and damage to 
property, according to county records. She 
also remains with no bond for her violation 
of probation.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgWoman accused of stealing patrol car, starting chase 
Q&A with UF professor 18 years after reporting on 9/11EditorialWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsWhen “self-care” 
is unhealthy
Self-care culture. In 2019, you’re 
bound to see these three words 
everywhere. Ad campaigns, social 
media, self-help books; our gen-
eration is obsessed with promoting 
this idea. Self-care is “the actions and atti-
tudes which contribute to the maintenance 
of well-being and personal health and promote human 
development,” according to Wellbeing.com. People are 
encouraged to get massages, go on shopping sprees and 
take bubble baths while wearing face masks. In the 
words of Donna and Tom from Parks and Recreation, 
“Treat yourself!”
However, the notion of constantly treating yourself 
to promote personal well-being is unrealistic and harm-
ful to the modern consumer. Self-care culture promotes 
an unhealthy ideal of constantly spending money or 
time in order to attain happiness. While it is obviously 
crucial to maintain physical and mental well-being, the 
standards to do so are becoming unattainable. For ex-
ample, one author suggests doing a workout boot camp 
at 6 a.m. While this could improve one’s physical and 
mental health, the average American cannot afford to 
get up that early. People may work ridiculous hours or 
have a family that depends on them. Someone working 
three jobs while raising a family probably does not have 
time to read a book or go outside. The average person’s 
survival demands an utter lack of self-care.
In an article published in the New York Times in 
2018, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Natalie Kitroeff fo-
cused on the burden women carry in the workplace. They told the story of a Verizon warehouse in Ten-
nessee that refuses to give their pregnant employees 
time off, despite the job’s physical rigor. Women who 
work in this warehouse told haunting tales of how their 
requests for light duty or time off due to 
pregnancy were denied, resulting in miscar-
riages. Pregnant women were forced to con-
tinue to lift heavy boxes in the sweltering 
heat for no less than eight hours. What this 
confirms is that in modern society, produc-
tivity is valued more than human life.
Modern, late-capitalist era society de-
mands work weeks of over 40 hours with 
constant productivity. Many people do not 
feel as though they can “treat themselves” 
until they have reached a certain level of productivity, 
and if they feel as though they have not done enough, 
it is nearly impossible to relax. Taking a bubble bath 
when you have a looming deadline is actually quite 
stressful. Relaxing is viewed as a form of unproductiv-
ity, creating a vicious cycle in which it is difficult to 
enjoy free time. Our society measures success on our 
level of productivity rather than our happiness and ful-
fillment. In order to truly promote self-care, this must 
end. Our values need to radically change before we can 
begin to care for ourselves properly. 
Self-care culture, which is a product of the capitalist 
society that literally kills people, is flawed. How can we 
attain a level of relaxation and self-care when the corpo-
rations selling us this idea demand our constant produc-
tivity? Our careers demand inhumane work hours and 
constant success. In order to promote genuine self-care, 
we need to remodel our society entirely. You should be 
able to take time off for pregnancy, or mental health, 
without feeling guilty. Our happiness should not de-
pend on how productive we are, but by measured by 
our own standards. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English junior. Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.It’s great to be No. 7, 
but there’s more 
to be done
By now, you’ve heard the big news. Gov. Ron DeSantis 
even made a trip to UF to make the announcement. 
UF is now ranked seventh by U.S. News and World 
Report in its list of best public universities, moving up 
from its previously held spot at No. 8. However, as UF 
climbs the rankings of public universities, we want to remind 
students and faculty that this status is not the be-all and end-all of 
success, and the drive to continue to rise in rank shouldn’t mean 
compromising mental health. 
While holding the “Top 10” title has a nice ring to it (and “Top 
5” might make UF officials salivate), it still is just that: a title. 
This goal should not take priority over the well-being of students, 
faculty or Gainesville community members. High university rank-
ings come with tangible benefits that are worth more than brag-
ging rights over Florida State University. A little competition can 
help the UF community succeed in the future. DeSantis said dur-
ing his speech at Emerson Hall on Monday that UF improving in 
ranking will bring business and an economic boom to the entire 
state of Florida. UF President Kent Fuchs said the distinction can 
increase faculty and student recruitment, provide new opportu-
nities for university-sponsored philanthropy and prove that in-
creased funding from the Florida’s state legislature has paid off. 
But this focus becomes unhealthy when the goal turns into an 
obsession. Rather than focusing on bettering the lives of students, 
faculty and the community, the title seems to have become UF’s 
primary motivation, which leaves other pressing issues like diver-
sity, equality, racial inequities, mental health and student safety 
on the backburner.
During National Suicide Prevention Month, it’s important for 
us to make sure that striving for Top 5 doesn’t mean jeopardiz-
ing mental health. While the university steps up in rank, mental 
health concerns increase as students and faculty feel the pressure 
associated with rising to the top. According to an Alligator article 
from Spring, more students are seeking mental health help from 
the Counseling and Wellness Center, which is partially attributed 
to an increase in more high-achieving students coming to UF. 
This doesn’t include the pressure put on faculty, new and old, to 
contribute to the rise in rank. 
It’s always nice to see improvement, but at what cost?
Even if there weren’t a link between striving for Top 5 and 
strained mental health, UF should still prioritize access and 
awareness to mental health resources. 
In June, Huixiang Chen, an international doctoral student in 
the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, died by 
suicide, noting academic pressures. An investigation linked to his 
academic advisor was later opened. His death, along with several 
others this year, was a horrible loss to the UF community. 
Don’t get us wrong, UF’s No. 7 status is a big deal. In fact, it’s 
such a big deal, we put it on the front page of the newspaper! 
But even with all of UF’s achievements and accolades, students 
should be put first. Yes, that means putting their mental health 
first. That means taking sexual assault reports seriously. That 
means listening to the concerns of students of color. And also — 
while we’re at it — why can’t we figure out parking?
When you love something, you want the best for it. We want 
the best for UF and its students.
If you are in crisis, please call the National Suicide Prevention 
Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255) or contact the Crisis Text Line 
by texting TALK to 741741.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITOR
Hannah Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Gators women’s golf falls short
Despite a strong effort, the team placed third in 
their season opener, pg 12THE INDIE-POP BAND 
WAS REVEALED AS 
SWAMP’S NEWEST ARTIST 
IN AUGUST
By Morgan Goldwich
Alligator Staff Writer
The new ﬂ  agship band of Gaines-
ville’s student-run music label 
Swamp Records is joining the ranks 
of prominent artists in the local mu-
sic scene such as The Forum and 
The Savants of Soul.
Driveaway received an offer in 
early May to sign with Swamp Re-
cords and put out “Comparisons,” 
its ﬁ  rst single under the label, on 
Friday. 
The indie-pop four piece is com-
prised of Gainesville natives: drum-
mer Andrew Mankin; brothers Tren-
ton and Tanner Ropp, who are lead 
vocalist and bassist respectively; and 
guitarist Kyle Tapley.
The band’s current lineup has 
been together since early 2018, after 
two previous members left to pursue 
medical degrees. 
Driveaway is taking the place of 
popular local band ﬂ  ipturn at the 
label. Swamp Records worked with 
the indie/alternative-rock group 
from 2017 through this past spring, 
before ﬂ  ipturn embarked on a na-tionwide tour.
The label operates as a spring-
board for local artists to reach larger 
audiences by providing help with the 
business aspect of the industry, such 
as a social media presence, public re-
lations and advertising. 
President of Swamp Records La-
ityn Russell, said she and Vice Presi-
dent Alyssa Stark ﬁ  rst took notice of 
Driveaway in October. 
Stark, a 21-year-old UF marketing 
senior, said the band’s emotion and 
energy captivated her – so much so 
she cried when watching the perfor-
mance, despite never having seen it 
before.
“We kept an eye on what they 
were doing after that,” Russell, a 
21-year-old UF telecommunications 
major, said.
Although they were was signed 
in May, Driveaway wasn’t disclosed 
as Swamp Records’ new artist until 
the label’s Back to School Artist Re-
veal Show on Aug. 30 at DOJO.
“[The Artist Reveal Show] was 
basically a house party,” Tanner, a 
20-year-old UF computer science ju-
nior, said. “It was a little, tiny room. 
Our setup is kind of big, because of 
all the synthesizers and the comput-
ers and stuff we have—most of the 
room was us.”
There were about 100 people at 
the show, including 21-year-old UF advertising junior Sarah Ragsdale. 
Although she had heard Driveaway’s 
music before, she said she had never 
seen the band perform live.
“Their energy was high the whole 
time, which kept the whole show re-
ally fun and engaging,” Ragsdale 
said. “They got particularly into it 
when they were playing their new 
single, ‘Comparisons.’ It hadn’t 
been released yet, so being able to 
see them perform it live was pretty 
special.”
Driveaway said they enjoyed be-
ing able to crack into Swamp Re-
cords’ already established audience. 
“A lot of people had no idea who 
we were, which was kind of cool,” 
Trenton, a 22-year-old UF digital arts 
and sciences senior, said. 
“We were just making a ﬁ  rst im-
pression on a bunch of people at the 
same time,” Tanner added.
“Comparisons” was released a 
week after the Artist Reveal Show.
The song had been in the works 
since early 2017, when Tanner said 
he typed the lyrics in his phone. It 
remained untouched for a year, until 
he instrumentalized it with Trenton 
and Mankin in 2018.
The group said “Comparisons” is 
more upbeat than the music it is cur-
rently working on.
“It’s sarcastic and sad, but the in-
strumentation is very happy,” Tan-ner said. “A 
lot of stuff that 
we’re writ-
ing now, the 
instrumenta-
tion is kind of 
dark.”
Driveaway 
said their 
hopes for their 
new chapter 
with Swamp 
Records in-
clude playing 
every big city 
in Florida and 
releasing an 
EP.
“We want 
[the EP] to be a 
collection that 
tells a story, 
that has a ﬂ  ow 
that changes 
around instead of being a fun, one-
off single,” Tanner said.
Driveaway will be playing at the 
Iberian Rooster in St. Petersburg 
on Saturday. Their next Gainesville 
show will be Oct. 19 at Hardback 
Cafe.
Because of the digitalization of 
the music industry, Swamp Records 
President Russell said the best way 
to support local artists is by stream-
ing their music and following their social media.
“Presaving songs and adding 
them to playlists a lot of people fol-
low is one of the biggest ways a band 
can gain exposure,” she said.
“Comparisons” can be streamed 
through the band’s Spotify.
mgoldwich@alligator.org
@morgangoldwich
UF has the chance to rebound
What the Gator soccer team has to do to bounce back from 
their four game losing streak, pg 11
LOCAL ARTIST KATY 
DEITZ IS SET TO 
RELEASE “TEMPORARY 
CLOUDS, ” FEATURING  
FOUR TRACKS OF 
UNIQUE SOUND AND 
UNFEIGNED EMOTION.
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
Katy Deitz didn’t intend to 
make music; she “fell into it.”
A full-time employee at Trader 
Joe’s, Deitz had little experience 
singing and producing her own 
music. This changed nearly four 
years ago, when a coworker invit-
ed Deitz to play music with him. 
Though the band they formed 
eventually went separate ways, 
Deitz continued solo with her 
music career, writing her own 
music and playing shows in the 
Gainesville area. Now she is plan-
ning to release her ﬁ  rst EP later this month.
The EP, titled “Temporary 
Clouds” consists of four tracks. 
Deitz, who wrote the music, col-
laborated with her friend and fel-
low Gainesville musician Robert 
Edmondson, to mix guitar, vocals 
and add the instrumentation that 
brings the EP together.
The EP features a predomi-
nantly somber, pensive tone and 
explores a period of emotional 
hardship in Deitz’s life. 
The titular track “Tempoary 
Clouds” was written after Deitz 
recognized that adversity can be 
like a cloud hanging over your 
head: devastating, but short-lived. 
Deitz wrote the song as a re-
minder that this kind of hardship 
will not last forever. 
“Eventually it will go and ﬂ  oat 
to another group of people,” Deitz 
said, “which is also unfortunate, 
but that’s kind of how life is.”
Deitz considers many of the 
songs personal. In “My Past Roll-ing Down,” Deitz describes the 
way that she has always acted as 
a person, constantly struggling to 
push herself to overcome obsta-
cles of the past.
Raised outside of Tulsa, Okla-
homa, in a home where her moth-
er was often sick, she internalized 
many of her emotions. This often 
left her feeling isolated from those 
she depended on most. 
It was this experience growing 
up that turned Deitz toward poet-
ry and music, and inspired her to 
share her work with others. 
“I think that’s what’s so pow-
erful about music,” Deitz said, 
“It creates a community, it cre-
ates a family through a fanbase… 
[Even] if you’re not feeling like 
you have someone to turn to, it 
doesn’t mean that those people 
don’t exist.”
One song that Deitz gravitates 
towards is “Bristle Cone Trees.” 
While the other three tracks are 
melancholic in sound, “Bristle Cone Trees” is lighter and roman-
tic.
“It’s talking about having a 
connection with someone,” De-
itz said. “It might be hard some-
times, but ultimately you just 
want to stay close to that person; 
you want your roots, your founda-
tions, to stay together.”
Deitz said music taught her 
that you don’t have to be an ex-
troverted person to share parts 
of oneself with others, and she 
hopes to share that with others 
who might be looking for the 
same outlet.
“Music teaches us truths about 
ourselves,” Deitz said. “I think 
everybody that has an interest in 
music should do it, even if it’s just 
for themselves in their bedroom, 
because that’s where I started 
out.”
@marcar313
marlenacarrillo@uﬂ  .eduGainesville musician compares 
hardship to clouds with first EP release
MUSIC
Courtesy of Howard Lin.
Driveaway performs at House of Blues Orlando 
on Aug. 23. 
Photo Courtesy of Pulp Arts
Deitz performs at Heartwood Soundstage, a 
music venue in Gainesville. Performing here 
was one of Deitz’s biggest goals as a local 
musician.
Driveaway releases ﬁ  rst song under Swamp Records
MUSIC8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
Saturday , September 14th
10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P .M.
$10 per person -  2 and Under free 
Conservation Foundation
Food tr ucks: PDQ , Cilan tro Taco and others
8528 E County Road 225, Gainesville, Florida 32609
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org   Facebook@CarsonSpringsWildlife
Funded in par t by Visit G ainesville , Alachua C oun ty100% of proceeds goes to animal care
Courtousy of Michael A. Eaddy
Actor Kyle Brumley (left) performs 
an emotional scene with fellow cast 
member Clint Thornton (right). The two 
portray Christopher and Christopher’s 
father, Ed, respectively.
“THE CURIOUS INCIDENT OF 
THE DOG IN THE NIGHT-TIME” 
WILL RUN THROUGH SEPT.22
Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
The Hippodrome Theatre and the UF 
School of Theatre and Dance are partner-
ing to present “The Curious Incident of the 
Dog in the Night-Time,” a former Broadway 
show and recipient of ﬁ  ve Tony Awards.
The Hippodrome will be putting on the 
show throughout the month until Sept. 22. 
Tickets can be purchased on thehipp.org or 
from the Hippodrome box ofﬁ  ce at 352-375-
4477.
The play follows 15-year-old Christopher, 
a boy who possesses an extraordinary mind 
but has difﬁ  culty comprehending the out-
side world.
After being accused of killing the neigh-
bor’s dog, Christopher sets out on a journey 
to ﬁ  nd the guilty party and uncovers secrets 
that will change his life forever. 
The play’s cast features a blend of profes-
sional Hippodrome actors and UF students. A key component of the play is Chris-
topher’s behavior, portrayed by actor Kyle 
Brumley, whose reactions to certain situa-
tions are often associated with Autism Spec-
trum Disorder.
Though the disorder is never labeled as 
such in the play, Ralf Remshardt, the direc-
tor of the show and a professor of theatre 
at UF, ﬁ  nds this variation from neurotypical 
characters important among audiences.
“I think it’s a play that very deeply and 
strongly appeals to our empathy for people 
who have a different set of experiences than 
we do,” said Remshardt.
Brumley’s portrayal of Christopher pres-
ents him as overwhelmingly smart one mo-
ment and simply overwhelmed the next, 
making Christopher both heartbreaking and 
endearing. Christopher is forced to face the 
intricacies of human interaction and the 
daunting experiences of the outside world 
that most consider ordinary.
Gloria Halsell, a UF acting senior, plays 
the role of Siobhan, Christopher’s teacher 
and mentor. 
Halsell, whose brother is diagnosed with 
Asperger syndrome, ﬁ  nds the show offers a 
portrayal of individuals on the autistic spec-trum and those around them that is both re-
freshing and heartening.
“My character and Mrs. Alexander are 
the people who are infatuated with his brain 
and his quirks and don’t try to shut him 
down,” Halsell said. “I think [this] is some-
thing I will take further than the play.... It’s 
fostered a sense of being open, which is re-
ally nice, and I hope that the audience gets 
that too.”
The show, which must navigate the 
back-and-forth of Christopher’s experiences 
and emotions, delicately addresses the expe-
rience of a boy trying desperately to make 
sense of the world.
“Every night I cry,” Halsell said on the 
emotional experiences of Christopher’s char-
acter in the play. 
Centered around a boy that ﬁ  nds the in-
tricacies of right triangles far simpler than 
human nature, “The Curious Incident of 
the Dog in the Night-Time” introduces audi-
ences to a world that many have never seen 
before.
@marcar313
marlenacarrillo@uﬂ  .eduHippodrome and SOTD perform Tony award winning play
THEATER 
THE NETFLIX CRIME 
DRAMA DEVIATES FROM 
ITS PREVIOUS SEASON 
- FOR ALL THE RIGHT 
REASONS.
Cassidy Hopson 
Avenue Staff Writer
Fans waited nearly two years for 
the second installment of “Mind-
hunter,” which arrived on Netﬂ  ix 
last month. 
The series follows two FBI agents, Holden Ford and Bill Tench, 
who interview infamous serial kill-
ers in an attempt to understand why 
they kill.
Season two continues to have 
Ford and Tench interview infamous 
killer, including the Son of Sam, 
Charles Manson and the Atlanta 
Child Killer.
Season two centers on charac-
ters Dr. Wendy Carr and Tench. 
Both characters struggle with per-
sonal issues that have become dif-
ﬁ  cult to separate from their profes-
sional lives.
Tench is struggling to keep his family together after discovering his 
adopted son, Brian, witnessed sev-
eral older boys murder a toddler.
With unannounced drop-ins 
from the social workers and con-
stant traveling for work, Tench 
struggles with stress. The constant 
pressure Tench is under becomes 
a source of conﬂ  ict throughout the 
season. 
In one scene, Tench interviews 
Manson. The normally level-headed 
Tench loses his temper when Man-
son chastises him, causing Tench to 
cut the interview short. 
This season also tackles race 
relations by following the Atlanta 
Child Murders. Black leadership 
and residents in the town were 
conﬁ  dent the KKK was behind the 
killings. However, Ford is adamant from the beginning that the killer 
was a black man based on his psy-
chological proﬁ  le. 
The disagreement over who the 
police should look into ultimately 
slows the investigation. This results 
in a rising murder toll, frustrating 
the police, the community and the 
viewers. 
There is a feeling of bittersweet 
success in the ﬁ  nale when an arrest 
is ﬁ  nally made but the suspect was 
never charged with the child mur-
ders. While the killer was caught, 
it’s still heartbreaking for viewers 
to see the grieving mothers feel they 
have been cheated out of justice.
Overall, season two was a vast 
improvement from season one. The 
team continues to travel around the 
country to interview the most in-famous serial killers, played by ac-
tors with an uncanny resemblance. 
Viewers were also given more 
compelling plotlines surrounding 
key characters, such as Tench and 
Carr’s personal dilemmas, while 
also tackling important social topics 
such as racism and homophobia, 
which were hardly acknowledged 
in season one.
While Mindhunter has not been 
ofﬁ  cially renewed for the third sea-
son, Holt McCallany who plays Bill 
Tench said in a recent interview that 
executive producer David Fincher 
has planned for ﬁ  ve seasons of the 
show.
@CassidyHopson
cassidyhopson@gmail.comMindhunter season 2 
TVSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or in-
vesting money.● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Gainesville Health & Fitness will be holding 
a Hiring Fair on Monday, 
August 26th 9am-12pm and
Tuesday, August 27th 1-5pm at our
GHF Main Location.  Work for one of 
America’s top 25 small businesses.
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
8-27-19-4-14D
SIMEDHealth is looking for a PART TIME 
Patient Greeter for our Gainesville office lo-
cation. The hours for this position would be 
Monday-Friday 8:30am-2:30pm. Must be 
able to lift and/or push 50+ pounds and be 
on their feet for long periods of time.   9-13-
19-7-14D
New epic start up dating app
"Rene Harley” on IOS NOW.
Android next month. Wants  sorority 
member to help promote app to sororities
and fraternities  Offering to give agreed
precent of company to right partner.
Contact. Tony@Rene-Harley.com
9-13-19-5-14D
Seeking a FT Sales Team Member. M & C 
Army Surplus is hiring. Must have consistent 
availability 30-40 hr/wk with 1 weekend day. 
Great local business located 1/2 mile from 
UF on 13th St. Firearm knowledge and sales 
experience a plus. Apply in person to 626 
NW 13 St. No phone Calls.     9-11-19-4-14D
Small law office with network of approx 10 
computers seeking PT tech for troubleshoot -
ing software/hardware, general IT. Flexible 
hours, competitive pay. Send resume to 
resume@rothsteinforjustice.com    9-23-19-
10-14DPART-TIME WIG SALES & OFFICE DUTIES
Monday through Friday, 1pm to 5pm - hours 
are flexible. No evenings or weekends. 
"Especially for Women" Oaks Mall Plaza Call 
for interview 352-332-9095    9-13-19-5-14D
Legal Assistant P/T to F/T - excellent commu-
nication skills, EYE FOR DETAIL, avid reader, 
computer fluency, fitness a plus. 1+ yr com-
mitment. $11.50+/hr. Resume to 626 NE 1st 
Street, 32601 or paulsrothstein@gmail.com    
9-16-19-5-14D
ISO 3 health + wellness brand reps
work from your phone on your own time
all training + resources provided
must be a motivated self-starter
no cap on income - get paid for results
call/text mary @ 954-662-1878
9-16-5-14D
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES hiring for all 
positions in a fast-paced, friendly atmosphere. 
Must have good people skills, multitasking, 
have reliable transp. Day and night time open. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th St     
9-18-19-6-14D
Jill of all trades needed for 80-year-old wom-
an & her pets: walk & feed the dog; take me 
to the store, do housekeeping & have fun. 
Looking for 2-3 weekdays about 9-4 (flex-
ible). Must be cheerful, non-smoker, LOVES 
cats & dogs, no criminal history. 352-281-
8701     9-11-19-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
NEWLY REMODELED
open immediately. Blocks away from Univ 
& shopping. 4BR/1BA unit with study. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657    9-13-19-10-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
Fun fact: The name “Alumni” comes from the Latin 
“Alumnus” which means “foster son.”
SOLUTION ON PG. 10BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
Be part of the Gator fan experience! We 
are looking for game day ambassadors to 
work in a high energy level environment for 
Florida Gator home football games, and pos-
sibly additional events in other sports for fall 
semester.
As Gator Guest Services-Game Day 
Ambassadors, you will be the face of the 
Florida Gators throughout our home athletic 
events. You will be answering fan questions, 
finding solutions to fan problems, and mak-
ing all fans feel both welcome and comfort-
able during athletic events.
Interested applicants please upload a cur-
rent resume along with their application. For 
questions, please call 352-375-4683 ext. 
6032.
MINIMUM EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE 
REQUIREMENTS:
Applicants must be at least 18 years of 
age. Must be available to work home foot-
ball games and possibly additional sport-
ing events throughout the fall. The ability to 
stand for long periods of time is required. 
Applicants must have a flexible work sched-
ule and be able to work nights and week-
ends.
BENEFITS:
This is a part-time position that is compen -
sated at the current minimum wage, $8.46 
per hour.  There are no benefits associated 
with this position.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
Once an official offer is extended, the candi -
date will be required to complete the federal 
Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9. 
The candidate will also be required to pres-
ent acceptable and original documents to 
prove identity and authorization to work in 
the United States. The University Athletic 
Association, Inc. is an at-will employer, a 
separate company from the University of 
Florida and not a state employer.
TO APPLY:
Qualified applicants please go to floridaga -
tors.com/ggs to apply. For individuals with-
out computer access, stop by the University 
Athletic Association, Inc. Human Resources 
offices located on the 4th floor of the west 
side of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
THE UAA IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
EMPLOYER AND IS STRONGLY AND 
ACTIVELY COMMITTED TO DIVERSITY
WE ARE PROUD TO BE A DRUG FREE 
TOBACCO FREE WORKPLACE      9-13-
3-14
Seeking household help for 4 hrs per wk at 
@ $20. per. hr. SW G'ville, must have own 
transportation. Equip & supplies provided. 
Clean home; no kids or pets. Some ironing 
required. Contact: nhoover27@gmail.com    
9-16-19-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
Fun fact: The word “college” comes from the Latin 
“collegium” which means community or society.
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Ketamine therapy for Depression, 
Anxiety, PTSD, and Suicidal Thoughts.
You don't have to suffer. Start feeling bet-
ter today. Call (352) 448-6062 or visit www.
flmindhealth.com.    9-16-19-5-16D
Fun fact: “Alma mater” comes from the Latin meaning 
“nurturing mother.”
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
By Ed Sessa
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/11/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/11/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, September 11, 2019
ACROSS
1 Braying beast
4 “Diamonds & 
Rust” folk singer 
Joan
8 Hop, skip and 
jump
14 Where lowers lie
15 Ready and willing 
partner
16 “Booksmart” 
director Wilde
17 Psychedelic 
decorative light
19 Beaus
20 Savory taste
21 Board game 
gadget
23 University of 
Nevada city
24 Not even a little 
high
27 Set up
29 Chinese “way”
30 Aqua in Aquitaine
31 Whoopi’s Oscar 
role in “Ghost”
34 Palm fruit
35 New York 
waterway
38 Leaning
40 OTC antacid 
brand
41 Possess
42 Notable time 
span
44 EPA mandates, 
taken together
48 Structure 
renamed for a 
president in 1947
52 Arp contemporary
53 Behind
54 Type, as data
55 Develop a liking 
for
57 Simon & 
Garfunkel hit, and 
hint to the starts 
of 17-, 24-, 48- ... 
and 35-Across, 
too!
59 Gobsmacked
60 Story of life after 
death?
61 Quaint “Tsk!”
62 Zealous crusades
63 Letters on 
Broadway-bound 
letters
64 Craze
DOWN
1 Magnetism
2 Ship captains, 
e.g.
3 Eminent scholar4 Lingerie brand
5 Justice league?: 
Abbr.
6 Nightmare loc. 
of film
7 Youngest Marx 
brother
8 Eye part
9 Mets slugger 
Pete who won 
the 2019 Home 
Run Derby
10 Video-sharing 
site
11 Dominate
12 Brazilian vacay 
destination
13 Prof’s helpers
18 Kissy-kissy
22 Doctor in 
training
24 Places for scrubs 
and wraps
25 “Mangia!”
26 Poe’s “The 
Murders in the __ 
Morgue”
28 Do the math
32 “Amadeus” 
subject
33 Actress 
Gasteyer
34 Unscrambling 
device
35 Jewish Festival 
of Lights36 Checkout 
counter unit
37 Shark or Dyson, 
briefly
38 Short cut
39 __ Jima
42 Worked on  
text
43 Repairs, as 
infield grass
45 Fire
46 Pianist de 
Larrocha
47 Signaled slyly49 Gibbons of TV 
talk
50 __ Sanders, only 
athlete to play in 
both the Super 
Bowl and World 
Series
51 Sheikdom of song
54 “Roar” singer 
Perry
55 __ Mahal
56 Mate, across the 
Channel
58 60 secs.
09/09/19
By Roland Huget
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/10/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/10/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 10, 2019
ACROSS
1 For both men 
and women, as a 
school
5 “Now!” letters
9 White vin
14 Jason’s ship
15 Southwest 
tableland
16 Piece between 
steps
17 Smokes, for short
18 Nerve impulse 
carrier
19 In tune
20 One on a dean’s 
list
23 Eclectic musician 
Brian
24 Put mileage on
25 Wood-shaping 
tool
26 __-relief
29 Imperfection 
related to an 
inherited disorder
33 Word after ink or 
knee
34 Small island
35 Horne of jazz
36 Help for a small 
climber
39 Electrical unit
40 Civil War sword
41 “Well, start 
talking”
42 __-Caps
43 Agnus __
44 “The Third Man” 
or “Double 
Indemnity”
48 Service charge
49 “Mr. Blue Sky” 
rock gp.
50 Many times o’er
51 Old horse
54 Parliamentary 
rules violation 
... or what 
each circled-
letter quartet 
represents?
57 MD meeting an 
ambulance
60 Parcel (out)
61 Subtle glow
62 Safari 
heavyweight
63 Composer 
Stravinsky
64 Bearded flower
65 Seth who played 
Wozniak in 
“Steve Jobs”66 Feline feet
67 __-dish pizza
DOWN
1 Hidden supply
2 Mythological 
night-sky hunter
3 Christmas drink
4 “I can only __ 
much”
5 Piled up
6 Hockey team on 
the ice, e.g.
7 Not worth __
8 Way to watch 
bamboo-
munching zoo 
bears
9 Medal metal
10 Dryer fluff
11 Set a price of
12 French word in 
bridal bios
13 Call out
21 Prepare to tackle
22 Whirling current
26 U.K. network, 
with “the”
27 Clearasil target
28 Oater badge 
shape
30 English derby site
31 Blood of the gods
32 Swing willy-nilly36 Broadway hit, in 
slang
37 “__ from 
Muskogee”: 
Merle Haggard 
song
38 Eye rudely
39 Potato chip 
go-with
40 Scuffle
42 Études, typically
43 Feels otherwise
45 Recent rightist46 Like pitches that 
bounce in the dirt
47 Last
52 Cliffside abode
53 Fully comprehend
54 Corn bread
55 Draped Roman 
garment
56 Sudden attack
57 Go wrong
58 Letter after pi
59 Project for an 
archaeologist
SCRABBLE SOLUTION from PG. 916 Health Services 21 Entertainment 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
New England receiver Antonio 
Brown faces a federal lawsuit 
ﬁ  led Tuesday from a former 
trainer alleging he raped her in 
2018. The Patriots signed him 
to a one-year deal on Saturday. SEC releases 2019-20 basketball conference schedule
The 2019-20 men's basketball schedule was released Tuesday afternoon. 
The Gators will open SEC play against Alabama at home on Jan. 4. Florida 
will play Kentucky, Georgia and Vanderbilt twice as it does every year along 
with LSU and Ole Miss. 
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
Florida opens confer-
ence play against Ken-
tucky in just three days, 
and a lot has happened 
since the Gators kicked 
off the season two and a 
half weeks ago. Injuries 
have already piled up for 
both teams, and young 
or inexperienced players 
will need to ﬁ  ll in.
Here are the top play-
ers to watch during the 
Week 2 matchup:
DB Kaiir Elam, Fresh-
man, Florida
It seems UF’s second-
ary loses players by the 
day.
The offseason saw 
defensive backs Chris 
Steele, Brian Edwards 
and John Huggins all 
leave the program for 
separate off-the-ﬁ  eld cir-
cumstances, resulting in 
a Florida secondary with-
out much depth.
That problem only 
worsened when starting 
cornerback CJ Hender-
son went down in the 
second quarter against 
UT Martin on Saturday 
with an apparent ankle 
injury.
Kaiir Elam stepped in for the remainder of the 
game and played well, 
securing a solo tackle 
and the team’s ﬁ  rst turn-
over of the season, an 
interception in the end-
zone during the fourth 
quarter. The interception 
was Elam’s ﬁ  rst of his 
collegiate career, and he 
impressed in his ﬁ  rst ac-
tion of the season. 
Though Elam is listed 
as a rotational player for 
the game against Ken-
tucky, he will see much 
more playing time if 
Henderson remains out, 
which seems likely after 
he was listed as “doubt-
ful”.
WR Jacob Copeland, 
Redshirt Freshman, 
Florida
The offense was not 
immune to the injury bug 
either.
Playmaking wide re-
ceiver Kadarius Toney 
exited the game in the 
ﬁ  rst quarter with a shoul-
der injury, and initial re-
ports have him out for at 
least a couple of weeks.
In his place may step 
Jacob Copeland, another 
speedy receiver who 
coach Dan Mullen uses 
as a gadget player with 
short screens and hand-
offs.“He deﬁ  nitely has a 
lot of juice to him,” fel-
low receiver Josh Ham-
mond said on Tuesday. 
“That speed is one thing 
that’s big with (Cope-
land). You saw it with 
the jet sweep and little 
plays like that. Those are 
things that he can take to 
the house.”
Copeland caught 
all three of his targets 
against the Skyhawks, 
including his ﬁ  rst career 
touchdown in the fourth 
quarter. He also had a 
nice run on a jet sweep 
for 15 yards.
Mullen said after the 
game that he was im-
pressed with how “explo-
sive” Copeland looked 
when he had the ball in 
his hands and noted that 
he wants to get it to him 
as much as possible in 
the future.
Florida will still miss 
Toney who, as a sopho-
more in 2018, caught 25 
balls for 260 yards and 
a touchdown while also 
rushing for 240 yards 
and two scores on the 
ground. Florida is ex-
pected to use Copeland 
the same way.QB Sawyer Smith, Ju-
nior, Kentucky
After two games, the 
Wildcats have also seen 
the injuries mount up.
Against Eastern Mich-
igan in Week 2, Kentucky 
lost its starting quarter-
back Terry Wilson for 
the season with a knee 
injury, and backup Saw-
yer Smith will take over.
During the offseason, 
Smith came to Kentucky 
as a graduate transfer 
from Troy after he took 
over as the starting quar-
terback for the Trojans 
seven games into the 
2018 season. He went 5-2 
with 1,669 yards and 14 
touchdowns.
The Wildcats’ of-
fense was a big reason 
for their success in 2018, 
riding the play of Wilson 
and running back Benny 
Snell Jr., who broke the 
school’s career rushing 
yards record before de-
claring for the draft.
Without either of 
them this year, Smith 
will look to keep the of-
fense aﬂ  oat with his 
strong arm and big-play 
ability.
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.orgInjuries force players to step up
I’m not like many 
kids in my genera-
tion. My memory of 
9/11 is pretty clear 
despite only being 3 
years old. 
I had just gotten 
my tonsils taken out, 
and my mom was tak-
ing care of me while I 
stayed home from pre-
school that week. I was 
in the middle of a play date with 
my friend, sitting at the end of my 
worn-down wooden kitchen table, 
coloring.
My mom was talking with her 
best friend when all of a sudden, I 
could see that she was really upset, 
crying nearly to the point of hysteria.
I didn’t understand what was go-
ing on, but she had the TV turned 
on to the news. Reports started com-
ing in that the North Tower of the 
World Trade Center in Manhattan  
had been struck by a plane. 
Aside from the tragedy unfold-
ing in front of our eyes, the situation 
created some personal worries. My 
dad was in New York at the time on 
business. He wasn’t in the city itself, 
but his whereabouts were unknown, 
and we couldn’t get ahold of him 
because of an overloaded cell phone 
network.
My mom went into full-on panic-
mode.
I remember the look of terror 
ﬂ  ashing across her face and how, 
despite her best efforts, she tried to 
remain composed.
Later that afternoon, we got 
word from my dad that he and his 
co-workers hadn’t been in the city, 
and their trip was canceled. The ﬁ  ve 
of them squished inside a rental car, 
a small sedan that just happened to 
still be available, and they started 
their 19-hour trek home. 
My dad was lucky, unlike thou-
sands of other people that day. Or-dinary people that left 
their loved ones for 
what seemed like any 
other day and never 
came home.
And here we are 18 
years later, still remem-
bering and memorial-
izing those that died on 
that tragic day.
It’s no secret that 
sports also took a turn 
after 9/11, and over 
the years we have lost sight of what 
sports are at their purest form: a dis-
traction. A form of entertainment. 
An interruption to our daily life.
Sports helped heal America after 
Sept. 11. I saw that ﬁ  rsthand after 
visiting the 9/11 museum last year 
in Manhattan. They had just opened 
the “Comeback Season: Sports After 
9/11” exhibit that summer.
The display reminded visitors of 
the uniﬁ  cation in our country follow-
ing an event that broke us down to 
rubble. It took some time, but sports 
helped much of our country heal be-
cause they were a disruption to the 
outside world.
And isn’t that all sports are at the 
end of the day? Entertainment and a 
welcome distraction from the hard-
ships of life we don’t want to think 
about.
The bill for rent that’s three days 
late, the extra student loan that had 
to be taken out to ﬁ  nish up senior 
year, the family member that was 
just diagnosed with a terminal ill-
ness.
On this day 18 years ago, ESPN 
changed their regular programming 
to a straight ABC News feed, along 
with many other sports radio broad-
casts. They had one of the ﬁ  rst “Do 
news and sports really intersect?” 
debate before most of us were old 
enough to read and write.9/11 changed sportsThe More the Mari-er
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Receiver Jacob Copeland is one of several UF freshmen that could 
see extended reps against Kentucky on Saturday due to injuries. 
SOCCER
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Four straight losses. 
Gators soccer played three 
straight road games against top 
10 teams and then opened their 
home schedule against UCF this 
past Sunday. 
After losing all of those games, 
Florida gets two unranked teams 
this weekend. A 2-4 UF team will 
face Florida Gulf Coast on Thurs-
day and Miami on Sunday at Don-
ald R. Dizney stadium.
The Gators need to get out of 
this rut to have any chance of get-ting into the top 25 at any point 
this season. Here are a few things 
that the Gators need to address:
Better starts
Florida has been in the habit 
of starting slow, evident against 
UCF. 
“I thought it was a slow start,” 
coach Becky Burleigh said. “I 
mean, you can’t give up a goal in 
the ﬁ  rst few minutes and that type 
of mental error — that’s tough.”
Other times, like against UCLA, 
it has been the other team domi-
nating the time of possession. 
Grabbing early goals obviously is ideal, but controlling more time of 
possession is necessary. It creates 
more chances and gets midﬁ  elders 
Parker Roberts and Alex Stubble-
bine involved early. 
Better ﬁ  nishes
The UCF game was also rep-
resentative of the brutal ﬁ  nishes 
that have plagued Florida dur-
ing this four-game stretch. The 
Knights scored in the 86th minute, 
essentially shutting out any hope 
of a UF comeback. 
“We didn’t have enough qual-UF has the chance to rebound 
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 12
Mari Faiello
Twitter: faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeGames (professional and amateur) were canceled across the 
country with few exceptions.
Many argued that games should have been played that weekend and the days following. 
It would have been a welcome distraction from the harsh 
reality America was trying so hard to recover from. Others 
thought it would be insensitive to be thinking about sports and 
scores following the national tragedy. 
We focus day in and day out on stat lines, records and per-
formances, more often than not forgetting there’s a bigger pic-
ture. It’s a revolving door that few of us ever ﬁ  nd the exit for, 
yet everyone has a story to tell beyond what’s printed on the paper in front of them. 
Obviously as a sports journalist, this information is vital to 
my peers and me. It’s something that helps keep us employed 
and our industry relevant to the everyday audience interested 
in this kind of thing. 
But, maybe it’s time for a little self-evaluation. 
And maybe it’s time to take a step back. 
Maybe, it’s time to enjoy sports — again — for what they 
really are.COLUMN,  from pg. 11Bring back the funity chances that we were 
able to stick in the back 
of the net,” Burleigh 
said. “The second goal, I 
feel that’s a mental error 
too, to be fair.” 
She’s referring to a 
Florida turnover inside 
the 18-yard box, giving 
UCF an easy goal to end 
the game. UF’s offense is not explosive enough to 
give away easy goals like 
that. In all likelihood, 
Florida’s wins against 
quality opponents this 
season will be low-scor-
ing affairs, such as its 2-0 
victory over USF, the last 
time the Gators enjoyed 
a win.
More threatening scor-
ing chancesThe Gators have 
played counterattacks 
well so far in 2019. The 
speed of Kit Loferski has 
been particularly useful 
in pushing the ball up 
the ﬁ  eld when the Gators 
have numbers. Howev-
er, they have struggled 
mightily making it count. 
They have to take better 
angles on shots to get 
them in the back of the 
net more often. 
At this point in the 
season, with the tough-est stretch of games 
behind UF, games like 
this weekend’s are must-
wins. After Sunday 
night’s game, Florida 
could either be a .500 
team or a six-loss team 
that hasn’t won a match 
in three weeks.
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 11UF plays Thursday
Alligator File Photo
The Gators take on FGCU Thursday after losing four straight 
games. It's the ﬁ  rst of two unranked matchups for UF this weekend.
Alligator File Photo
Senior Sierra Brooks tied for fourth this weekend.
GOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
Severe weather pummeling 
the Carolinas has seemingly af-
fected everyone but the Gators 
women’s golf team. 
Last year, it was Hurricane 
Florence whose torrential rain 
and winds to the Carolina 
coast shortened the College of 
Charleston-hosted Cougar Clas-
sic to just 36 holes. Then-junior 
Sierra Brooks reaped the ben-
eﬁ  ts, snagging the individual 
title that weekend after rounds 
of 65-62 and leading the Gators 
to a season-opening victory.
Though Hurricane Dorian’s 
effects weren’t as costly as those of its tournament-can-
celling predecessor, this year it 
was still shortened one day.
The Gators returned to form 
at the historic par-72 Yeamans 
Hall Club with a 24 under (840) 
54-hole total, enough to snag 
third place in this year’s Cou-
gar Classic.
Florida showed no signs of 
rust, combining for a 282 (-6) 
ﬁ  rst round total. Junior Addie 
Baggarly highlighted the ef-
fort, carding seven birdies en 
route to a career-low round 
of 68. Freshman Marina Esco-
bar Domingo and Brooks ﬁ  n-
ished with a pair of 70s to put 
the Gators in third place after 
Round 1.The second round Monday 
afternoon saw more of the 
same high-quality play. Brooks 
and redshirt junior Elin Esborn 
ﬁ  red 69 and 68, respectively, 
the latter being a career-low for 
the Sweden native.
The Gators entered Tues-
day’s ﬁ  nal round only two 
strokes behind SEC rival 
Vanderbilt and Wake Forest, 
(Brooks’ former university). 
Despite a pair of 68’s from Bag-
garly and senior Marta Perez 
and a 54-hole total that would 
have won anywhere else in the 
country this weekend, Florida 
ﬁ  nished three shots out of ﬁ  rst.
In the end, the women got 
the bottom end of what was purely a three-team shootout 
among their fellow southeast 
powerhouses.
Regardless, coach Em-
ily Glaser and her squad have 
positives to take away from a 
week that proved not much 
has changed since last year’s 
11th-place ﬁ  nish at the NCAA 
Championships.
“There’s always more to im-
prove,” said Glaser in a release. 
“I think we leave here encour-
aged to keep following our plan 
and working hard to be the 
team we want to become.” 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgGators fall short in season-opener despite strong eﬀ  ort