We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Netﬂ  ix star coming to UF
Nicole Byers will perform Wednesday, pg 3
SG party platforms released
Elections start Tuesday, pg 5Areas of interest for UF-UT game
Both Florida and T ennessee open Saturday’s 
game facing many uncertainties. We compiled 
three facets for Gators fans to keep an eye on 
against the Vols, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 12
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
IT IS GAINESVILLE’S FIRST 
LOCATION 
By Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
Marlena Wesh, still in her busi-
ness casual work clothes, sat on a 
bench outside of the new Cheese-
cake Factory already overﬂ  owing 
with people. 
Even in the hot afternoon sun, 
Wesh, 28, said she was still happy to have a Cheesecake Factory closer 
to home.
“I actually travel to Orlando once 
or twice every other month to go get 
Bang-Bang Chicken and Shrimp,” 
Wesh said.
The highly-anticipated Cheese-
cake Factory opened Tuesday at 11 
a.m. to 75 customers waiting in the 
parking lot of the restaurant. Located 
in Butler Plaza, this is the chain’s 
ﬁ  rst Gainesville location. 
Steve Jovanovic, the store’s gen-
eral manager, said he arrived at the restaurant at 7 a.m. to prepare for 
the hectic day to come. Despite the 
large crowds and busy employees, 
Jovanovic describes the restaurant 
as  “controlled chaos,” which he at-
tributes to the 300 new staff mem-
bers and 65 trainers from around the 
country. They served 1,232 people 
by 6 p.m. that evening. 
One man waited outside in the 
parking lot from 5:30 a.m. until the 
store opened that morning, Jova-
novic said. Although these patrons 
are not the only Gainesville residents who enjoy the food at the Cheese-
cake Factory.
“My favorites are white chocolate 
raspberry trufﬂ  e, which is one of our 
oldest and still delicious, and banana 
cream,” Jovanovic said. 
The restaurant made $23,000 for 
lunch and expected to make $30,000 
more for dinner, he said. 
Brad and Libby Surresey drove 
from Bell, a town in Gilchrist Coun-
ty, Fla., where they both work at Bell 
High School. 
When the couple heard there was a Cheesecake Factory opening 30 
minutes away from their Gainesville 
home, Surresey canceled cross-coun-
try practice for his students to take 
his wife to the restaurant. 
“I always love it,” Surresey said. 
“Its my favorite restaurant so I was 
ecstatic when they said they were 
coming to Gainesville.” 
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduABOUT 200 
PROTESTERS 
GATHERED
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
When their representa-
tives didn’t bring blue lights 
to Fraternity Drive, protes-
tors brought the blue them-
selves.
About 200 students 
dressed in blue marched down the street Tuesday 
afternoon, demanding UF 
Student Government and 
UF administration install the 
blue emergency poles that 
provide instant communica-
tion with police. 
Protesters gathered on 
Flavet Field with hopes of 
adding to the 357 existing 
blue lights on UF’s campus, 
said Emily Hyden, one of the 
protest organizers.  
They followed student 
organizers Hyden, Saman-
tha Gildea, Mark Merwitzer, Alfredo Ortiz, William Zelin 
and the Gainesville chapter 
of National Women’s Libera-
tion, who led the march at 5 
p.m. 
Running up and down 
the sidewalk, Hyden’s fore-
head dripped with sweat 
from the 95 degree heat. The 
20-year-old UF international 
studies junior was outraged 
that it got to this point.
Protesters echoed her 
megaphone chants, repeat-THREE PEOPLE WERE 
INJURED WITHOUT LIFE-
THREATENING INJURIES
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student accused of shooting in a 
crowded parking lot and injuring three peo-
ple was released from the Alachua County 
Jail Monday afternoon on a $30,000 bond. Khalil Reed, 24, is accused of ﬁ  ring multi-
ple shots into a car in Butler North’s Walmart 
parking lot Sunday night after about two 
pounds of marijuana were stolen from him at 
approximately 8:45 p.m., Gainesville Police 
wrote in an arrest report.
He was not charged for the shooting itself, 
jail ofﬁ  cials said. He also pled not guilty to a 
charge of marijuana possession.
Sweet opening: Thousands ﬂ  ock to Cheesecake FactoryProtestors march for blue lightsUF student involved in Butler 
Plaza shooting released from jail 
SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 4 SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 4Nushrat Nur / Contributor 
Yveline Saint Louis, a 19-year-old UF microbiology sophomore, and T orri McFarlane, a 19-year-old UF 
public relations sophomore, march down Fraternity Drive Tuesday afternoon during the Protest for 
Blue Lights on Frat Row. Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Samantha Gildea, a 20-year-old UF international studies and 
Russian studies sophomore, speaks to a crowd of about 200 
protesters Tuesday afternoon during the Protest for Blue Lights 
on Frat Row. The protest took place on Flavet Field. Gildea is an 
organizer of the protest and a member of Pi Beta Phi Fraternity for 
Women, the only female fraternity located on fraternity drive. 
‘SAFETY OVER SYSTEM’T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  91° LOW  69°
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Fall Radical Rush 
When: Sept. 23-25, 11 a.m. to 2 
p.m.
Where: Santa Fe College Oak 
Grove & UF Plaza of the Ameri-
cas
What: The Civic Media Center 
will be hosting Fall 2019 Radical 
Rush for three days, beginning 
Monday. Radical Rush is an or-
ganizational fair which intro-
duces students to progressive, 
radical and alternative groups in 
Gainesville. The Rush is present-
ed in the form of a collaborative 
tabling event at both of Gaines-
ville’s college campuses. The 
CMC, as well as several commu-
nity organizations, will set up at Oak Grove at Santa Fe College on 
Monday and on the Plaza of the 
Americas at UF on Tuesday and 
Wednesday. 
Engaging the World Through 
the Fulbright Program with 
Dr. Christopher Silver
When: Sept. 24, 3 p.m.
Where: 140 Rinker Hall
What: The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee is pleased to invite 
the UF community to a lecture by 
Christopher Silver, Ph.D., FAICP. 
Silver is a professor of urban and 
regional planning and former 
dean of the UF College of Design. 
Earlier this year, Silver served 
as a Fulbright Senior Scholar in 
the Department of Architecture 
at the University of Indone-
sia, teaching courses on urban sustainability. Light refresh-
ments will be served after the 
lecture. For more information, 
please contact Claire Anumba at 
canumba@ufic.ufl.edu. 
2019 Fall Art Show Submis-
sions
When: Submissions displayed 
Oct. 19-20
Where: Alachua County Library, 
401 E University Ave. in Meeting 
Room A.
What: The Alachua County Li-
brary District invites teen artists 
ages 12 to 15 to submit works for 
the 2019 Fall Art Show through 
Oct. 11. Works will be judged 
by professionals including staff 
members from UF’s College of 
the Arts and the Harn Museum 
of Art on Oct. 18. Winners will 
be announced on Saturday at 1 
p.m. at Headquarters Branch. 
Submissions can be made at any 
Alachua County Library District 
Branch. Prizes will be awarded 
for first through third place. For 
more details or to schedule an 
interview, please contact Rachel 
Cook at 352-334-3909. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 12
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly HayesTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgopinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
STARTSTHE VISION FOR YOUR
RIGHT HERE .FUTURE
Ready to put your ambition to work?
It all starts at ALDI. We’re one of America’s favorite grocery stores, and we’re 
expanding at an unprecedented rate. In fact, we’re planning to open over 
one hundred new stores a year, and we need people like you to guide our 
growth. As a District Manager, you’ll oversee operations for your district 
and lead and inspire your teams, all while managing millions in revenue. 
It’s a tremendous responsibility that requires a solid understanding of how 
we operate our business. That’s why we provide our District Managers with 
an award-winning 51-week training program and ongoing support. We 
also believe in rewarding our employees with great benefits and pay. Our 
District Manager positions start at $80K per year and quickly advance 
to $110K after five years. Take charge of your future with a company 
that’s committed to offering you More.
 ALDI IS  AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.Learn more: careers.aldi.us
THE ORIGINAL EVENT 
WAS CANCELED 
LAST MONTH
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
Netﬂ  ix’s queen of “nail-
ing” sweet treats will come to 
UF Wednesday after resolving 
scheduling conﬂ  icts. 
Netﬂ  ix star and podcast host 
Nicole Byer will perform stand-
up at the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom. The event, hosted by 
the Reitz Programming Board 
,is free for all UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards. Doors open 
at 6:30 p.m., and the show 
starts at 7 p.m. 
Byer was supposed to per-
form at UF on Aug. 21, but her 
event was canceled a week af-
ter its announcement because 
of scheduling issues. 
Byer will be paid $15,000, 
which comes from student activity fees, said Tori Chin, 
board vice president of external 
affairs.
“After we announced the 
original event, we noticed the 
amount of excitement that was 
surrounding it and how many 
people really wanted to see 
her,” she said. “We worked re-
ally hard to try to reschedule it 
and bring her to UF.”
Byer is known for her Netﬂ  ix 
show “Nailed It!” and podcast 
“Why Won’t You Date Me?” 
She also made guest appearanc-
es on shows such as “Brooklyn 
Nine-Nine” and “The Good 
Place.” 
The board hopes that re-
scheduling the event will not 
cause a smaller turnout, Chin 
said.  
“We are trying to do our 
best to make sure that the origi-
nal group of people that were 
planning to go to the ﬁ  rst event 
can still come,” she said. Eric Etcheverry, co-director 
of the board’s talent committee, 
said Byer is right for a UF au-
dience because she champions 
conﬁ  dence. 
“She inspires others to re-
main positive about who you 
are, and to just be conﬁ  dent 
and comfortable in your own 
skin,” Etcheverry said. 
Brooke Faer, a 21-year-
old UF psychology senior, has 
looked forward to seeing Byer 
since the original announce-
ment, and she doesn’t think the 
change of date will affect turn-
out. 
“I think she’s a really enter-
taining host and I think it would 
be cool to see what she has to 
say at the event and what her 
stand-up is like,” she said. “It’s 
an exciting opportunity to see 
her for free.”
@noroneill 
noneill@alligator.orgNetﬂ  ix star Nicole Byer to 
perform at UF Wednesday
THE SECOND ANNUAL 
CATIO TOUR RETURNS 
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
Tired of ﬁ  nding mangled birds on 
your doorstep? Perhaps it’s time for 
a “catio.” 
Gainesville residents can learn 
about catios, or outdoor cat enclo-
sures attached to peoples’ homes, 
at the second annual Catio Tour on 
Sept. 29. 
From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., the self-
guided tour will bring people around 
town to look at the chicken-coop-like 
structures that give household cats 
exposure to the outside world while 
making sure they don’t kill small 
wild animals. Tickets cost $5. 
The tour will feature six catios 
including four new ones, said Ricky 
Scricca, the Humane Society of North 
Central Florida’s development coor-
dinator. 
The Alachua Audubon Society, 
the Humane Society of North Cen-tral Florida and Operation Catnip will 
host the event.
The goal of the tour is to encour-
age residents to build their own 
catios from inexpensive materials, 
Scricca said. 
“There’s just a million ways that 
people can make their own catios and 
keep their pet cats inside,” he said.
Catios fulﬁ  ll a dual purpose of 
keeping cats and wildlife safe while 
also adding a whimsical addition to 
an existing home’s layout, said Melis-
sa Jenkins, the program coordinator 
at Operation Catnip of Gainesville.
Some catios are eccentric and 
costly, while others are small and 
modest. The variety of catio designs 
will hopefully inspire a design for ev-
eryone, Jenkins said. 
“We hope to inspire Catio Tour at-
tendees to open their hearts, minds 
and homes to the prospect of the ad-
dition of catios of their own,” Jenkins 
said.
@alexldeluca
adeluca@alligator.orgCat owners can tour local 
cat patios for inspiration4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICRAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 1222 
W. University Ave.Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its 
Northern end and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside 
the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-
9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection:  World’s Best Coffee, 
Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily since 
1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-
375-0376. Your order will be ready when you arrive 
5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open every-
day 5am — 7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Maude’s Classic Cafe:    Serving 
locally roasted coffee and a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. 
Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the 
Side Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, excellent 
wine selection. Open Late
Electric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!A 20-year-old man and two other 
people were injured and taken to UF 
Health, according to a Gainesville 
police release Monday morning.
Two people at the scene told The 
Alligator they were close friends 
with a person named Reed. One 
declined to comment. The other 
agreed to speak with The Alligator but wished to remain anonymous.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
conﬁ  rmed that Reed is a UF fam-
ily, youth and community sciences 
senior. 
UF did release a statement about 
the incident.
Four people initially met up with 
Reed to buy the marijuana, accord-
ing to the GPD release. Reed later al-
legedly shot at the car several times 
with a handgun.His friend said he ran over as fast 
as he could when he received a call 
about what happened. The friend 
also said Reed is a smart person and 
usually maintains a calm demeanor.
“He just got caught up,” the man 
told The Alligator. “He reacted off of 
impulse.”
An Instagram account that ap-
pears to be Reed’s posted a video of 
Reed soon after 12:30 p.m. Monday, 
when the jail said he was released.
“Stay safe people and don’t be-
lieve everything you read mane,” 
was written in the caption.The phone number listed on 
Reed’s arrest report and his Insta-
gram account did not reply to The 
Alligator’s request for comment. 
Nico Diaz, a 22-year-old Jersey 
Mikes Sub’s employee, told The Al-
ligator that a man who looked like 
he had been shot ran into the res-
taurant, which is located across the 
street, less than 10 minutes after po-
lice say the incident happened, look-
ing for help. 
“I was just in shock,” Diaz told 
The Alligator Sunday night.
What looked like about a dozen bullet holes ﬁ  lled the windows of a 
gray-colored Hyundai parked out-
side of Jersey Mike’s Subs. 
Authorities decked in shirts la-
beled with “forensic” examined 
what appeared to be blood on parts 
of the restaurant’s ﬂ  oor.
On Monday morning, police said 
they found the marijuana in the car.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org ing, “Safety over system!” as 
they advanced down the hill 
of Fraternity Drive. Hyden said 
“the system” includes every-
one who prevented the instal-
lation of the lights.
“Regardless of what alle-
giances you may have, safety 
for every Gator means more,” 
she said.
In Spring, the SG Senate 
failed to pass a resolution that 
would expand blue light cov-
erage on fraternity row. A pri-
mary reason it didn’t pass was 
the failure to contact the Inter-
fraternity Council presidents. 
Christina Pugliese, a 
19-year-old UF telecommuni-
cation sophomore, spoke on 
the Senate ﬂ  oor in Spring dur-
ing public comment demand-
ing support for placing blue 
lights on Fraternity Drive. 
As a sexual assault survi-
vor, she said she felt like she 
was speaking into a void, so 
she took to the streets to pro-
test. 
“If I had it my way, every 
single fraternity would have a 
blue light on it, but we don’t 
have that,” she said. “We gotta 
take it one step at a time.”
When the votes on the bill 
tied, Senate President Libby Shaw voted no, despite origi-
nally sponsoring it and co-
founding the Panhellenic Sister 
Support Ambassador program, 
which aims to counsel women 
in sororities who have experi-
enced sexual assault.
After calls, texts, emails 
and in-person communication, 
Shaw would not speak on her 
voting record. 
Student Body President 
Michael Murphy published a 
Letter to the Editor on Sunday. 
He did not respond to requests 
for further comment Tuesday 
evening. 
Murphy wrote that blue 
lights would be a “tremendous 
waste” of student fees. Instead, 
Murphy and University Police 
urge students to download the 
GATORSAFE app, which acts 
as a “mobile blue light” in case 
of emergencies.
He also wrote that protes-
tors were using “scare tactics” 
to negatively portray Greek 
life.
Irfan Kovankaya, a 22-year-
old UF political science senior, 
said wanting blue lights isn’t 
about being “anti-Greek life.” 
He said it’s a matter of ac-
countability.
While Kovankaya marched 
alongside victims of sexual as-
sault and advocates, fraternity 
brothers looked down upon protestors from the windows 
of their lettered houses laugh-
ing, pointing and taking pho-
tos. 
The Interfraternity Council 
released a statement on Friday 
saying it was “not opposed” to 
blue lights on Fraternity Drive. 
“If you aren’t doing any-
thing wrong, they shouldn’t 
have a problem with a blue 
light being in their area,” 
Kovankaya said.
Olivia Shaw, an 18-year-
old UF chemistry freshman, 
said she did not expect to feel 
unrepresented during her ﬁ  rst 
month in college. Living in 
Springs Complex, which is a 
dorm on Fraternity Drive, hav-
ing blue lights outside would 
make her feel more safe.
Shaw’s mother drove from 
Tampa to Gainesville to march 
with her daughter. 
“I’m disappointed in the 
university and how it seems to 
be disregarding the safety of its 
students even though it sells 
at Preview that there are blue 
lights everywhere on campus 
for safety,” Shaw said. “But 
clearly that’s not true.” 
Chasity Maynard 
contributed to this report.
@aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.org
SHOOTING,  from pg. 1PROTEST,  from pg. 1
‘He just got caught up...’Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Nathan Barkdull, a 20-year-old UF physics and math junior, holds a protest sign 
and chants Tuesday during the Protest for Blue Lights on Frat Row. Barkdull said 
he believes Michael Murphy’s letter to the editor in response to the demand 
for more blue lights led to more people attending the protest. “The letter to the 
editor was sort of a ridiculous slight to the protestors, ” Barkdull said. He added 
that it was an attack on a group of people with good intentions.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
PLANNING BEGAN 
IN 2015
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Meagan Sullivan has been losing 
her hearing for two years. 
The 24-year-old UF health educa-
tion and behavior master’s student 
recently started identifying as hard 
of hearing but doesn’t consider it a 
disability – just a change in ability.
She said she is comfortable with 
her new diagnosis thanks to the sup-
port of the deaf community and what 
she learned in her American Sign Language classes. UF announced 
a deaf and hearing sciences minor 
in the College of Public Health and 
Health Professions on Sept. 6. 
Classes such as those offered with 
the minor taught her how to interact 
with the deaf community before she 
was part of it.
“Knowing that people around 
me know that it’s not ‘hearing loss’ 
but ‘Deaf Gain’ has helped me have 
a positive view of myself,” Sullivan 
said.
The minor is 17 credits — a mix-
ture of ASL, deaf culture and audio-
logical classes, said Stephen Hardy 
II, a UF lecturer of ASL and deaf 
studies who started planning the mi-nor in 2015.
“The students expect us to raise 
standards, and we will meet their 
challenges,” Hardy said.
As a deaf professor, he said his 
work includes empowering students.
Tyler G. James, a 24-year-old UF 
health education and behavior doc-
toral student, has worked closely 
with Hardy to help plan the minor.
James has deaf and hard of hear-
ing family members. He and his 
mother wanted to learn ASL, but it 
wasn’t until he came to UF that he 
could. That’s how he found his pas-
sion for the language. 
James said he would have pur-
sued the minor if it were available when he was an undergraduate stu-
dent, but certain parts of the course-
work need to be readdressed.  
He hopes administration expands 
the minor to be more culturally fo-
cused. The minor is offered in a 
medical-based college, but James 
said ASL classes would ﬁ  t better un-
der world languages. 
“At the end of the day, we are 
lucky to have two amazing ASL in-
structors and to have UF recognize 
that ASL should be taught by native 
deaf signers,” James said. 
Toni Martin, a 19-year-old UF 
psychology sophomore, has been 
taking ASL classes at UF since her 
freshman year and plans to start the minor.  
She said UF does a good job of 
partnering with the deaf community 
to host events but could be more in-
clusive by hiring more deaf employ-
ees and offering interpreters for deaf 
students. 
“As a Top 7 public university, I 
feel that it’s important that UF sup-
port as much diversity as possible,” 
she said. “Many other universities in 
Florida already have similar majors, 
so it’s nice to see a step in the right 
direction.” 
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgUF introduces deaf and hearing sciences minor EACH PARTY ADDRESSES 
THEIR IDEAS TO STUDENTS 
FOR FALL SEMESTER  
By Emma McAvoy  
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s that time of year again. 
You see them standing in light 
blue or orange shirts outside the Reitz 
Union or on Turlington Plaza. With 
ﬂ  iers in hand, they are always ready 
to ask if you want to get involved on 
campus. 
UF Student Government elections 
begin next Tuesday, and Inspire Par-
ty and Gator Party released their Fall 
campaign platforms. 
Inspire released its 15-point plat-
form Friday afternoon on Facebook. 
The platform asks student vot-
ers three questions: “Shouldn’t SG 
actually help students?,” “Shouldn’t 
SG care about every student?” and 
“Shouldn’t SG promote an inclusive 
campus?”   
Inspire President Zachary Amrose 
said some of the party’s long-stand-ing goals include ensuring sexual as-
sault survivors access to on-campus 
resources, students’ access to mental 
health resources across campus and 
access to blue light telephones on 
Fraternity Row. 
“Largely, we have been incorpo-
rating students’ voices through the 
ﬁ  rst half of the campaign into our 
platform,” Amrose said. “Over the 
past 10 days, we’ve been in Turling-
ton and in the Reitz asking students 
for ideas.” 
Amrose said it’s important for stu-
dents vote in these elections in order 
to see their priorities enacted. 
SG’s $22 million budget comes out 
of students’ activity and service fees 
from tuition, but less than 20 percent 
of UF students vote in SG elections. 
“Our challenge is to get out there 
and tell students that Student Gov-
ernment has the ability to make a 
change in their life,” Amrose said. 
Inspire included mental health re-
sources as well as reporting and pre-
vention resources for sexual assault 
survivors on their campaign platform 
this semester as well as in the Spring. Other platform points that re-
mained include expanding free print-
ing locations and live streaming sen-
ate meetings. 
Three points of Gator Party’s cam-
paign platform were released Mon-
day at about noon on Facebook and 
three more points were announced 
Tuesday at about 1 p.m. 
These points state that Gator’s 
goals include collaborating with the 
UF Career Connections Center to 
provide resume templates, publish-
ing a map with locations for alterna-
tive study spaces and designing and 
installing a ramp between Marston 
Breezeway and Reitz North Lawn to 
increase accessibility. The platform 
also mentioned uniting Gator Nights 
and Multicultural & Diversity Affairs 
to host events.
It is unclear when Gator Party 
will release its full platform. Party 
representatives did not respond to re-
quests for comment. 
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgSG Parties release platforms for upcoming elections  
Gator Platform: 
• Work with the CCC to 
publish resume templates to 
help students structure their 
professional experiences 
• Publish a map showing 
alternative study spaces and 
install capacity counters to 
prevent overcrowding 
• Unite Gator Nights, 
Multicultural & Diversity 
Affairs and student groups to 
host multicultural events 
• Fund a veterans’ success 
center on campus to ensure 
support services for student 
veterans 
• Design and install a ramp 
between Marston Breezeway 
and the Reitz North Lawn 
• Provide free printing in SG 
copy center for graduate 
student research posters
Edited from Gator’s Facebook page 
for brevity. T o view the full list of the 
party’s platform, go to alligator.org.   Inspire Platform: 
• Install emergency blue lights 
on Fraternity Row, provide 
location for sexual assault re-
porting and prevention
• Expand free printing to Mar-
ston Science Library
• Reduce graduate student 
fees and encourage ethical 
treatment 
• Livestream Student Sen-
ate meetings, send listserv 
emails, establish ofﬁ  ce hours 
for senators and ensure Inno-
vation Academy & Pathway 
to Campus Enrollment stu-
dents’ representation 
• Implement online voting 
• Extend Regional Transit Sys-
tem bus routes, increase pro-
tective bus shelters
• Expand the Uber Safe Rides 
discount 
• Fund more menstrual hy-
giene product dispensers
Edited from Inspire’s Facebook page 
for brevity. T o view the full list of the 
party’s platform, go to alligator.org.   EditorialWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsUF Student Body President Michael Murphy’s letter to 
the editor is disrespectful. Not only is he disrespectful to 
the organizers of the protest by libeling us through false 
statements, such as stating we said the only way to im-
prove campus safety is through the addition of blue lights, 
but he is also disrespectful to the nearly 2,000 students  
who responded to this event.
Murphy reported that installing a blue light on Fraternity 
Row would be a “tremendous waste of student fees,” and 
mentioned universities far from our own that no longer use 
blue light technology. However, our neighbor universities, 
UCF and FSU, are still implementing blue lights on their cam-
pus. As are we; if you were unaware, UF recently added a 
blue light next to Graham Hall.
While this technology is being utilized on UF’s campus, 
there is no excuse for Fraternity Row to remain without it. Es-
pecially when, at UF Preview, blue lights are sold as a safety 
perk to new students, who are told they can be found every-
where on UF’s campus. Murphy mentioned the GATORSAFE 
app, a “mobile blue light.” The app is a great idea, until your 
phone dies or you do not have service. If you are ever in a 
scenario where you cannot use your phone, you cannot use 
GATORSAFE. Emergency protection is necessary for all areas 
of campus. Fraternity Row is no exception.
Murphy also said that the implementation of blue lights 
on Fraternity Row would cost $22,000 of “your student fees.” 
The SG banquet alone cost upwards of $20,000 this past 
Spring. The banquet was paid for using external revenue — 
the blue lights can be paid for in the same way. By implying 
this can only be paid for using student fees, Murphy is lying 
in an attempt to discourage protesters from speaking out.
Murphy stated that our rhetoric is worsening campus 
safety. It seems ironic that as he wrote an entire letter con-
demning the installation of a blue light, he managed to in-
clude a statement about those organizing a protest for safety 
worsening what they have aimed to protect.
Murphy also stated that we, the organizers, have been 
“painting campus Greek Life as rife with sexual assault” and 
should instead focus on the GATORSAFE app. By reaching out to the Panhellenic Council, every Panhellenic delegate 
and the Interfraternity Council, we have taken every step to 
include campus Greek Life in this cause and not take an ad-
versarial approach.
However, there is no need for us to paint a picture, as data 
and statistics have given us a clear one already. As stated in 
a column in The Alligator on sexual assault at UF in 2017, 
“A survey administered to UF students in 2014 revealed 1-5 
female undergraduates experienced sexual assault since en-
tering college... Sorority-affiliated women are assaulted at 
four times the rate of their non-sorority peers, and of the 10 
women I interviewed, nine were raped by fraternity men — 
from nine different fraternities.”
Murphy chose to dilute our message with accusatory 
statements and has consequently downgraded the severity 
of the safety risk that is left unaddressed on Fraternity Row.
He has given his stance — he is actively against installing a 
blue light on Fraternity Row. I am not sure why, as the Stu-
dent Body president of a Top 7 institution, he is so opposed 
to adding safety measures to this area of campus. However, 
I and the other organizers have already been in contact with 
University Police regarding the installation of blue lights on 
Fraternity Row, and will continue to follow up with them 
after the protest.
Lastly, Murphy mentioned that “protesters should not let 
Student Government election season get the best of them.” I 
encourage you, fellow protesters, to look into the public Sen-
ate meeting minutes that allow you to see who voted for and 
against the Blue Light Bill in April. This way, you can avoid 
letting election season get the best of you, as Murphy said, 
and instead use it to your advantage to elect representatives 
that stand for what you believe in.
Murphy, who holds the highest position in SG and sits on 
the UF Board of Trustees, clearly has not used his voice until 
this point to speak out on this matter. If he will not fight for 
your safety, we will. Inaction on behalf of those in power, 
including Murphy, is what led us here in the first place.
Emily Hyden is a UF international studies junior.Protest organizer responds to Student Body President Letter to the Editor
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The blue light 
conversations we 
haven’t had yet
Tuesday afternoon, hundreds of protesters marched 
along UF’s Fraternity Row, the only place on campus 
without blue light emergency poles. These lights repre-
sent security and are designed to call law enforcement 
at the press of a button. 
The protest was organized by student leaders and the 
Gainesville chapter of the National Women’s Liberation Associa-
tion. Since the protest was announced, the debate surrounding 
blue lights has been a point of controversy, finger pointing and 
a focal point of The Alligator’s news coverage for the past week. 
There’s so much to unpack in the blue light discussion alone. 
In fact, we could fill an entire newspaper about the topic. (Don’t 
worry, we won’t.) When you talk about blue lights, the discus-
sion encompasses how often they are used, how gender and race 
intersect with student safety and why suggestions to place blue 
lights on Frat Row have had a history of failing in UF Student 
Government semester after semester. 
But for now, we are going to talk about how the Big Blue 
Light Debate of 2019 lends itself to three conversations we, as a 
Student Body, have not had yet: ensuring accountability, feeling 
safe and finding the actual solution to this debacle.
The Alligator’s Editorial Board consists of three female jour-
nalism students. We know lack of transparency when we see it. 
We see it here. 
Based on what has been reported so far, there is no one sure-
fire, guaranteed path to having a new blue light installed on cam-
pus. That’s not to say it’s impossible. The most recent blue light 
was installed at Graham Hall in August… after a two-year-long 
process. When it comes to the lack of blue lights on Frat Row, all 
we find is a web of pointed fingers. When you’re trying to get to 
the bottom of an issue, it’s far too easy to get caught in that web.
To be fair, if SG leaders don’t want to comment directly on an 
issue, they are within their rights to do so. But student leaders 
are elected to represent what students want. Declining to answer 
questions that the average student might ask doesn’t help stu-
dents. In times like these, it alienates them.
Now onto what actually makes students feel safe. Men in po-
sitions of power telling people — particularly female students — 
what should or shouldn’t make them feel safe ain’t it. Nobody 
has authority over what makes people feel secure. If a blue light 
helps black students at Graham Hall feel safe after white national-
ist Richard Spencer comes to campus, then that feeling is impor-
tant and valid. If a blue light helps students who live on or near 
Frat row feel safe, so be it. 
Blue lights contribute to, if not a safer community, at least a 
greater sense of security in the community. When parents bring 
their students to UF, blue lights are heralded as a way to keep 
their kids safe. We can talk numbers about the effectiveness of 
blue lights until the cows come home. But the thought of the 
worst-case scenario is a powerful thing.
Newsflash, fellas: girls are raised to look over their shoulders 
at night. That’s the world we live in, and that’s the world that 
needs to change. We must talk about the solution that goes be-
yond blue lights. It’s a long-term solution that no university can 
throw money at to fix. The key is altering our victim-blaming 
culture. In order to address sexual assault and violence on col-
lege campuses, students must change. Don’t just tell people how 
to prevent rape, tell people not to rape. Don’t just vote in SG 
elections, vote everywhere. Raise your children to view others as 
their equals, not as a bodies they’re entitled to have. 
Every single UF student can be the solution. What’s stopping 
you?
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Gators open conference play on the road
The Florida soccer team is taking on LSU at Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana on Thursday Pg. 12Gators sweep Seminoles at home
The No. 11 ranked Florida volleyball team beat No. 23 Florida 
State Tuesday night Pg. 11THE LOCAL ARTIST HAS MORE 
THAN FIVE EXHIBITIONS 
AROUND GAINESVILLE
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Staff Writer
When Jane Medved was in second grade, 
she drew a crayon portrait of a woman at an 
easel with the words, “I want to be an artist.”   
Now “70 going on 14,” Medved lives the 
life her former self once depicted.  
Medved is originally from New York but 
moved to Gainesville in 1976. She said she 
came to ﬁ  nd inner peace and connect with 
a community that practiced “Knowledge,” an 
intensive form of meditation. 
She said the practice transformed her per-
sonality and her art is reﬂ  ective of that sense 
of tranquility. 
In 1983, she moved into her current home, 
a red-brick house nestled between thick 
vegetation, with her husband Chris. On the 
same property there is a separate space which 
serves as her art studio. 
The high-stretching walls of the structure 
are covered with windows and canvases. The 
acrylic paintings, some with human or ani-
mal subjects, feature depictions of water and 
earth. Skylights cast a glow on an easel sur-
rounded by jars of paint and brushes. 
“I’m very productive,” she said, gesturing 
toward shelves with stacks of canvas.  
Medved considers her paintings to fall into 
one of three categories: waterscapes, peopl-
escapes and worldscapes, which describe the 
subject of each work. 
“I paint nature and human nature,” she 
said. 
She thinks of all her canvas work as an 
underpainting, knowing she can go back to 
any and continue adding layers or alterations, 
she said. 
Medved also makes palm masks, which 
are painted faces on the branches dropped by 
palm trees. 
“It’s a nice repurpose project,” she said. Medved said she noticed some of the bark 
jutting out in the middle, which “just seemed 
like it was asking for a nose.” 
“They’re like cartoons,” she said. “It’s a 
reminder for people to ﬁ  nd the humor in life.” 
Some of Medved’s work is featured around 
Gainesville, including at Leonardo’s 706, 
SweetBerries, Bodywise and Balanced Body. 
She also has paintings at the Florida Springs 
Institute in High Springs and has previously 
had exhibits in the Metropolitan Museum of 
Art and the Brooklyn Museum in New York.  
When she’s not in her studio, Medved and 
her husband spend time each week at one of 
Florida’s springs. 
“We start by taking a 45-minute walk to 
get our bodies warmed up,” she said. They 
spend the rest of the day lounging, reading 
and going in the water. 
Many of her paintings depict scenes from 
the springs. She said she feels recharged and 
ready to create upon leaving. 
Before she retired, Medved worked as a 
clay sculptor, a hairdresser, a museum con-
sultant and has written and edited for a wom-
en’s newspaper in Gainesville, among other 
professions.
She believes creativity can be expressed in 
any career path. 
“Even an accountant, they may have cre-
ative ways of doing it, or for getting custom-
ers,” Medved said. “Life is a creative process.” 
Although she has made some politically-
charged artwork, Medved said she prefers 
not to add to the “chatter” which is already 
prevalent in people’s lives. Instead, she said 
she likes allowing people to be relaxed and 
calmed through her work.
“I am not an artist,” she said. “I do art… 
but I am joy. I am peace.”  
Medved’s artwork can be found on her 
website, janemedved.com. Studio visits are 
welcome by appointment. 
@morgangoldwich
mgoldwich@alligator.org‘Life is a creative process:’ 
the art of Jane Medved
Art
Morgan Goldwich / Avenue Staff
Jane Medved uses acrylic paints for a palm mask.
Courtesy of Stefanie Keeler
Local favorite ﬂ  ipturn released their newest single “Eleanor” last month.
“ELEANOR” 
INTRODUCES A NEW 
SOUND FOR THE 
INDIE ROCK BAND
Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
Former Gainesville-based 
band ﬂ  ipturn dives into new 
emotional depths with their 
newest song “Eleanor.”
The band released the 
single at the end of August,  
which was the band’s ﬁ  rst 
new song since April 2018. 
With fans eagerly await-
ing new content since the 
band’s last EP “Citrona,” 
“Eleanor” is a hit for the 
masses. 
Coming out with a dy-
namic new sound and 
themes such as self-doubt 
and fear of failure, the band 
makes it clear that they plan 
to improve upon their music 
with each new release.
Dillon Basse, the band’s 
vocalist, said this kind of 
maturity is a goal for ﬂ  ip-
turn.
“We want to constantly 
be evolving our sound,” 
Basse said. “Not straying 
completely from what we 
are and what people origi-
nally fell in love with, but 
still evolving. That’s how artists stay aﬂ  oat, that’s 
how they progress, that’s 
how they get bigger.”
For fans of ﬂ  ipturn’s pre-
viously released music, the 
single’s new sound came as 
a surprise. However, The 
band doesn’t see the new 
song as all that different. 
“It’s more of a dras-
tic change for people that 
haven’t been a part of the 
writing process, like our 
fans, our listeners,” Basse 
said.
The song “Eleanor” is 
not named after a particu-
lar person, instead it refers 
to an individual that can’t 
bring herself to accomplish 
her goals and is trapped by 
her own hesitation.
“I kind of used [Eleanor] 
as a metaphor for somebody 
who, in life, doubts them-
selves and hides behind 
this false conﬁ  dence,” Basse 
said. “They might have all 
the talent in the world, they 
might actually be ready to 
do this thing, but they don’t 
actually do it, because of 
their self-doubt.”
The song’s lyrics chal-
lenge this character to take 
that necessary leap and face 
the real world. 
Basse’s powerful, haunt-
ing vocals give a voice to 
this desperation, calling on Eleanor to put an end to her 
stalling and feelings of inad-
equacy. Combined with the 
band’s instrumental intensi-
ty, the single makes it difﬁ  -
cult for listeners to be faced 
with anything but courage.
Basse said while this 
message is relevant for him-
self, he also wants it to ap-
ply to his fans.
“I want my audience 
to be able to relate,” Basse 
said. “When they’re singing 
the words back, I want them 
to feel like they’re singing it 
for themselves.”
The band is currently on 
tour, with fall dates along 
the east coast scheduled 
through November. They 
will return to Gainesville on 
Oct. 24, where they will play 
at Heartwood Soundstage. 
As for new music, ﬂ  ip-
turn hopes to have a new 
single out by the end of the 
year, and expects to release 
a new EP around March.
“Eleanor” is available 
to stream on Spotify and 
iTunes now. 
@marcar313
marlenacarrillo@uﬂ  .eduﬂ  ipturn tackles themes of 
self-doubt with new single
MUSIC8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
THE PUNK BAND IS 
PROMOTING THEIR 
LATEST ALBUM “WRITTEN 
IN BLOOD”
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Editor
The Casualties vocalist, David 
Tejas Rodriguez, doesn’t think the 
story of him joining the band is very 
interesting.
Rodriguez, 40, regularly toured 
with The Casualties with his own 
band, Starving Wolves, before origi-
nal singer and founding member of 
The Casualties, Jorge Herrera, decid-
ed to retire from the band in 2017. 
Rodriguez took the opportunity to 
join some of his closest friends and 
replace him. 
It was a daunting task replacing 
the voice of the band for over 25 
years.
“[The Casualties] asked me to ﬁ  ll 
in for this one show. I ﬁ  lled in, and 
we had so much fun. It was like I 
wasn’t a new member because we 
had been touring together on and off 
for 15 years,” Rodriguez said.
The band is once again on tour 
and getting ready for a concert at 
The Wooly on Thursday, opening 
for punk band Strung Out. The show 
begins at 8 p.m. and tickets are $18.
The Casualties were formed in 
New York City in 1990 by Herrera. 
After a few changes to the lineup, 
the band eventually settled on bass-
ist Rick Lopez, drummer Marc “Meg-
gers” Eggers and guitarist Jake Ko-
latis. 
This iteration of the band played 
together from 1998 to 2017, when 
Herrera retired and Rodriguez was 
introduced.
The addition of Rodriguez 
changed the way the band ap-
proached music. While he and Her-
rera have similar vocal styles, they 
had stylistic differences the band needed to address.
Rodriguez said the years of tour-
ing together helped the band quickly 
get past these differences.
“One thing that is important is 
knowing how to disagree,”  Rodri-
guez said. “If there was something 
that I did that they didn’t feel com-
fortable with, that they didn’t like 
musically, they told me.” 
When he joined, Rodriguez made 
it clear that he wanted to make new 
music. The band immediately went 
to work on a new album, titled 
“Written in Blood.” It was released 
last October, a little more than a year 
after Rodriguez joined the band.
The album marks a shift in the 
sound and style of The Casualties. 
Rodriguez’s songwriting is inﬂ  u-
enced by politics more than The 
Casualties’ earlier albums, and this 
is shown throughout the entirety of 
the album.
Writing music for The Casualties 
gave Rodriguez a platform to speak 
about what he thinks is important, 
including police violence, the wall 
at the Mexican border and honoring 
loved ones who have passed.
“We wrote a song called ‘Lost’ 
about the friends that we have, and 
the stories that we share and is about 
keeping their memories alive,” Ro-
driguez said. 
Rodriguez said he thinks creat-
ing the new album helped the band 
evolve musically.
“It let them put their guards down 
to try something new, and gave me 
the opportunity to step up my game 
and get out of my comfort zone,” 
Rodriguez said. “The new record, it 
sounds like The Casualties, but it has 
a new vibe.”
“Written in Blood” can be found 
on The Casualties’ iTunes and Spo-
tify pages. 
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgThe Casualties to play at 
The Wooly
MUSIC
PULP ARTS WILL HOST THE WORLD-
RENOWNED COMPOSER 
By Cassidy Hopson
Avenue Staff Writer
As a young boy, Carl Stone loved to listen to mu-
sic, whether it be Japanese children’s songs, West-
ern folk or classical music. Stone’s early fascination 
struck a chord and put him on the path to becoming 
a composer.
“One of the ﬁ  rst presents my parents gave me 
when I was a little kid was a 45 record player and I 
loved that,” Stone said. 
Now, Stone is a pioneer in the realm of live com-
puter music, composing electro-acoustic music al-
most exclusively since 1972. The term reﬂ  ects the 
hybrid nature of the sounds and the music itself.
“I use sound sources from everywhere,” Stone 
said. “It could be ﬁ  eld recordings made out in nature or made in an urban soundscape.”
Stone will be performing at Heartwood Sound-
stage Thursday at 8 p.m. in an event hosted by Pulp 
Arts. Tickets can be purchased on the Heartwood 
Soundstage website for $5 to $10, and will cost $10 
at the door. 
Stone has used computers in live performances 
around the world since 1986, including in America, 
Europe, Asia and South America. 
He is currently touring in advance of his upcom-
ing record, “Himalaya,” which will be released this 
Friday on the Unseen Worlds record label. 
“My previous releases have been archival of 
works from the ‘70s, ‘80s and ‘90s and this is music 
of today,” Stone said. 
Stone now primarily spends his time in Japan. 
“I really fell in love with the place,” Stone said. 
“I love a lot of things about it, especially the sound-
scape,” he said. The urban soundscape of Tokyo is 
truly one of the most interesting in the world.”
Stone’s visit is part of the Pulp Presents series. 
The series is hosted by Pulp Arts and aims to bring 
artists to Gainesville who wouldn’t normally visit the 
city.
Pulp Arts works with artists, such as Stone, to 
provide them with a variety of resources, like book-
ing artists and producing multimedia installations. 
Pulp Arts also has two recording studios and 10,000 
square feet of ﬂ  exible art production space to pro-
duce commercial, public and installation art.
Steve Head, outreach coordinator for Pulp Arts, 
has been working for the company since Fall 2018. 
He heard of Stone by reading about him in the New 
York Times and knew bringing the composer to 
Gainesville would be special.
“Stone is a legendary electronic artist who lives 
in Japan,” Head said. “When we saw that he was 
going to be stateside we knew we had to hop on the 
opportunity.”
Before the show, there will be an opening set per-
formed by Brett Geib and Steven Head. The program 
will conclude with a question-and-answer session 
with Stone.
@CassidyHopson
cassidyhopson@gmail.comElectronic music pioneer Carl 
Stone performing at Heartwood
MUSIC
Courtesy of Samantha Gore
Carl Stone’s newest album “Himalaya” will 
be released Sept. 20.
THE NEXT SHOW WILL BE SEPT. 30
By Emma Barsky
Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents are buying tickets to a concert without 
knowing who will be performing or where the show will take 
place.
In fact, people all over the world are doing the same thing. 
Sofar Sounds, a music events company hosts intimate shows in 
unconventional spaces. 
The venue could be anywhere from someone’s living room 
to an antique shop, but it’s kept secret. Attendees don’t ﬁ  nd 
out the location until 24 hours before the show, and they don’t 
know the lineup until they arrive, said Brandon Telg, Sofar 
Sounds Gainesville leader. 
“Once we had a show in a karate dojo, complete with ﬁ  ght-
ing demos in between sets,” said Charlie Daffron, Sofar Sounds 
Gainesville podcast manager.
Sofar Sounds Gainesville is hosting their next show on 
Sept. 30. Tickets are on sale for $15 at www.sofarsounds.com/
gainesville, said Tanna Townsend, UF civil engineering senior 
and Sofar Sounds Gainesville artist liaison.
 Guests will be coming for the music, an open-minded expe-
rience and the thrill of surprise, Townsend said. “Every Sofar show that I’ve been to, I felt like I was in this 
crazy magical space,” Townsend said.
Sofar Sounds was founded to bring the magic back to live 
music. The company aims to connect the artist to the audience 
without an overly loud crowd, poor sound system or an exces-
sive selﬁ  e-taker getting in the way. 
The ultimate goal of the Sofar Sounds Gainesville team is to 
foster growth in the local music scene. They are committed to 
putting on diverse shows so people can see artists they would 
not usually see perform, whether they are local or on the road, 
Telg said. 
“If we’re not growing the music scene around us, then what 
we’re doing isn’t working,” Telg said.  
At all Gainesville shows, the audience is asked to put away 
phones during the performance, refrain from taking pictures or 
videos and to stay for the entire duration of the event, out of 
respect for the artists, Telg said. 
The team wants to provide publicity for the undiscovered 
artists it books as well as the venues that host the shows. Their 
hope is that audience members will like the atmosphere and 
give business to that dojo, brewery or bar in the future, Telg 
said. 
“If an artist gets another opportunity as a result of perform-
ing at one of our shows, that’s a win for us,” Telg said. 
Audience members know they’re going to see three different sets every time, and that even if the genre isn’t for them, that 
the artists are well-vetted, said Alise Cross, marketing coordina-
tor. 
Townsend said that she loves having the opportunity to cre-
ate a space where a community can come and forget about the 
chaos in their lives outside of the doors. Townsend is looking 
forward to seeing people experience Sofar Sounds for the ﬁ  rst 
time at the upcoming show. 
“I love getting to help other people have that experience,” 
she said.  
Even though the staff members know the artists before 
hand, Cross tries not to listen to their music ahead of time. She 
loves to be surprised along with everyone else, she said. 
“I have always been extremely passionate about music, but 
I’m not talented enough to be an artist myself, so this is a great 
way for me to be part of that community,” Cross said. “Every 
single show I am blown away by the talent and so grateful to be 
a part of something so special.” 
Townsend is equally as passionate.
“Everything else I do in my life is for my resume or to make 
money,” Townsend said. “This is the one thing I do because I 
love it and it makes me really happy.”
@BarskyEmma
emmalauren24@gmail.comSofar Sounds offers secret concert experience
MUSICI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13DThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Fun Fact: The name "Alachua" may be derived from a 
word that literally means "sinkhole."
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Time to sell your XBox 360? Your iPad? 
Looking to buy one? Check out the For Sale 
section for great results. 1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Available Immediately
Blocks away from Univ & shopping. 2BR unit 
& rooms for rent. Call Brenda 352-672-8657    
9-25-19-15-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1.  Hound
1.  Mess up5.  Wednesday ____
2.  Deteriorate 6.  Intense, severe
3.  Consign, relegate 7.  Resolve 
4.  Assert, claimARGDBE
UELNBGHTNGI
UCEAT
EGDDEAR
RTTSEUNSLTEET
GEELALANSWERS: 1A-Badger  5A-Night  6A-Acute  7A-Settle
1D-Bungle  2D-Degrade  3D-Entrust  4D-Allege  B-Sign language9-18-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are about 200 different forms of 
____ ____ used throughout the world.BONUS
SOLUTION ON PG. 101. ANATOMY: What is a common 
name for the condition known as “car -
ies”?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in phrase “ad astra” mean?
3. GAMES: How long is a bowling 
alley lane?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the Gulf 
of Tonkin?
5. MOVIES: Which Disney animat-
ed movie featured the song “Bibbi-
di-Bobbidi-Boo”?
6. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury author often featured the fictitious 
Yoknapatawpha County in his stories?
7. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which 
19th-century playwright and poet once 
wrote of September, “And all at once, 
summer collapsed into fall”?
8. U.S. STATES: Which is the only 
U.S. state to border four of the five 
Great Lakes?
9. COMICS: Which 1980s comic 
strip featured the characters of Milo, 
Steve and Opus?
10. FOOD & DRINK: What process 
gets rid of bacteria in milk?
Answers
1. Tooth decay
2. To the stars
3. 60 feet
4. Off the coast of Vietnam and Chi-
na
5. “Cinderella”
6. William Faulkner
7. Oscar Wilde
8. Michigan
9. “Bloom County”
10. Pasteurization
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 16, 2019King Features Weekly Service
ANSWERS ON PG. 1010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Small law office with network of approx 10 
computers seeking PT tech for troubleshoot -
ing software/hardware, general IT. Flexible 
hours, competitive pay. Send resume to 
resume@rothsteinforjustice.com    9-23-19-
10-14D
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES hiring for all 
positions in a fast-paced, friendly atmosphere. 
Must have good people skills, multitasking, 
have reliable transp. Day and night time open. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th St     
9-18-19-6-14D
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Looking for professional and affordable 
Homemaker and companion services?
Contact us @ 800-727-1559
email: Divinehealth1@ymail.com     9-23-19-
4-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 5:00 
- 7:00 p.m. on 9/23 - 9/26.  Verbal on M&W, 
Math on T&R.   To register and learn the 
room location, go to the TC website www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on “Study 
Skills" then "Workshops.”       9-23-19-3-2014 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
By Peter A. Collins
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/18/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/18/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, September 18, 2019
ACROSS
1 Starbucks orders, 
casually
6 Carnival staples
11 Chance
15 Perform better 
than
16 Scandal-plagued 
energy company
17 Witness’ promise
18 #1 hit for Jerry 
Lee Lewis
21 Squealed on the 
bad guys
22 Oscar winner 
Kazan
23 Lemonlike fruit
24 Grocery chain 
with a red-and-
white logo
26 Like the Ninja 
Turtles
28 #1 hit for the 
Beach Boys
33 Vornado product
34 Landscaping tree
35 Peter was the 
first one
37 Application
38 Federal 
retirement org.
39 Couple of million?
42 Farm food
43 Justice __ Bader 
Ginsburg
45 Get going
48 Have bills
49 #1 hit for Johnny 
Rivers
53 “Let’s get 
together”
54 Best-liked, briefly
55 Kite carrier
58 Italy’s Villa d’__
60 One of 12 on 
a die
64 #1 hit for Jim 
Croce
67 Brit’s kitchen floor
68 Abates
69 Threw in
70 Dispatch, as a 
dragon
71 Oboist’s supply
72 Hired thugs
DOWN
1 Easy runs
2 General feeling
3 Dodge Viper 
engine
4 Slowly, in music
5 Drunkard
6 Genuine
7 Undecided8 Advice giver on 
SiriusXM Radio
9 Canon camera 
named for a 
dawn goddess
10 Winter vehicle on 
treads
11 Convertible type
12 Tiny margin of 
victory
13 Another, in 
España
14 “__ what?”
19 One of a pair of 
cartoon slackers
20 It’s over in 
France
25 National econ. 
stats
27 Grow fond of
28 Go from E to F?
29 __ a customer
30 “Soon”
31 Emphatic word of 
refusal
32 What salmon do 
upstream
33 Stole from a coat 
store?
36 __ contact
40 River through 
Dublin
41 Span. miss
44 Neighborhood 
pal, in slang46 Attorney general 
under Ronald 
Reagan
47 Blows one’s 
stack
50 Mohammad __ 
Pahlavi: last shah 
of Iran
51 Farm contraption
52 Engage in to 
excess
55 OPEC units
56 Mass transit 
option57 Barry Humphries 
alter ego  
Dame __
59 Mix, as salad
61 Extinct bird
62 __ Stacy: 
Spider-Man  
love interest
63 They might be 
loose or tight
65 Ka __: 
southernmost Big 
Island point
66 Purse
By Evan Mahnken
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/17/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/17/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 17, 2019
ACROSS
1 Activist Parks
5 First bird to attack 
in “The Birds”
9 “¿Qué __?”
13 Overly neat, say
14 Irish New Ager
15 Deep sleep
16 Amazon founder
18 2001 bankruptcy 
headliner
19 Corn serving
20 Very focused, as 
an athlete
22 “Of course!”
24 Some dadaist art
26 Voices one’s view
27 Scolds
29 Clear dirty dishes 
from
30 HS promgoers
31 Tops of waves
32 Small batteries
33 Pleasing to look 
at ... or a phonetic 
hint to a two-letter 
sequence in 
16-, 20-, 51- and 
56-Across
39 Bash into
40 Rapscallions
42 Soak (up), as 
gravy
45 Halves of qts.
46 Look over again
47 Like Goldilocks’ 
first bowl of 
porridge
49 Send to the 
canvas
50 Code-breaking 
org.
51 Expatriate 
American poet 
arrested for 
treason in 1945
53 Tiresome grind
55 Had a smoke
56 Aztec emperor
60 One-eyed 
“Futurama” 
character
61 Earnest request
62 Dog food brand
63 LAX landing list
64 Some 35mm 
cameras
65 Open-handed hit
DOWN
1 Koothrappali on 
“The Big Bang 
Theory”2 Common bill
3 Low-crime part of 
town
4 __ Romeo: 
sports car
5 “Gosh!”
6 Opens, as a 
parka
7 Rhone cathedral 
city
8 At the back of the 
pack
9 Swindler with a 
scheme named 
for him
10 Cooks’ wear
11 Earlier
12 “Gunsmoke” 
actor James
15 Leaks slowly
17 Like an overtired 
child, perhaps
21 One may be 
hidden under a 
welcome mat
22 “Grey’s Anatomy” 
network
23 “__ goes 
nothing!”
25 Fall back on
28 Beast of burden
29 Scroogean scoff
32 20s dispenser34 “Old Town Road” 
rapper Lil __ X
35 Cry after 
a stunning 
performance
36 Slangy assent
37 Happening later
38 Moments, briefly
41 Caribbean music
42 __ Artois: Belgian 
beer
43 More slimy
44 Stout relative45 Dad
46 Original “SNL” 
cast member 
Gilda
48 Lugs
49 Small hill
52 Baseball’s “men 
in blue”
54 Guns from Israel
57 Univ. aides
58 UFC fighting 
style
59 Egyptian snake
09/16/19
ANSWER BELOW
SOLUTION BELOW
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE1. ANATOMY: What is a common 
name for the condition known as “car -
ies”?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in phrase “ad astra” mean?
3. GAMES: How long is a bowling 
alley lane?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the Gulf 
of Tonkin?
5. MOVIES: Which Disney animat-
ed movie featured the song “Bibbi-
di-Bobbidi-Boo”?
6. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury author often featured the fictitious 
Yoknapatawpha County in his stories?
7. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which 
19th-century playwright and poet once 
wrote of September, “And all at once, 
summer collapsed into fall”?
8. U.S. STATES: Which is the only 
U.S. state to border four of the five 
Great Lakes?
9. COMICS: Which 1980s comic 
strip featured the characters of Milo, 
Steve and Opus?
10. FOOD & DRINK: What process 
gets rid of bacteria in milk?
Answers
1. Tooth decay
2. To the stars
3. 60 feet
4. Off the coast of Vietnam and Chi-
na
5. “Cinderella”
6. William Faulkner
7. Oscar Wilde
8. Michigan
9. “Bloom County”
10. Pasteurization
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 16, 2019King Features Weekly Service
TRIVIA TEST ANSWERSPUZZLE 
SOLUTIONSFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Women's golf earns ﬁ  rst win of the season 
Florida's women's golf team won the Glass City Invitational in T oledo, Ohio, 
on Tuesday. Four UF golfers ﬁ  nished in the top 20 individually. Read more 
online at www.alligator.org/sports/Former Florida track and ﬁ  eld 
star Grant Holloway will be 
the honorary Mr. Two Bits in 
Saturday's game against the 
T ennessee Volunteers. 
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
No. 9 Florida begins its three-
game homestand and second 
conference game against the Ten-
nessee Volunteers on Saturday. 
Both teams come into the match-
up with a lot of questions still left 
to be answered, so here are three 
things Florida fans should look 
out for during the game:
Florida’s Run Game
UF’s ground attack has been 
uninspired through its ﬁ  rst three 
games of the season with a lack 
of push at the line of scrimmage, 
running backs missing holes and 
carriers being hit in the backﬁ  eld. In a scheme that relies a lot on 
running the ball to open up the 
offense, it has simply been sub-
par. With backup quarterback 
Kyle Trask now ﬁ  lling in for the 
injured Feleipe Franks, improve-
ment will have to be immediate 
and substantial as the team leans 
more on the run game.
The Gators rank No. 91 in 
the country in rushing offense 
entering Week 4 at 139.7 yards 
per game. Senior running back 
Lamical Perine, thought to be 
the team’s best rusher coming 
into the season, has just 120 to-
tal yards on the ground off 34 
carries. He peaked in the Sept. 7 
home-opener against FCS oppo-
nent UT Martin with a pedestrian 51-yard performance. 
UF will try to use the match-
up against a lackluster Tennes-
see run defense to open up the 
ground game. The Volunteers  
have allowed 157 yards per game 
rushing and ﬁ  ve touchdowns on 
the ground, so far. 
The focus will be Florida’s 
offensive line, which began the 
year with four new starters and 
has stumbled through its ﬁ  rst 
three contests. The young and 
unseasoned line has been inca-
pable of getting a consistent push 
at the line for the run game, often 
allowing too much penetration 
and offering the ball carrier no 
room to maneuver. 
Coach Dan Mullen said he was satisﬁ  ed with the unit after 
the Kentucky game but will have 
to be patient through the grow-
ing pains. Tennessee will provide 
another evaluation.
UF Secondary vs. Tennessee 
Pass Game
Florida’s front seven has been 
the highlight of the defense to be-
gin the season. 
Intimidating from the ﬁ  rst 
whistle to the last, UF has piled 
up 16 total sacks in its ﬁ  rst three 
games, leading the country in 
that category. 
But the line can’t do it all.
The front’s sack total has 
trended down since its 10-sack 3 things to watch for in Tennessee game
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Holly Carlton must have felt 
like she had the weight of the 
O’Dome on her shoulders after 
helping her team ﬁ  ght point after 
point in the second set, a frame 
the Gators trailed more than they 
led. 
But no anxiety showed as 
Carlton took her approach to-
ward the endline and sent the 
blue and white sphere ﬂ  ying 
over the net with a serve on set 
point. 
The ﬂ  oater ricocheted off of FSU’s Payton Caffrey and into 
the stands. 
Point, Florida. 
From there, No. 11 Florida (6-
2) took over the match, notching 
its 43rd win of the series against 
in-state rival No. 23 Florida State 
(5-3) Wednesday night in the 
O’Connell Center.
The ﬁ  rst set saw a good bit 
of back and forth between the 
Gators and Seminoles before 
Florida found its stride. Sopho-
more outside hitter Thayer Hall 
led the charge with 14 kills on 
28 swings throughout the match, 
only logging one error. 
Hall exposed a couple of 
sweet spots on FSU’s side of the 
net with hard-cross kills and 
shots to the belly of the court. 
And junior outside hitter Paige 
Hammons was right there with 
her notching 10 kills herself. 
Hammons said the coaching 
staff played a huge role in giving 
the team insight on open shots 
and the best spots on the court 
for their attacks. 
“It’s making the right deci-
sions as a setter, making the 
right decisions as hitters, but 
at some point as hitters at this 
level, you have to bring heat,” 
coach Mary Wise said after the 
match. “You have to pop the ball 
and it’s really hard to do that if 
you're off time.”The second set saw a differ-
ent Florida squad than the ﬁ  rst 
frame, with the Gators trailing 
for the most part. 
It wasn’t until sophomore 
setter Marlie Monserez notched 
back-to-back dumps to the cen-
ter of the court (essentially, the 
setter’s way of getting a kill) that 
Florida took its second lead of 
the frame, 17-16. 
Monserez had an incredible 
night logging 40 assists and four 
kills, an abnormal accomplish-
ment for a setter to achieve in a 
three-set match. 
“I thought Marlie (Monserez) 
was her best today and it’s pret-
ty heroic what she’s doing with 
the game and controlling the ball 
as good as she does,” Wise said. 
“And as a result, the hitters get 
such good looks.” 
And while Monserez was 
happy to log some points for her 
team offensively, she credited 
everything back to her offense 
and making things easier for 
them in the long run. 
“When our hitters are hitting 
so well, it takes a lot of pressure 
off of them when I can attack,” 
Monserez said. “And when I can 
attack it opens up seams, so ev-
erything is just to open up my 
hitters.” 
Florida garnered a ﬁ  ve-point Gators sweep Seminoles at home
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Marlie Monserez tallied 40 
assists on Tuesday night. 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida safety Shawn Davis had two 
interceptions against Kentucky. 
I feel that the reality 
of what happened 
Saturday night 
is lost on a lot of 
people.
Yes, the Florida 
football team won its 
seventh-consecutive 
game. And yes, the 
Gators lost starting 
quarterback Feleipe 
Franks for the sea-
son. And again, yes, Kyle Trask 
undoubtedly wrote himself into 
UF folklore with his miraculous 
fourth quarter comeback win over 
the Wildcats.
But the gloomier truth about 
that trip to Lexington, Kentucky, 
for the Gators is that they were 
just an untimely gust of wind 
away from potentially having an 
entirely different outcome.
Chance Poore — an unfortu-
nate name for a kicker — was just 
inches wide right on his go-ahead 
ﬁ  eld goal attempt late in the fourth 
quarter from 35 yards out. The 
missed kick didn’t unfold the way 
most potential go-ahead kicks do.
The fact that there was still time 
on the clock after Poore’s missed 
kick took away from its ﬁ  nality. 
It took away from the excitement. 
The Gators scoring quickly on 
a Josh Hammond 76-yard rush-
ing touchdown and thus leaving 
the door open for the Wildcats to 
force overtime made the end of 
the game just plain weird.
Florida’s offense was extremely 
poor for three quarters. Trask lead-
ing two scoring drives late in the game and Hammond’s 
rushing score helped 
to mask that perfor-
mance in the box 
score. It also covered 
up the fact that the 
Gators running game 
was nonexistent and 
would have averaged 
a measly two yards 
per carry and fallen 
well short of 100 yards 
if it weren’t for Hammond.
UF came storming back in the 
fourth to retake the lead. Even so, 
the Gators left themselves vulner-
able to such a kick by their sub-
par play for most of the night 
and were largely at the mercy of 
Poore’s foot.
If UF lost that game and its 
starting quarterback, the talk 
around the program would have 
a completely different tone. But 
Florida escaped, still undefeated 
and with lofty season goals still 
well within reach.
I’m not trying to take anything 
away from the comeback. I’m just 
trying to put into perspective just 
how close that kick was and how 
different the dialogue around this 
team could have been.
It’s easy to look at the Kentucky 
game through blue- and orange-
colored glasses.
Trask emerged a hero. The 
Gators emerged victorious. But 
that luck or divine intervention 
by the football powers will not be 
enough against the likes of Au-
burn, LSU and Georgia in a four-
week span.Chance changed UF's seasonKyle's Files
By Kyle Wood
Twitter: Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 12SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 1212  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeSOCCER
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida soccer team’s conﬁ  dence 
has grown rapidly over the past week.
It snapped a four-game losing streak last 
Thursday in a 4-0 thrashing of Florida Gulf 
Coast and followed that up with a domi-
nant 3-0 victory against Miami on Sunday 
to give coach Becky Burleigh her 500th ca-
reer win, making her the only woman in 
Division I soccer history to reach that mark.
Burleigh's team has found its groove at 
just the right time as the Gators open up 
conference play against LSU on Thursday 
night in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
In order to steal three points from the 
2018 SEC Tournament champions, UF will 
rely heavily on two players who have made 
a resounding impact as of late:Senior forward Vanessa Kara
Vanessa Kara was a proven threat at 
Drexel before transferring to Florida, re-
cording the second-most goals (22) and 
third-most assists (11) in program history.
However, Kara got off to a slow start 
with the orange and blue. She started the 
ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve games of the season and came off 
the bench in the sixth, but failed to accu-
mulate any points in 334 minutes of action.
Her scoreless run ended on Thursday, 
as Kara found the back of the net twice 
against the Eagles. She followed that up 
with a goal on Sunday against the Hurri-
canes to help bring the Gators to .500.
“(It) deﬁ  nitely (feels) really good," she 
said. "It shows that our attacking unit is 
working better. It is great to get that rolling 
just before conference play begins.”
Kara, who earned SEC Offensive Player 
of the Week honors on Monday, must con-
tinue good form to propel Florida over LSU.Redshirt junior goalkeeper Susi Espi-
noza
Susi Espinoza played an important part 
in UF’s ﬁ  rst two wins of the season, reg-
istering a combined 12 saves and a clean 
sheet, but her success halted after that.
She conceded a total of nine goals as 
Florida lost its next four games.
But Espinoza redeemed herself on 
Thursday and Sunday. She allowed zero 
goals in both games and distributed the ball 
effectively to spark attacking chances.
Espinoza will have to channel her inner 
Kaylan Marckese — the school’s all-time 
leader in shutouts who Espinoza replaced 
this season — for UF to snag a victory in its 
ﬁ  rst game of SEC play.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgPair of Gators will be key as team opens conference play
Lawren Simmons / Alligator Staff
Forward Vanessa Kara earned SEC Offensive 
Player of the Week honors on Monday. 
lead before the Seminoles start-
ed to regain some momentum 
in the second frame, tying it up 
at 23-all. The O’Dome crowd 
watched each play with intensi-
ty as the Gators battled one rally 
after the next to take the set. 
Back-to-back kills from Hall and 
Carlton followed by a service 
ace from Carlton gave Florida 
the second frame win. 
The Gators sealed the win 
against their in-state rival in 
the third frame, 25-14. Overall, 
Florida’s offense stood out in 
the ﬁ  nal set as the Gators out-
killed the Seminoles 11-5 for the 
match win.Senior middle blocker Ra-
chael Kramer returned to action 
Wednesday night after missing 
two games this weekend with 
an undisclosed injury. 
In a duo with sophomore 
middle blocker Lauren Dooley, 
the two combined for 15 kills on 
29 swings. Dooley alone claimed 
nine of those kills.
“I can’t say we’ve seen 
what we’ve seen in the last 
two matches at all in the past 
month, until about a week ago,” 
Wise said. “Funny thing about 
conﬁ  dence, she’s playing with a 
lot of it right now.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgperformance against Miami in Week 0, and the ever-
dwindling pressure rate on quarterbacks has forced 
the UF secondary to make more plays. 
The defense forced more takeaways last game 
against Kentucky, culminating in a four-turnover per-
formance. Shawn Davis led the way with two crucial 
interceptions in the second half of the comeback win.
The secondary needs to continue progressing and 
has a good test against efﬁ  cient Tennessee quarter-
back Jarrett Guarantano, who has seven touchdowns 
on the year with just two interceptions. 
Kyle Trask
Trask is the big name on campus after his perfor-
mance against Kentucky last week. 
The longtime backup came into the fourth quarter 
after starter Feleipe Franks went down with an ankle 
injury. He tallied 126 yards on nine completions, a rushing touchdown and led his team to 19 unan-
swered points in the comeback win.
All eyes will be on him to see if he can replicate his 
heroic performance, but it won’t be as easy. 
Tennessee ranks No. 14 nationally in pass yards al-
lowed with 149 per game and has forced six turnovers 
coming into the Week 4 matchup. UT also has a six 
sacks on the season. 
Trask showed poise in the pocket against Kentucky 
but may have his hands full with aggressive blitz pack-
ages sent to disrupt his play behind his raw offensive 
line.
How he handles a whole game under center will 
paint a clearer picture of his ability looking forward.
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 11 FOOTBALL,  from pg. 11Hall has 107 kills so far Florida plays UT on Saturday at home