We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Students promote wheelchair basketball 
Able-bodied members want to promote inclusivity, pg. 5
SG president hires lawyer  
The lawyer was hired amid potential impeachment, pg. 4SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGators looking toward FSU despite 
SEC fate being sealed
Florida isn’t going to Atlanta, but that doesn’t 
mean it hasn’t progressed in 2019, pg 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 37
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
IBC, LA CASITA REOPEN 
AFTER RECONSTRUCTION
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite cold, wet weather, hundreds 
of people felt warm as they gathered 
this weekend for the reopenings of the 
Institute of Black Culture and the Insti-
tute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures.
The institutes reopened to students 
on Saturday and Sunday with ribbon-cutting ceremonies for each building 
that included speakers, performances 
and food. 
Both houses were rebuilt after being 
torn down in 2017 for structural dam-
age, mold, termites and more issues. 
Originally, construction was supposed 
to begin January 2017 and ﬁ  nish Fall 
2018. When UF Multicultural Diversity 
Affairs staff proposed to combine the 
institutes, students protested and the 
timeline was pushed back so two sepa-
rate buildings would be built.IBC was originally built in 1971 and 
La Casita was built in 1994 after minor-
ity students peacefully protested for a 
space of their own on campus. As of 
2018, about 6 percent of students are 
black and about 19 percent are Hispan-
ic/Latinx, according to UF enrollment 
demographics.
Beaudelaine Mesadieu, the proj-
ect advisory committee student chair, 
welcomed guests and spoke about the 
journey of planning and construction ‘A place free of judgement’: Black, Hispanic 
and Latinx students welcomed back home
SEE IBC/CASITA,  PAGE 4A car crash left three 
adults dead and a newborn 
and 4-year-old injured Sat-
urday on State Road 24 and 
Northeast 69th Way.
Just before midnight, an 
unnamed person in a 2019 
Hyundai Elantra was driving 
west in the eastbound lanes 
of Waldo Road, or State Road 
24, when it collided head-on 
with a 2007 Toyota RAV4 
with the two adults and two 
children inside, according to 
a Florida Highway Patrol re-
port.
Christopher Hesling, 30, 
and Brittany Trowell Hesling, 
31, both of St. Marys, Geor-
gia, and the Hyundai driver 
died, according to the report. 
The children were taken to 
UF Health Shands Hospital. The 4-year-old is critically in-
jured while the 6-month-old 
sustained minor injuries.
The Hyundai driver’s 
name, age and gender is still 
being determined due to the 
ﬁ  re damage from the crash, 
according to the report. As of 
Sunday, it is unknown if the 
Hyundai driver consumed al-
cohol prior to the crash.
In January, seven people, 
including ﬁ  ve children, were 
killed in a crash along Inter-
state 75 north of Gainesville 
while driving to Walt Dis-
ney World. Last month, a 
20-year-old Santa Fe Student 
was killed in a tanker truck 
crash along Northwest 43rd 
Street.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgThree adults killed, 
child and newborn 
injured in car crash
UF TRANSPORTATION 
AND PARKING SERVICES
 IS INVESTIGATING 
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
When Kitan Adeniji 
went to the ribbon-cutting 
ceremony for UF’s Institute 
of Black Culture Friday af-
ternoon, she felt that the 
university was listening to 
black students for a change.
Hours later, she sat in 
a SNAP van while she and 
her friends were called the 
N-word by two white male 
students. She said the prog-
ress was a facade.
SNAP, or Student Night-
time Auxiliary Patrol, is 
a free transportation ser-
vice for UF students. Vans, mostly driven by students, 
transport students around 
campus, similar to an Uber. 
SNAP, which is under UF 
Transportation and Park-
ing Services, is funded us-
ing student fees given to UF 
Student Government.
“[UF’s] diversity aspect 
is for show, and they’re 
not owning in on the prob-
lems,” Adeniji said.
Adeniji, an 18-year-old 
UF business administra-
tion freshman, and six of 
her friends, who are also 
students, were returning to 
their dorms at about 2 a.m. 
Saturday when two white 
male students interrupted 
their conversation. 
One said “Go to sleep, 
n****s,” while the other Black students called 
racist slur in SNAP van
THE CRASH HAPPENED JUST BEFORE 
MIDNIGHT SATURDAY
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff WriterSam Thomas /  Alligator Staff
Tim Fik, guitarist for the Bridget Kelly Blues Band, performs on Bo Diddley Plaza Saturday during the festival. 
Fik, a UF geography professor, also teaches a course on pop music and culture. SEE SNAP,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  69° LOW  46°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT'S HAPPENING
Fulbright Luncheon with Gary 
Monroe
When: Tuesday, 11:30 a.m. to 1 
p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, Room G-320
What: The UF Fulbright 
Lecture Committee and the 
International Center are holding 
a free luncheon event as part of 
International Education Week. 
Gary Monroe's photographic 
work is featured in "The Last 
Resort" on Netflix. As a two-time 
Fulbright scholar, Monroe seeks 
to understand the migration of 
Haitians to Miami and the impact 
they make on South Florida's 
cultural landscape. Lunch will be 
provided. Please RSVP by Nov. 10 
by emailing UFFulbrightRSVP@
gmail.com.
Culture Without Borders
When: Wednesday, 6 to 8 p.m.
Where: Pugh Hall Ocora
What: UF MASA invites 
organizations to host a 
celebration of underrepresented 
immigrants and refugees in the 
United States from different 
cultural backgrounds. This event 
would inform the audience on 
how to get involved with all the 
organizations present. There will 
be a Q&A session with student 
panelists who identify as an 
immigrant or refugee. There will 
also be food, music and tabling. 
At the end of the event, we will 
be having a vigil/lighting service 
with Chispas to honor those who 
have fallen through the journey of 
seeking "refuge" or immigrating. 
Transgender Day of 
Remembrance
When: Wednesday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, S.E. 4th 
Street
What: The Alachua TranQuility 
Community Group and Pride 
Community Center have 
come together to host the 
annual Transgender Day of Remembrance. TDOR is a vigil 
held Nov. 20 to raise awareness 
of violence against transgender 
people and “mourn and honor 
the lives of those who might 
otherwise be forgotten.” TDOR 
started in the Castro district of 
San Francisco in 1999 to honor 
the memory of Rita Hester, a 
transgender woman of color who 
was killed in November of 1998.
If an organization wishes to 
table at this event, or for more 
information visit the website 
www.fltranq.com/tdor.
TEDxUFSalon: What I Stand for 
Is What I Stand On
When: Wednesday,  6 to 8 p.m.
Where: Bryan Hall 232
What: The second TEDxUFSalon 
of the 2019-2020 school year 
will center around how people 
can move beyond just recycling, 
and make mindful choices 
and ultimately improve the 
sustainability of our communities. 
The event is free and will provide 
food, drinks and discussion with 
environmental leaders.
How to be an Antiracist: A 
Conversation with Ibram X. 
Kendi
When: Thursday, 5:30 to 7 p.m. 
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: Ibram X. Kendi, formerly a 
UF assistant professor of African 
American history, will discuss 
his latest book How to be An 
Antiracist. The novel discusses 
how everyone, at times, is 
complicit in racism and debunks 
myths and taboos surrounding 
racial differences. The event is 
free and open to the public. No 
tickets are required. A book 
signing will follow the talk.
21st annual ‘ Trashformations’
When: Friday, 6-8 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History
What: See how Alachua County 
middle school, high school and college students transform 
“waste” into creative works of art 
on Nov. 22 from 6 to 8 p.m. The 
Florida Museum of Natural History 
will display winning entries from 
the 21st annual Trashformations 
through Monday, Dec. 2. For 
more information or to complete 
the online application, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
trashformations or call 352-548-
1297.
Taps for Tortoises
When: Saturday, 1 to 5:30 p.m.
Where: Swamp Head Brewery, 
3650 SW 42nd Ave.
What: This fundraiser event 
benefits Ashton Biological 
Preserve and features a special 
talk by the Ashton team at 3:30 
p.m. "Stubbies and Steins" food 
truck will have food available for 
purchase. All donations and $1 
proceeds from each sale of the 
specialty gopher tortoise beer 
will benefit Ashton Biological 
Preserve.
The 7th Annual Survivors of 
Suicide Candlelight Vigil
When: Saturday, 10 a.m. to 12 
p.m.
Where: Cofrin Nature Park, 4810 
N.W. Eighth Ave.
What: Activities will start at 
10:00 a.m. with the ceremony 
beginning at 11 a.m. This event is 
free and open to the community, 
and refreshments will be 
provided. The Judy Broward 
Survivors of Suicide Memory 
Garden was established in 2013 
with the purpose of serving those 
who have experienced the loss 
of a loved one to suicide. The 
garden offers a space for peaceful 
reflection to those who have 
experienced any kind of loss and 
is also open to the community for 
those who wish to find retreat 
amidst the beauty and comfort 
offered by the garden. 
Generation Sketch Comedy: 
“We Got HOT”
When: Dec. 6, 8:30 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom West
What: Gainesville's Longest 
Running Sketch Comedy Troupe 
is back with their Fall show. 
Generation Sketch Comedy has 
been providing laughs to the UF 
and Gainesville community since 
the Spring of 2006. Admission is 
a donation of your choice, but the 
recommended amount is $2. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 37
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeChloe Greenberg, Lonnie Numa, Danny Khor, 
Manny Rea, Allessandra Inzinna, Rachel Kelsey, 
Samia Lagmis, Ashlyn JonesMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Viel, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoMONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
SEN. RICK SCOTT 
TWEETED SUPPORT 
FOR MURPHY
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Body President Mi-
chael Murphy’s potential impeach-
ment has reached a state wide and 
national audience, prompting him 
to seek legal counsel. 
On Oct. 10. Donald Trump Jr. 
and Kimberly Guilfoyle came to 
speak at UF. About three weeks 
later, emails between Murphy and 
a President Donald Trump re-elec-
tion campaign ofﬁ  cial surfaced, 
sparking responses both within 
and beyond the UF community.
Last Tuesday, several senators 
called for Murphy’s impeachment in a resolution signed by more than 
100 students and alumni.
President Fuchs said he stays 
away from UF Student Government 
but he was advised by university 
attorneys the event was within 
legal grounds before it happened, 
according to a POLITICO reporter.
“They said that it was within 
the law at that point,” Fuchs said. 
“Now there may be new develop-
ments, so we’ll see.” 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said UF administration separates it-
self from SG matters, and it would 
be strange if they intervened with 
Murphy’s impeachment. 
“In the university’s subsequent 
review of documentation and cor-
respondence related to the event, 
we have not found any violations 
of law or policy regarding cam-paign activities or 
the expenditure 
of student Activ-
ity and Services 
fee funding,” Or-
lando wrote in a 
statement. 
Murphy took 
on an attorney in 
the aftermath of 
the Trump Jr. event. Daniel E. Nor-
dby, a partner at Shutts & Bowen 
LLP, responded to the allegations.
“Michael Murphy did not vio-
late federal election law, state law, 
or any university policies,” Nordby 
wrote in an email.” Rather, this sit-
uation is reﬂ  ective of students on 
college campuses across America 
that are intolerant of conservative 
views.” 
Murphy contacted presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders’ 
campaign, Nordby wrote. 
“Michael ﬁ  ghts on campus to 
ensure all students’ viewpoints are 
reﬂ  ected in campus programming 
and will continue to ﬁ  ght for those 
students until the end of his term 
as Student Body President,” Nor-
dby wrote. 
Murphy did not respond to The 
Alligator’s request for comment. 
Nordby was a general counsel 
to former Florida Governor and 
current Sen. Rick Scott, who also 
shared his thoughts on Murphy’s 
potential impeachment via Twit-
ter. He, like Nordby, wrote college 
campuses have a trend of avoiding 
different political views. 
The Republican Party of Florida 
tweeted asking people to stand 
with Murphy, along with a link that looks like a petition, but redi-
rects to a donation page when us-
ers add their contact information.
“It is completely outrageous 
that the UF student president is 
facing impeachment for bringing 
@DonaldJTrumpJr to speak on 
campus,” the tweet said. “If it was 
Chelsea Clinton, they’d be praising 
him.” 
The Republican Party of Florida 
and Scott’s Tallahassee and D.C. 
ofﬁ  ces did not respond to The Al-
ligator’s request for comment by 
deadline. 
“Enough with safe spaces and 
Cancel Culture,” Scott tweeted. 
“We need to STAND with Michael 
Murphy.” 
@AprilMRubin    
arubin@alligator.orgUF Student Body President hires lawyer amid impeachment resolutionHEADLINER’S FIRST 
TIME IN FLAVET FIELD
By Nicholas Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
It was cold, dark and misty as 
hundreds, then thousands, of stu-
dents began to ﬁ  ll in around the 
stage at Flavet Field Friday night.
More than 5,000 students gath-
ered for a night of chill vibes, with 
genre-fusing hip-hop musician 
Quinn XCII and electronic music 
duo Hippie Sabotage performing 
at the free concert hosted by Stu-
dent Government Productions.
SGP’s decision to bring hip-
hop and EDM artists to campus 
was a response to the UF Student 
Body’s interests in the genres, 
SGP chairman Jimmy Wheeler 
wrote in an email.
“After conducting a campus-
wide survey this past year that saw 
over 1,500 students respondents, 
the top three genres turned out to 
be hip-hop/rap, rock and EDM, 
respectively,” Wheeler wrote. “Since Gator Growl brought [a] 
country artist, we decided having 
a hip-hop/EDM show would be a 
nice change of pace for students.”
The music began at 7 p.m. 
when brothers Kevin and Jeff 
Saurer of Hippie Sabotage took 
the stage. Kevin mixed the beats 
while his brother played guitar 
and sang.
The band performed a collec-
tion of their hits, including “Devil 
Eyes” and “Drifter,” as rain glis-
tened through the stage lights. 
The crowd kept their hands raised 
in the air as they swayed and 
jumped to the strokes of Jeff’s gui-
tar and the smooth EDM rhythms.
An hour later headliner Mikael 
“Quinn XCII” Temrowski burst 
onto the stage dressed in a UF jer-
sey and immediately began sign-
ing his single “Sad Still.”
Once ﬁ  nished, Quinn intro-
duced himself to the audience and 
revved them up for Saturday’s 
football game against Missouri. 
“I understand you guys are 
playing Missouri tomorrow, so can we get a ‘F*** Missouri?’” he 
said.
The crowd happily chanted in 
response as Quinn continued to 
sing more of his songs, including 
“Candle,” “Love Me Less,” “Flare 
Guns” and his newest single “Sta-
cey.”
Samuel Orozco, an 18-year-old 
UF computer engineering fresh-
man, said seeing Quinn XCII was 
the ﬁ  rst time he and his friend had 
gone to a concert at Flavet Field.
“This was the ﬁ  rst time we 
heard about [the concert], we 
were like, ‘Oh yeah, we’re deﬁ  -
nitely going out,’” Orozco said. 
“I’ve seen some of [Quinn’s] live 
things, and he’s really good and 
he puts on a cool show, so I’m 
just excited to see.”
As Quinn’s set drew to a close, 
he made it clear to the crowd 
where he was going next. Like 
many others, he was off to Mid-
town to end his night with a drink.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgThousands gather for Quinn XCII, Hippie Sabotage
T ommy Wolfe / Contributor
Quinn XCII, a singer and songwriter known for using a blend of different 
musical genres, opens his arms to a crowd of about 250 people Friday night 
at Flavet Field as the headlining artist for the UF Student Government 
Productions Fall concert. 
Murphy
AVENUE SPECIAL4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019for the buildings. UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs thanked 
students, alumni and oth-
ers who helped contribute to 
the buildings. He also talked 
about how the buildings cre-
ate a sense of community for 
minority students.
“I’m so proud that both 
La Casita and the Institute of 
Black Culture next door are so 
beautiful,” Fuchs said on Sun-
day. “They’re so prominent, 
they’re such an important 
part of our campus, signaling 
their permanence and their 
preeminence.” 
Other speakers included 
D’Andra Mull, incoming vice 
president of student affairs; 
William Atkins, associate dean 
of students and senior director 
of Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs; Ashley Garner, Black 
Student Union president; Carl 
Simien, Black Affairs direc-
tor; Isabella Oliver, Hispanic 
Student Association president; 
Bianca Quiñones, Hispanic-
Latinx Affairs program direc-
tor; and Duane Whitehorse, a 
member of the Kiowa Native 
American Tribe.
Jaelle Coradin, a 19-year-
old UF mechanical engineer-
ing freshman, attended the 
IBC ribbon-cutting ceremony 
and said she felt a sense of 
community with other Afri-
can Americans there.
“It’s important to have 
a safe space,” Coradin said. 
“Even in classes, not that 
many people look like us, so 
it’s just a sense of comfort and 
safety to have this space.”Tyanna Griffiths, a 
19-year-old UF psychology 
sophomore, said the IBC is a 
safe place for her to celebrate 
her Caribbean culture.
“In history, we weren’t 
always welcome,” Griffiths 
said. “It encourages more 
black students to apply here 
because some people don’t 
feel like they would be safe 
here.”
Students at the ribbon-cut-
ting ceremony for La Casita 
also said the building provides 
a safe space for Hispanic and 
Latinx students. 
Ornella Saragusti, a 
21-year-old UF economics and 
political science senior, said 
when she first came to UF, 
La Casita was one of the first 
places that she visited.
“La Casita was a place 
of free judgment,” Saragusti 
said. “I was the truest form of 
myself there, and I think it’s 
really important to give those 
UF students the ability to find 
that place, especially if they’re 
so far from home.” 
Daniella Conde, an 
18-year-old UF communica-
tion sciences and disorders 
freshman, said La Casita is an 
important place for students 
to convene and learn about 
each other.
“It brings me a lot of joy to 
see everyone here together,” 
Conde said. “It’s a symbol 
of inclusion on campus and 
the diversity that our campus 
now has.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgIBC/CASITA,  from pg. 1Original buildings were demolished because of structural damage
Lawren Simmons / Alligator Staff
Carl Simien, UF President Kent Fuchs, Betty Stewart-Fullwood, William Atkins and Beaudelaine Mesadieu cut a 
ribbon Saturday, officially opening up the new Institute of Black Culture.
Lawren Simmons / Alligator Staff
Duane Whitehorse, a 72-year-old Kiowa Elder, begins the ceremony by blessing the new Institute of Hispanic-
Latino Cultures with tobacco. 
muttered under his breath that he 
would “rock them,” Adeniji said. 
After capturing the aftermath on vid-
eo, Adeniji posted it on Twitter, hoping 
someone would be held responsible. 
She said she had seen activism before 
where universities and companies were 
held responsible due to public pressure, 
not because they truly cared. She said if 
she complained directly to UF, nothing 
would change.
“It would be swept under the rug,” 
she said. “Nothing would be done.”
Scott Fox, senior director of TAPS, 
said he could not comment because 
TAPS had not yet received enough con-
text. 
“We continue to investigate the inci-
dent but do not have complete informa-
tion,” he wrote in an email. 
The first point in the SNAP rider 
code of conduct is to treat passengers 
and employees with “courtesy and re-
spect at all times,” according to the 
TAPS website.
Drivers determine what actions vio-late policies, and those found guilty 
may be asked to leave the van, accord-
ing to the TAPS website. Adeniji said 
the driver tried to deescalate the situa-
tion but did not move forward with any 
disciplinary action. 
The student in question defended 
himself by claiming that he had been 
saying it his whole life and had the “n-
word pass,” Adeniji said.
“Maybe he was thinking it was a 
friendly thing to say, but it wasn’t,” she 
said. “He’s white, and we’re black.”
To her and other black students, 
nothing excuses the students’ actions 
and the hundreds of microaggressions 
they face every day at a PWI, or pre-
dominantly white institution, she said. 
About 7 percent of UF students are 
black, according to 2018 enrollment 
data.
“It just shows white fragility,” Ad-
eniji said. “To him, since it’s a one-time 
thing, it’s just a mistake. If black people 
make one mistake, it follows the entire 
black community.”
@Aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgSNAP,  from pg. 1‘It just shows white fragility.’
THE DENTAL CLINIC 
WILL REMAIN OPEN
By Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
After 45 years of providing 
medical care to lower-income 
and uninsured residents, an Ala-
chua County clinic is stopping 
medical services. 
ACORN Clinic will be phas-
ing out its primary care medi-
cal clinic by the end of the year 
due to large cuts in legislative 
funding. However, the clinic 
will continue to provide dental 
services, said Candice King, the 
executive director of ACORN.
After searching for financially 
sustainable options for the clinic 
for several years, the board of 
directors voted to shut down the 
medical clinic in July 2019 due 
to a loss in funding over the past 
10 years, King said. 
“We weren’t happy that we 
had to do this, and they certainly 
aren’t happy that they’re having to make a change,” King said. 
“Many of them have been at 
ACORN clinic for many years.”
Since 1974, the Brooker-based 
clinic has provided healthcare 
with sliding scale fees, meaning 
the cost of a service is based on 
the patient’s income. The clinic 
often served uninsured patients, 
as well as Medicare and Medic-
aid patients in the rural areas of 
Alachua County, she said. 
“Our mission specifically has 
been to serve underserved and 
low-income, primarily rural, 
residents who have difficulty ac-
cessing affordable health care,” 
King said.
The clinic has set itself apart 
over the years with services un-
usual to rural clinics, such as 
acupuncture and massage ther-
apy, she said. It also provided 
opportunities for medical stu-
dents to learn from physicians 
working at private practices, UF 
Health Shands Hospital and the 
Malcolm Randall VA Medical 
Center. There are currently 12 slid-
ing scale primary care medical 
clinics within a 20 mile radius of 
ACORN that uninsured patients 
can go to instead, King said. For 
example, Medicaid patients can 
go to UF Health Shands Hospital.
Dr. Runi Foster, 56, is a clini-
cal associate professor of medi-
cine within the division of pul-
monary and critical care at UF 
Health who has volunteered at 
ACORN for 25 years. She also 
received the Mobile Outreach 
Clinic and Community Educator 
Award for her work at ACORN. 
Foster said communities 
need clinics such as ACORN to 
serve uninsured and Medicaid 
patients that are turned away 
from private or university prac-
tices. 
“We need some kind of safety 
net program, and I think ACORN 
was one of the best clinics out 
there for safety net,” she said. 
@priya_dames
pdames@alligator.orgACORN Medical Clinic to close its doorsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
ABLE-BODIED 
MEMBERS TO 
PROMOTE UF CLUB
By Stephanie Grabli 
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Wheelchair Basketball 
Club only has able-bodied play-
ers, but its players are trying to 
change that. 
The club’s president, Aman-
da Zoghindy, a 20-year-old UF 
health science senior, said the 
club, which was founded in early 
February, has had trouble reach-
ing people with disabilities. The 
club plans to participate in the 
UF RecSports Wheelchair Bas-
ketball Tournament Wednesday 
to promote itself and its mission 
of inclusivity. 
Zoghindy, who is able-
bodied, said the club had two 
wheelchair-user members, but 
both left this summer — one 
graduated, and the other lost 
interest. 
Even though the team is 
made up of students who can 
walk, Zoghindy said it is a great 
experience to learn about mobil-
ity disabilities.  
“It is really hard to play, but it 
really opens your mind to some-
thing brand new, something that 
you would have never thought 
of before,” Zoghindy said.  
Dug Jones, team coach and 
associate vice president for eco-
nomic development at Santa Fe 
College, has played and coached 
wheelchair basketball for more 
than 15 years. 
Jones is happy there are able-
bodied people on the team be-
cause they can understand how 
disabled people operate, he said. 
However, the club needs to ﬁ  nd 
students with disabilities so they 
can have the same opportunities 
as able-bodied students. 
He said people might be hesi-
tant to play because they might 
think it is offensive to people 
with disabilities, but they need to see the wheelchair as adap-
tive equipment instead of the 
hallmark of a health condition. 
“It’s important that there’s a 
sport on this campus for people 
with disabilities because they 
can’t necessarily participate in 
all the able-bodied activities, at 
least not equally,” Jones said.
Jones started playing after an 
injury in high school put him in 
a wheelchair. He said the sport 
saved his life.
“I was an athlete, and it al-
lowed me to return to being ac-
tive, athletic and competitive,” 
Jones said. “For me, it was a 
great vehicle for returning to be-
ing happy, active and productive 
in life.” 
The club, which practices 
Thursdays at 6 p.m., was rec-
ognized as an ofﬁ  cial sports 
club in October, which means 
RecSports advises the club and 
provides it with the resources to 
grow, Grifﬁ  n said. 
However, the club practices 
at Broward Outdoor Recreation-
al Center. Carolyn Hanson, the 
club’s adviser and assistant pro-
fessor at the UF College of Public 
Health and Health Professions, 
said this is an issue because the 
wheelchairs are stored at South-
west Recreation Center, and 
team members use four cars to 
take chairs back and forth.
The team has not been al-
lowed to hold regular practices 
at the center’s indoor court, 
which they need to recruit peo-
ple with disabilities, Hanson 
said. After the club’s board dis-
cussed this with Jon Broska, the 
UF RecSports associate director 
for sports programs, Broska said 
he will contact RecSports clubs 
to make an inclusive practice 
schedule for Spring.  
“They [RecSports] have on 
their website that it’s an inclu-
sive sport, open to all kinds of 
people,” Hanson said. “We are 
feeling that we are not being in-
cluded in that inclusivity.” Wheelchair basketball 
club struggles to enroll HE IS THE SECOND 
SPEAKER IN A SERIES
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Race is not real, Christopher Leb-
ron said. It’s a way for people to con-
sider themselves better than others.
The Johns Hopkins University phi-
losophy professor challenged modern 
conceptions of race Thursday night in 
his speech, “‘A Coming Out Of Our-
selves’: Knowing Our Place In Racial 
Injustice” at Smathers Library. 
Lebron’s speech was the second in-
stallment in the “Race and the Promise 
of Participation” 2019-2020 Rethinking 
the Public Sphere Part I speaker series 
hosted by the UF Center for the Hu-
manities and the Public Sphere.
He encouraged the room of about 
30 students and faculty to reconsider 
their understanding of race.
“Race is not a biological idea,” he 
said. “It’s not a scientiﬁ  c idea. It’s one 
that’s a social construction.”
Lebron said a lack of “moral imagi-
nation” blocks social justice because white people can’t understand how it 
feels to be black, and it limits their ca-
pacity for sympathy. 
“Just lacking the curiosity in the 
ﬁ  rst place is usually the ﬁ  rst place any-
one ever goes wrong,” he said. “This 
to me is what white privilege is about, 
right? The presumption that one is al-
ready on one’s way when they are, in 
fact, not on their way.”
Lebron integrated concepts, poems 
and work from well-known black writ-
ers, including James Baldwin and Toni 
Morrison, that describe the black ex-
perience.
Tiffany Pennamon, a 25-year-old 
UF English doctoral student, attended 
the speech. She said as a black English 
student, she appreciated his inclusion 
of important black literature.
“I think a lot of people discount the 
value of the humanities and just writ-
ing in terms of how it can implement 
social change,” she said. “And so just 
to hear him really emphasize just the 
inherent value of this work to really 
try to... reimagine what it means to be 
a marginalized person in this world.”
Barbara Mennel, Rothman chair and director for the 
UF Center for the 
Humanities and 
the Public Sphere, 
said the depart-
ment invited Leb-
ron because of his 
focus on race. She 
hopes people will 
better understand 
the public sphere, which Oxford Bib-
liographies deﬁ  nes as the social space 
where ideas and thoughts are commu-
nicated, as a result of it. 
Leigh Ann Wheeler, a professor of 
history at Birmingham University, will 
conclude this section of the speaker 
series Feb. 13 with “‘Anne Moody 
and Voting Rights in the Era of Black 
Power’: After Coming of Age in Mis-
sissippi.”
“I hope that they think about what 
is the public sphere and how do we 
engage in the public sphere,” Mennel 
said.
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgPhilosopher challenges race at UF speech
MORE THAN 300 REGISTER 
IN ONE SEMESTER
By Julie Marciante
Alligator Contributing Writer
Within one semester, two UF stu-
dents created and launched a social 
networking forum that has registered 
more than 300 users.
Siddha Tiwari, 19, and Jay Mithani, 
20, both UF computer science juniors, 
built Poncho from scratch this semes-
ter. Since its Sept. 22 launch, 320 users 
have joined. 
“We created it because we wanted 
college students to have a community 
where they can discuss things they 
care about and talk with like-minded 
people,” Mithani said.
The app allows users to make posts 
categorized by topics such as relation-
ships, internships, money or ﬁ  tness. Students can interact with others’ 
posts, private message users or public 
message in a global group chat.
To sign up, the app requires col-
lege students to verify their enrollment 
status with a student email. UF stu-
dents can also categorize content by 
university. Other social media similar 
to Poncho, such as Reddit’s university 
subreddit r/college, do not have this 
veriﬁ  cation process, Tiwari said.
“It creates an environment where 
you know other people are college stu-
dents and can share unique perspec-
tives you,” Tiwari said.
The founding duo hosted an event 
with UF’s software engineering club 
called CodeShop on Oct. 24.
“We showed them internally how 
the app was created to get them inter-
ested and asking questions about it,” 
Tiwari said. 
In the future, they hope to collabo-
rate with other on-campus organiza-tions.
Anna Lanzino, a 21-year-old UF 
computer science junior, is a regu-
lar Poncho user. She found the app 
through the creators’ promotional 
Reddit post after the app’s launch. 
She uses it to communicate with other 
computer science students to make 
sure she is on track with her peers.
For example, in one post she asked 
how many coding problems other stu-
dents could complete in a week.
“[I use Poncho] just to gauge oth-
er people’s work schedules because 
sometimes I feel like I’m not doing 
enough,” Lanzino said.
Users also frequently post about 
internship applications, experiences 
with certain companies or tips on how 
to land a job.
“Considering it’s in early stages, I 
think the app design is really good,” 
she said.UF students launch social network appLebron
EditorialMONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
The unspoken injustice of the modern age  
This piece is dedicated to Netflix’s original film 
“Tall Girl”  and those involved in its production. 
Before I watched this movie, I didn’t realize 
I have been a part of an oppressed minority 
my entire life. Being a relatively tall female, I 
finally feel as though I am being properly represented.
It is indeed true that I am a Caucasian female, born 
in America, who has been granted the opportunity to 
pursue higher education and has never had to worry 
that I might be denied basic human rights due to the 
color of my skin. Nevertheless, what about my above-
average height? Netflix taught me that because I loom 
a few inches over some of my peers, I should be 
categorized as a minority — a persecuted one at that. 
It is irrevocably true minorities in America are 
underrepresented in all forms of entertainment, and 
proper diversity is either extremely lacking or painfully 
forced. According to the 2018 Hollywood Diversity 
Report, during the 2017-18 television season, actors 
of color constituted 28 percent of lead roles for new 
shows, and in the 2015-16 season, those figures were 
even lower. Only about 14 percent of all minorities 
claimed film leads, while only 8 percent served as 
movie writers. Although these figures clearly display 
an industry that is anything but progressive, Netflix 
felt it very necessary to invest copious amounts of 
time and money into a movie that revolves around a 
blonde white girl whose primary obstacle is that she 
must ward off a boy infatuated with her because he is 
a few inches shorter. 
By harping on a problem that was completely 
nonexistent prior to the creation of this film, the 
popular streaming service was able to contribute even more to their staggering $12.3 billion debt, which was 
reported on Sept. 30, coincidentally only 17 days after 
the release of “Tall Girl.” 
According to the Pew Research Center, an 
overwhelming 88 percent of African Americans and 
70 percent of Hispanics firmly believe that more 
action needs to be taken to achieve racial equality in 
America. Given that African Americans and Hispanics 
are subjected to discrimination and racial biases, it 
seems absurd that movies are being produced about 
unsubstantiated mistreatment of individuals whose 
ethnicity has historically been proven to be in the 
position of the oppressor. Yet in an age when offense 
is easily taken, physical differences of any kind, no 
matter how minute, apparently must be addressed in 
unrealistic films that create a world where everyone 
can be a victim if they try hard enough. 
Though “Tall Girl” was undeniably a waste of one 
hour and 41 minutes due to poor plot structure and 
an utterly delusory depiction of high school, it does 
raise genuine concern over diversity and accurate 
representation of inequality in modern entertainment. 
I find it hard to believe that Netflix was incapable of 
conceiving an authentic idea for a movie revolving 
around an adolescent in the face of actual adversity 
and instead resorted to creating a feature about a 
phenomenon that is generally praised and viewed as 
beautiful — ask any modeling agency or competitive 
volleyball team.
Abigail Hasebroock is a UF journalism freshman. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Why removing likes 
from Instagram isn’t 
such a bad thing
We can’t argue against social media’s influence. In 
fact, we already made an argument stating how 
important it really is. 
But we can’t help but notice its harmful ef-
fects.
Social media can be toxic. It may expose people to a wide 
variety of subjects they would otherwise be unaware of, but 
this can serve as a distraction for their own lives and re-
sponsibilities. Social media creates a false sense of reality 
about what your life should be like through what it pro-
motes, and that isn’t healthy.
Instagram is trying to fix this problem. On Nov. 8, chief 
executive Adam Mosseri announced on Twitter that the 
company would be making likes invisible on select ac-
counts’ posts in the U.S. within the following week. People 
will still be able to like content, but only the owner of the 
post will be able to see the total amount of people who 
liked their content. Of course, there was some backlash as 
many influencers were concerned about losing their source 
of income. 
According to a study from HypeAuditor, in the coun-
tries that lost like visibility, influencers who had 5,000 to 
20,000 followers lost 3 percent to 15 percent of their likes. 
Yes, it seems like not seeing the number of likes on a post 
decreases the number of likes in total, but is this actually 
significant?
Not only does the range of losses seem insignificant, but 
likes aren’t even the best way to measure someone’s influ-
ence. Anyone can buy likes, and 64 percent of influencers 
admitted to doing so in order to improve the appearance 
of their accounts. The more likes they have, the more it 
seems people like what they do or say. But likes aren’t the 
only thing affecting engagement. Comments and followers 
are essential too.
Both likes and comments are factored in calculating en-
gagement. It’s simple math, but still way too complicated 
for something that doesn’t even have much of an impact. 
Most people only have an engagement rate of 1-3 percent 
on most of their posts, and anything in the double digits 
is considered to be viral. With such a low rate of engage-
ment, it seems like we’re just begging for scraps from other 
people’s attention spans. No wonder we’re considered the 
loneliest generation. 
Loneliness isn’t just an issue with people born in Gen Z. 
Almost half of all Americans sometimes or always feel lone-
ly. Social media isn’t completely linked to loneliness, but 
research has shown that the more time you spend on social 
media, the lonelier you are likely to feel. Besides just mak-
ing us feel bad, loneliness can negatively affect our mental 
health.  
At this point, we all have to decide which is more impor-
tant: fake internet points anyone can buy or our own self-
worth and happiness.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORMONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
An excessive amount of headlines hur-
dle past your eyes by the second. 
A ﬁ  ght broke out at Midtown, an-
other ﬁ  re surge in California, a school 
shooting kills two innocent lives. 
President Trump insults another Democrat on 
Twitter, another Kardashian is born. The new-
est celebrity couple in the spotlight breaks up.
Some headlines might catch your eye more 
than others, but continuously scrolling through 
the same disheartening content tempers your 
reactions. A brief moment of reﬂ  ection occurs, 
and then you go on about your day. 
In a 2014 psychological study, college students were 
shown to have lowered empathy and emotional reactivi-
ties to violence. This trend could persist, since the current 
generation of college students have grown up with an in-
creasing trend of school shootings. And as sexual assault 
cases fade into obsoleteness while danger lurks around 
every corner, paranoia invades our senses.  
Mental disorders are more prevalent than ever. Psy-
chologist Anita Gadhia-Smith told the New York Times 
that anxiety levels have increased with numbers of shoot-
ings and violent attacks. The news never rests. Poverty-
stricken families, children suffering, the constant strife 
between conservatives and liberals — with every solemn 
event that arises, dozens of headlines are crafted. 
It’s a nonstop reminder of all the bad in the world, 
but we have to remind ourselves that the good persists. 
Anne Marie Albano, a clinical psychologist and the di-
rector of the Columbia University Clinic for Anxiety and Related Disorders, advises to only check the 
news during certain periods instead of reading 
headlines consistently throughout the day. 
Rather than reinforcing the negativity of 
others, focus on the positive aspects of our so-
ciety. Plug into entertainment news and all the 
buzz surrounding the latest award show wins. 
Follow a new make-up tutorial on YouTube. 
Chuckle along with late-night talk show hosts 
as they interview your favorite musician. 
Desensitization is spreading, and it’s hard 
not to lose your resolve. But if you don’t feed 
into it, then you can’t become overwhelmed. As a jour-
nalism major, I can fully attest to the fact that the news 
is draining. But that doesn’t mean it doesn’t matter. We 
can’t ignore it, and we can’t diminish its importance. 
If we don’t react, then we can’t incite change. Progress 
never gets occurs if everything remains stagnant. Pay at-
tention to the news. Get angry, and then do something 
about it. 
Charles Figley, director of the Traumatology Institute 
at Tulane University, told The Cut there are two ways of 
dealing with traumatic events. “To respond,” he said. “Or 
to put it out of your mind.” 
It’s easy to feel powerless. But you’re not. Call local 
politicians. Participate in rallies. Donate anything you can 
to organizations and charities working to ﬁ  x the damage. 
Remember to use your voice, and choose to respond. 
Lauren Rousseau is a journalism sophomore.Battling desensitization in today’s climateColumn
Lauren 
Rousseau
opinions@alligator.orgOn Friday, Poké-
mon Sword and 
Pokémon Shield 
hit the big time 
on Nintendo 
Switch after eight months 
of hype. In light of this 
notable step for the fran-
chise — seeing a main-
series game on a console 
for the ﬁ  rst time — I thought it’d be 
prudent to look back on some of the 
best games in the series so far.
#3: Pokémon Diamond, Pearl 
and Platinum
These games were the ﬁ  rst of 
the series to be set on a Nintendo 
DS console. The shift from 2D pixel 
art to a 2.5D overworld was a small 
change, as it added a level of depth 
and detail to the game not yet seen 
before. This, along with the reap-
plication of the day and night cycle, 
truly ﬂ  eshed out the game’s appeal. 
The device was able to produce a 
far greater array of pigments and 
shades than its predecessor, and the 
results showed. Diamond and Pearl 
made some small but far-reaching 
changes to how certain moves 
worked, making many Pokémon 
viable for competitive play. As a re-
sult, the ﬁ  rst Pokémon Video Game 
World Championship was held in 
2009 in San Diego
#2: Pokémon Black and White
These games were set in the 
Unova region, based off of New 
York City. In these games, 649 dif-
ferent sprites were painstakingly 
given front and back sprites with 
detailed motion for battle anima-
tions. The soundtrack for Black and 
White is arguably the best in the 
series, and it offered a sort of intrac-
tability with the music, as talking to 
certain non-player characters would 
often alter the songs that played in 
certain places. Director Junichi Ma-
suda felt that the music scene and 
street performers of New York were 
an important aspect of the city, and 
that there should be a real focus on 
music in the games to reﬂ  ect this. 
These also have the best story in a 
Pokémon game, as many characters are far more ﬂ  eshed out 
and relevant than they 
typically are
#1: Pokémon Heart-
Gold and SoulSilver
These games offer 
all of the same improve-
ments found in Diamond 
and Pearl, being a part 
of the same generation 
of games, but they took a step fur-
ther with the Pokémon follow me-
chanic. This small edition allowed 
the ﬁ  rst Pokémon in your party to 
follow behind you as you walked. 
For the ﬁ  rst time, players could in-
teract with all of their Pokémon in 
the overworld. It’s easy to see why 
this detail alone made these games 
instant fan favorites. Two sets of 
the soundtrack were produced for 
this version as well. There was 
one updated soundtrack for the 
rereleased titles and one chiptune 
soundtrack in the style of the origi-
nal games. Many of these “original” 
tracks were actually painstakingly 
rerecorded or were in fact entirely 
new fabrications, as there are many 
songs and locations in HeartGold 
and SoulSilver that simply did not 
exist in the original titles. The hard 
work and clear passion put into 
these games easily wins them the 
number one spot.
HeartGold and SoulSilver were 
the last hurrah for the 2.5D pix-
elated art style of Pokémon, and 
each title further corrected game-
play and perfected style. Since the 
series made the switch to true 3D, 
Pokémon titles have had a sort of 
awkward relationship with their art 
style. There was a lot of improve-
ment from Pokémon X and Y to Sun 
and Moon, but I’m expecting much 
more from Sword and Shield. I can 
only hope that these new and future 
titles learn to make the most of the 
3D style and can compete with the 
three I’ve listed here until the series 
makes the next leap – the leap to 
virtual reality.
Myles Gibbs is a UF journalism 
junior.The best Pokémon games so farColumn
Myles Gibbs
opinions@alligator.org
Mental illnesses are colorblind, but 
the barriers to treatment aren’t. 
Previously, I wrote about some 
of the ways that immigrant com-
munities were disproportionately 
affected by mental illnesses, which made 
me interested in our undocumented popula-
tion in the United States. Roughly 10 million 
strong, they live in perpetual fear and anxi-
ety, often without any way of getting pro-
fessional help. Most conversations thus far 
have been focused on how to eliminate overt 
barriers to healthcare, but for this communi-
ty’s sake, more needs to be said about elimi-
nating the underlying psychosocial barriers. 
In a study observing students from the 
University of California Irvine, researchers 
found that a person’s undocumented immi-
gration status is often the largest barrier to 
seeking out counseling services. Participants 
were quoted as saying that getting treatment 
would ultimately be futile because it would 
not change their status.This isn’t a sentiment in isolation 
either. Growing up in one of our na-
tion’s hotspots for immigration, it’s 
one that I saw frequently. Living in 
Miami allowed me to grow up with 
the pleasure of having a third of my 
friend group be undocumented. Of-
ten it was their perspective on mod-
ern issues that I valued the most. 
Today, their viewpoints will con-
tribute to the conversation on what 
we need to be doing differently to address the 
mental health needs of vulnerable communi-
ties. 
My ﬁ  rst friend, we’ll call him Santiago, 
came to the U.S. by car when he was 8 years 
old. In senior year, when we were both due 
to start applying to universities, his older sis-
ter told him that he was undocumented and 
that he would have to be careful in sending 
out applications as a result. There was a time 
when he was pulled over for a broken taillight 
and faced a terrible panic attack, thinking the 
ofﬁ  cer might report him to Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement. These attacks became a regular occurrence, but treatment 
was out of the question.
“In my mind, I wasn’t going 
to risk everything my parents had 
been through just to make it easier 
on me,” he said. 
Carmen is a friend who was able 
to attend counseling despite her un-
documented status, but the process 
was not easy. Without insurance, 
she had to pay hundreds of dollars 
out of pocket for sessions. Even though the 
sessions were comforting in the beginning, she 
eventually stopped going.
“My counselor just didn’t get it,” she told 
me. “He gave me advice that would have been 
great for anyone else, but in the situation that 
I was in, with my status, it just wasn’t appli-
cable.”
Having mental health professionals that can 
provide culturally competent care seems to be 
one of the most critical points that both friends 
agreed should be a top priority, and is it sup-
ported in undocumented Mexican communi-
ties and by research in undocumented student communities as  mentioned above. 
While issues like access to insurance are im-
portant to address when considering undocu-
mented access to healthcare, both participants 
agreed that it was the service structure of the 
treatment itself that needed to be addressed. 
To that end, movements like the “Respectful 
Model,” coined by Dr. D’Andrea and Dr. Dan-
iels, which provide a framework for culturally 
competent care, serve as useful foundations to 
build upon for the future. 
Looking at this issue as a student from UF, 
it’s clear that we need to be doing more, too. 
An earlier study called for campuses to estab-
lish group mental health spaces for their un-
documented students. These support groups 
would be facilitated by professionals, while 
hopefully relieving some of the psychosocial 
barriers that come with more formal services. I 
could not ﬁ  nd any that are already around, so 
if anybody is interested in moving this project 
forward with me, please feel free to reach out. 
Matthew Diaz is the president of the 
Indigenous-American Student Association.Talking about mental health disparities in undocumented communitiesColumn
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.org
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
★ ★ ★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★ ★ ★
Native Southern Red Cedar & Arizona 
Cypress. Table-top to 30 gal/10' tall. Open 
Nov 29, wkends thru Dec 22. 10am - 6pm. 
Kettle Corn popped on site for sale. Free 
pecans & sugarcane w/purchase 20926 NW 
75th St. Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-
1885 www.bkcedars.com     12-4-6-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      11-18-
19-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
Today in history — 1477: First known book to 
have been printed in the English language, Dictes & 
Sayengis of the Phylosophers (translated from Arabic).BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Kurt Krauss
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/18/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/18/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, November 18, 2019
ACROSS
1 Aquarium
5 Yeshiva teacher
10 Dance in a pit
14 Iranian money
15 For all to hear
16 Baja’s opposite
17 Swashbuckling 
leading man 
of Hollywood’s 
Golden Age
19 Precious
20 Delivers, as 
a convention-
opening speech
21 Donny or Marie
23 Hairstyles
24 Art Deco 
designer
25 Barbara of 
“Mission: 
Impossible”
27 German 
shepherd of 
’50s-’60s TV
32 Beach head-
turners
33 Forest moon 
that’s home to the 
Ewoks
34 Dedicated poem
35 First chip in the 
pot
36 Tokyo’s country
37 Pinot __: white 
wine grape
38 Geol. or chem., 
e.g.
39 Nattily dressed 
fellows
40 Fortune-teller’s 
card
41 North 
Vietnamese 
leader with a trail 
named for him
43 City near Provo
44 “SportsCenter” 
channel
45 Gear tooth
46 “Peanuts” 
newspaper 
section
49 Jeep model 
named for a tribe
54 “I get it now!” 
cries
55 Hotel chain since 
1952
57 Trap fluff
58 __ Oyl
59 Advance, as 
money
60 Enemies61 Package sealers
62 Pre-revelry nights
DOWN
1 Long haul
2 Suffix with billion
3 __ a soul: no one
4 Ice cream bar 
named for a 
Yukon river
5 Rapids transports
6 Fashion monthly
7 Pop music’s 
Backstreet __
8 Pastry that might 
be sticky
9 Ralph Kramden’s 
pal
10 Drama set at 
an advertising 
agency
11 Bread spread
12 Laurel seen with 
Hardy
13 Difficult
18 Diving birds
22 Swizzle
24 Hyphen-like mark
25 Con game
26 Bit of high jinks
27 Transfer to 
memory, as data
28 Best way to sign
29 MLB exec Joe30 “Take the cake” 
or “cream of the 
crop”
31 Home on a 
branch
32 Diner fare
36 Basketball 
scoring technique
37 Grotesque 
architectural 
figure
39 Part of DVD
40 Irish lullaby start42 Thieves’ bank jobs
45 Hands over
46 Cow kid
47 State east of 
Indiana
48 Horse hair
49 Paper holder
50 Bee home
51 Ukraine’s capital
52 Feminine suffix
53 Breaks off
56 Suffix with pay or 
Cray-
By Debbie Ellerin
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, November 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 Celebrate Black 
Friday, say
5 Data 
transmission unit
9 Jets
14 TV show set in a 
theme park
16 Island along the 
Au’au Channel
17 Scheming
18 Red Sox slugger 
David
19 Spears label
20 Epps of “House”
21 Windex unit
22 Noble title
24 Nickname for 
“The King of Clay”
26 Goofy image?
27 California wine 
region
30 Tchotchke holder
33 Beyoncé and 
Jay-Z, e.g.
36 Symbolic gift, 
often
38 Corporate 
espionage target
40 Swamp gas, 
essentially
43 Watch closely
45 The “black” in 
black ice
46 Worshipper’s 
subject
49 “The Open 
Window” author
50 Coat-like 
garments
53 Collars
56 It can be risky to 
work without one
57 “I surrender!”
58 Place to get 
some culture?
60 Arabic for 
“struggle”
61 Repurposed 
railway, perhaps
62 Tabloid 
twosomes
63 Lot
64 Bruise-resistant 
potatoes, say, 
briefly
DOWN
1 Some cake 
decorations
2 House with many 
layers3 Character 
recognition?
4 Bk. fair organizer
5 Good time
6 Cheering loudly
7 __ running: 
more-than-a-
marathon race
8 Driller’s deg.
9 Farm fare
10 Henry VIII’s sixth
11 Sweet-talk
12 One needing 
orders
13 Pizzazz
15 “Don’t know her”
21 Course for H.S. 
exam takers
23 Benefit by
25 Longstanding 
disputes
28 Funny Anne
29 Fancy suits
31 “... a grin without 
a cat!” thinker
32 Action and 
adventure
34 Produced some 
Java
35 x/x
37 Garden favorite 
also known as 
cranesbill39 Becomes  
fond of
40 Peak that last 
erupted in  
1707-’08
41 Be deserving
42 Cough drop
44 Donates, in a 
way
47 First African-
American major-
league coach 
Buck48 Hanukkah dinner 
staple
51 Chowder  
morsel
52 Some kicks, so to 
speak
54 Produce some 
java
55 It may precede 
and follow yes
58 “Finding Your 
Roots” airer
59 __ days
11/15/19
answers on page 9MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Bilingual student wanted for part-time work 
as Latin America inside sales rep for local 
software company. Local software company 
in Gainesville (around the corner from SFCC) 
looking for energetic University of Florida or 
SFCC student to help with sales and market-
ing efforts focusing on Latin America in this 
part-time independent contractor position. 
Must be fluent in English and Spanish. We 
offer flexible hours. Earn hourly pay plus 
commission. Email resume and 3 references 
to: GvilleSoftwareCo@gmail.com.    11-20-
7-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
How to MAKE EXTRA MONEY PLAYING
VIDEO GAMES explained.
Free E-book tells how at
www.vidgamerz.com
11-25-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Today in history — 1805: First woman's club, Female 
Charitable Society, organized in Wiscasset, Maine.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
 FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 
5:00 - 7:00 p.m. on 11/18 - 11/21.  Verbal 
on M&W, Math on T&R.   To register and 
learn the room location, go to the TC web-
site www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click 
on “Tutoring" then "Standardized Test Prep,” 
then "GRE Reviews."     11-18-19-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Today in history — 1872: Suffragette Susan B. 
Anthony arrested for "illegally voting."Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
1.  Attorney
1.  Distance or duration5.  ____ pollution
2.  Crinkle, crease6.  Southern tree climber
3.  Fancy7.  Clown, comedian
4.  Angora fleeceWRYALE
HNGELTSNEIO
AAKOL
KRIELNW
GAETNLEJEERTS
OHRIMAANSWERS: 1A-Lawyer  5A-Noise  6A-Koala  7A-Jester
1D-Length  2D-Wrinkle  3D-Elegant  4D-Mohair  B-John Wayne11-18-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ turned down one of the 
lead roles in “The Dirty Dozen.”
BONUS1. Who was the last Cincinnati Reds pitcher before Anthony DeSclafani in 2018 to 
hit a grand slam?
2. How many times has Oregon State's men's baseball team won the College 
World Series?
3. Who was the MVP of the first two AFL Championship Games?4. Princeton's Pete Carril is the winningest coach in Ivy League men's basketball 
history (514 victories). Which two coaches entered the 2019-20 season tied for 
second?
5. How many Stanley Cups did the Edmonton Oilers win with Glen Sather as 
head coach?
6. Which two drivers hold the NASCAR record for most Cup wins at New 
Hampshire?
7. Who was the last men's tennis player to win the U.S. Open after being down 
two sets to one?answers belowSports Quiz    By Chris Richcreek
scrabblegrams solution1. Bob Purkey, in 1959.
2. Three times (2006, '07, '18).
3. Billy Cannon of the Houston Oilers (1960 and '61 seasons).
4. Yale's James Jones and Penn's Frank Dunphy, with 310 
wins apiece.
5. Four Stanley Cups (1984, '85, '87, '88).
6. Jeff Burton and Kevin Harvick, with four wins each.
7. Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina, in 2009.sportsquiz answers
A man would do nothing if 
he waited until he could do it 
so well that no one could find 
fault. —John Henry Newmancryptoquotesolution below
solutionLinebacker Jonathan Greenard 
won the Walter Camp National 
FBS Defensive Player of the 
Week. He notched six tackles 
(ﬁ  ve for loss) and two sacks 
against Missouri on SaturdayNo interest in Kaepernick following private workout
According to ProFootballT alk, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback 
has not received any invitations to sign a contract or pursue additional work-
outs with any team in the league. Eight teams sent representatives to At-
lanta on Saturday.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida football team 
did its part to keep its slim SEC 
Championship hopes alive Sat-
urday afternoon.
UF braved the cold, beat 
Missouri for the ﬁ  rst time in 
three years and handed the Ti-
gers their ﬁ  rst home loss in over 
a year. But hours later, Georgia 
beat Auburn on the road to se-
cure the division title for the 
third year in a row.
There will be no trip to At-
lanta for the Gators to play for 
the conference title. But that 
shouldn’t be considered a dis-
appointment for the program.
The Gators' early season 
success drastically raised ex-
pectations for the team. Florida 
rose to a legitimate conference 
contender and had an outside 
shot at a College Football Play-
off appearance just a few weeks 
ago.
Now, the Gators, who are back at No. 10 in the latest AP 
Poll, have one regular season 
game remaining against Florida 
State. A victory against the Sem-
inoles would mean a one-win 
improvement upon last year’s 
regular season record.
“We’ve done all we can do, 
obviously, with how the season 
has gone,” coach Dan Mullen 
said. 
Barring a major upset against 
FSU, Florida built on last sea-
son’s success tremendously, 
overcame a slew of injuries and 
revolutionized the offense.
That shift in offensive iden-
tity was evident in Columbia, 
Missouri, on Saturday.
UF threw the ball 36 times 
compared to 26 run plays. 
There were times in the game 
where it seemed Mullen com-
pletely abandoned the run.
Starting running back Lami-
cal Perine carried the ball just 
four times and quarterback Em-
ory Jones led the team in rush-
ing attempts with six.For the ﬁ  rst time in at least 
15 years, the Gators are throw-
ing the ball more often than 
they’re running it, and it’s not 
particularly close. In recent his-
tory, it also wasn’t close, just 
the other way around.
Mullen did not seem to care 
one way or another after his 
team’s 23-6 road win.
“Winning, that’s all that 
matters,” he said. “Run, throw, 
pass, I don’t care.”
Mullen has certainly leaned 
on quarterback Kyle Trask’s 
arm and his array of wide re-
ceivers to carry the offensive 
load this season, and he'll have 
two more games this season to 
continue to showcase that air 
attack.
“We will get ready to go and 
play Florida State in a couple of 
weeks,” Mullen said. “That’s 
going to be a fun game, that’s 
what is all about, going to play 
those guys. And then hope-
fully get to another good bowl 
game.”The defense is just as deserv-
ing of the credit for putting the 
Gators in position to potential 
make a New Year’s Six Bowl 
game as the offense is. UF held 
the Tigers, a team that averaged 
more than 40 points per game 
at home, without a touchdown 
on Saturday.
After slipping up in October, 
the defense is back to the elite 
unit it was earlier in the season.
The blend of a strong de-
fense and a potent offense click-
ing reminded senior receiver 
Josh Hammond just how dif-
ferent things were last time the 
Gators traveled out to the Mid-
west to face the Tigers.
“It felt good to come back 
here after what happened two 
years ago,” Hammond said. 
“We came here and got blown 
out with coaches getting ﬁ  red. It 
felt good to come here and end 
on the right note.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgUF will miss SEC title game despite Missouri win
Jeff Roberson / Associated Press
Quarterback Kyle Trask is third in the SEC in 
passing touchdowns and yards per attempt.
I’ve always taken exception to the sweep-
ing use of the term “the media.”
Referencing the media is a purpose-
fully broad statement that encompasses 
everything from The New York Times, 
The Independent Florida Alligator, ESPN, 
Fox News, whatever outlet, no matter the 
credentials, you want it to apply to, it can.
Speciﬁ  cs are important in journalism, 
and saying “the media” is kind of like say-
ing, “Everybody is doing ____ ,” because 
you really can’t name which outlet, or per-
son, you’re talking about.
Anyway, I know, this is a sports column, so I’ll do my 
best to stick to sports here.
Last Tuesday, I went to ESPN’s The Undefeated town 
hall on campus at UF. It was an event intended to focus 
on race, sports and culture, and, if you know me at all, 
everything about it was right up my alley.
Both professional and student journalists as well as 
athletes were on the panel. As the conversation turned to 
the potential of athletes or public ﬁ  gures’ mistakes being 
dug up and exposed on social media, Grant Holloway 
took aim at the media.
He said he and someone else on campus could both 
do something (for the purpose of this hypothetical, I as-
sume he meant something bad), and he would be “plas-
tered on the front page of the news.”
Well, just by writing this I’m proving him right — at 
least partially. If someone else went on a panel and said, 
“Whatever they can get their hands on they’ll love to 
put it out there and publish it just to get paid,” referring 
to the media, I, admittedly, would not write a column 
about it.
But the clout and celebrity that comes with being the collegiate world record holder in the 110m 
hurdles comes with responsibility, too.
Presumably, the source of Holloway’s 
current beef with the media was an article 
published a few weeks ago saying that 
coach Dan Mullen’s wife, Megan, was sex-
ually harassing football players by greeting 
them at the Gator Walk before games with 
a kiss.
Holloway called it B.S., and I agree with 
him. So did many of my colleagues.
This is where we get back to my tirade 
against the use of the term media. 
Anyone with an internet connection and the mental 
capacity to ﬁ  re off 280 characters can have their opinion 
heard online. That’s what this person did, and Holloway, 
myself and many others took notice.
But you can’t draw the false equivalency between 
someone writing a clickbait article on a random website 
and other journalists.
Holloway theorized that this writer, who I’m purpose-
fully not naming, did it for the money.
“I think he had to put out one more paper to meet the 
ends just to get paid,” Holloway said.
Well, it was an online article, and journalism doesn’t 
exactly bring in the big bucks anyways. Take it from a 
student journalist all too aware of the grim ﬁ  nancial real-
ity of my chosen ﬁ  eld.
I’m just using this speciﬁ  c example as an excuse to 
bring something up that’s bothered me for quite some 
time. I didn’t see it coming, but as a member of “the 
media” I had to jump at the opportunity to write about 
it, of course.
I don’t mean to take aim at Holloway here, but I want-
ed to call out this speciﬁ  c misuse of the term "media."Dear Holloway: Not all media is the sameKyle's Files MEN'S BASKETBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
Keyontae Johnson had the look.
But instead of shooting what 
could have been a game-tying 
three, he turned to pass the ball 
to another teammate — a ball that 
was quickly tipped and intercepted 
by a UConn defender to seal the 
game.
The UF men’s basketball team 
was unable to come out of Storrs, 
Connecticut, with a victory, drop-
ping a tightly contested game to 
UConn, 62-59, on Sunday. Florida 
moves to 2-2 on the year after the 
loss.
The change of scenery couldn’t 
ﬁ  x UF’s shooting woes.
The Gators ended the half 
shooting 30.8 percent from the 
ﬁ  eld and just nine percent from the 
three-point line. Florida also gave 
up 10 turnovers in the ﬁ  rst half to 
UConn’s eight.
UF saw a positive in the form 
of graduate transfer forward Kerry 
Blackshear Jr., however, as he net-
ted 10 points and ﬁ  ve rebounds. 
Blackshear Jr. was also 4 for 5 from 
the ﬁ  eld.
Despite UConn’s poor shot per-
centage of 33 percent—as well as 
being outrebounded—the Huskies were able to take advantage of 
UF’s turnovers to take a 25-20 lead 
heading into the second half.
The Gators second half per-
formance was much better, but it 
wasn't enough.
UF improved its ﬁ  eld goal per-
centage to 48.3 percent and drasti-
cally improved its three-point per-
centage to 44.4 percent. 
However, Florida was out-
rebounded 20-18 in the second half 
and also turned the ball over three 
times to UConn’s one. Kerry Black-
shear Jr. fouled out with around 
four-and-a-half minutes remaining 
in the game, leaving the Gators 
without the player who was their 
leading scorer by the end of the 
game with 15 points.
The Huskies still had troubles 
as well. UConn shot 37.5 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld and 20 percent from 
three.
Florida ended the game shoot-
ing 40 percent from the ﬁ  eld and 
25 percent from three, as well as 
turning over the ball 13 times. The 
Gators did shoot well from the foul 
line, going 10 for 13, but commit-
ted 14 fouls over the course of the 
game that gave UConn 16 points 
off of free throws.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgFlorida falls at UConn
By Kyle Wood
Twitter: @Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
SOCCER
VOLLEYBALL
WOMEN’S BASKETBALLBy Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida soccer team’s 2019 
campaign came to an anticlimactic 
end Friday night in front of its home 
crowd at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
UF came into its 25th season un-
ranked, and an early four-game los-
ing streak buried the Gators in the 
minds of voters. But they recovered 
from their shaky start, winning six 
consecutive games to earn the No. 
19 spot in the United Soccer Coaches 
Poll.
Florida, however, did not live up 
to its billing.The Gators missed out on the 
SEC East title, were knocked out of 
the SEC Tournament and were elimi-
nated from the NCAA Tournament 
all in a matter of 15 days.
Despite the disappointing end to 
a once-promising season, there were 
several bright spots for coach Becky 
Burleigh and her squad:
Offense turns it up
UF’s offense was a cause for con-
cern entering the year. Its 23 goals 
and 1.1 goals-per-game average in 
2018 were Florida’s lowest in pro-
gram history.
The Gators had no depth behind 
forward Deanne Rose, who made just 10 appearances due to Canadian 
national team commitments.
After being named the 2017 SEC 
Freshman of the Year with nine goals 
and three assists, Rose managed just 
two goals in her limited playing time 
as a sophomore.
But the arrival of transfer for-
ward Vanessa Kara and emergence 
of freshman forward Kouri Peace 
brought some much-needed fire-
power to Florida’s anemic attack. 
Having more players up top at her 
disposal allowed Burleigh to rotate 
them on a consistent basis, which 
kept the offense churning deep into 
the season.
UF found the back of the net 38 times for an average of 1.81 goal 
per game, with its trio of forwards 
accounting for half of those. Kara 
bagged a team-high 10 goals, while 
Rose and Peace chipped in with six 
and three, respectively.
Senior class leaves its mark
Florida’s 4-2 loss to South Florida 
in the opening round of the NCAA 
Tournament over the weekend 
marked the end of its seven-player 
senior class’ time in Gainesville.
Julia Lester, Tess Sapone, Sam-
mie Betters, Haillie Lower, Alex 
Stubblebine, Alyssa Howell and 
Kara might have taken the field for 
the last time in Florida’s colors, but their composure and leadership left 
a legacy that will be remembered for 
years to come.
“With the seniors, some of them 
are big personalities in their presence 
and some of them are just big per-
sonalities in what they bring every 
day, whether it’s to practice or to the 
standard of the team,” Burleigh said. 
UF’s next senior class will consist 
of seven players, too, and it will try 
to build on what its predecessors 
started in 2020.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.org
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Coach Mary Wise stood up on the side-
lines and emphatically extended her arms in 
and out, portfolio in hand. 
It was just the beginning of the fifth frame, 
and her actions echoed what Florida’s block 
had failed to do for most of the match: Press 
their hands into the court so the ball deflects 
in-bounds and close the seam (the space in-
between blockers). 
Kentucky’s a smart team. And despite 
the 17th-best team in the country — at least 
on paper — dropping the second and third 
frames, there wasn’t much to worry about 
from their side of things. It’s how the Wild-
cats won the five-set marathon on Florida’s 
home court Sunday (25-21, 15-25, 23-25, 26-
24, 15-12), and possibly took the SEC title. 
This loss stung even worse than the one 
Florida (21-4, 12-2 SEC) was handed on the 
road at Kentucky earlier this season. 
Sophomore Thayer Hall — who notched 
22 of Florida’s 63 kills — certainly knew how 
close her team was to changing the storyline 
of this UF squad. 
“Obviously we went up there, when they 
pushed, we didn’t push back,” she said af-
ter Sunday’s loss. “And the same thing hap-
pened today.” 
Hall cited the play of Kentucky’s pin hit-
ters Leah Edmond and Alli Stumler, who combined for 57 of UK’s 78 kills on the match, 
as an issue that contributed to the loss. They 
set an unbelievable pace that Florida just 
couldn’t keep up with.
“We did not push like we know we can,” 
Hall added.
Florida was a point away from taking the 
match with a 24-23 lead in the fourth frame 
and a 2-1 set lead over the Wildcats (20-6, 
12-2 SEC). But the Gators relented and Ken-
tucky took advantage, winning the next three 
points in swift fashion.
Florida allowed that stretch of points to 
fester in the back of its mind, opening up the 
fifth and final set down five points before fi-
nally getting on the board.
“It took a lot of energy out of us being so 
excited to almost win the match,” middle 
blocker Rachael Kramer said. “Our team 
needs to know that can’t go into the fifth set. 
You have to roll that over after the fourth and 
continue on.” 
The frustration on Hall’s face was clear 
after the match, but during the game she 
carried her team with the most passion on 
the court, getting hyped up after every point 
and trying to rally her team back in the game 
point after point.
Florida and Kentucky will each have to 
win their remaining games to be crowned co-
champions by the end of conference play. But 
one hiccup could break the dam wide open.
No. 11 Florida’s upcoming matches in-
clude road games at Auburn and Georgia and home matches against Arkansas and Texas 
A&M. Both the Bulldogs and the Aggies are 
the only teams in the conference to defeat the 
Wildcats. Needless to say, the stakes are high.
“Well, now let’s see how we respond to 
the pressure,” she said, “because we’re going 
to share an SEC Championship or we’re not.”
Yet, Wise isn’t worried about how her 
team will react. 
“There’s a ton of volleyball left ahead of 
us,” she said. “An SEC Championship is still 
in front of us.” 
She said her team battled with a tough 
Kentucky offense, who came in and played 
“as advertised.” Wise credited the Wildcats’ 
ability to throw Florida off its balance and 
steal the match, even when the odds weren’t 
in its favor. 
But now it’s about turning the page.
Kramer, one of four seniors on Florida’s 
roster, said she’ll take the day to wallow in 
the loss, but tomorrow’s a new day, and there 
isn’t any time that can be wasted on Sunday’s 
match when her team walks into the gym for 
practice Monday.
“Knowing that there’s so much that we 
can work on and because we were so close, 
if we just clean up a few things...that’s it,” 
Kramer said. “We’re that close.” 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org 
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
More than 1,000 elementary 
school kids come to the O’Connell 
Center once a year to watch Florida 
Women’s basketball on field trip 
day. And this year, they’ll watch 
an undefeated Gators team for the 
first time since the 2016-17 season, 
when Florida began 4-0. 
Following Florida’s 84-48 dis-
membering of Samford on Satur-
day, UF plays Presbyterian College 
on Monday morning at 10:30 a.m. 
in front of a crowd of small fans. 
Here are three reasons for the head-
turning start, as well as keys to con-
tinuing to stretch the win column: 
Three-point shooting
Shooting from beyond the arc 
wasn’t a strength of this team until 
Saturday against Samford. Actually, 
it was a weakness. In the first two games against 
Grambling State and Longwood, the 
Gators shot worse than 25 percent 
in both games. However, the rim 
was much kinder to Florida over the 
weekend. UF more than doubled its 
season percentage against the Bull-
dogs at 52 percent from downtown. 
That includes a 73.3 percent first 
half. 
Expecting to shoot that well all 
the time is unrealistic, but a perfor-
mance like that could bring better 
shooting nights consistently. 
“Can we make 11 threes every 
half?” coach Cam Newbauer asked 
after the game. “I don’t think so, but 
that’s crazy good.” 
Smith’s presence
Kiara Smith is Florida’s best 
pound-for-pound player. The start-
ing point guard averages 14.3 points 
per game, the most of any Gator. 
She has the second-highest three-point percentage at 38.5, behind 
only fellow guard Lavender Briggs 
at 50. 
“One thing I worked on coming 
back this season was being more 
aggressive,” Smith said. “So I’m 
just doing that still finding my open 
teammates.”
Smith’s presence on the floor is 
the engine of this team. Most of the 
offensive possessions run through 
her, as she leads the team in total 
assists with 16. It’s obvious that the 
rest of the team plays off of her as 
the floor general. 
Williams and Briggs’ efficiency 
Forward Zada Williams is having 
an excellent commencement to the 
year. Outside of Briggs and Smith, 
she averages the most points on the 
team with 12 per game. Her main 
contribution has been the efficiency 
of scoring inside. She rarely misses 
open looks, as her team-leading 72.7 percent field-goal percentage 
indicates. Her biggest weakness, as 
well as the rest of the team’s, has 
been free-throw shooting, as she is 
at 40 percent from the charity stripe 
on the year, the team as a whole is 
at 58.3.
That number needs to improve 
because she is a traditional down-
low player. Her attempts come ex-
clusively from right by the basket. 
With almost all her points coming 
with some sort of contact, a more 
effective Williams from the free-
throw line would shore up one of 
the few weaknesses this team has 
shown through three games. 
However, even with lackluster 
free-throw shooting, her presence 
inside has been difficult for anyone 
to maintain thus far. 
And Briggs? The most pleas-
ant surprise of Newbauer’s young 
squad. 
Through these first three con-tests, Briggs is a team-best 50 per-
cent from three and averaging 13.7 
points per game, only second to 
Smith. She is also efficient at 41 per-
cent in field-goal percentage. 
Overall
It’s a hot start. It’s also against 
weak competition. Grambling State 
is 1-3, Longwood is 2-2 and Sam-
ford is 1-4. SEC play will be much 
tougher, but Florida looks much 
better. 
“I think we’re in a good place 
right now,” Newbauer said. “You’re 
seeing communication on a differ-
ent level. In terms of accountabil-
ity and in terms of helping develop 
each other.” 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgFlorida trending upward despite rough finish to season
UF drops 5-set heartbreaker, potential conference title to UK 
Gators off to 3-0 start for first time in 3 yearsSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Outside hitter Thayer Hall said her team 
needs to respond better to pressure.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019
NOW OPEN COME IN AND LEARN MORE318 NW 13TH ST, GAINESVILLE
Must have a Medical Marijuana Use Registry Identification Card to purchase Medical Marijuana.EXPERT ADVICE AND CANNABIS
PRODUCTS YOU CAN TRUSTPHARMACEUTICAL-QUALITY
CANNABIS
M00219