We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Coming to Gainesville: Pocket Parks
The city opened its ﬁ  rst of many this week, pg. 4
SG election violations
Both Student Government parties had to face the Elections 
Commission Thursday, pg. 8Not your average meet
UF gymnast Alyssa Baumann faces her sister and 
rival Georgia in the O’Dome, pg. 15FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 62
FEATURE FRIDAY
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
The streets of Gainesville looked like a war-
zone in the summer of 1968. 
The City Commission enacted a nightly cur-
few from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. for all students and 
residents. Police arrested black power mili-
tants for inciting riots. National Guard troops 
patrolled downtown armed with riﬂ  es. After Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination 
on April 4, 1968, UF’s 87 black students be-
gan to confront white students and professors 
about improving race relations on campus.
The following year, the African American 
Studies program was founded. Now, the pro-
gram is in its 50th year and beginning its tran-
sition into a department. 
UF will become the ﬁ  rst Florida public 
university with an African American stud-ies department. 
Mary Watt, the College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences College associate dean, said though 
it is uncertain when the program will become 
a department, a director may be hired by Au-
gust. The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
is interviewing candidates.
A program is a collection of courses that 
compose a major or minor while a depart-
ment is a unit of faculty for a speciﬁ  c aca-demic specialty.
“This is a happy coincidence that this is 
happening in time for the 50th anniversary,” 
Watt said. “What better way to mark an an-
niversary than with the creation of something 
new?”
Watt, who oversees the search for a depart-
ment director, said the beneﬁ  ts of becoming a 
department include tenured faculty and mas-
MORE THAN 10,000 
STUDENTS VOTED
Staff Report
Amid a crowd of people, Michael 
Murphy stood away from the cheers 
and the congratulations. 
All that mattered was his 12-year-
old sister, Molly. Feet away from those who bore 
his name on their T-shirts, he stood 
holding his sister, her legs wrapped 
around his torso, as tears streamed 
down both of their reddened faces.
The monthlong ﬁ  ght between 
Impact and Inspire Party was over. 
Murphy, Impact’s candidate, will be 
the next UF Student Body president.  
Murphy had his moment before 
he and Impact’s vice presidential and treasurer candidates, Sarah 
Abraham and Santiago Gutierrez, 
were avalanched by a ﬂ  urry of hugs 
and congratulations. 
“The students ultimately showed 
that they, once again, trust the Im-
pact Party to voice their concerns to 
the university,” Murphy said. 
On Tuesday and Wednesday, 
10,708 students voted for the Stu-
dent Body president, vice president, treasurer and 41 contested Senate 
seats in the Student Government 
elections. 
Murphy and Abraham won 59.7 
percent of the votes while Inspire 
Student Body presidential candidate 
Zachariah Chou and Inspire Student 
Body vice presidential candidate 
Gouthami “Gigi” Gadamsetty won 
39.57 percent of the votes.
Impact won 29 Senate seats and Inspire won 21 seats.
Last year, Impact also won the 
executive ticket and the majority of 
Senate seats.  
Last Friday, The Alligator re-
leased an article in regards to ﬁ  nding 
homophobic and racially insensitive 
posts on Murphy’s Facebook from 
2011 to 2016. Homophobic posts After 50 years, African American Studies program to be department
Impact wins executive ticket, splits Senate seats with Inspire Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Contributor 
Michael Murphy, the 21-year-old Impact Party presidential candidate, celebrates winning the 
Student Government executive election Wednesday in the Reitz Union. He defeated Zachariah 
Chou, the 21-year-old Inspire candidate, 6,331 votes to 4,196. “I just can’t wait to sit down for a 
little bit and just take it all in, ” Murphy said.
CURRENT TICKETS WILL 
BE HONORED
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
21 Savage might receive his 
extra crispy hot wings after all. 
Rapper 21 Savage, who re-
quested 50 hot wings in his con-
tract with UF, was previously 
scheduled to perform Wednesday 
but will now perform April 15, 
said Andrew Kelly, the Student 
Government Productions chair-
person.
All tickets purchased for the 
original concert will be honored 
for the new date, Kelly said. Kelly 
will meet with the O’Connell Cen-
ter box ofﬁ  ce Thursday afternoon 
to sort out details for people who 
have purchased tickets but can-
not go to the rescheduled show. 
“SGP is proud of 21 Savage 
for overcoming a tremendous 
amount of adversity and using his 
public persona and platform to 
bring awareness to others in simi-
lar circumstances,” Kelly said.
The rapper, whose legal name 
is Shayaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, was detained 
by U.S. Im-
migration and 
Customs En-
forcement Feb. 
3 over an ex-
pired visa. He 
was released 
on bond a little 
more than a 
week after being detained, but 
the status of his performance at 
UF was unknown until Wednes-
day afternoon.
LaRaven Temoney, a 22-year-
old UF political science doctoral 
student, was upset about the de-
lay in information on the status 
of his performance, and she will 
now have to rearrange her sched-
ule in order to see him. Her friend 
will have to sell her ticket. 
“A week before, you shouldn’t 
be announcing that you can no 
longer do the concert, especially 
if it’s something that you know 
about,” she said. “It’s a little un-
fair and unprofessional.” 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.org21 Savage performance 
rescheduled to April 15  
SEE SG, PAGE 8SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8
21 Savage
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
FRIDAY
Gay Movie Night
When: 7:30 p.m. 
Where: The Pride Community 
Center, at 3131 NW 13th St.
What: The movie “Beautiful 
Something” will be shown. 
Brian crashes and burns with 
each guy he meets but does 
not understand why. Jim is not 
afraid to break hearts except 
when it comes to his older lov-
er, a renowned sculptor. Drew 
is more focused on his latest 
masterpiece than Jim. Bob looks 
for hustlers in his white limo 
and searches for the thrill of lost 
love. They comb the streets of 
the City of Brotherly Love, look-
ing for connections though often 
settling for the quick and dirty. 
But they each cross paths with 
the other. Gay Movie Night is on 
the last Friday of each month.
SATURDAY
Theater Trivia Fundraiser
When:  6-9 p.m. 
Where: The Hippodrome State 
Theatre, at 25 SE Second Place 
in downtown Gainesville
What: A theater-themed trivia 
night for Y-Not Theatre’s sec-
ond annual fundraiser. The 
local nonprofit supports play-
wrights and actors across north 
central Florida. Tickets are $35. 
Sababa, a Mediterranean restau-
rant, will serve a buffet. Cake 
will be provided by D’Lites 
Emporium. The Gainesville 
Improv Guild will perform a 
show at intermission.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
African American Read-In
When: 2-4 p.m. Sunday
Where: Alachua Branch, at 
14913 NW 140th St.
What: Attendees, including 
community leaders, will read 
passages, poems and stories by 
black authors.
An Ode to Black Women
When: 7 p.m. Wednesday
Where: Ustler Hall
What: The Women’s Student 
Association is hosting a night 
to celebrate culture, feminism 
and the history of black wom-
en. There will be a live per-
formance, free food and a dis-
cussion of the impact of black women on society.
Life and Legacy of A. Quinn Jones
When: Open till Feb. 28
Where: Cone Park Library, at 
2801 E. University Ave.
What: A touring exhibit featur-
ing artifacts and panels from the 
original exhibit on display at 
the A. Quinn Jones Museum & 
Cultural Center.
Missing Pieces: “Reimagining 
the Middle Passage: Black 
Resistance in Literature, 
Television and Song”
When: 3-5 p.m. Sunday
Where: The A. Quinn Jones 
School Auditorium
What: The museum will hold a 
lecture with guest speaker and 
author Dr. Tara T. Green, who 
is also a professor of African 
American and African diaspo-
ra studies at the University of 
North Carolina Greensboro.
MORE
UF’s School of Theatre and Dance 
dances with history in Dance 
2019: Past / Forward 
When: 7:30 p.m. Friday through 
2 p.m. Sunday
Where: Constans Theatre in the 
Reitz Union
What: Dance 2019: Past / 
Forward explores how modern 
perspectives of the past — the 
ideas of glory days, nostalgia and 
cohesive communities to painful 
memories, betrayal and exclusion 
— can transform the future. This 
has never before been staged in a 
university setting and with wom-
en in the cast. Tickets are $14 for 
UF students, $16 for UF faculty 
and staff, $16 for seniors and $20 
for the general public. Tickets can 
be purchased either in person at 
the University Box Office, at Gate 
1 of the O’Connell Center, or on-
line at Ticketmaster.
Santa Fe adjunct professors to 
speak about union campaign
When: 6 p.m. Tuesday
Where: Emmanuel Mennonite 
Church, located at 1236 NW 18th 
Ave.
What: Santa Fe College adjunct 
professors will speak about their 
unionization campaign at Santa 
Fe at the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition monthly general meet-
ing. Professors will talk about 
their almost two-year push for liv-
ing wages, better working condi-
tions and a union. Refreshments 
will be provided.Carbon Fee and Dividend 
legislation to be discussed
When: 6 p.m. March 11
Where: Marion County Public 
Library, at 2720 E. Silver Springs 
Blvd.
What: Citizens’ Climate Lobby, 
which motivates citizens to ad-
dress climate change, will have 
representatives speak for free on 
the movement to halt and reverse 
climate change. The Grassroots 
Organization lobbies to pass the 
“Carbon Fee and Dividend” legis-
lation and works closely with the 
House Climate Solutions Caucus, 
a bipartisan group in the U.S. 
House of Representatives, found-
ed in 2016 by Florida representa-
tives Ted Deutch (D) and Carlos 
Curbelo (R). The library has free 
parking and is wheelchair ac-
cessible. For more information, 
email IndivisibleCommonCents@
gmail.com  or call 352-620-4764.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Corrections:
In an article titled “Student Body 
Presidential Candidates” that ran 
in Monday’s edition,  Zachariah 
Chou would be the ﬁ  rst Asian 
American Student Body 
president elected into ofﬁ  ce. 
The Alligator previously reported 
differently. 
In an article titled “Student Body 
Vice Presidential Candidates” 
that ran in Monday’s edition, 
Gouthami Gadamsetty was 
born in Michigan. The Alligator 
previously reported differently. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  72°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Copy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Lily Griton, Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Lourdes Hernandez, Ashlyn Jones, 
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISINGVOLUME 113 ISSUE 62FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
We’re IDEA Public Schools, and we’re hiring people just like you. People who are driven to innovate and collaborate to change education for the better. People who don’t settle for the status quo. 
People who have high expectations for themselves and thrive in a high-growth, high-reward environment. And most importantly, people who are united in the belief that every child has the potential 
to succeed in college and in life. By 2022, we’ll serve 100,000 students at 173 schools across ten regions. As we grow, you grow – at IDEA, your professional potential is limitless.
Explore your future at ideapublicshools.org/careers.
Join our community at fb.com/IDEACareers.TEACHERS CO-TEACHERS OPERATIONS LEADERS CHANGEMAKERSWE WANT TO MAKE
A DIFFERENCE IN yours .
difference
difference
   YOU WANT TO MAKE A 
IN PEOPLE’S LIVES.By Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Meleny Vega received an email to her 
UF account the summer before college 
offering her a job paying $30 an hour.
The 18-year-old UF applied physiol-
ogy and kinesiology freshman grew sus-
picious of the ofﬁ  ce assistant job when 
she saw it asked for her Social Security 
number and that it came from a fake pro-
fessor.
“If it sounds too good to be true, then 
it probably is,” Vega said. 
UF Information Technology is not sure 
how many students fall for these scams or who the scammers are, but scammers 
often get lists of students’ emails from 
hacked websites, said Avi Baumstein, a 
UF senior information security analyst.
“Email lists stolen from hacked web-
sites are wonderful for scammers be-
cause they often include names, emails 
and other personal details,” Baumstein 
said.
UFIT advises students not to go chas-
ing after a job they didn’t apply for or 
request information about, Baumstein 
said.
Over the past ﬁ  ve years there’s been 
an increase in ransomware, a software 
that takes users’ ﬁ  les and makes them impossible to recover unless the attack-
ers get paid large sums of money, said 
Kevin Butler, the associate director of 
the Florida Institute for Cybersecurity 
Research. 
Butler suggests students use pass-
word-manager applications to create a 
variety of passwords rather than reusing 
the same one across multiple sites. 
“Look closely at emails that are being 
sent,” Butler said. “If something seems 
off with the way it is written, such as the 
grammar, be suspicious.” 
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.org Phishing for opportunities: UF students still face scamming in 2019
Five ways to avoid job scams:
• Be cautious of employers who ask for mon-
ey up front. 
• Examine links in emails to guarantee they 
are linking to a legitimate website.
• Request more information from vague job 
postings. 
• Do not provide your Social Security num-
ber or bank account information. 
• Reject postings that guarantee you a job. 
Information from LiveCareer
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Three years and two court de-
cisions later, a local bus driver is 
getting her job back. 
The city of Gainesville decided 
Wednesday to accept a judge’s rul-
ing and rehire her as a Regional 
Transportation Systems bus driver 
and pay her for the three years 
worth of income she lost when she 
was ﬁ  red, the amount of which is 
not yet determined. 
The Florida First District Court 
of Appeal ruled last Friday to up-
hold a 2016 arbitrator’s decision, 
which is an outside party that of-
ﬁ  cially settles disputes, to rehire Desiree Heyliger, 
39, after she 
claimed she was 
unfairly ﬁ  red in 
2015.
Heyliger, a 
former driver of 
the 120 The Hub 
to Fraternity 
Row bus route, 
was ﬁ  red after slapping passen-
gers’ hands on two different occa-
sions, one when a woman alleged-
ly waved her bus pass in her face 
and another when a man allegedly 
said a rude remark to her.
Gainesville interim city man-
ager Deborah Bowie, who wasn’t 
working for the city during the time of the termination, said she 
made the decision to reinstate Hey-
liger after hearing all the details of 
the case. 
“For many of us, we weren’t 
here when this happened,” Bowie 
said. “We needed to go back and 
understand, how did we get to 
where we are?” 
The validity of her termination 
was settled by an arbitrator based 
on the contract between the city 
and Amalgamated Transportation 
Union, a labor organization that 
represents employees in the public 
transit industry.
The arbitrator ruled the city un-
fairly ﬁ  red Heyliger and should re-
instate her with back pay.Instead of accepting the ruling, 
the city ﬁ  led a lawsuit against the 
union.
Bowie said she thought the 
city originally rejected the arbitra-
tor’s ruling because of the strongly 
worded nature of the arbitrator’s 
award. 
For the lawsuit, the trial court 
ruled in the city’s favor reversing 
the original decision. The union ap-
pealed that decision, and the case 
moved on to the Florida First Dis-
trict Court of Appeal, which decid-
ed the arbitrator’s original decision 
should be upheld.
Bowie said Heyliger’s start date 
has not yet been decided, but she 
will be coming back to work as a bus driver for RTS and will go 
through all the latest training. 
“Workplace violence, in gener-
al, is an evolving area of training in 
the American workplace,” Bowie 
said. 
Heyliger declined to comment, 
but she referred to her lawyer, Eric 
Lindstrom. 
He said there are still some tech-
nical things to work out before she 
can actually go back to work. 
“We’re really happy that the city 
decided to put her back to work,” 
Lindstrom said. “But we’re not go-
ing to celebrate until she’s back on 
a bus.” 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCity to reinstate RTS bus driver three years after she was ﬁ  red
Heyliger
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
ABOUT 70 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED RIBBON-CUTTING
By Abraham Hunt
Alligator Contributing Writer
The children of the Sugarfoot com-
munity only had a balance beam and 
monkey bars at their local park for 
eight years. 
On Wednesday, the renovated 
park opened with slides, a basketball 
court and climbing walls.
The city of Gainesville cut the rib-
bon on the first of 24 “pocket parks,” 
which are miniature parks that have 
most of the attractions a normal park 
has. The park, at 817 SW 64th Ter-
race, is on a donated quarter-acre 
lot, with the average size of parks in 
Gainesville being about 88 acres.
It has temporarily been called the 
Southwest Advocacy Group play-
ground, also known as SWAG, un-
til its official naming ceremony in 
March, said Dorothy Benson, a found-
ing member of the group. 
The park is set to be named af-
ter Mark Hopkins, the brother of the property’s original owner who died 
from cancer.
“I didn’t think after donating this 
lot that this is what would be pro-
duced,” said Philip Hopkins, the orig-
inal owner and donor of the park. 
About 50 children and 20 residents 
joined County Commissioners Ken 
Cornell and Charles Chestnut; Major 
Latrell Simmons, the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office department of opera-
tions director; and J.K. Irby, the Ala-
chua clerk of the court, at the ribbon-
cutting.
The updated park features picnic 
tables, a child-sized basketball court 
and a play structure, which includes 
multiple slides, monkey bars, climb-
ers and more. 
The original park was an add-on to 
the advocacy group building, Benson 
said. 
The equipment only lasted eight 
years before the group had to ask the 
county for help getting it repaired.
Once Charlie Houder heard what 
the community needed, he got to 
work providing it, he said.
“The previous park was insuffi-
cient for the need,” said Houder, di-rector of Alachua County Parks and 
Conservation Lands.
Construction began in May and 
was completed in early February, he 
said. 
It cost about $175,000 and was 
funded by the Wild Spaces and Public 
Places voter-approved half-cent sales 
tax.
“You could tell the children were 
itching to start playing on the new 
equipment,” Houder said.
The other 23 parks will be evaluat-
ed by Alachua County Parks and Con-
servation Lands, and will be complet-
ed by 2020, Houder said. The parks 
will receive a face-lift because of the 
passing of the half-cent sales tax.
Regina Bollen, 21, has lived near 
SWAG park for about five years. 
When she heard about it being updat-
ed, she was excited for her 4-year-old 
son Elijah to have a newer place to 
play, she said.
“This will help out this commu-
nity,” Bollen said. “As my son has a 
safe environment to play, then this is 
worth it.”Gainesville opens first of 24 pocket parks
Courtesy to The Alligator
Children play and run around the newly renovated 
Southwest Advocacy Group park, which was opened 
Wednesday at a ribbon-cutting ceremony. 
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Teaching residents how to do finances 
and renovating older homes were part of 
about 100 ideas on how to fix housing is-
sues that Gainesville residents brainstormed 
Wednesday.
About 120 residents gathered in the Thel-
ma A. Bolton Center to brainstorm housing 
solutions. This was the first workshop in 
a series intended to find a solution. When 
the gnvRISE proposal failed in November, 
which was the city’s proposal for affordable 
housing, the City Commission created the 
workshop series as a solution.
Attendees first created housing self-por-
traits to describe their living situations and 
to show the city who was in the room and what their priorities are, said Anne Wolf, 
the workshop host and city’s citizen en-
gagement program manager.
“We’re reaching out to folks who are 
maybe not at the table who people in the 
room might know about,” Wolf said. 
Participants then split into eight groups 
and worked to offer housing solutions. Their 
ideas included building strong relationships 
between renters and landlords, offering 
steps to owning a home and addressing the 
negative stigma around affordable housing.
The ideas will be compiled together to 
identify patterns, Wolf said. The city will 
use them to develop a permanent solution. 
One goal was to learn who did not attend 
because those were the people who needed 
to be heard the most, Wolf said. 
“It’s who we reach. It’s what content we’re talking about to collectively and col-
laboratively increase our knowledge about 
all these types of issues, and it’s how we 
reach out to them,” Wolf said.
While Commissioner David Arreola was 
pleased with the diversity of attending resi-
dents, he wants to hear from community 
leaders who know the stories of those who 
need affordable housing. 
“There’s a lot of agreement that there 
needs to be a local solution,” Arreola said.
During the workshop, Anne Ray,  the 
Florida Housing Data Clearinghouse man-
ager at the UF Shimberg Center for Housing 
Studies, gave depth to the housing issue by 
presenting related data and clarifying the 
housing crisis. 
She said the housing crisis stems from 
people not being able to afford housing.“I think it’s important to realize that 
while job and economic development are 
important, they’re not sufficient to solve af-
fordable housing problems,” Ray said dur-
ing the meeting. 
About 15,000 households in the city are 
cost-burdened, which means more than 30 
percent of their income goes to housing, 
Ray said. The wage to afford a two-bedroom 
apartment in Alachua County is $17.19. The 
median wage is $15.95. 
Former Gainesville Mayor Gary Gordon 
is hopeful for positive outcomes from the 
workshop. 
“It’s only the beginning, but at least 
there were a lot of good ideas expressed to-
night,” he said. 
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgCommunity tells city to address affordable housing stigma
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Election season wasn’t over un-
til six people made a decision.
On Thursday night, the Elec-
tions Commission heard seven 
complaints brought forth by Im-
pact and Inspire Party. These com-
plaints alleged violations of the 
Chapter 700 Student Government 
Election Codes, which govern how 
campaigns should be run. 
The commission is comprised 
of six members: two nominated by 
the Student Body president, two 
nominated by the Student Sen-
ate president and two nominated 
by the Chief Justice of the UF Su-
preme Court. The violations were 
heard by John Reddin, Amanda Matyk, Marty Ebenger, Alex Bot-
tone, Kyle Soch and Alexis Castro. 
Penalties for election violations 
range from a warning to candidate 
disqualification or political party 
suspension.
Inspire’s accused violations
Impact Party gained 29 Sen-
ate seats and swept the executive 
ticket Wednesday.
Tiffany Batten was Impact Par-
ty’s legal representation. Batten 
won a seat representing Graduate 
and Family Housing in Fall 2018 
with Impact.
Impact Party alleged three In-
spire Party candidates, Kristen 
Jackson, Nik Bindi and Melissa 
Uriguen, posted a profile picture announcing their candidacy on 
Facebook during a Feb. 12 Senate 
meeting. 
The commission found all stu-
dents were in violation of 763.2, 
which states candidates may not 
campaign during Senate meetings. 
Inspire Party President Ashley 
Grabowski said Impact’s violation 
submissions were an attempt to 
prevent Inspire’s one-third Senate 
representation. 
“That’s the reason we’re all in 
this room tonight because they 
don’t want us to have the power to 
actually oppose things,” Grabows-
ki said. 
The commission ruled that for 
the three violations, Inspire Party 
must issue a public apology on its 
Facebook page.Impact’s accused violations
Inspire Party gained 21 Senate 
seats in the Spring election. 
Grabowski and Zachary Aaron 
Amrose, a newly elected senator 
for the College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences had four complaints.
Two of the violations alleged 
Ian Green’s Letter to the Editor in 
The Alligator misrepresented facts, 
which is a violation of 762.11. The 
commission said it did not have 
the jurisdiction to hear the charges 
and dismissed them. 
“The individuals are reading 
more into it than what Mr. Green 
stated, ” Batten said. 
Tommy Townsend, the Im-
pact Party treasurer, encouraged 
students in a GroupMe chat for a writing fundamentals class to vote 
for Impact Party Wednesday after-
noon. The message did not have a 
registered political advertisement 
tag but the following graphic of 
voting locations did. 
The commission fined the party 
$5. 
An unknown Impact-affiliated 
canvasser also violated 763.5 out-
side of the Marston Science Li-
brary, which states no campaign-
ing can take place 50 feet away 
from a polling location.
The commission fined the party 
$5. 
The commission also certified 
Wednesday’s election results after 
the hearing. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgImpact Party, Inspire Party found in violation of campaign rules FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2019
We will not be not publishing 3/4-3/8, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 11th is 
Friday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE HAS A $35,000 BOND
A UPS employee accused of stealing a 
laptop and an iPad while on the job was ar-
rested Tuesday. 
Randell Mourice Turner, 33, of 
Gainesville, sorted packages at a UPS cus-
tomer center, at 1941 NW 67th Place, ac-
cording to a Gainesville Police arrest report. 
On Christmas Eve, Turner stole a Lenovo 
ThinkPad laptop from the center, the report 
said. He later sold it at Best Jewelry & Loan 
Pawn Shop, at 523 NW Third Ave., Jan. 9.
He also stole an iPad and sold it on Jan. 
23 at an ecoATM at a Walmart, at 1800 NE 
12th Ave., the report said. A customer ﬁ  led 
a claim that day that her iPad was never de-
livered.
On Feb. 13, a UPS investigator asked po-
lice to look into the Florida pawn database 
for the missing iPad, the report said. Police found it and the ThinkPad 
under Turner’s pawn re-
cords.
The investigator re-
viewed surveillance foot-
age around the time the 
items went missing and 
saw Turner wearing a 
backpack and ducking be-
hind the conveyer belt the items were on, 
the report said.
Turner admitted to police that he sold the 
Lenovo ThinkPad for $125 and the iPad for 
$155, the report said. 
Turner was charged with two counts of 
grand theft, two counts of dealing in stolen 
property and two counts of giving false in-
formation on a pawn transaction form, the 
report said. 
He remains in the Alachua County Jail in 
lieu of a $35,000 bond. SHE HAS AN $82,600 BOND
Deputies arrested a nursing assistant 
Tuesday who was accused of stealing more 
than $18,000 from an elderly disabled pa-
tient and using it to pay her mother’s bills.
Taylor Nicole Gober, 26, of Gainesville, 
worked at Comfort Keepers Home Care, at 
1035 NW 57th St., taking care of a 71-year-
old woman, according to an Alachua Coun-ty Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest 
report. 
While Gober was car-
ing for the woman, she 
stole her bank account 
information, the report 
said.
From December 2017 
to November 2018, 
Gober used the information to pay for her 
and her mother’s seven Gainesville Re-gional Utilities bills and her mother’s seven 
Cox Communications bills, the report said. 
Gober also used the information to pay four 
of her Progressive Corporation bills. The 
payments totaled about $6,700. 
She also stole three personal checks and 
forged them to make them out to herself, 
the report said. The forged checks totaled 
$11,500. 
Gober has multiple charges, including 
grand theft of less than $20,000, petit theft, fraud, possessing the ID of another person 
without consent and exploitation of the el-
derly of under $50,000, the report said. 
In February 2018, she was charged for 
using the woman’s credit card to make 
payments to GRU and Papa John’s Pizza, 
according to court records. She admitted 
to using the card but prosecution was de-
ferred for 18 months in October.
She remains in the Alachua County Jail 
in lieu of an $82,600 bond. 
THEY WERE WORTH $1,476
After allegedly stealing three TVs 
from one Walmart, a woman went to 
another Walmart about eight miles 
away and tried to steal four more 
Wednesday. 
At about 10:40 a.m., Amelia Lea 
Louise Close, 36, of Gainesville, stole 
three TVs from a Walmart, at 5700 NW 
23rd St., according to a Gainesville Po-
lice arrest report. She was able to leave 
the Walmart without being stopped. 
The total value of the TVs was $594. 
About four hours later, Close went 
into another Walmart, at 2900 SW 
42nd St., and stole four TVs, the report 
said. The total value was $882. 
She was able to make it to the park-
ing lot before Walmart loss prevention 
ofﬁ  cers stopped her, the report said. The employees told 
police they had Close 
on video surveillance 
leaving with the TVs. 
She told police she 
stole the TVs because 
her friend Sherry told 
her to, the report 
said. 
Close was charged with two counts 
of grand theft of more than $300 and 
less than $4,999, the report said.
In June 2013, Close was accused of 
stealing 270 Xanax pills from her mom 
but was not found guilty, according to 
court records. 
She couldn’t be reached for com-
ment. 
Close was released from the Ala-
chua County Jail Thursday on her own 
recognizance. UPS worker accused of 
stealing laptop and iPadWoman accused of stealing from elderly woman to pay for bills
Woman accused of stealing 
seven TVs from Walmart
Close
Stories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez   |   Alligator Staff Writer
 kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org   |   Twitter: @katwf98  
Turner
Gober
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
You wake up on Tuesday having to mentally prepare your-
self for the next two days. Walking through Turlington is al-
ready a hassle, but this week is unlike any other — it is Stu-
dent Government election week, which means you have to 
perfect your “I’m deﬁ  nitely on the phone right now and not 
just pretending so you won’t talk to me” face. You’ve been 
planning to vote anyway, so being stopped in Turlington is not 
on the agenda for the day.
You make it to campus, pressing your phone up against 
your ear as you prepare to make your way through Turlington. 
You have class in 10 minutes, and you can’t let yourself be 
stopped, no matter how convincing a person is. You’ve al-
most made it through before you make the fatal mistake of eye 
contact with someone holding a clipboard. And just like that, 
they’ve got you. You prepare yourself to have listen to a spiel 
on elections. You listen, all the while interjecting every few 
seconds about how you really have to go. Finally, the person 
pauses to hand you a ﬂ  ier. When you read it, you know it’s 
your ticket to freedom. It reads:
Darts & Laurels
Our commentary on SG elections this semester is ﬁ  -
nally ending, with Impact Party taking the executive 
ticket and 29 Senate seats. Inspire Party won 21 Sen-
ate seats. We want to give a laurel out to everyone 
who voted in the election. This year, about an extra 
200 voters turned out to the pollson Tuesday compared to last 
year’s election voter turnout. This election season was ﬁ  lled 
with controversy, so we’re interested to see how this new ex-
ecutive ticket handles the pressure of their new seats. After 
the mudslinging from both Impact and Inspire, the two parties 
are going to have to learn to get along with one another in SG. 
In other election news, North Carolina ordered a new 
election for the state’s 9th congressional district after evi-
dence surfaced of campaign tampering by Republican can-
didate Mark Harris’ campaign, convincing him one was 
needed. A dart goes to Harris’ campaign for causing this 
major mishap and undermining people’s overall faith in 
election results. It’s a step in the right direction to call for 
a new election, but it doesn’t help a political climate that’s 
already distrusting of election results and the overall system 
of how elections are run. 
Stepping away from politics, we’re giving a laurel to 
Reggie Fils-Aime after he announced his retirement as presi-
dent of Nintendo of America. His replacement, Doug Bows-
er, will begin in April. That’s right, a man with the same 
last name as the biggest enemy of Nintendo’s Mario will 
be taking over the company’s American headquarters. The 
news seems a little too good to be true, but we can appreci-
ate the poetry of it all. If Bowser’s name is any indication 
of how he’ll do in his new job, we’d say he’s the perfect ﬁ  t. 
In other good news, especially for those who already 
bought tickets, 21 Savage has been rescheduled to perform 
April 15. After the rapper’s detainment by U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement, his UF performance was 
up in the air for a few weeks. Many students wondered 
what would happen to the money they previously spent on 
tickets that were supposed to be for a February show. The 
tickets purchased will now be honored on the new date. We 
can hand out a laurel to Student Government Productions 
for organizing the new show. Hopefully this one sticks, and 
21 Savage will get his crispy chicken wings. 
Are apps like Venmo and Cash App putting 
a price tag on friendships?
Clubs and going out every weekend 
aren’t my thing. But I do love hanging 
out with my friends or going house par-
ties because they’re situations where I 
can enjoy the company of the people 
around me. Requesting music at a house party is 
also easier because you know who has the aux. 
And as a plus, the music won’t blow out your 
eardrums like the huge stereos in a club will.   
Overall, the conversations are genuinely interest-
ing, too. But when the night is over, all of the drinks have 
been drunk and the conversations have been had, it’s time 
for the college ritual: Everyone takes out their phone and 
suddenly a ﬂ  urry of notiﬁ  cations light up the host’s phone. 
This is the tamest and probably the most appropriate way to 
make the night easy for everyone. The host gets reimbursed 
and everyone enjoys their time at the party.
Venmo and Cash App along with similar apps are a small, 
but incredible, alteration to how we interact with each other 
socially. Before Venmo was popular, going out with friends 
involved everyone taking care of their own bill at a restau-
rant or one friend covering for the other if they forgot their 
wallet. But now everything that could cost someone money 
can be covered, like shared snacks from a corner store or a 
quick couple bucks for gas when a friend drives you some-
where. The opportunities to help each other out are as ex-
pansive as there are things to pay for. 
The questions then begin: How much is too much when 
paying others back? How far can this exchange go between 
friends and others around you? Could a friend ask you for 
a couple of cents for the sticks of gum you always ask for, 
or maybe charge you for a whole pack if you’re constantly 
asking? If you keep asking your classmate for pens to use in class, what’s stopping them from asking for 
a nickel? The convenience of these apps poses 
a question about our morals and how we value 
spending time with each other.
This phenomenon is easy to spot on Twitter. If 
a person’s tweet strikes a particular nerve for the 
general population, that person suddenly surges 
in attention and exposure. This is followed by the 
“Dang, this tweet blew up” response, then further 
followed by the “Follow my Soundcloud/buy my 
art/donate to me just because I was funny enough.” And 
maybe it is worth sending them a dollar or two for making 
a joke that otherwise would’ve possibly never been shared. 
However, the precedent of making all our time and attention 
worth something monetarily is disheartening.
Using social media becomes less about connectivity and 
more about hoping for enough exposure to maybe bring 
something proﬁ  table your way. Our interactions with others 
become mere transactions of giving what someone wants for 
what you desire. Friendships are just mutual interactions of 
validation until you no longer care for someone’s attention 
and just stop talking. You begin to value people not based on 
an intrinsic level of care but on some extrinsic form of ego 
boosting.
It’s possible we have put too much value on what we get 
out of our daily connections and maybe we forget not every-
thing in life is about earning or exchanging money. Really, 
what life is about is living well and with the people you care 
about. So remember to care for one another, and appreciate 
your interactions with others.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism sophomore. His col-
umn appears on Fridays. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor Letter to the Editor
UF can do better when it comes to 
preventing sexual assault on campus. 
There have been reports of sexual as-
sault, and even rape, occurring on our 
campus this month alone. So when I 
read an article about how Washington 
state lawmakers proposed a bill to cre-
ate a sexual assault task force on college 
campuses, I wondered why UF doesn’t 
have such a thing. After all, aren’t we a 
top eight public university?
In 2015, the Association of American 
Universities released a campus climate 
survey on sexual assault and sexual 
misconduct. UF published an article 
after the survey results were released, 
which stated, “One in ﬁ  ve UF female 
undergraduate students indicated they 
have experienced some type of sexual 
assault - ranging from sexual touching 
such as groping to unwanted penetra-
tion - since entering UF.” 
The American Association of Univer-
sities announced in January it will con-
duct another campus climate survey on 
sexual assault and sexual misconduct. 
Based on an email I received recently 
from UF Public Safety, however, I have 
a prediction for how this report will 
look. 
As all UF students know far too well, 
UF Public Safety sends a “Timely Warn-
ing” via email or text when emergen-
cies happen on or near campus. These 
emergencies range from armed robbery 
to ﬁ  res to sexual assault. On Feb. 11, I 
noticed the typical “Timely Warning” 
email in my inbox. 
For some reason, I decided to read 
this one, and what I read was truly up-
setting. The email documented a sexual 
assault occurring on campus sometime 
between 8 and 10 p.m. Feb. 9. Accord-
ing to the report, the victim was between 
the Florida Gym and Student Recreation 
& Fitness Center when an unknown in-
dividual sexually battered the victim. 
The report continued to say:
“The delayed reporting of this in-
cident was provided to the UFPD by a food services employee supervisor to 
whom the victim conﬁ  ded. The victim 
currently does not want to report the 
matter to law enforcement.”
This points to so many underly-
ing issues regarding sexual violence at 
UF that it’s almost impossible to ﬁ  nd a 
place to start. Most glaringly, it is con-
cerning the victim did not want to come 
forward with this report. This is an un-
fortunate situation I’ve noticed time and 
time again throughout my three years at 
UF.
Many victims just don’t feel com-
fortable coming forward to authorities 
with their sexual assault. Instead, peo-
ple would rather ﬁ  nd comfort in their 
friends. How can you blame them? UF 
tries to encourage victims to speak out, 
but there are always going to be feelings 
of discomfort and embarrassment sur-
rounding the topic. 
It is also concerning our only infor-
mation regarding these assaults comes 
in the form of emails, which college 
students sometimes don’t even check, 
or in short, nondescript text messages. 
Additionally, the fact that these reports 
of sexual assault are labeled as “warn-
ings” is concerning. In my experience, 
a warning is received before an incident 
occurs. Either way, why would I need 
a warning when I have been told the 
campus is safe? Aren’t those blue light 
posts on a few corners supposed to pro-
tect me?
Ultimately, with the next survey on 
sexual assault and sexual misconduct 
being conducted this year, the univer-
sity should do something to address this 
issue before it affects the lives of any 
more students. Don’t get me wrong, I 
am proud to be a Gator. However, do 
I feel safe walking around campus? Not 
always. Providing resources in a clinical 
sense is necessary, but offering preven-
tative solutions on a grassroots level is 
critical concerning forward process.
Katherine Ryan is a UF advertising 
junior.Sexual assault is a problem at UF 
and it needs to be addressed.  In the past week, organizations, parties and 
groups have released statements in response 
to homophobic comments made in the past by 
the newly elected executive ticket. This letter to 
the editor comes from the LGBTQ+ members 
of Inspire Party who came together to form a 
response that somehow expresses the pain, fear 
and disappointment we and many others have 
experienced.
When the news was released Feb. 15 by The 
Alligator, there was a great deal of shock across 
campus. For us, not so much. The comments 
made by the candidates were simply an afﬁ  rma-
tion of the prejudice and discrimination that are 
ingrained into UF’s history and structure, but 
that doesn’t mean there was 
a lack of hurt stemming from 
the news. There has been no 
shortage of bitter disappoint-
ment felt by us and other 
members of the LGBTQ+ 
community. It is  disappoint-
ment because many of us 
have this sickening feeling and knowledge that 
this is the norm in which we live. 
It cannot be ignored that the newly elected 
Student Body president, Student Body vice 
president and Student Body treasurer are guilty 
of having homophobic material in their social 
media history. These three people are student 
leaders on our campus, and as the executive 
slate, they are responsible for setting the tone of 
a party. To see these candidates express so little 
thoughtful regret over their actions speaks more 
volumes than their comments ever could. 
The next logical step in this situation would 
be to apologize and show true remorse over 
one’s actions and seek to make amends. Collec-
tively we read the apologies of the new execu-
tive slate, none of which were anywhere near 
adequate for the pain inﬂ  icted. The actions of 
the three following the article did not show gen-
uine remorse either. There was no post made in 
support of people with different identities, only 
one offer to meet with the affected communi-
ties. Instead of acknowledging the severity of 
what happened, excuses were given. 
There was blame placed on outside factors, 
claims that a “different time” could excuse their 
behavior, and everything short of taking full re-
sponsibility for their mistakes. As student lead-ers, these three have enormous power on our 
campus. As student leaders, they should be ex-
pected of more.
Identifying as LGBTQ+ should provide a 
sense of community and solidarity in a world 
where actions like these social media posts and 
worse happen every day. Instead of ﬁ  nding this 
solidarity, we were instead confronted with a 
reminder of how far UF has to go. The LGBTQ+ 
community at UF has been thrust into the spot-
light and been used as a tool by Impact, the me-
dia sources and essentially everyone to further 
their political and personal goals. Even when 
looking at the article, it’s a reminder this infor-
mation didn’t come to light to advocate for any 
minority community, but 
instead to simply shift 
the balance in the game 
of SG politics. Instead 
of reacting to the latest 
scandal to hit our student 
leaders, we all need to 
look around and center 
those voices that experience this homophobia 
every day. 
In the end, the issue isn’t what the candi-
dates said. It was the reaction to their words, 
the acceptance of them as normal and the per-
petuation of complacency toward homophobia 
that has haunted us in recent days. As the self-
identiﬁ  ed LGBTQ+ members of Inspire, we 
came together to support each other but also to 
hold our student leaders accountable for their 
lack of inclusion. Our Student Body president, 
vice president, treasurer and all our senators set 
an example for who we are and what we stand 
for. To remain silent after this would feel like 
an injustice to us and should feel the same for 
every student out there. 
Together we can work toward a better cam-
pus. Together we can beat pervasive homopho-
bia. Together we can be so much better than 
this. This indifference, complacency and ho-
mophobia can only be challenged when people 
stand up. Simply being “not homophobic” is 
not enough. All students, especially these three, 
need to recognize the power of their actions and 
more importantly, the power of their inactions. 
Joey McGinn is an Inspire Party member.LGBTQ+ members of Inspire react to 
homophobic social media posts
I’m an emotional woman. I’ll answer 
the question now: No, I’m not PMS-
ing or hormonal. My emotions usually 
stem from my experiences, my nor-
mal and healthily shifting moods and 
my daily life. Not all women are as emotional 
as I am, and I think it would be fair to say I 
am more emotional than most of my female 
friends. Even so, every woman and every 
person on this planet has feelings. My slight 
surplus of feelings doesn’t inﬂ  uence or negate 
my potential, my intelligence, my profession-
alism or any aspect of my worth. 
I experience this pressure to hide or mini-
mize my emotions, even from those closest 
to me. I’m perpetually afraid that in reveal-
ing my “weaknesses” my reputation will be 
tarnished. I fear my ideas won’t receive the 
consideration they deserve, my feelings will 
be taken less seriously and chalked up to a 
“dramatic nature,” or I’ll be treated as less ca-
pable of large responsibilities. 
I’m aware most people grapple with vul-
nerability, and I’m certainly not implying 
fearing vulnerability is exclusively feminine. Quite the contrary, I know vul-
nerability is one of the most uni-
versal fears. It’s primal. 
I can’t speak for other gen-
ders, but I struggle as a woman 
with this pressure to create a re-
lentlessly thick-skinned and re-
silient facade to gain the respect 
of others. If I’m “too emotional,” 
people will not only invalidate my 
emotions, but they’ll also doubt my capacity 
to handle real-world issues and responsibili-
ties. My emotions are constantly shifting day 
to day, but I usually choose to keep them to 
myself. In the moments when I do reveal my 
emotions, however, my intellect and work 
ethic remain constant or improve because 
I’m relieved from the stress of masking my 
moods. Just because someone expresses their 
frustration or sadness doesn’t mean they’re 
suddenly fragile or incapable of a normal 
workload. It simply means they’re entrust-
ing you with their emotions or, more likely, 
they’re human and can’t always disguise or 
contain their thoughts. It’s OK to have a lot of feelings. 
I look at all the famous women I 
admire and think of them as these 
stone warriors, ﬁ  ghting away any 
emotional responses to difﬁ  cult 
circumstances. That’s not real 
life, though, and most celebri-
ties don’t pretend it is. I put these 
people on an impractical pedestal 
to create a model for myself. It’s 
an excuse to imitate them and hide my own 
feelings, but I need to be more realistic about 
my heroes’ hardships. It would help me be 
more honest about my own, too. Although 
I’m a survivor, I still feel the impacts of my 
own adversities. It’s time to accept my past 
and start working past those feelings, instead 
of living in denial about the tribulations that 
still sting. 
I’m really hard on myself. I feel like every-
one can see when I’m depressed or angry or 
upset, but I need to give myself more credit. 
I’m good at keeping my life together when I 
feel like I’m falling apart. I need to stop worry-
ing my reputation’s in peril when I’m feeling down because I control who knows about my 
emotions. 
Revealing your feelings to another person, 
especially sensitive ones like sadness or an-
ger, shouldn’t damage your reputation. Rath-
er, it should bolster it. It takes serious matu-
rity, self-reﬂ  ection and honesty to understand 
your feelings and own them. It’s not easy to 
admit to yourself when something is wrong, 
especially in a society that preys upon vulner-
ability and exploits it as entertainment. It’s 
even more daunting to reveal these emotions 
to another person.
I’m slowly starting to embrace my feelings 
and let go of my fears. My emotions don’t 
make me less of a woman or a person. People 
who criticize me for my emotions likely fear 
my vulnerability too much to comprehend it. 
I’m strong for knowing how I feel, and I’m 
brave for leaning on my loved ones when I 
need help feeling better.
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism 
freshman. Her column appears on Fridays.Just because I'm an emotional person doesn't mean I'm any less reliableColumn
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.org“Instead of reacting to the latest 
scandal to hit our student leaders, 
we all need to look around and 
center those voices that experience 
homophobia everyday.”8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
were also found on the Facebook 
pages of Gutierrez and Abraham.
Each candidate apologized, and 
the posts have since been deleted.
The controversy of the past week 
did not dull the spirits of Impact 
Wednesday night. 
As the lights brightened Turling-
ton Plaza, a roar could be heard from 
the horde gathered in the middle.
“I-M-P! A-C-T! Impact is for you 
and me!”
This refrain continued over and 
over until the crowd of more than 70 
people in light blue and white shirts 
reached the Reitz Union to learn 
their fate after a month of campaign-
ing. 
“Regardless of tonight, win or 
lose, you guys are always going to 
have a place within the Impact Par-
ty, and we are always going to love 
you,” said Emily Dempsey, Impact 
Party campaign manager. 
When the crowd reached the 
Reitz Union, Murphy’s grandpar-
ents distributed mini cupcakes with 
a green icing gator and Impact flag 
planted by a toothpick.
Murphy said the snowstorm on the east coast made his family drive 
11 hours instead of fly from Fairfax, 
Virginia. The family helped cam-
paign on the last day of elections in 
addition to observing the results. 
Murphy’s neck, which was as red 
as a tomato, stood out from the col-
lar of his “I Like Mike” shirt. He said 
he walked over 14 miles on Wednes-
day alone. 
It was worth it. Murphy said he 
was confident going into the night’s 
final results.
Sarah Abraham became the first 
Indian American elected to be Stu-
dent Body vice president in UF’s his-
tory. 
But she was nervous going into 
the results.
Before the announcement was 
made, Abraham said she was pray-
ing Jeremiah 29:11, which is: “‘For I 
know the plans I have for you,’ de-
clares the Lord, ‘plans to prosper you 
and not to harm you, plans to give 
you hope and a future.’”
“Everyone put extreme amounts 
of work, and they all deserve to be 
here,” Abraham said. 
When Gutierrez won, he was im-
mediately swarmed by fellow Impact 
members.Although his family wasn’t pres-
ent, they texted him: “We’re so 
proud of you, mijo.” 
He said he comes from a low-
income family, so he will most likely 
keep his salary. Abraham and Mur-
phy said they had not decided what 
they would do with their salaries. 
The president’s salary is about 
$10,000, and the vice president’s and 
treasurer’s salaries are about $8,000. 
As Supervisor of Elections Henry 
Fair walked in to give the results, In-
spire executive candidates Chou and 
Gadamsetty and Inspire President 
Ashley Grabowski huddled together. 
Minutes later, they learned they lost 
the election. 
Grabowski was elated to learn 
Inspire won a third of the Senate, 
breaking the party’s record for Sen-
ate seats, she said. 
“There’s this assumption that 
independent parties die over time, 
and we’ve proved that’s not true,” 
Grabowski said. 
Before the announcement of the 
winning candidates, Chou sat qui-
etly and performed his ritual at Sen-
ate meetings of setting up livestream 
equipment.
Joachim sat in a chair away from the crowds, listening to music on his 
headphones.
He said he struggles with anxiety, 
which is why he chose to separate 
himself and calm down before the 
results were announced.
“Sleeping and eating is some-
thing I haven’t done in two weeks 
straight,” Joachim said.
While Joachim and Chou quietly 
reflected in preparation of the results 
being announced, Gadamsetty spent 
the moment chatting with Inspire 
Party friends. 
Gadamsetty said this year’s cam-
paigning connected the party with 
students more than ever before. 
The Alligator’s Editorial Board re-
ferred to Chou as a “human meme” 
in its endorsement of Inspire because 
he is known for his use of “Swampy 
UF memes for top ten public teens” 
to connect with students.
“We took the human meme and 
made it our own. We used costumes, 
we got the attention of students,” 
Gadamsetty said. 
As the team listened to Fair an-
nounce the new executive ticket, 
it stood in a moment of silence to-
gether. 
After they digested the news, 
Chou remained stoic and Joachim 
reflected alone on the concrete steps 
where the party gathered outside 
before. Gadamsetty remained ener-getic, chatting with members of the 
crowd, full of hope and pride.
R. Matthew Barocas of Inspire 
ran for a seat in the UF College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences this elec-
tion, after losing the Hume seat last 
semester.
As Fair announced the college’s 
newly elected senators, Barocas’ 
eyes quickly reddened, and he called 
his parents and sister almost imme-
diately to share the good news.
“I really care about the humani-
ties here at UF,” Barocas said. “Espe-
cially because I know we’re a STEM-
heavy school, I ran so I could be an 
advocate for students who aren’t.”
He said he planned on celebrating 
the win by going to Steak ‘n Shake 
with other Inspire members, as per 
tradition.
Despite Inspire’s executive ticket 
loss, Chou said he has hope. He will 
remain a senator for Murphree Area. 
But after the election, he will munch 
on a garlic steakburger from Steak ‘n 
Shake with his team.
“I’ll just keep on doing what I’ve 
been doing,” Chou said. “Advocacy 
is my life. Public service is my life. 
And it doesn’t end here tonight.”
Alligator staff writers Hannah Beatty, 
Lakshmi Gomez, Mikayla Carroll and 
Kelly Hayes contributed to this report. SG,  from pg. 1Inspire Party won a third of Senateter’s and Ph.D. programs. Funding cannot be 
determined until the faculty and director are 
hired and their salaries are determined. 
UF’s program originated in 1969 partially 
as a response to the assassinations of Martin 
Luther King Jr., Robert Kennedy and Malcolm 
X, African American Studies Director Sharon 
Austin said. 
Prejudiced incidents on campus have oc-
curred over the past half-
century and continue to 
happen, Austin said. 
Black students in 
1968 told The Alligator 
that the discrimination 
they faced was “very 
subtle and difficult to prove.” 
In 2017, racially charged incidents on cam-
pus still surfaced. UF President Kent Fuchs re-
sponded to a noose found on campus in Janu-
ary that year and acknowledged that the object 
is a painful symbol for the black community 
despite the intent of its appearance being un-
known. 
In February, someone uprooted the  Walker 
Hall sign, which marks the home of the African 
American Studies program. Some interpreted 
this as an act of hate speech, but others saw it 
as a “drunken joke.” 
In October of the same year, white suprem-
acist Richard Spencer spoke on campus. About 
2,500 people protested his presence.
One minority student was turned away from 
the event for having emergency contact num-
bers written on her arm. One student who at-
tended the speech as a Spencer supporter said 
he believes in segregation. One man showed 
up wearing a T-shirt decorated with swastikas.
William Walker, a 24-year-old UF African 
American studies 2017 alumnus, said some 
of these incidents being close to Black History 
Month made him feel like black students were 
targeted on campus decades after the racial 
turmoil in the ‘60s.
“It was a really difficult month to get 
through. We were just talking among one an-
other, pretty much giving ourselves an outlet 
to relieve our stress and express how upset we were with the things going on,” Walker said.
Walker planned to join a fraternity his fresh-
man year during Spring 2014 but decided not 
to when two fraternity brothers posted photos 
of themselves wearing blackface in 2012. Aus-
tin said this incident sparked anger and moti-
vated administration to support the major in a 
way it may not have before.
“People just get sick and tired of the foolish-
ness that continues to happen over and over 
again,” Austin said. 
The program expanded from offering only a 
certificate from the 1970s 
through the 1990s to cre-
ating a minor in 2006 
and major in 2012. 
Vincent Adejumo, 
a UF African American 
studies lecturer, said UF 
has the most students 
majoring in African American studies in the 
country. According to the university, other 
programs and departments have an average of 
20 students in the major. Adejumo said UF’s 
program has 81 students. 
“That tells you that there is a thirst for this 
knowledge, and the faculty and staff at the 
ground level have been doing the work neces-
sary. The only way we’re going to take it to 
the next level is department status,” Adejumo 
said.
Sharon Burney, the African American Stud-
ies program assistant, said since 2003, she has 
worked under at least five directors. Many of 
the program’s professors belong to other de-
partments, which limits the time they can allot 
to African American Studies. The program’s 
only full-time employees are three professors, 
one director and one staff member — herself.
“How you treat the most disenfranchised 
among you is a reflection of who you are at the 
core,” Burney said. “This is a program that has 
shown it’s been worthy through what we’ve 
been able to do with minimal staff and faculty. 
It should be celebrated, but it should also be 
invested in.”
In comparison, the University of Michigan’s 
Department of Afroamerican and African Stud-
ies has 57 full-time employees, program man-
ager Elizabeth James wrote in an email.
“Every university needs that type of cross-
cultural work because every place of the world is important,” James said. 
UF’s program offers a black-oriented cur-
riculum in a predominantly white institution.
Jireh Davis realized people treated her dif-
ferently when she started elementary school. 
The one place she has not felt this is the Afri-
can American Studies program. 
Davis grew up in a predominantly white 
area of Arlington, Texas. Her friends growing 
up told her that their parents liked her because 
she was different from the stereotype of black 
people they believed to be true. 
The 22-year-old UF political science and 
African American studies senior is now at UF, 
where 57 percent of the Student Body is white 
while about 7 percent is black. She said she 
is often the only black woman in her political science classes. 
Davis did not have the confidence to talk 
about her race when she was a kid. She did not 
know how to respond when kids at her school 
thought the words “black” and “ghetto” were 
synonymous. 
The program has provided a space where 
she feels included and has learned to use her 
voice to combat intolerance she faces while 
learning about the students who fought to be 
represented. 
“It brings comfort, it brings a sense of home, 
a sense of relief, a sense of safety,” she said. 
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1Graduate degree programs could be added
Increase in Spring enrollment in the UF African American Studies major
2014: 16 
2015: 43 
2016: 66 
2017: 70 
2018: 77 
2019: 81 
This count does not include double majors
Top 10 public colleges with African American Studies departments
University of California, Los Angeles 
University of California, Berkeley
University of Michigan
University of California, Santa Barbara 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Florida public universities with African American Studies programs 
Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University 
Florida State University 
University of Central Florida
Florida Atlantic University
Florida International University  
Florida Gulf Coast University
University of South Florida
University of North Florida “How you treat the most disenfranchised 
among you is a reflection of who you 
are at the core.”
Sharon Burney
Program AssistantFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
Reach 50,000+ sports fans by featuring 
your ad on the NCAA T ournament  
Bracket! This special bracket will be a 
pull out section that Gator fans can use 
for the whole three weeks of March 
Madness to track their favorite teams.
RUN DATE
Mon, March 18DEADLINE
Thurs March 14T ake the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Starting at
$241.79
includes full color
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Contact Alligator Advertising
Reserve your space today!
376.4482 
Executive Ticket  - Impact
President 
Michael Murphy
Vice president
Sarah Abraham 
Treasurer
Santiago Gutierrez
Senate Seats
Accounting Senator - Impact
Jessica Jesurajan
Agriculture and Life Sciences Senator 
Impact
Emily Blomeley, Stephen 
Singleton, Austin Freedman
Architecture - Impact
Patric Prieto
Arts - Inspire
Rebecca Ragan
Building Construction - 
Impact
Chad Brittain
Business Administration - Impact
Michelle Fernandez-Valle, Abby 
Morris, Will Sandifer
Dentistry - Impact
Kevin Shan
Education - Impact
Emma Weiskopf
Engineering - 
Split - 2 Inspire, 1 Impact
Zhonglin “Savannah” Lai, Kristen 
Jackson, Jackson Glover
Freshman  - Impact
Julia Cordover, Faith ManitiSpring 2019 Student Government Election Results
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Zachariah Chou, the 21-year-old Inspire 
Party Student Body presidential candidate, 
waits on the results Wednesday for the UF 
Student Government elections in the Reitz 
Union. Chou lost the presidential race to 
Michael Murphy, the Impact Party Student 
Body presidential candidate, 4,196 votes 
to 6,331 votes. “I’m already on my fifth 
stage of grief, ” Chou said.
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Aeja Pinto (left), an 18-year-old UF mechanical and aerospace engineering freshman, 
and Sofia Gangotena (right), a 21-year-old UF political science junior, wait for the 
results of the Student Government elections Wednesday in the Reitz Union.
Graduate 
Split - 9 Inspire, 1 Impact
Ashley Grabowski, Shirly 
Rodriguez, Charlyne Smith, 
Max David Stein, Raphael Iyamu, 
Olin Calvin, Steven Orban, Jake 
Stevens, Macey Wilson, Yichen Li 
Health and Human Performance  - 
Impact
Wynton White
Journalism  - Impact
Grace Pepple, Libby Shaw
Law Senator - Impact
Laura Kanouse
Liberal Arts and Sciences Senator - 
Split - 7 Inspire, 1 Impact
Maria Espinoza, Jessica 
Martinez, Zachary Aaron 
Amrose, Bailey Lovesky, Nikolas 
Bindi, R. Matthew Barocas, 
Jonathan Gant, Gabriela 
Hernandez
Medicine - Inspire
Nik Kaufman
Nursing - Impact
Ashlyn Weninger
Pharmacy Senator - Inspire
Solmaz Karimi
Public Health and Health Professions 
Impact
Seth Longland
Sophomore - Impact
Brady Alexander, Cooper 
Brown, Audrey Wikan, Nandini 
Goel, Timothy Miller, Anthony 
Portugues
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Contributor 
Michael Murphy, the 21-year-old Impact 
Party presidential candidate, embraces 
his younger sister Molly Murphy, 12, 
Wednesday night at the Reitz Union after 
winning UF Student Body president. 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
A $30 banner resembling a brick 
wall reading “BUILD THE WALL!” 
was hung above Plaza of the Amer-
icas on Monday night.
The next morning, it was gone. 
UF’s chapter of Young Ameri-
cans for Freedom, 
the conservative 
student organiza-
tion that put up 
the sign, contacted 
University Police 
and replaced the 
sign for $40, said 
Dylan Finucan, a 
group member and 
19-year-old UF po-
litical science soph-
omore.
But the second 
sign was taken 
down at noon. The 
organization put it 
back up, only for it 
to be cut up in the evening, Finu-
can said. As of Thursday night, no 
charges have been filed but some 
are pending, said UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando. 
The group has a permit from the 
UF Student Activities and Involve-
ment Division of Student Affairs to 
hang its banner, Orlando said. 
UPD and Student Affairs used the incident as an educational op-
portunity, Orlando said. It’s rare 
that students remove other stu-
dents’ banners. 
“Those involved were able to 
learn about the First Amendment 
and what people’s rights are in 
these circumstances,” Orlando said.
Organization members filmed 
two incidents of the 
banner being taken 
down. Finucan said 
he believes at least 
eight students were 
involved. 
Finucan record-
ed a video of the 
students walking 
away with the ban-
ner on Tuesday. In 
the video, Finucan 
says, “So you guys 
are gonna steal our 
property?” An un-
known student re-
plies, “I don’t care 
about your sign.” 
Finucan said he is disappointed 
by UF students’ reactions to the 
banner.
“It’s just unfortunate, especially 
on a campus where there should be 
diversity of thought and tolerance 
of opposing views,” Finucan said.
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.org‘Build the Wall’ banner torn down three times in two days
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF’s chapter of Young Americans for Freedom’s banner hangs on the Plaza of the Americas. The 
“Build the Wall” banner was removed three times.
How YAF got the permit:  
Through the UF Student 
Activities and Involvement 
Division of Student Affairs, 
YAF members applied 
online at the GatorConnect 
website. From there, it 
selected the organization, 
clicked “Events, ” clicked 
“Create Event” and  followed 
the prompts to submit their 
permit request.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
Condo on the 3rd floor,Two bedrooms, 2 
baths, screened balcony, laundry room. Pool 
area. Plenty of parking, unassigned. Storage 
room. Close to UF and Santa Fe college.
Contact Mayda Owner/Agent 305 772-1950    
2-25-19-3-5SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church 
need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, 
windows? Big Sale on new cushioned pews 
and pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360. www.
pews1.com      2-22-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com     1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300      2-22-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
WANTED TO RENT:
Apt, Cottage, Efficiency, Cabin
in relatively quiet & safe area.
I have a HUD / VASH voucher 386-266-6886     
2-22-3-2
FOR RENT
2-STORY HISTORICAL HOUSE.
9-10 bedrooms starting 8-1-19.
1022 NW 3rd Ave.
Contact Brenda 352-672-8657          3-1-5-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no re -
sponsibility for injury or loss arising 
from contacts made through adver -
tising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
Do you WordPress? If so, we have a job for 
you. You must have strong WP knowledge, 
be familiar with theme development and basic 
coding languages (HTML, CSS, JavaScript & 
PHP). www.dmcreativestudios.com/careers    
2-22-19-4-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring 
deli help.  Fast paced friendly environment. 
No experience needed. Reliable transporta -
tion a must. Applications available on site at 
2327 N W 13th Street.     2-25-5-14
We have a part time job waiting for you if 
skilled at INDESGN and can type well.
Call Connie or Jim at (352)377-2444     3-1-
5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15MATH TUTOR
More thank 20 years of exp. UF engineer 
graduate. Please call Hermon 352-225-8980    
3-1-19-7-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      2-22-
1-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
By Patti Varol
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/22/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/22/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, February 22, 2019
ACROSS
1 Information desk 
sign
6 Sits in a cellar, 
say
10 Chuckleheads
14 Yuletide name
15 Philanthropist 
Wallace
16 Grammy-winning 
rapper
17 Totally rad 
electric guitar 
performance?
19 Short copy?
20 Upper bod 
muscle
21 Poor Richard, 
really
22 Brusque
23 Emergency 
bucket on Dior’s 
boat?
27 Nonbeliever
29 Shoreline flood 
protection
30 Caper film event
31 Actor Danson
32 Dessert chain 
with Cotton 
Candy Freeze
36 Travel guide
37 Jib made of 
clothing labels?
41 SE state
42 “When all __ 
fails ... ”
44 “Let ‘er __!”
45 Zac of 
“Baywatch”
47 Error
49 Master piece?
51 Where to find 
more beach 
toys?
55 Expunge
56 Mahershala of 
“True Detective”
57 IMAX purchase
59 X-ray, Yankee, __
60 Impressive 
New York zoo 
peacock display?
64 Phone button 
abbr.
65 X-ray units
66 Starbucks size
67 Double __ Oreos
68 “If you don’t 
mind?”
69 In other words, in 
Caesar’s words
DOWN
1 “Crikey!”
2 Berth place
3 Healthy snack4 Puts a cover on, 
as a bed
5 Jargon suffix
6 Astros’ MLB 
division
7 Really big
8 “The House With 
a Clock in Its 
Walls” director 
Roth
9 “On the Road” 
narrator
10 Secondary 
wager
11 Integra maker
12 “For every 
generation” soft 
drink
13 1943 penny 
metal
18 Hitting stat
22 Paramount 
Network, once
24 “Norma Rae” 
director
25 Writer’s block 
breakthrough
26 German wheels
27 Words of lament
28 Marsh duck
31 Cough syrup 
meas.
33 Actress who 
plays Kimmy 
Schmidt’s 
landlady34 Allied group
35 Jerk
38 “Sunday Night 
Baseball” 
analyst, familiarly
39 One often taking 
a bow
40 Helen of Troy’s 
mother
43 Try to find 
oneself?
46 Made moth 
moves
48 Half and half49 House speaker 
after Ryan
50 Neat as __
51 Amazon founder
52 Blow one’s stack
53 Ivy in Conn.
54 Resistant to cold, 
as plants
58 Small songbirds
60 Parka sleeve
61 “Listen, ewe!”
62 Income tax 
Amendment
63 Hammered
By Peter A. Collins
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/21/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/21/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, February 21, 2019
ACROSS
1 ’90s-’00s 
Olympic soccer 
notable
5 Literary captain
9 Leaks slowly
14 Burn soother
15 Zippo
16 Computer text 
code
17 They’re not loyal
18 Unyielding
20 Golfing group
22 Base for money
23 Swallowed
24 “Harry Potter” 
reporter __ 
Skeeter
25 Not much
27 Anthem 
contraction
29 Blue, on the 
Danube
31 Noir hero
32 Lose oomph
34 Movie SFX
35 Purim heroine
39 Centers of 
attention
40 What unfixed 
malfunctions 
usually do
42 Flight-related 
prefix
43 “Burnt” color
45 Coastal bird
46 Sound of an 
angry exit
47 LSU conference
48 Chicago-style 
pizza chain, 
informally
50 Education org.
51 Started, as a 
conversation
55 Car dealer’s abbr.
57 Acct. that may be 
rolled over
58 Half a numbers 
game
59 Seattle pro
62 Going back, in 
a way
65 Arch type
66 Often harmful 
bacteria
67 Basmati, for one
68 “What, will these 
hands __ be 
clean?”: Lady 
Macbeth
69 Thick
70 “Futurama” 
creator Groening71 “Baseball 
Tonight” channel
DOWN
1 Roxie __, 
“Chicago” role
2 “There oughta 
be __”
3 Grand Prix, for 
one
4 Soccer superstar 
Lionel
5 Edible elephant, 
say
6 Fabled also-ran
7 Hubbub
8 Xhosa’s 
language group
9 French holy 
women
10 Bilingual subj.
11 Grand display
12 Mary-in-mourning 
sculpture
13 Agreed (with)
19 Skillet dish with 
ham and peppers
21 Wagering 
shorthand
25 Supercharge, and 
a hint to what’s 
literally hiding in 
the four longest 
Down answers26 Take the role of
27 Does in
28 Morlock victims
30 Memorable time
33 Infomercial brand
36 FAQ spots
37 Q.E.D. word
38 Type of tomato
41 Spigoted server
44 Suit go-with
49 Fed. benefits 
agency
51 Located52 Jiffy
53 Hispanic penguin 
in “Happy Feet”
54 Render harmless
56 Lake Geneva 
river
59 Religious 
offshoot
60 Bawl
61 “Ol’ Man River” 
composer
63 Raised trains
64 Through
1.  Sanctuary, temple
1.  Supplied5.  Will Smith in “I, ____”
2.  Theft6.  Mistake
3.  ____ gas7.  Certain fold of skin
4.  Was scared ofNISEHR
EDRSVEOTRBO
REORR
RBYRBEO
URNALATLIEEDY
ADEFREANSWERS: 1A-Shrine  5A-Robot  6A-Error  7A-Eyelid
1D-Served  2D-Robbery  3D-Natural  4D-Feared  B-Beethoven2-22-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person never married or had children. 
BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators fall to LSU on the road
Guard Funda Nakkasoglu led UF with 11 points as the Florida women's bas-
ketball team lost to the Tigers 69-51 on Thursday. The Gators shot 22 of 55 
from the field, including a 5-of-18 clip from the three-point arc.Swimmer Vanessa Pearl placed 
second in the 400 IM at the SEC 
Championships in Athens, Georgia on 
Thursday. She took first and set a UF 
record in the 200 IM Wednesday.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
LSU guard Daryl Edwards low-
ered his head at the sound of the 
final buzzer. 
His teammate, forward Naz 
Reid, flung the ball toward the 
basket for one last shot before he 
ambled off the court. 
Florida guard Andrew Nemb-
hard bounced up and down as for-
ward Keyontae Johnson galloped 
toward him in triumph.
UF celebrated a win over Ala-
bama as its most important victory 
of the season just four days prior. 
But the statement win it desperate-
ly needed came Wednesday in an 
82-77 overtime upset of No. 13 LSU 
in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The Gators played with more 
fight than LSU despite the Tigers’ 
ability to keep the game close with 
timely runs. One was an 11-2 run 
at the start of the second half to 
take the lead.
Florida controlled the pace of 
the game and was active on de-
fense. It scored 21 points off 14 turnovers, and it held a Tigers team 
that averages 82.7 points per game 
to 64 points in regulation.
The Gators got 21 points from 
their bench and showed just how 
desperate they were to get another 
“Quadrant 1” win on their resume 
with the NCAA Tournament’s 
“Selection Sunday” coming up on 
March 17.
That culminated in just two 
plays on Wednesday.
The first came midway through 
the second half after the Tigers had 
taken a 44-42 lead.
Nembhard and forward Dontay 
Bassett double-teamed LSU guard 
Tremont Waters as he tried to force 
a pass to forward Kavell Bigby-Wil-
liams under the basket. 
Bassett intercepted the pass and 
dished the ball to Nembhard, who 
took it the other way. He found 
guard Deaundrae Ballard for a wide 
-open, pull-up jumper that stopped 
the LSU momentum swing and tied 
the game.
The second came in overtime.Gators’ upset of LSU showed fight White wanted earlier in season
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Andrew Nembhard recorded 11 assists in Florida's 81-72 win over T exas A&M on Jan. 22.
SOFTBALL BASEBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
There’s no better way for a softball 
player to vault her team toward vic-
tory than hitting a home run in the 
first at-bat of the game. 
Amanda Lorenz accomplished this 
twice in the past week: against No. 13 
Arizona State on Friday and against 
Jacksonville on Wednesday. 
The three-time All-American is 
having an impressive start to her sea-
son. She holds the team high in both 
batting average (.459) and slugging 
percentage (.757), improving on a 
.401/.675 career split entering 2019. 
The senior outfielder/first baseman 
also leads the Gators with 17 hits and 
three home runs.
Lorenz’ tremendous play is indica-
tive of a bustling UF offense which is 
showing significant differences from 
a year ago. Not only are its numbers 
better, the way in which it’s playing 
has completely changed. The Gators (12-0) are hitting much 
more, and they’re doing so with great-
er power. They have 107 hits com-
pared to 85 from this time last year 
and twice as many home runs (14).
UF somehow scored less through 
12 games this season than it did in 
2018, but the margin is almost neg-
ligible. It had 86 RBIs to this point 
last season. The RBI-count currently 
sits at 78 heading into this weekend’s 
Bubly Invitational at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium.
The Florida of 2018 got on base 
at all cost, especially via the walk. 
This was a team that set the NCAA 
record for walks in a season (360) and 
through 12 contests, averaged almost 
six walks per game. It also struck out 
only 2.9 times per game during that 
stretch.
UF is now striking out a higher rate 
(3.75 times per game) and is drawing 
just over four walks per game. 
These disparities are because the By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
A promising beginning to the season for No. 
5 Florida baseball has quickly evaporated as the 
Gators (3-2) dropped both of their mid-week 
games to inferior in-state programs.
South Florida and North Florida shut down 
the Gators’ hitters and gave its young pitching 
staff fits, as USF stifled them 6-1 on Tuesday, and 
UNF followed with a 7-1 victory in Gainesville on 
Wednesday.
UF will need to regroup rapidly before it wel-
comes another in-state opponent, the Miami Hurri-
canes (4-0), to McKethan Stadium for a three-game 
series this weekend. It starts tonight at 6:30.
Under first-year head coach Gino DiMare, Mi-
ami has breezed through the first four games of its 
season, outscoring opponents 46-11 and winning 
each game by an average of almost nine runs per 
contest.
Florida’s veteran bats failing early on
The Gators’ lineup features a good nucleus of 
returning starters from a season ago.Unfortunately, the production has been non-
existent through the first five games of the year.
Florida’s core of vets — senior designated hitter 
Nelson Maldonado, junior right fielder Wil Dalton, 
junior left fielder Austin Langworthy and senior 
second baseman Blake Reese — has combined to 
go just 12 for 62 at the plate.
Langworthy in particular hasn’t lived up to 
expectations so far, sitting at 2 for 20 with seven 
strikeouts heading into tonight’s game.
“We just have to continue seeing pitches, and 
try to get our timing right,” Maldonado said after 
Wednesday night’s game. “We just gotta stay pa-
tient and relaxed and continue to work.”
The team’s minimal production extends further 
than just experienced players as Florida’s overall 
batting average is just a measly .203.
Miami’s bats have been scorching.
The Hurricanes have scored 46 runs compared 
to Florida’s 18 through four games and have six 
players with at least 11 at-bats averaging better 
than .300.
Sophomore infielder Alex Toral already has 
four home runs on the year. UF, as a team, UF’s offense is much more 
powerful than last season’sFlorida limps into home series 
with undefeated HurricanesSEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
“Have a great day!”
It was an ordinary text that 
Georgia gymnast Rachel Bau-
mann sends her sister every other 
day. The response she received 
was anything but ordinary.
“Sorry, can’t talk to you,” her 
sister, Florida gymnast Alyssa 
Baumann, wrote. “It’s rivalry 
week.”
The two engaged in playful 
banter from there, with Rachel 
sending her memes, such as one 
of Kevin Hart saying, “It’s about 
to go down,” and advising her to 
be ready for the upcoming match-
up.
Alyssa and Rachel have been 
competing in gymnastics since 
they were toddlers, but they’ve 
never competed against each oth-
er... until tonight.
The two may be three years 
apart, but their shared love of 
gymnastics will pit them against 
each other when the Gators and 
Bulldogs face off in the O’Connell 
Center at 6:45. 
“I think they’re nervous,” their 
mother, Jarol Baumann, said. 
“They want to do their best with 
their sister there watching, with 
their sister’s team there watch-
ing.”
Alyssa tossed her racket across 
the tennis court in anger.
On this particular day, she 
wasn’t applying herself like she 
typically did.
Alyssa appeared to make zero 
effort to hit the ball during drills. 
Her instructor attempted to give 
her some words of encourage-
ment, but they were in vain.
After tossing her racket, she 
loudly declared that she hated 
tennis. Jarol was horrified at the 
sudden outburst, and when she 
asked her daughter why she had 
done it, Alyssa explained that she 
didn’t want to tire herself out for 
gymnastics practice.
“I was like, ‘we’re done,’” Ja-
rol said. “‘We’re quitting every-
thing, and we’re just gonna do 
gymnastics.’”
Alyssa and her sister trained 
at the World Olympics Gymnas-
tics Academy, or WOGA, in their 
hometown of Plano, Texas. The 
two were involved in other sports 
as well, and Alyssa played tennis 
like her mother, who played in 
high school.
Jarol enrolled Baumann in pri-
vate tennis lessons because she 
believed that, unlike gymnas-
tics, Alyssa could play tennis her 
whole life.
Rachel got involved in sports 
by the time she was 18 months 
old. The WOGA created a “Mom-my & Me” class specifically so Ra-
chel could participate in gymnas-
tics like her sister. 
She was a gifted soccer player 
and played on a male team. She 
typically scored multiple goals 
per game.
It wasn’t her future, though. 
She wanted to be like her sister, 
and when Alyssa committed to 
gymnastics full time, Rachel fol-
lowed suit.
“I don’t think our parents 
knew what they were getting 
into at all when both of us went 
into gymnastics,” Alyssa said. “I 
don’t think they knew how far we 
would make it.”
 
The Baumann sisters quickly 
realized gymnastics was their fu-
ture.
Alyssa served on the US Ju-
nior National Team in 2013 and 
on the Senior National Team from 
2014-16. In 2014, she took home 
a gold medal in Nanning, China, 
at the World Championships for 
her performance on the balance 
beam.
“When the US team wins by a 
wide margin at China, and that’s 
where you are, it’s an incredible 
feeling,” their father Greg said. 
“It’s so rewarding for them, and 
for us.”
Rachel, meanwhile, qualified 
for the Elite Program in 2014 and 
2015. Despite being in different 
years, Alyssa enjoyed competing 
with Rachel at the elite level.
“Being able to compete as such a high level with your sister, not 
many people can say that,” Alys-
sa said. “That was a really special 
moment.”
Those special moments were 
fleeting, however.
Injuries have plagued both 
Baumann sisters during their ca-
reers.
Alyssa was invited to the 
Olympic trials for the 2016 games 
in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, but af-
ter tearing multiple ligaments in 
her elbow while training, she was 
forced to withdraw.
Rachel qualified for elite in 
2014, but an elbow fracture pre-
vented her from competing in 
championships that year. She 
qualified for elite once again in 
2015, but a serious back injury 
cut her career at that level short.
Watching her sister become a 
world champion at the elite level 
after her injury wasn’t easy for 
Rachel.
“It was really tough on me 
because I had big dreams,” she 
said. “It was hard to hear, but 
with the help of my coaches and, 
of course, my sister and family, 
I was able to look at it as a posi-
tive.”
Rachel eventually moved down 
to Level 10 gymnastics, which in-
cludes less training and emphasis 
on domestic competition, and be-
gan to focus on an NCAA career. 
She just recently added an-
other element to her floor routine 
that the injury restricted her from 
doing.
“My sister really inspires me. 
She’s been through more injuries than people know, and she comes 
back from it stronger than ever,” 
Alyssa said. “She’s one of the 
strongest people I know.”
 
Alyssa was a freshman in high 
school when the recruiting pro-
cess began. She wanted to stay 
in the south due to the weather, 
and she wanted to be a part of the 
SEC.
She took a visit to Florida first, 
and when UF gave her an offer 
while she was in Gainesville, she 
almost immediately took it.
“I loved it,” Alyssa said. “I 
actually wanted to commit right 
there.”
Her mother told her to wait. 
She wanted her to visit at least 
one more school to compare, so 
they went to Athens, Georgia,  
to visit what ended up being the 
school that Rachel chose. 
Alyssa liked Georgia as well, 
but she knew in her heart where 
she wanted to go.
“I loved the campus. I loved 
the people. I really looked up to 
that team,” she said of Florida. “It 
was something I really wanted to 
be a part of.”
Rachel, meanwhile, graduated 
high school a year early due to 
concerns related to her back in-
jury. She started her own recruit-
ing process. 
Coach Jenny Rowland recruit-
ed her to come to UF, a school 
that boasts a top-two recruiting 
class in nine of the last 10 sea-
sons and three consecutive na-tional championships from 2013-
15. There were plenty of reasons 
for Rachel to become a Gator, and 
Alyssa insisted she join her.
She didn’t.
Georgia heavily recruited Ra-
chel, and she also had friends 
from WOGA who were a part of 
the Bulldogs’ program when she 
visited. There was another rea-
son, however, that Rachel decid-
ed to commit to Florida’s rival.
“I feel like I’ve been in her 
shadow a lot, and so I wanted to 
make a name for myself at Geor-
gia,” Rachel said. “Kinda, I don’t 
know, show that I could do it on 
my own.”
“At Georgia, she could be Ra-
chel,” Alyssa said. “Not just Alys-
sa’s sister. She was trying to cre-
ate her own path, and she felt like 
Georgia could do that for her.”
A year after Alyssa earned two 
All-American commendations 
and a place on both the All-SEC 
and SEC All-Freshman teams, her 
sister joined her at the collegiate 
level.
They were on two different 
teams, though, and for the first 
time in their lives, they were set 
to collide.
They two sisters have kept 
tabs on each other — they con-
gratulated each other over text 
when they won an SEC honor in 
the same week — but tonight is 
the first time in a while they’ve 
been on the same mat.
“I’m excited,” Alyssa said. “All 
my family is going to be in one 
place, so that’s very fun.”
Traditionally, Greg attends ev-
ery UF meet and Jarol goes to ev-
ery Georgia meet, but they, along 
with grandparents, uncles and 
other relatives of the Baumann 
family, will be together to watch 
their daughters compete.
The family will wear split 
sweaters with both UF and UGA 
colors for the SEC Tournament, 
but Alyssa isn’t having any of 
that for tonight’s meet.
“I told them they all had to 
sit in the Florida section because 
we’re at home,” Alyssa said. 
Their family will wear all 
Georgia gear and sit in the Geor-
gia section when the team travels 
to Athens next year.
Rachel and Alyssa have been 
excited to face off all week, but 
the meeting has led to some 
nerves in the days leading up to 
tonight.
“You never want your sister to 
outdo you or anything,” Alyssa 
said. “She always wanted to be 
as good as I was, so it just really 
kind of pushed us both.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgSister vs. Sister: Baumanns make UF-UGA rivalry personal
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Sophomore gymnast Alyssa Baumann will go toe-to-toe with her sister, UGA freshman Rachel Bau-
mann, tonight when the Gators host the Bulldogs in the O’Connell Center at 6:45. 
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   ••   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!team is swinging a lot more freely this sea-
son. 
The presence of Minnesota transfer catch-
er Kendyl Lindaman, the emerging consis-
tency of juniors Jaimie Hoover and Jordan 
Roberts and the power of sophomores Dani-
elle Romanello, Jordan Matthews and Han-
nah Adams all give UF one of the nation’s 
deepest and intimidating lineups. Each of 
these players are batting over .320 and has 
at least one home run and 10 hits. 
Last season, Hoover and Romanello didn’t 
play much, while Roberts and Matthews split 
time as the designated player.
Coach Tim Walton can now ﬁ  t all of those 
players into what he calls his “offensive line-up.” Lorenz, Hoover and Romanello, who 
played catcher as a freshman, all play the 
outﬁ  eld. Matthews plays ﬁ  rst while Adams 
plays second. And Lindaman and Roberts ro-
tate at catcher and designated player. 
These batters account for 13 of the 14 
home runs hit during this campaign.
Florida already has two three-home run 
games with this inﬂ  ux of power. It had zero 
this time last season. 
The impressive part is that the 2019 team 
has played 11 of their 12 games on the road. 
And it won’t be shocking if the Gators’ num-
bers get even better with six games to set-
tle into their newly renovated ballpark this 
weekend. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org  SOFTBALL,  from pg 14Lorenz leads Gators with a .459 
batting average this season
Senior guard KeVaughn Allen had emerged 
as the Gators’ key offensive weapon after be-
ing held scoreless through the ﬁ  rst 20 minutes 
of play. 
He scored nine in the second half, and with 
a little over two minutes left in the extra pe-
riod, he buried a three-pointer over guard Skylar 
Mays from the top of the key. 
Allen followed that up by swiping the ball 
from Reid on the defensive end. He drained an-
other three on the following UF possession to 
give Florida a six-point lead.
His intensity late in the matchup powered 
him to a game-high 21 points, including 12 in 
overtime.
But that fervor hasn’t been consistently pres-
ent from Allen and his teammates this season.
It was that same ﬁ  ght that coach Mike White said the team was lacking after it blew its lead 
and lost to South Carolina on Jan. 5, after it 
nearly lost to Arkansas the same way on Jan. 9, 
and again on Jan. 12 in its late collapse against 
Tennessee.
Florida’s last two wins have come from its 
ability to simply outplay its opponents and 
maintain its aggression, especially on defense.
That’s something the Gators needed as a part 
of their identity all year. It’s something they’ll 
need when they face Missouri on Saturday at 
4 p.m.
“We’ve got some deﬁ  ciencies, of course,” 
White said on Tuesday, “especially on the (of-
fensive) side of the basketball. But this team 
… we’re physical. This team will ﬁ  ght you a 
little bit.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orghas one.
UF’s three-day rotation 
looks to stop the bleeding
A bright spot UF hopes to lean on 
against the Hurricanes is the week-
end rotation that helped it sweep Long 
Beach State last weekend.
Junior right hander Tyler Dyson will 
get his second start tonight, looking 
to improve his control that left him at 
times his ﬁ  rst time out.
Dyson allowed only one earned run, 
but his four walks caused UF coach Kev-
in O’Sullivan to pull him after just 3.1 
innings of work.
Dyson’s fortunes with control will 
need to improve on the mound in his second outing, otherwise a young bull-
pen may be thrown into the teeth of a 
UM batting lineup full of conﬁ  dence.
UF’s other members of the rotation, 
sophomore right-handers Tommy Mace 
and Jack Leftwich, both had stellar ﬁ  rst 
starts. They combined to allow just 
three runs in 13 innings of play.
Both of them will face a stiffer chal-
lenge when they take the mound this 
weekend.
Miami will throw out Friday starter, 
junior RHP pitcher Evan McKendry, to-
night to build off of his ﬁ  rst appearance 
of 2019.
McKendry struck out eight batters 
in six innings of work in UM’s season 
opener against Rutgers.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14 BASEBALL,  from pg 14Allen scored 12 points in OT vs LSU Dyson gets the start on FridayAaron Ritter /  Alligator Staff
Florida outﬁ  elder/ﬁ  rst baseman Amanda Lorenz leads the team with 17 hits.
