We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Feature Friday: Vaping
Alachua County’s T obacco 21 began October while 
vaping-related deaths grip the nation, pg 8
Ted Yoho gets Twitter account back
His account was deactivated this week, pg 3SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGators soccer falls at Georgia
The Bulldogs spoiled Florida’s chance at an 
Eastern Division title Thursday night, pg 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 31
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
GPD, CITY SAY CAMERAS 
DID NOT RECORD 
THE CRASH
Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s note: Read the obituary 
on Amin Taghikhani’s life on page 
5. 
A motorcycle crash on the day 
of the Homecoming Parade killed a 
UF student. About a month later, 
his family is demanding answers to 
questions left open about the lack 
of video recordings of the collision.
On Oct. 8, Amin Taghikhani, a UF biology senior, died after he 
was involved in a motorcycle crash 
on the intersection of Center Drive 
and Southwest Archer Road.
Four days earlier, Taghikhani 
was sitting on the back of a mo-
torcycle when Jayson Messieh, 
the motorcycle’s driver, struck a 
LFK Transportation Solutions, LLC 
van. Messieh, a UF microbiology 
and cell science junior, was on his 
way to the library with Taghikhani 
when the crash occurred.
The van was waiting in the 
middle of the intersection for a 
Gainesville Regional Transit Sys-
tem bus to move forward when it 
was struck, according to two eye-witnesses listed on a police report.
Gainesville Police spokesperson 
Capt. Jorge Campos said that of-
ﬁ  cers shut down eastbound trafﬁ  c 
on Archer Road for three hours, 
starting at 7:12 p.m.
One witness saw two bod-
ies on the ground after the crash, 
according to the report. Neither 
Taghikhani nor Messieh were 
wearing helmets at the time of the 
accident.
Taghikhani was not listed on the 
initial crash report because nurses 
were rushing to administer emer-
gency ﬁ  rst aid, said Gary Juda, the 
attorney from Cohen & Juda Law UF student’s death in crash raises 
questions about traﬃ   c video cameras
SEE CRASH,  PAGE 5
Lily Strickland // Alligator Staff
Savannah Gainey, 2, feeds carrots to Pedro the horse Thursday while her father, Joseph Gainey, 30, 
holds her up. Savannah attended the Halloween at Haile Equestrian Center event dressed in a fairy 
costume. Gainey said this was his daughter’s first experience around a horse and that feeding it gave 
them a nice father-daughter moment.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Police are looking to identify 
a man suspected of an August 
rape. 
Surveillance footage upload-
ed by Gainesville Police shows 
a man in a light-colored T-shirt, 
pacing in the Midtown area 
along University Avenue while 
holding a cell phone. He is be-
lieved to be a white male, 20 to 
25 years old, 5 feet and 7 to 9 
inches. A picture rendering and 
the video depicts him with dark, 
shoulder length hair.
He was seen just before 
midnight on Aug. 24 and a few 
hours later walking along the 
area of 1000 SW 16th Ave., ac-
cording to police.
Anyone with information can contact law 
enforcement 
at 352-393-
7617. Those 
who wish to 
remain anon-
ymous are 
encouraged 
to use www.
stopcrime.tv.  
Anyone who has been sexu-
ally abused or is experiencing 
suicidal thoughts can contact 
the Alacha County Victim Ser-
vices and Rape Crisis Center 
or the Alachua County Crisis 
Center for more information on 
how to get help.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGPD looking for man 
accused of rape
HE WAS SEEN IN THE MIDTOWN 
AREA ON AUG. 24DONALD TRUMP JR., 
KIMBERL Y GUILFOYLE 
SPOKE AT UF OCT. 10
By Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writer
Emails show a Donald 
Trump re-election campaign of-
ﬁ  cial personally asked UF Stu-
dent Body President Michael 
Murphy in September to bring 
Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly 
Guilfoyle to campus the follow-
ing month. 
Caroline Wren, national ﬁ  -
nancial consultant of Trump 
Victory, the president’s 2020 
re-election committee, said she 
wanted to bring Donald Trump 
Jr., Kimberly Guilfoyle and Re-
publican National Committee 
Co-Chair Tommy Hicks to UF 
either Oct. 9 or 10. 
“We met at my house on 
the 4th of July,” Wren wrote in 
the Sept. 10 email. “I wanted to 
follow up with you regarding 
a speaking engagement at the 
University of Florida for Donald 
Trump Jr.”
Murphy responded Sept. 11 saying he’d “love to hop on a 
phone call” to discuss bringing 
the three to UF. 
Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle 
spoke Oct. 10 at the University 
Auditorium to an audience of 
more than 800 for a $50,000 
joint payment, which came from 
student tuition fees. Hundreds 
protested outside the venue. 
The Alligator received the ex-
change between Wren and Mur-
phy Wednesday evening from 
Mariana Castro, a UF alumna 
who requested the public re-
cords through the university and 
posted the email exchange on 
public social media. The Alliga-
tor submitted a similar request 
Oct. 6 and hadn’t received the 
records as of Thursday evening. 
Murphy told the Alligator on 
Oct. 5 that SG initiated contact 
with Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle, 
and when Trump Jr. agreed to 
speak, ACCENT contacted his 
representatives. 
Murphy wrote in an email to 
The Alligator Wednesday eve-
ning that he met Wren at a so-
cial event where he mentioned Trump campaign oﬃ   cial, 
SG president emails out 
SEE EMAILS,  PAGE 3
Suspect
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  65° LOW  57°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Día de Los Muertos
When: Today, 8 p.m. to 
midnight
Where: Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom
What: Join the Mexican 
American Student Association, 
UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs and 
GatorNights for the Day of The 
Dead Festival. The festival will 
have stations for craft making, 
face painting, live performances, 
great food and more. They will be celebrating the living and 
dead, celebrating their lives 
and legacies and honoring them 
on an altar to remember loved 
ones. If you’d like to bring a 
photograph of a loved one, feel 
free to bring one or email the 
picture to: bquinones@ufsa.ufl.
edu in order to have it printed.
Chris Kattan & Friends at High 
Dive 
When: Nov. 5, 7:30 p.m. 
Where: High Dive, 210 SW 2nd 
Ave.
What: The Saturday Night Live veteran, stand up comic, actor 
and author comes to Gainesville 
for the first time for an 
unforgettable night at High Dive. 
Tickets are available online at 
Hear Again Records with a $1 fee 
and at the High Dive box office 
with no fee. General admission 
seating is $25 in advance and 
$28 the day of the show
SGP Presents: Quinn XCII ft. 
Hippie Sabotage
When: Nov.15, 7 p.m.
Where: Flavet Field
What: Student Government 
Productions announced the 
Fall concert will have headliner 
Quinn XCII and an opening 
performance by Hippie Sabotage. 
This concert is free and open to 
the public. No ticket is required 
and gates will open at 6 p.m. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 31
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
UF SG wanting to bring both Donald Trump Jr. 
and Sen. Bernie Sanders to campus during Fall. 
Wren told him she could be of assistance and Murphy asked her to email him, Murphy said.
The Alligator conﬁ  rmed through public re-
cords request that Murphy was in contact with 
Sanders’ staff Sept. 20. On Sept. 22, a represen-
tative from Sanders’ staff declined Murphy’s 
invitation, saying that Sanders’ “schedule was very full and he is traveling extensively.”
Murphy said he told Wren on the phone 
that he wanted to bring Donald Trump Jr. for a 
non-campaign event. He said Wren connected 
him to Trump Jr.’s booking agent to plan with 
the appropriate contacts. 
Murphy said his staff also reached out to 
Sanders’ campaign and non-campaign staff, 
but his non-campaign staff declined the invita-
tion to speak. Sanders’ representatives asked if 
he could host a campaign speech on campus, 
and Murphy and his staff declined, Murphy 
said.  
“The only difference was Sen. Sanders’ 
non-campaign staff declined our invitation to 
speak in his ofﬁ  cial capacity,” Murphy wrote 
in an email. “Any attempt to try and separate 
one from the other with allegations of impro-
priety is deceptive and inﬂ  ammatory.” 
If Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle came to UF for a 
fundraising event, expenses would need to be 
disclosed to the Federal Election Commission 
because student activity fees cannot be used to 
support a political party or candidate, accord-
ing to Alligator archives. As of then, the event 
did not fall under the FEC’s jurisdiction.
When The Alligator called Wren on 
Wednesday evening, she said she didn’t 
know who Murphy was. Wren later respond-
ed to questions via email, saying she met 
him over the summer and he expressed an 
interest in bringing Donald Trump Jr. to UF. 
She said she followed up with him “via my 
private email in my personal capacity and 
mistakenly forgot to remove my Trump Vic-
tory signature.”Wren said after speaking on the phone with 
Murphy, UF representatives were connected 
with Donald Trump Jr.’s ofﬁ  ce.
Wren’s email comes from a domain with 
Bluebonnet Fundraising whose goal is to 
“make fundraising for your group one of the 
easiest you will ever do,” according to its web-
site. Wren is the company’s president, accord-
ing to a Politico proﬁ  le. 
She told Politico she got her start in politics 
working with John McCain’s 2008 campaign. 
She was also the ﬁ  nance director for U.S. Sen. 
Lindsey Graham’s 2014 campaign, according 
to the Post and Courier. 
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.orgEMAILS,  from pg. 1Sen. Sanders’ team was also contacted but declined the ofer
TIMELINE
July 4: Wren and Murphy met at 
Wren’s house
Sept. 10: Wren emailed Murphy
Sept. 11: Murphy responded to 
Wren’s email
Sept. 20: Murphy contacted Sanders’ 
team 
Sept. 22: Sanders’ team declines 
Murphy’s invitation 
Oct 10: Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle speak 
at UF
Oct. 30: Wren emails posted online
Sam Thomas/ Alligator Staff
UF Student Body President Michael Murphy sits in University Auditorium before 
Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle speak on Oct. 10.
Man arrested, accused of Midtown attack 
that left UF student critically injuredIT IS UNKNOWN IF HE’S 
RUNNING FOR A FIFTH 
TERM IN CONGRESS
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writers
The personal Twitter account 
of Republican Congressman Ted 
Yoho was brieﬂ  y deactivated this 
week but is now back up. 
Yoho’s spokesperson Kat Cam-
mack conﬁ  rmed in an email to The Alligator Thursday night that 
Twitter ofﬁ  cials informed Yoho’s 
campaign team, “The Ted Yoho 
account has been reinstated. The 
account was mistakenly suspend-
ed due to impersonation.” 
Bot Twitter account @Con-
gressChanges, which tracks when 
“Congress-related Twitter ac-
counts are renamed, deactivated 
or reactivated,” posted a tweet 
Wednesday night announcing the 
deactivation of @TedYoho. 
Yoho, who is currently serving his fourth term for Florida’s 3rd 
District, is ﬁ  led for the 2020 elec-
tion but has not announced if he 
is running for a ﬁ  fth term. 
Cammack wrote Twitter sus-
pended the account on Tuesday 
because of a reported post about 
a late friend of Yoho who recent-
ly passed away which “violated 
community standards.” 
“There was no intentional ef-
fort on our behalf to deactivate 
or delete the account as the Con-
gressman is still ﬁ  led to run for the 2020 election,” she wrote. 
When Yoho ﬁ  rst ran for Con-
gress in 2012, he stated in a po-
litical advertisement that “after 
eight years in Washington, I’ll 
come home.” While it is unclear 
if Yoho will run again, there are 
two Republicans and two Demo-
crats running for his seat who are 
ﬁ  led either with the Florida Divi-
sion of Elections or the Federal 
Election Commission. 
A member of the House For-
eign Affairs Committee spoke with CNN Tuesday about Yoho’s 
lack of participation in the im-
peachment inquiry of President 
Donald Trump. The committee is 
one of three “hearing testimony 
from key witnesses behind closed 
doors.” Despite being able to, 
he has not attended any disposi-
tions, according to CNN. 
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org Rep. Yoho’s Twitter account deactivated, reactivated
HE WAS RELEASED FROM 
JAIL ON A $30,000 BOND 
THURSDAY MORNING
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
An Okeechobee man was arrested 
after police said he attacked a UF stu-
dent near Midtown, leaving him in a 
pool of blood.
Jacob Dupree, 22, was booked 
into jail Wednesday after police is-
sued a warrant for his arrest follow-
ing the Sept. 29 incident, according 
to Gainesville Police. Dupree was re-
leased from the Alachua County Jail 
on a $30,000 bond early Thursday 
morning on a battery charge.
Court records don’t say speciﬁ  -cally why Dupree 
attacked the UF ﬁ  -
nance sophomore, 
Edward Parkhill, 
but a witness and 
friend of Parkh-
ill told police that 
“four guys began 
yelling at them and 
were looking to start with them” 
when Dupree “sucker punched” 
Parkhill, according to the complaint.
Parkhill, was critically injured and 
taken to UF Health Shands Hospital 
with a fractured skull, police said. 
Parkhill is a member of UF’s Kappa 
Alpha fraternity. 
A GoFundMe was made to help 
pay for Parkhill’s medical expenses, 
which now has more than $27,000 raised of a $30,000 goal as of Thurs-
day morning. The page also says the 
hospital released Parkhill Oct. 9 and 
he is still recovering from the inci-
dent.
GPD released surveillance footage 
Oct. 15 of the suspect walking past The 
Social at Midtown wearing a patterned 
shirt. Surveillance footage, eyewitness 
accounts and card transactions made 
by Dupree that night helped law en-
forcement identify him as the suspect, 
according to the arrest report.
Neither Dupree’s phone number 
nor attorney contact information 
were listed in his court records as of 
Thursday morning. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgDupree
Courtesy to The Alligator
Gainesville Police released surveillance footage of a 
suspect walking through Midtown. 
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019
NOW OPEN COME IN AND LEARN MORE318 NW 13TH ST, GAINESVILLE
Must have a Medical Marijuana Use Registry Identification Card to purchase Medical Marijuana.EXPERT ADVICE AND CANNABIS
PRODUCTS YOU CAN TRUSTPHARMACEUTICAL-QUALITY
CANNABIS
M00219FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
To those who knew him, going to the library on the 
Friday night of UF Homecoming wasn’t unusual for Amin 
Taghikhani.
Friends and family say he was one of the smartest stu-
dents they knew. Taghikhani was on his way to study for 
an organic chemistry test scheduled the following week. 
He planned to attend medical school after his Spring 2020 
graduation.
He never made it to the library that night. 
After a four-day coma, Taghikhani died Oct. 8 after be-
ing taken off life support. He was rushed to UF Health 
Shands Hospital, suffering blunt-force trauma after a mo-
torcycle crash Oct. 4. He was not wearing a helmet.
Oct. 8 was also his 20th birthday. 
Taghikhani’s family is planning a memorial service for 
him Sunday at 2 p.m. in Gainesville’s Baughman Center, 
at 982 Museum Road.
To Nickou Memari, who grew up with Taghikhani in 
Broward County, Florida, it seemed like his friend van-
ished into thin air. 
Memari, a 19-year-old UF international studies senior, 
said it felt as if Taghikhani was forgotten after his family 
and friends did not receive any information for days about 
the crash from Gainesville Police.
“Losing him was like losing a limb that I didn’t know I 
needed,” she said. “You don’t know that all your friends 
play such an important role in your life.”
Despite being heartbroken over his sudden death, Me-
mari knew there was some silver lining in the tragedy. 
Memari and Taghikhani’s mother, Masoumeh Manshadi, 
want to use his death as a cautionary tale for students. The 
two want to hold UF accountable to uphold motor safety 
in Gainesville.“There’s students everywhere in this city and nobody 
has a helmet,” Manshadi said. “It hurts my heart when I 
see the kids like that.”
His mother remembers a chubby child with a mop of 
curly black hair on his head. As a child, he would help her 
pick flowers in their backyard and give them to her. He 
eventually drew flowers on paper and would hand them to 
his mother every week. 
“I’m satisfied with him because he gave me a lot of love 
and attention,” Manshadi said. “I am so thankful for that.”
Majid Taghikhani, his father, said as his son grew up, 
he became his mirror image. 
His friends all said he was a seemingly quiet guy when 
you first met him. To those Taghikhani knew deeply how-
ever, all barriers went away. He was a loyal companion. 
“When he chose somebody as a friend, it was like a 
commitment for him,” she said. “He never let them go.”
Hannah Ahmadi, a 16-year-old high school student, 
Facetimed Taghikhani two hours before the fatal crash. It 
was part of their daily routine, she said. 
From sunrise to sunset, she and Taghikhani would talk 
about everything and anything. 
Their latest conversation? The duo’s birthday plans. 
They were planning on going out to dinner to celebrate. 
Ahmadi said she had already bought him two gifts:  a small 
wallet and a bottle of Bleu De Chanel. She said he always 
smelled nice, but this was Ahmadi’s favorite cologne. 
She never got to give the bottle to him. 
Despite the death coming as a shock to friends and fam-
ily, many still talk as if he is listening. 
Ahmadi, said Amin Taghikhani was in her life since 
childhood and he will continue to be in her life until the 
day she dies. She’s visited his grave in South Florida often 
since his funeral on Oct. 12.
“The fact that he would put up with me every single 
day for hours is just amazing. He should win an award for that,” Ahmadi said. “It just gives me some sort of com-
fort.”
aescalante@alligator.org
@aescalante22‘Losing him was like losing a limb’: Friends, family remember UF student
Firm representing the Taghikhani 
family. Paramedics did not iden-
tify him at the scene because his 
documentation was in his back-
pack, Juda said.
Neither the RTS bus on the 
scene nor the traffic camera on 
the intersection of the crash site 
recorded video of the incident. 
The only footage that exists of the 
two victims was recorded by a 
passing bus, said Thomas Idoya-
ga, an RTS outreach and commu-
nications official. 
“It shows the motorcycle pass-
ing the [passing] bus, but it did 
not show the accident,” he said. 
The bus that was at the scene 
of the incident could have poten-
tially recorded the accident, but 
the footage was recorded over, 
Idoyaga said. Each bus carries 
a small hard-drive which stores 
approximately 72 hours of video 
recorded from 3 cameras located 
around the bus. By the time GPD 
requested footage from the bus at 
the scene, it had already been re-
corded over. More than 150 Gainesville city 
traffic cameras stream footage in 
real time but the videos are not 
saved, said Emmanuel Posadas, 
the Gainesville traffic operations 
manager. Access to the streams is 
given to the city and local part-
ners like GPD and UF.
Campos said that the city cam-
eras are monitored for special 
events, including UF games, on 
the basis of public safety. How-
ever, he said that the police de-
partment does not actively record 
the streams.
“My understanding now 
is that the cameras aren’t 
monitored and they 
don’t record,” Juda said. 
“The only time they are 
monitored is game day.”
The Taghikhani family is going 
to pursue litigation in the coming 
weeks, Juda said. 
aescalante@alligator.org
@aescalante22CRASH,  from pg. 1Crash was on Archer Road
Margaret Dotson // Alligator Staff
Mandy Ackerman and her 10-month-old daughter, Paisley, walk through the Santa Fe College 
T eaching Zoo Thursday during the 25th annual Boo at the Zoo. 
Boo! Spooky, scary Santa Fe ZooCourtesy to The Alligator
Amin T aghikhani was a UF student with plans to go to 
medical school after his Spring 2020 graduation.
Amin Taghikhani’s loved ones want to raise motor 
safety awareness following the 20-year-old’s deathEditorialFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumn
Halloween lives on in American Horror Story
Halloween has unfortunately passed, but 
its spirit has yet to move on to the af-
terlife.
Halloween is a lifestyle, not a holi-
day, and I choose to keep living it.
This week I will be delving into the creepy, 
disturbing world of American Horror Story and 
ranking each season according to my preferenc-
es. There are nine seasons of American Horror 
Story so far, but I plan to only rank the top five, 
saving the best for last. If you need something 
thrilling to watch as you’re wrapped up in a blanket and it 
gets cooler outside, hopefully, this subjective, incomplete 
list will help you narrow things down.
Number five: “Freak Show.” The fourth season of AHS, 
is only mildly scary, so if you’re not into terror you might 
enjoy this season. Freak Show follows the lives of sup-
posed “misfits” who have been enslaved in a circus for 
the pleasure of viewers — at the expense of their own 
humiliation. It’s actually pretty sad if you think about it. 
If you’re afraid of clowns, stay away from this season, as 
a blood-thirsty clown terrorizes South Florida. The setting 
of Florida, the weirdest state in the nation, is unsettling 
as well. The saving grace of this season is a musical num-
ber by Jessica Lange, in which she covers the late David 
Bowie’s “Life on Mars?” I’ll give this season a 6/10. 
Number four: “1984.” Due to the fact that this sea-
son is set in the ‘80s, the visual aesthetic, as well as the 
soundtrack, is nearly perfect. If you like “Stranger Things,” 
you will enjoy this season. “1984” brings back camp hor-
ror stories from your childhood through the depiction of a 
mass murder at a summer camp. There are many twists, 
so be sure to follow along. If serial killers interest you, 
this season’s Night Stalker character will be right up your 
alley. The only aspect of this season that I dislike is the 
confusing supernatural element, so I give this season an 8/10 so far. It is still airing on TV, so it has the 
potential to fluctuate in my rankings. 
Number three: “Coven.” Honestly, this sea-
son is totally my aesthetic, minus the whole 
Greek life thing. Stevie Nicks and witches? Yes, 
please! Yes, you heard that right S— the witchy 
woman herself makes an appearance on this 
season. If it weren’t for the college fraternity 
subplot, this season would be ranked higher on 
my list. Overall, 9/10.  
Number two: “Murder House.” This is a 
close second, but there is a problematic school shooting 
scene that I absolutely cannot overlook. Otherwise, the 
cinematography, soundtrack and plot all come together to 
create a nearly perfect show. I watch this season every fall 
and am never disappointed. A solid 10/10. 
Number one: “Asylum.” Serial killers and nuns? 
Sounds like high school to me! This season is perfect. I 
love everything about it. The setting of an asylum in the 
1950s: horrifying. A female investigative journalist: amaz-
ing. A serial killer that terrorizes the town: creepy, love 
it. Alien abductions: confusing, but I dig it. Watch this 
season: 11/10. 
I hope this incomplete list can help eliminate any con-
fusion shrouding American Horror Story and which season 
to begin with. Of course, I left out four seasons, “Hotel,” 
“Roanoke,” “Cult” and “Apocalypse.” “Hotel” I stopped 
watching due to boredom; even Gaga herself couldn’t save 
this disastrous season. “Cult” and “Roanoke” were both 
great, honestly. I’m struggling to get through the first few 
episodes of “Apocalypse,” but I’ve been told that Nicks 
makes a reappearance, so excuse me while I finish it. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English junior.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Halloween is finally over.
You never thought you would feel this way, but 
you had a few too many close encounters with the 
supernatural this year — even people with green 
eyes scare you at this point.
You exhale into the cool night air. Unfortunately, you 
overspent on coffee this week and couldn’t afford a ride 
home. The empty streets are sparsely lit with flickering 
lights, and you wonder if you should have just stayed at the 
library. At least you’re finally getting some exercise.
Not long into your walk, you begin hearing a strange 
noise in the distance. You aren’t sure where it’s coming 
from, and you don’t want to find out. But oddly enough, 
you can’t seem to avoid it. As it grows closer, you can hear 
the distinct sounds of Christmas bells.
It’s a bit early for that kind of stuff, but go off.
You try to walk away from the bells, but they just keep 
getting closer and closer. You’re nearly sprinting at this 
point, but can’t seem to shake off the energized harmonies 
and heavenly vocals.
You nearly make it to your apartment building when 
your stalker appears on the street across from you. You 
squint for a better look and gasp in shock.
It’s Mariah Carey, in the flesh.
Or wait, never mind. Those features look way too oddly-
shaped to be her. In fact, you wonder if that’s even a human 
to begin with.
You step a bit closer and see…
Just Laurels
The news has been a lot lately. Let’s get positive!
The U.S. House of Representatives has voted to formalize 
its impeachment proceedings against Trump, so we had to 
celebrate the fact that he might not ever be our president 
again by giving the House a laurel. Even though this won’t 
prevent Mike Pence from running, we’re still grateful we 
won’t have to listen to poorly-worded, off-script speeches 
anymore.
Things are moving forward in other places within poli-
tics. Twitter deserves a laurel for removing political ads 
from its platform, stating that a political message must be 
earned, not bought.  
Catch up, Facebook. 
Apple, at least, seems to be doing well with becoming 
more progressive. The company recently introduced gen-
der-neutral emojis, and we have to give them a laurel for 
their inclusivity. Too bad they continue to break Chinese 
labor laws while making their products, but that’s a differ-
ent issue for a different time.
Hong Kong is still having issues of its own, but the pro-
testers are putting a fun twist on things. In the spirit of 
Halloween, protesters have donned “scary” masks of senior 
officials including Chinese President Xi Jinping and Hong 
Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam in protest of the govern-
ment’s mask ban. These protesters deserve a laurel for cel-
ebrating the spooky season and for defying their oppressors 
while doing so.
Artists have expressed their love of Halloween as well. 
Throughout October, many artists have challenged them-
selves to draw something every single day, calling the event 
Inktober. The final laurel goes to everyone who partici-
pated in this fun challenge. Thank you for gifting us with 
your talent and otherworldly levels of creativity. We can’t 
wait to see what’s in store for next year!
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Hannah 
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
$9,788$9,489
It’s exam season at UF. Students are 
crowding the libraries and voraciously 
consuming books and study guides to 
prepare for the big day. Some of these 
students pull all-nighters to study, 
forgoing sleep and staying up all night to 
prepare. I’m here to tell you that not only 
are all-nighters a poor method of study-
ing, but that there are much better options 
available.
First, you may be wondering why all-
nighters are bad. After all, you can catch 
up on sleep later, and the time not sleep-
ing gives you more time to study, right? 
But that’s not the case. First off, it’s not 
as simple as catching up on sleep. Ac-
cording to Scientific American, when you 
lose sleep, you accumulate sleep debt (the 
difference between how much sleep you 
should be getting and how much sleep 
you’re actually getting). The problem is 
that sleep debt can’t be eliminated by 
one long sleep session, such as sleeping 
the whole day after your exam. Rather, 
it needs to be paid off gradually, such as 
by sleeping an extra hour each night until 
you make up the difference.
Now, you may be thinking: “OK, I can 
sleep an hour more each night if it’ll help 
me do well on the physics exam.” Howev-
er, research shows all-nighters don’t even 
help you do well academically. Sleep-
deprived brains have a sharp decrease in 
performance, and without sleep, the facts 
and figures you study will only go into your short-term memory (which 
lasts a few hours at most), as 
opposed to the long-term mem-
ory needed to recall information 
during the exam. With a full 
night’s sleep, it may seem like 
you have less time for study-
ing, but the studying you can do 
will be far more valuable. Your 
brain will be at its peak perfor-
mance with a full night’s sleep, and 
sleeping after you study will make you 
more likely to remember the informa-
tion when you wake up than if you just 
stayed up all night. 
Now that we’ve seen how all-night-
ers are a bad way to study, what is the 
right way to study? Well, there are sev-
eral techniques you can try. The first 
thing you can do is spread out your 
studying instead of cramming all in one 
night. While cramming may help you 
recognize the material, understand-
ing it and being able to recall it on the 
test is not only a different matter, it’s 
not even in the same part of the brain. 
Instead, the important thing is to or-
ganize the information in your head, 
and to understand the meaning and 
significance of what you’re studying, a 
process that takes longer than a single 
night of studying. 
Since organizing the information 
in your brain is a key part of study-
ing, simply re-reading your notes often won’t cut it. Instead, get 
creative with how you 
look at the information. 
If you’re working with a 
subject that involves a lot 
of dates and linear events, use a 
timeline to organize it. If you’re 
working on comparisons and 
contrasts, use a Venn diagram. 
Even things like equations and 
formulas can be more concretely 
comprehended using real-world 
examples or some other visual-
ization methods. Studying isn’t easy; that’s something 
us college students are acutely aware of. 
Sometimes studying can feel overwhelm-
ing, and we can’t help but give in to the 
urge to engage in ineffective study habits 
like all-nighters and cramming. Instead 
of putting everything off until the last 
minute, planning is key. Not only should 
you plan to study early, but you should 
include creative methods to visualize in-
formation. Do that, and you’ll be on your 
way to great grades!
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.Avoid the temptation of all-nightersColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
DEBATE OVER CAUSE OF 
VAPING-RELATED DEATHS
By Emma McAvoy and 
Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writers
It’s a Monday night at the White 
Buffalo bar. A group of fraternity broth-
ers gathers in a circle and shares some 
laughs. 
All of a sudden, they disappear 
behind a large white cloud of smoke. 
Poof. They return.  
But they’re happier, livelier as they 
remove small black rectangles from 
their lips. These devices are JUULs.   
The JUUL is a battery-operated 
e-cigarette popular among college 
students, and UF scholars are no 
exception. Some use it for stress 
relief, while others are addicted to 
the point of branding themselves as 
“JUUL ﬁ  ends.”
These so-called ﬁ  ends may have a 
hard time purchasing these products 
after Alachua County implemented 
Tobacco 21 on Oct. 22, which raises 
the legal tobacco purchasing age to 
21. The county was the ﬁ  rst to issue 
such an ordinance in Florida, and it 
may not only impact frequent users 
but decrease business for local shop 
owners, too.
On Sept. 9, the Food and Drug 
Administration issued a warning to 
all JUUL manufacturers for falsely 
claiming the products are safer than 
cigarettes. Tuesday, Florida Attor-
ney General Ashley Moody called on 
state lawmakers to crack down on 
ﬂ  avored vaping products and outlaw 
advertising that targets minors.
There have been 52 illnesses and 
one death from vaping in Florida 
this year, according to the Florida 
Department of Health. The Center 
for Disease Control reported that 81 
percent of the patients are under the 
age of 35.
Cecilia Luna, a UF Student Health Care Center communications spe-
cialist, said the center ﬁ  rst noticed 
an increase in JUUL and e-cigarette 
usage in Fall 2018. 
“The misconception surrounding 
the safety of JUULs and e-cigarettes 
is one of the reasons why we might 
be seeing an increase in the use of 
these products,” Luna said. 
JUULs carry concentrated liquid 
nicotine in cartridges with ﬂ  avors 
such as mango, mint and creme bru-
lee, according to an October 2018 
class-action lawsuit document. 
These ﬂ  avors make the products 
more appealing to youth, according 
to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention. In addition, the percent-
age of Alachua County kids age 11-17 
who vape increased from 1.5 percent 
in 2012 to 15.1 percent in 2018.  
Sreekala Prabhakaran, a pediatric 
pulmonologist at UF Health Shands 
Hospital, said the prime age for long 
term lung damage caused by vaping 
is between high school and college, 
as the lungs are still developing.
“I feel responsible as a pulmon-
ologist that we do need to educate 
the kids in order to help them from 
ongoing and dangerous situations,” 
Prabhakaran said. “Otherwise, we 
are building up a new generation 
with a lot of problems.”
Dhanashree Rajderkar, UF Health 
pediatric radiology director, said the 
majority of lung damage due to vap-
ing occurs where oxygen and carbon 
dioxide exchange, which can even 
cause brain damage in the long run. 
However, young people often do 
not admit to vaping, which makes it 
difﬁ  cult for them to receive proper 
treatment, Rajderkar said.
“It’s the responsibility of all the 
citizens to encounter these problems 
in teenagers and report them,” Ra-
jderkar said.
 Prabhakaran recommended 
those who want to stop vaping or 
smoking look for free programs of-
fered by Area Health Education Cen-
ters (AHEC).Aydan Arroyo, a 21-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance junior, said he still JUULs oc-
casionally despite the research he’s 
done comparing the extent of toxins 
in JUULs versus cigarettes. He said he 
found more toxins go into cigarettes. 
“I think it’s getting blown out 
of proportion a bit, but it deﬁ  nitely 
proves that it needs to be researched 
more,” Arroyo said. “It’s safer but 
it’s not safe.” 
Arroyo said he hadn’t heard of 
JUULs until his freshman year at UF, 
when a friend offered him one. His 
exposure to them increased when he 
pledged to a fraternity because it was 
seen as “the thing to do.” 
“I never really felt pressure to do 
it,” Arroyo said. “But I had extreme 
availability to try it. I tried it, I kept 
trying it and the next thing you know 
I’m addicted.” 
Alachua County’s new law has affected businesses reliant on college 
students’ tobacco purchases all over 
Gainesville.  
Mary Ewing, a 61-year-old owner 
of Escape 2 Vape in Gainesville, said 
the new law decreased her business 
by 50 percent. She would get large 
numbers of customers who were 
18-year-olds in high school and col-
lege as well as customers who were 
trying to quit cigarettes. 
“We were really helping some 
people,” Ewing said.  
Ewing smoked cigarettes for 31 
years and would smoke one and a 
half to three packs a day. She quit 
six and a half years ago and has been 
vaping ever since. She said she takes 
hits of her vape on and off through-
out the day. 
“It’s the hand-to-mouth motion 
that’s the hardest to quit, and that’s 
why I think vaping helps so much,” she said. 
She was inspired to open up a 
shop in Gainesville after her son, 
who lives in High Springs, said there 
weren’t many vape shops around for 
those who wanted to quit cigarettes. 
She and her husband opened Escape 
2 Vape in 2015. 
Ewing said they’ve never sold 
JUUL products in their shop because 
the pods are pre-ﬁ  lled and they don’t 
know what the contents are. She 
said customers have a choice in the 
amount of nicotine concentration 
they have in her products, given that 
JUUL products come with high con-
centrations of nicotine. 
“Vaping is a verb, it’s an action,” 
she said. “It’s what you’re vaping 
that makes a difference.”
emcavoy@alligator.org
mmcglone@alligator.org
8  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019
CUSTOMER CLAIMS HE 
FOUND FECES 
IN FOOD
Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
Five days after a Gainesville 
man posted on Facebook claim-
ing to have found poop in his 
food, China Star passed an in-
spection from the Florida De-
partment of Business and Pro-
fessional Regulation. 
Nelson Zheng, the owner 
of the 13th Street China Star 
location, said via translator 
the restaurant has never had 
a rat problem. He believes the brown bits in the rice that the 
customer claimed were poop 
might actually be charred pieces 
of a chicken wing, burnt rice or 
burnt onion.
“Obviously, we don’t have 
any rats here,” Zheng said. “We 
follow all the recommendations 
for storing food.”
China Star has not reached 
out to the author of the Face-
book post, but plans to do so 
soon, Zheng said.
“It’s sad the customer had a 
bad experience with it,” Zheng 
said. “But it’s just very hard 
for me to believe that it was rat 
droppings.”
Johnny Carr, who wrote the 
Facebook post, said he is glad the restaurant passed the in-
spection on Wednesday because 
his goal was not to ruin their 
business or jeopardize their em-
ployees’ livelihoods.
Carr stands by his original 
post and said all he wanted to 
do was share his experience to 
warn people of the dangers of 
eating out and encourage others 
to check their food.
“I have no reason to fabri-
cate or lie about anything,” Carr 
said. “I’ve had burnt rice before, 
I’ve had burnt onion before, and 
I’ve had burnt chicken before. It 
deﬁ  nitely was not like that.”
jkalman@alligator.org
@jordynkalmanChina Star passes health inspectionCounty’s Tobacco 21 begins amidst national health concernsFEATURE FRIDAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
SEASONED Fire Wood delivered. 
$120 half cord 
Call: 386-292-5219                        11-6-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Learn tax prep with the experienced team at 
Jackson Hewitt. FREE Online and in-class 
training available now! Hiring in MacClenny, 
Starke, Gainesville, Lake City, and surround -
ing areas! Call us at 904-299-3059 for more 
information.    11-1-10-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
Gorgeous Lake House. Fish, swim & ski. 
beautful Lake Winnott (near Melrose, FL). 
3br/2ba cement block built in '03. Split floorplan 
w/approx 12'x 42' glassed-in FL room w/heat & 
air Concrete drive, boat ramp, fenced yd.18x31 
enclosed RV/boat barn. Poss owner financing. 
Call for photo & addl info 352-278-4644 Agents 
welcome. 4% commission.11-1-19-6-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6DBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1.  Fold, wrinkle
1.  ____ report5.  Written discourse 
2.  Fifth Greek letter6.  Fibbing 
3.  Snazzy 7.  Boat ____
4.  Enduring lead singerSCAEER
CIRTDEASYES
LGNIY
SPEINOL
YTSISHLOHACRN
EGARJGANSWERS: 1A-Crease  5A-Essay  6A-Lying  7A-Anchor
1D-Credit  2D-Epsilon  3D-Stylish  4D-Jagger  B-John Candy11-1-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor turned down the lead role 
in “Honey, I Shrunk the Kids.”
BONUS
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
Today in history — 1512: Michelangelo's paint-
ings on ceiling of Sistine Chapel in the Vatican 
first exhibited.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Today in history — 1765: Stamp Act goes into ef-
fect in British colonies.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Today in history — 1800: John Adams becomes the 
first U.S. president to live in the White House.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
Check out DR. CHALMERS' OFFICE - 
the new short story by Terry Hensley - on 
Amazon. A surreal comedy (with just a touch 
of spookiness for Halloween). Original mu-
sic too ("Terry Hensley - topic"). Interview on 
CollegeUndergroundRadio.com.    11-4-19-
5-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
By Ed Sessa
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/01/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/01/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, November 1, 2019
ACROSS
1 Kia sedan
7 Nincompoop
14 Made dapper, 
with “up”
15 Syrupy stuff
16 1957 title role for 
Michael Landon
18 Lays to rest
19 Recipient of 
unearned 
income, perhaps
20 Teammate of 
Babe
21 Lash with a 
bullwhip
22 Like jawbreakers
23 Mountain __: soft 
drinks
24 “Wheel” deal
25 November 
honorees
26 Range rovers?
27 Sub mission site
28 Law __
29 Mekong River 
native
30 One on many 
covers since 
1954
35 Showed the way
36 Cry
37 Some govt. 
hospitals
39 Eponymous 
musical revue of 
1978
42 Downsides
43 1995 comet 
spotter Thomas
44 In a tussle
45 10-year-old 
adventurer who 
was 7 when she 
debuted in 2000
46 Group taking 
power by force
47 Sink
48 Othello, for one
49 Lacking color
50 Show that has 
appeared in 
various versions 
for six decades
53 “Pork fat rules!” 
chef
54 Smokey’s target
55 One way 
alternative?
56 Square-burgers 
serverDOWN
1 Place to go fly 
a kite
2 Like some 
hearings
3 Cause of 
purring?
4 Words of 
sympathy
5 Parts of gigs
6 Lemon finish
7 Follows 
directions?
8 Ban competitor
9 One in a jury 
box
10 Equivocate
11 They give 
lessons in 
French
12 Permits
13 Neutralize
14 Uplifting things
17 30-Across 
catchphrase
22 Trail mix?
23 Marvel doctor
25 Competed
26 Simon with 
songs
28 __ ride
29 Waikiki 
neckwear31 Move like a 
hummingbird
32 Pan pooch
33 Peripatetic bell 
ringer
34 Breaks for sitters
38 “The Blacklist” 
star
39 Calif. barrio 
region
40 Jazz fan?
41 Problem in an 
ensemble42 Tailgating sight
43 Stuck out
45 Seek out water
46 Actor/rapper 
Smith
48 Dovetail
49 First name  
in smelly 
romantics
51 __ Geo: cable 
channel
52 Denver-to-Vegas 
dir.
By David Alfred Bywaters
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/31/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/31/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, October 31, 2019
ACROSS
1 Spot for a salt 
scrub
4 Aromatic 
evergreen
10 Wind with nearly 
a three-octave 
range
14 Fresh from the 
oven
15 Collection of 
hives
16 Sullen look
17 Track
18 Halloween feeling 
in a warren?
20 Buffalo lake
22 Like the vb. “go”
23 Belly laugh 
syllable
24 Halloween feeling 
near a water 
supply?
27 Valleys
31 “Take Care” 
Grammy winner
32 “We’ve waited 
long enough”
34 Bebe’s “Frasier” 
role
38 Overlook
39 Halloween feeling 
in the office?
44 Enjoy privileged 
status
45 Poise
46 It may get the ball 
rolling
48 Trio in “To be, or 
not to be”
53 “Borstal Boy” 
author Brendan
54 Halloween feeling 
in the yard?
58 Angel dust, 
initially
60 “You wish, 
laddie!”
61 Put out
62 Halloween feeling 
in the loo?
67 Summer hrs. in 
Denver
68 Stood
69 Paparazzo’s gear
70 Mature
71 Lumberjacks’ 
tools
72 Gave it more gas
73 Finch family 
creator
DOWN
1 Astute
2 Bartender, often3 Fifth-century 
conqueror
4 Soap unit
5 Two (of)
6 Cuba __
7 Brand of 
hummus and 
guacamole
8 Actor Millen of 
“Orphan Black”
9 Folk story
10 Wheeler-dealer
11 Feathery 
neckwear
12 CSNY’s “__ 
House”
13 Many 
“Guardians of 
the Galaxy” 
characters
19 Latest things
21 Rockies bugler
25 Sandwich source
26 “Same here”
28 Vehicle with a 
partition
29 Mideast 
potentate
30 Slowly sinks from 
the sky
33 Those folks
35 Confident words
36 Suit part 
sometimes 
grabbed37 Unhealthy
39 Nursery piece
40 Narrow way
41 Engrave
42 Backslides
43 Hitting stat
47 Advance slowly
49 Big club
50 Koala, for 
example
51 Game based on 
whist
52 Living room 
piece55 Japanese art 
genre
56 Carried on
57 Big name in 
Indian politics
59 Some GIs
62 Monk’s address
63 Cured salmon
64 Employ
65 31-Across  
genre
66 Covert 
information 
source
10/30/19
1. Which Eagles song netted the 
group its first Grammy even though it 
only went to No. 2 on the charts?
2. Name the two soccer teams men-
tioned in “You’re In My Heart” by 
Rod Stewart.
3. Who were Ed Sullivan’s last 
musical guests on his show?
4. Which song’s label gave the credit 
as “John Ono Lennon”?
5. Name the song that contains this 
lyric: “When I left my home and my 
family, I was no more than a boy in the 
company of strangers.”
Answers
1. “Lyin’ Eyes,” in 1972. The Gram-
my was for Best Pop Performance, 
and it also got a nomination for 
Record of the Year. 
2. Glasgow Celtic and Manchester 
United.
3. Gladys Knight and the Pips, in 
1971. The show ran for 23 years, 
always on Sunday night.
4. “Instant Karma! (We All Shine 
On),” in 1970. In the U.K. the credit 
was changed to “Lennon/Ono with the 
Plastic Ono Band.” It was the first time a 
solo Beatles song sold a million copies.
5. “The Boxer,” by Simon and Gar -
funkel, in 1969. It was recorded in 
multiple parts in multiple locations 
(including a chapel) and took over 100 
hours to complete. The “lie la lie” lyric 
was intended only as a place holder.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
October 28, 20191. Which Eagles song netted the 
group its first Grammy even though it 
only went to No. 2 on the charts?
2. Name the two soccer teams men-
tioned in “You’re In My Heart” by 
Rod Stewart.
3. Who were Ed Sullivan’s last 
musical guests on his show?
4. Which song’s label gave the credit 
as “John Ono Lennon”?
5. Name the song that contains this 
lyric: “When I left my home and my 
family, I was no more than a boy in the 
company of strangers.”
Answers
1. “Lyin’ Eyes,” in 1972. The Gram-
my was for Best Pop Performance, 
and it also got a nomination for 
Record of the Year. 
2. Glasgow Celtic and Manchester 
United.
3. Gladys Knight and the Pips, in 
1971. The show ran for 23 years, 
always on Sunday night.
4. “Instant Karma! (We All Shine 
On),” in 1970. In the U.K. the credit 
was changed to “Lennon/Ono with the 
Plastic Ono Band.” It was the first time a 
solo Beatles song sold a million copies.
5. “The Boxer,” by Simon and Gar -
funkel, in 1969. It was recorded in 
multiple parts in multiple locations 
(including a chapel) and took over 100 
hours to complete. The “lie la lie” lyric 
was intended only as a place holder.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
October 28, 2019answers belowFlash Back answers Even Exchange answerssolution below
answers below
1. Nation, Notion
2. Chili, Chill
3. Degree, Decree
4. Pluto, Plato
5. Candy, Handy6. France, Prance
7. Sauce, Saute
8. Elite, Elate
9. Pierce, Pierre
10. Saber, SoberPUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
CAUTION:
spoilers ahead
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida track and ﬁ  eld coach 
Mike Holloway was named the 
head coach of the U.S. track and 
ﬁ  eld team at the 2020 Summer 
Olympics in T okyo.Meyer announces rooting interest for Florida-Georgia
Former Florida coach Urban Meyer annouced via Instagram that he will be 
cheering  for UF on Saturday. "Go Gators," Meyer said in a video. "Beat those 
Dawgs. "
FOOTBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
It doesn’t get much bigger than Satur-
day’s Florida-Georgia game in Jacksonville.
One of the ﬁ  ercest rivalries in college 
football; a top-10 matchup; a trip to the SEC 
Championship Game (and maybe the Col-
lege Football Playoff) on the line.
“This is a big game. If our guys aren’t 
juiced to play in the game, they’ve got prob-
lems,” UF coach Dan Mullen said. “You 
come to Florida to play in big games, to play 
in rivalry games like this.”
The World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail 
Party — which kicks off at 3:30 p.m. on 
CBS — comes after a very opportune bye 
week for the 7-1 Gators. Three key pieces 
— receiver Kadarius Toney, defensive line-
man Jabari Zuniga and linebacker Jonathan 
Greenard — are all expected to return from 
injury.
The dynamic Toney, who accounted for 
629 all-purpose yards last year, has been out 
for almost two months with a shoulder in-
jury. Zuniga and Greenard, two stalwarts of 
UF’s defense, have both been out with ankle 
injuries since Florida’s loss to LSU on Oct. 
12.
“When we’re all out there… we have the 
best defense in the country,” Greenard said.
That full-strength defense will have to 
ﬁ  gure out a way to contain one of the best 
running backs in the nation, D’Andre Swift. 
He’s averaging 107.4 yards per game (best in the SEC) and is a 
big reason why No. 8 
Georgia has the third-
best scoring offense in 
the conference.
Quarterback Jake 
Fromm is another 
reason. UGA’s junior 
signal caller has the 
third-best completion 
percentage in the SEC 
(70.7) and torched the 
Gators defense last 
year with a 17-for-24, 
240-yard, three touch-
down performance.
Georgia’s defense 
also has a claim for 
“best in the country.” 
The Bulldogs are al-
lowing just 10.6 points 
per game, the best 
mark in the conference 
by almost ﬁ  ve points.
Despite these im-
pressive numbers, the Bulldogs have looked 
beatable in recent weeks. They were upset 
by South Carolina (3-5) on Oct. 12 and were 
locked in a scoreless tie well into the third 
quarter with Kentucky (4-4) before eventu-
ally pulling away in their last game. Both 
contests were at home.
Florida quarterback Kyle Trask could end 
UF’s two-game losing streak in the rivalry. 
Despite having only ﬁ  ve career starts, Trask does have experience in big games: He led 
the Gators to a win over then-No. 7 Auburn 
on Oct. 5 and became the ﬁ  rst UF quarter-
back since 2016 to pass for over 300 yards in 
his team’s 42-28 loss to LSU the next week.
“I’ve obviously been in big environments 
before,” Trask said. “I think that’ll just give 
me that extra conﬁ  dence going into a week 
like this.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org Gators set for biggest Cocktail Party in years
Staff Report
This has to be some sort of cruel joke.
Week 10 already? Really?
The college football season is starting 
to wind down, but not before Florida’s 
most important game of the season: The 
World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party.
And yeah, here at alligatorSports, it’s 
the damn Cocktail Party. Not the River 
City Showdown, or whatever the pow-
ers-at-be want to call it to avoid the neg-
ative PR that comes from the WLOCP 
name.
The name will change when it stops 
being literally the most perfect way to 
describe the booze-ﬁ  lled early Novem-
ber showdown.
But, despite the Cocktail Party being 
the only top-10 matchup of the week, 
ESPN decided against awarding the 
Gators their fourth College GameDay 
appearance of the season. Instead, that 
honor goes to the battle between No. 15 
SMU and No. 24 Memphis, an AAC West 
game with New Year’s Six implications. 
Football beat writers Dylan Rudolph and 
Kyle Wood debate that one below:
SMU will win because…
A vote was held Tuesday by The 
NCAA Board of Governors in which 
it unanimously agreed to ﬁ  nd a way 
to allow college athletes to proﬁ  t from 
their fame and likeness, overturning the 
standing rule to not allow collegiate ath-
letes to earn money.
The biggest loser of the rule was 
SMU. In the 1970s and 1980s, the foot-
ball program was caught on numerous 
occasions of paying athletes to play foot-
ball and was subsequently administered 
the famed “Death Penalty,” effectively 
shutting down the entire football pro-
gram for the entirety of the 1987 and 
1988 seasons, just ﬁ  ve years after an 
undefeated season. And it has taken the 
program over 30 years to return to form.
But the recent vote to end the rule 
that crippled the program for so long 
now acts as a sort of ironic milestone, 
symbolizing the turning point for SMU 
football and possibly the end of a long 
rebuild.
This season, the Mustangs have 
started 8-0 for the ﬁ  rst time since 1982, 
a season where they ﬁ  nished 11-0 on 
the back of two top running backs Eric 
Dickerson and Craig James, dubbed the 
“Pony Express.” But this year, it’s just 
one pony pulling the carriage.PICKS: Week 10
SITE: TIAA Bank Field (cap. 
82,000)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: CBS/ 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  BACK OF WRAP 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Receiver Kadarius T oney returns to UF's offense Saturday.
All or nothing culture has carved out a place in col-
lege football.
From a distance, it makes sense. There are 130 
teams operating on a razor-thin margin – and wildly 
different budgets and talent pools – all with the goal 
of being picked to participate in the College Football Playoff.
So the games do matter. All of them. And in the confer-
ence where “It Just Means More,” that holds true to an even 
higher degree.
But there’s something to be said about using any given 
Saturday as the end-all be-all report card for a football pro-
gram. That thing to be said is: don’t.
Gators coach Dan Mullen was asked if he sees his team’s 
upcoming game this Saturday against Georgia — which will be Florida’s 
third top-10 matchup of the season — as a measuring stick for the pro-
gram.
Mullen had a level-headed response that resonated with me:
“I never try to measure anything off one individual game because all 
of a sudden, you win one game and you think you have arrived,” he said. 
“And then you lose another one and it’s a disaster. And neither of those 
two are true.”
Last season is a perfect example of why using one game to gauge 
where a team is at is a ﬂ  awed ideology.
UF lost to Kentucky in Mullen’s second game as head coach after a 
feel-good, but unimportant blowout win over an FCS team. Florida had 
not lost to the Wildcats in almost 30 years, and, at the time, the loss looked terrible: a fringe top-25 team losing to a basketball 
school like Kentucky. 
Turned out, Kentucky had its best season in program his-
tory and that early September slip-up ended up looking like a 
quality loss upon further review in December.
Similarly, a few weeks later that season, the Gators 
knocked off No. 5 LSU at home. That win didn’t vault the 
program into playoff contention, but it was a solid resume 
builder.
I know I’m asking a lot when I say to not overreact to 
individual results. The content that comes with an upset, or 
even just a regular loss, is enticing.
The nature of a college football season, with maybe only 
three to four games a season per team with playoff implications, forces 
one to read too much into say, Wisconsin losing to Illinois. The Badgers 
are still a great team, they just had a bad week (and then had to play Ohio 
State the next week, which doesn’t seem fair).
But we’re not all AP voters, and even less of us are on the College 
Football Playoff Committee. We are not required to pencil in our opinions 
of programs on a neat ballot once a week. We can look at things a bit 
more holistically. 
Stay level-headed no matter the result in Jacksonville this weekend. If 
the Gators lose, don’t call the season a wrap. If they win, UF isn’t a lock 
for the playoff. Regardless, Florida is a program on the rise.
Let’s not be prisoners of the moment. Be a responsible college football 
fan.Take it easy with the college football overreactionsKyle's Files
By Kyle Wood
Twitter: @Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019
SOCCER
SWIMMING AND DIVINGBy Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
All Florida’s soccer team needed 
was a win or tie in the last ﬁ  xture of 
the regular season against Georgia to 
secure the SEC East title.
The Gators were close to achiev-
ing that until their old habit of defen-
sive mistakes reared its head in the 
89th minute.
Defender Georgia Eaton-Collins 
tried forcing a pass near midﬁ  eld, 
but it was intercepted by Georgia de-
fender/midﬁ  elder Abby Boyan, who 
found forward Haley Sorrell near the 
edge of the box.
Sorrell took a touch before nest-
ling the ball into the bottom-right 
corner to defeat UF 1-0 on Thursday 
night at the Turner Soccer Complex 
in Athens, Georgia.
With winds swirling at more than 
15 mph, the Gators (10-7-1, 6-3-1 
SEC) resorted to a possession-based 
style of play in the opening minutes.They kept passes on the ground 
to avoid the effects of the weather in-
stead of launching them up the ﬁ  eld 
to forwards Vanessa Kara, Madison 
Alexander and Kit Loferski.
Florida’s game plan did not result 
in an early goal, but it seemed to 
wear out Georgia (8-6-4, 4-3-3 SEC), 
which spent most of the ﬁ  rst half 
running after the ball. 
As expected, the lengthy posses-
sions led to more shots for the Gators 
(6) than the Bulldogs (3) in the ﬁ  rst 
45 minutes. Yet, both teams headed 
into the locker room scoreless.
The wind remained a factor in the 
second half, which was evident by 
the ﬂ  ailing corner ﬂ  ags, so UGA ad-
opted a similar approach as UF’s in 
order to spark the offense.
Georgia’s change in strategy al-
most paid off in the 68th minute after 
earning a free kick on Florida’s side 
of the ﬁ  eld.
The Bulldogs sent the ball into a 
scrum of players inside the 18-yard box, but Kara came away with it. 
Instead of clearing the danger, how-
ever, she passed the ball back to UF 
goalie Susi Espinoza, who was not 
expecting it.
UGA midﬁ  elder Dani Murguia 
pounced on the errant pass, but 
luckily for the Gators, Espinoza was 
quick off her line to force Murguia’s 
shot wide of the goal.
Kara was subsequently replaced 
by midﬁ  elder Laney Steed and 
stayed on the bench for the rest of 
the contest.
Florida’s best chance to open 
the scoring came in the 80th min-
ute when midﬁ  elder Parker Roberts 
forced Georgia goalie Emory Wegen-
er into a leaping two-handed save. 
Nine minutes later, the Bulldogs 
were celebrating a goal that ultimate-
ly gave them their ﬁ  rst win against 
the Gators since 2008.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.org
By Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s and women’s 
swimming and diving teams are 
ready to compete in their second-
straight SEC matchup against Geor-
gia.
This time, UF has the luxury of 
home-arena advantage.
Florida’s last meet against Mis-
souri brought mixed results.
The No. 9 men were handed their 
ﬁ  rst loss of the year to a strong No. 4 Tigers team by a score of 109.5-90.5.
UF’s women’s team rose to No. 1 
in the nation with a 176-124 victory 
over the then-No. 6 Missouri.
Here’s what to look out for before 
both squads make their ﬁ  rst splash 
at 11 a.m. Friday at the O’Connell 
Center.
Women try to hold SEC lead
UF also has the chance to main-
tain the top ranking in the SEC if 
it can secure a win against No. 12 
Georgia.Sherridon Dressel, Leah Braswell 
and Ashley McCool are just three 
athletes who have dominated the 
start of this season.
Of UF’s 12 individual event wins, 
Dressel and Braswell have com-
bined for ﬁ  ve.
McCool won both the 1-meter 
and 3-meter diving events against 
Missouri.
The Gators are 5-0 for the ﬁ  rst 
time since their 2009-10 champion-
ship season and are outscoring op-
ponents by a tally of 995.5-491.5.UF has dominated its series 
against Georgia. The women hold a 
16-3 all-time record against UGA.
Men look to get back on track
UF is competing in its ﬁ  rst home 
meet of the year. It might be exactly 
what the men need to rebound from 
their ﬁ  rst loss of the season.
The Gators’ challenge will come 
in the form of No. 14 Georgia.
Whether they can tack on their 
ﬁ  rst SEC win of the year will depend 
heavily on the strokes of Kieran Smith, Clark Beach, Eric Friese and 
Marco Guarente.
Smith has paced the Gators with 
six individual wins in UF’s ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve 
meets.
Beach, Friese and Guarente are 
all tied for second-most on the team, 
each hitting the wall ﬁ  rst in ﬁ  ve indi-
vidual events to start the year.
UF is 12-6-1 all-time against 
Georgia.
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgFlorida loses chance at SEC East title with loss to Georgia
Men and women face Bulldogs in ﬁ  rst home meet of the yearMargaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Goalie Susi Espinoza had ﬁ  ve saves, but she couldn’t stop Georgia’s 
game-winning 89th-minute goal, which cost UF a division title.
while averaging almost 48 yards a punt. 
Johnny’s penchant for hitting rubbed off on Tommy, 
who made two tackles while averaging 45.4 yards a punt 
in his first season as the Florida starter in 2018. 
“I liked to say that was my thing: going down and mak-
ing those plays,” Johnny said. “That was like my favorite 
thing as a player, and it’s obvious that it’s Tommy’s, too.”
Every position on the football field demands athleti-
cism.
The middle linebacker needs strength to make tackles. 
The receiver needs speed to get past the defender. And the 
punter needs athleticism to be flexible and precise enough 
to put the ball where he needs it to be.
Johnny compared punting to the intricacies of hitting a 
golf ball. One centimeter off in the placement of the kick, 
and it will careen out of bounds for an embarrassing 10-
yard punt. To consistently place a punt perfectly, a lot of 
composure and athleticism is needed.
“I rarely get nervous,” Tommy said. “I’m aware of the 
situation and know I need to hit this right, but I have a lot 
of confidence in my abilities.”
Tommy had the necessary athleticism to propel him 
into the national eye as a punter.
In his senior year of high school, he averaged 43 yards a 
punt and was rated as a top-five punting prospect by Kohl-
sKicking and Chris Sailer Kicking Camp, the No. 6-ranked 
prospect by ESPN and named a U.S. Army All-American, 
just like his brother two years prior.
Tommy was offered scholarships to play at Division I 
schools, including Colorado, Texas A&M and Tennessee. 
But one name was missing: Florida.
“When my brother went to Florida, I thought back then 
that I wouldn’t have a scholarship opportunity there,” 
Tommy said. “They only scholarship kickers and punters 
every four years.”
Tommy grew up a long-time Florida fan along with the 
rest of his family. Both his parents and brothers attended 
UF, and it was his first choice. But it didn’t seem pos-
sible. Tommy wanted an opportunity to play right away 
and chose Tennessee instead.
But the path to the field proved more difficult than 
Tommy had thought.
He found himself in an unexpected competition upon 
arriving on campus, and walk-on junior punter Trevor 
Daniel emerged with the starting spot for the Volunteers 
to start the 2015 season. Tommy subsequently redshirted.
Devastated (and knowing Daniel still had two more 
years of eligibility) Tommy opted for a change after just 
one year. 
“When I was talking to (Johnny) about transferring, he 
told me to feel it out and use my gut,” he said,
Tommy thought long and hard, but in the end, his gut 
wanted a reunion with his brother. He transferred to UF in 
June of 2016 and moved into a house just off campus with 
his brother. With Johnny ahead of him, he wouldn’t play 
immediately, but Tommy said he never regretted coming 
to Florida.
“Those years with (Johnny) on the team, our relation-
ship really developed into best friends, not just brothers,” 
Tommy said. “And I learned so much from him that made 
me so much better as a punter.”
With Tommy on the sidelines, patiently waiting, John-
ny became a two-time All-American and the all-time lead-
ing punter in program history, averaging over 46 yards on 
240 total punts.
“Of course I wanted to play, but I was willing to wait,” 
Tommy said. “Me and (Johnny) have really different at-
tributes as punters, so I needed to just focus on my game 
to be ready when it was my turn.”
In Johnny’s final two seasons, he led the nation in 
gross-punting average (47.9, 47.5) and was drafted in the 
fifth round of the NFL draft by the Oakland Raiders.
He was a hard act to follow, but Tommy has met expec-
tations while being completely different from his brother.
Johnny was a booming punter, but often struggled with 
placement, downing only 42 percent of his senior-year 
punts inside the opposing 20-yard line.
Tommy is a stark contrast, kicking high-arching punts 
that force fair catches and are downed deep in enemy ter-
ritory. In his first starting season in 2018, he was named 
Second Team All-SEC by Athlon Sports and was a semi-
finalist for the Ray Guy Award for the best punter in the country. He downed almost half his kicks inside the op-
ponent’s 20-yard line and had 14 punts over 50 yards or 
more.
Through the first eight games of 2019, he’s forced 10 
fair catches on 25 punts and downed the opponent inside 
its own 20-yard line 13 times.
Tommy has emulated his brothers’ collegiate success 
just as he did in high school. And Johnny, who has played 
for the Raiders and New York Giants, affirmed that his lit-
tle brother has what it takes to meet him at the next level.
“Being around the game so long and being in the NFL, 
and knowing what it takes, he definitely has it,” Johnny 
said. “He’s a tremendous punter, but he can also kick 
field goals, kickoffs. He can hold. All of that skyrockets 
his value. Yeah, I think he is going to have a really good 
NFL career.”
Tommy kicked a season-high seven punts in the win 
against South Carolina on Oct. 19, and his next game in 
Jacksonville for the annual rivalry bout against Georgia is 
expected to be a defensive game with many more punts. “(Florida-Georgia) is a dogfight every single year,” he 
said. “It’s just a game we always come out to with a chip 
on our shoulder and try to play our best.”
Performing in big games like Florida-Georgia puts the 
NFL on notice. Last year against the Bulldogs, Tommy 
had four punts averaging almost 50 yards and bombed 
a career-long 71-yard punt in the second quarter — NFL-
level stats.
Tommy’s abilities have opened up NFL opportunities as 
big as the hole against Vanderbilt a year ago, and he has 
the chance to sprint through it. But time alone will tell if 
he meets it head-on again.
“I feel like I’ve done pretty well,” he said. “In situations 
where I need to produce, I do.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgKICKOFF    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR
FLORIDA defense vs. GEORGIA offense
Trey HillCJake FrommQBD’ Andre SwiftRBBrian HerrienRB
Kyree
CampbellNT
Marco
WilsonCB
CJ HendersonCB
Jabari
Zuniga OR 
Zachary CarterDE
Adam
ShulerDT
Trey Dean III 
OR
Amari BurneySTAR
David
Reese IIMIKE
Amari Burney 
OR Ventrell 
MillerWILL
Jon Greenard 
OR Jeremiah 
MoonBUCK
Donovan Stiner OR 
Shawn DavisS
Jeawon T aylor OR
Brad StewartSSolomon 
KindleyGAndrew 
ThomasTMatt Landers 
OR Lawrence 
CagerWR
Cade Mays OR 
Ben ClevelandGIsaiah Wilson 
OR Jamaree 
SalyerTCharlie WoernerTE Tyler SimmonsWRFLORIDA offense vs. GEORGIA defense
Nick BuchananC
Kyle Trask OR 
Emory JonesQB
Lamical
PerineRBStone
ForsytheTBrett
HeggieLG
Van
JeffersonZChristopher
BleichRG
Jean
DelanceTKyle Pitts OR 
Lucas KrullTE
Josh Hammond OR
Freddie Swain OR 
Kadarius T oneyY
Tyrie Cleveland OR
Trevon GrimesXT ae 
CrowderMIKE
Michael Barnett OR 
Jordan DavisNT
Tyler Clark OR 
Devonte WyattDTDavid Marshall 
OR Malik 
HerringDED.J. Daniel OR 
Tyson CampbellCB
Azeez 
OjulariJACK
Eric StokesCBMonty 
RiceOLB
Walter 
Grant OR 
Jermaine 
JohnsonOLBRichard 
LeCounte IIIS
J.R. ReedSFilling Johnny’s shoes Starting lineups for The Cocktail Party
•   •   •
•   •   •SMU running back Xavier Jones has led the No. 15 SMU 
offense with his dynamic, all-around playstyle, rushing for 884 
yards and 14 touchdowns this season while adding 12 recep-
tions for 54 yards and two receiving touchdowns. The 5-foot-11 
senior should have another ﬁ  eld day against a weak Memphis 
defense on Saturday night.
The Tigers rank 94th nationally in rushing defense, allow-
ing 188.8 yards on the ground per game and 12 rushing touch-
downs. Jones and the potent Mustang offense — which has av-
eraged 43 points a game this season — will pummel 30 years of 
frustration into a helpless Tiger defense to remain undefeated.
— Dylan Rudolph
Memphis (-6.5) will win because…
College GameDay is coming to Grit and Grind City, so they 
better not disappoint. Memphis is actually one of a few resident 
Group of 5 teams represented in the AP Top 25, along with their 
opponent, SMU. I’m not entirely sure if this is a result of weaker 
performances from Power 5 teams or a particularly stout season 
from those outside of college football’s elite. But the Tigers are 
going to prove their place in the poll this weekend.
They already have a win over an SEC opponent, albeit, it 
was Ole Miss. But since that 15-10 win, Memphis has only 
failed to score 30 points once and scored 40 or more ﬁ  ve times.
The leader of the Tigers offense is quarterback Brady White, 
who is insanely efﬁ  cient and is tied for the 10th-most touch-
downs in the FBS.
To complement the air attack, running back Kenneth Gain-
well has just under 1,000 yards on the ground this season and 
11 touchdowns.
Let’s be honest, the Tigers aren’t going to stiﬂ  e SMU’s of-
fense. Memphis isn’t known for its defensive prowess and it 
doesn’t need to be.
Both teams have top-10 scoring offenses, but I’ll take Mem-
phis in a shootout. 
— Kyle Wood
Now onto the picks...
Tied for ﬁ  rst at 47-24 is Kyle “Too Cool For Sprots” Wood, 
who refused to make his presence known to members of sprots 
Tuesday night at The Alligator. Kyle, a simple hello would have 
sufﬁ  ced, but maybe you just didn’t want to draw attention to 
the fact that you were canoodling with news once again. I’m 
sorry to say your fellow staffers were hurt that you didn’t say 
hey to them when they walked in from dinner. And an hour 
later, you ﬁ  nally broke the ice and engaged in some conversa-
tion. Smh, Kyle. Smh.
Also in ﬁ  rst is Tyler “Pro Candy Corn” Nettuno, who for some odd reason loves the controversial candy. Tyler, why 
don’t you have better taste? I get it’s seasonal and all, but don’t 
let the cute colors fool you. And the fact that there are mul-
tiple ﬂ  avors for the abonimidal candy makes it even worse. You 
probably love licorice, too, don’t you? Unbelievable. 
Leading off a three-way tie for third is Nick “Too Good For 
The Picks Column” De La Torre, who was the last to send in 
his picks for the second-straight week. What’s the deal, Nick? 
Last week, there was a “birth in your family” or whatever. 
What’s your excuse this time? Either way, your contribution to 
this stupid column should take precedence.
Also in third is Graham “Huge Deadspin Guy” Hall, who 
took the popular sports media site’s demise harder than most. 
It’s OK, Graham. You’re allowed to be sad. There are just some 
college journalists who follow you and don’t need constant re-
minders of the volatility of the industry they’re about to jump 
head-ﬁ  rst into.The ﬁ  nal member of third is Sam “Nice Costume” Campi-
sano, who not only showed up to The Alligator’s Halloween 
party unfashionably late, but also just unfashionably. Instead 
of ﬁ  tting in with his coworkers, clad in their favorite costumes, 
Sam went as “Sam from UF RecSports.” Or, he was coming 
from “work,” as he alleges.
In sixth at 40-31 is Mark “Say It To Their Face” Long, who 
thought that the boys in blue dutifully defending the Jaguars 
statue outside of TIAA Bank Field should play left and right 
tackle for the Gators. It’s easy to talk that big talk on the Twitter 
streets, but I’m not sure Stone Forsythe and Jean Delance would 
appreciate being called out like that… 
Read the rest online at www.alligator.org/sportsALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2019   KICKOFF
NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$3 Wells
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJFRIDAY
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
Kyle (47-24) Tyler (47-24) Nick (41-30) Sam (41-30)
UGA vs UF (+6.5) UF UF UF UF
UTAH @ WASH (+3.5) UTAH UTAH UTAH UTAH
SMU @ MEM (-6.5) MEM SMU SMU MEM
ORE @ USC (+5.5) ORE ORE ORE ORE
VT @ ND (-17.5) ND ND ND VT
MIAMI @ FSU (-4.5) FSU FSU MIAMI FSU
UAB @ TENN (-10.5) TENN TENN TENN TENN
MISS @ AUB (-18.5) AUB AUB AUB AUB
Graham (41-30) Mark (40-31) Dylan (38-33) Edgar (37-34)
UGA vs UF (+6.5) UF UF UF UF
UTAH @ WASH (+3.5) WASH UTAH UTAH UTAH
SMU @ MEM (-6.5) SMU MEM SMU SMU
ORE @ USC (+5.5) ORE ORE ORE ORE
VT @ ND (-17.5) ND ND ND ND
MIAMI @ FSU (-4.5) MIAMI FSU MIAMI FSU
UAB @ TENN (-10.5) TENN TENN TENN TENN
MISS @ AUB (-18.5) AUB AUB MISS AUB
Zach (36-35) Mari (36-35) Brian (33-38)
UGA vs UF (+6.5) UF UF UF
UTAH @ WASH (+3.5) UTAH UTAH UTAH
SMU @ MEM (-6.5) SMU MEM SMU
ORE @ USC (+5.5) ORE ORE ORE
VT @ ND (-17.5) VT VT VT
MIAMI @ FSU (-4.5) MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI
UAB @ TENN (-10.5) UAB TENN TENN
MISS @ AUB (-18.5) AUB AUB AUBPICKS,  from pg. 11 "Expert "  Picks of the W eekINSIDE
People don’t generally associate punters with athleticism. But UF’s   
   T ommy T ownsend breaks that stereotype, and then some.
ONLINE
Follow @alligatorSports on Twitter for all your minute-to-minute 
coverage of this year’s World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party
‘Wild Stallion’‘Wild Stallion’
Florida’s Tommy Townsend is “a football 
player that happens to be a good punter.”KICK OFF
Editor Tyler Nettuno   Photo for Cover Illustration Samantha Harrison
Alligator, Friday, November 1, 2019
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
Three yards.
On fourth down with the Gators trailing 
at Vanderbilt 21-13 in 2018, that’s all they 
needed when Tommy Townsend stepped 
up for what was supposed to be his third 
punt of the game.
He went through his mental checklist: 
feet set, hands steady, know the situa-
tion. But this time, he had to remember 
one more thing: When you see a hole, run 
through it.
The ball was snapped, Tommy started 
his kicking motion, and then he saw the 
window. A hole at the line of scrimmage 
opened up for him in the middle of the line, and Tommy tucked the ball away and 
sprinted down ﬁ  eld.
Emerging past the line of scrimmage, 
the 183-pound punter introduced himself 
to the ﬁ  rst Commodore he saw: 6-foot-4, 
225-pound receiver Chris Pierce. Tommy 
met him, not with a feet-ﬁ  rst slide, but 
with a lowered shoulder. The two collided 
head-on with both refusing to go down, 
and a rugby-like scrum ensued.
Well after the whistles had blown the 
play dead, Tommy still continued to brawl  
with Vanderbilt players, battling 6-foot-1 
safety Justin Harris for the ball that was 
still in his hands. Townsend ripped the ball 
out, shoved Harris away and spiked the 
ball down to the ground with teammates 
jumping all over him in elation.He needed three yards. He got 18.
Half the size of everyone else, his fear-
lessness and toughness made him the big-
gest player on the ﬁ  eld, if only for a play.
“It was just running hard and not going 
down easy,” he said after the game. “I was 
really excited for that play call all week. 
We’d been practicing it all week. I was ex-
cited that the coaches trusted me to put the 
ball in my hands to get that ﬁ  rst down.”
Three plays later, Florida scored and, by 
the game’s end, had come back to win 37-
27 with Tommy’s fake punt sparking the 
surge.
“I think that play just describes (Tom-
my) as who he is,” said his brother John-
ny, a two-time All-American punter with 
the Florida Gators. “He’s just a hard-nosed, physical player and a tough kid. He just 
lays it all on the line.”
Tommy made it from Orlando to his 
dream school at the University of Flori-
da using grit at a position not known for 
it. Townsend’s off-the-ﬁ  eld personality, 
which is as free-ﬂ  owing as his long brown 
hair, and toughness on the ﬁ  eld has made 
him one of the nation’s most unique punt-
ers. And it might take him to the next level, 
too.
Tommy is different. He’s different on 
the ﬁ  eld and he’s different off of it. 
His father, Clay Sr., describes him as 
a free spirit in contrast to his two older 
brothers Johnny and Clay Jr., who are 
more serious and mellow. 
“He’s feisty. That’s the word that keeps 
coming to me,” Clay Sr. said. “Very inde-
pendent and deﬁ  nitely a Type A personal-
ity. He has a real edge to him.”
Punters are not typically known as 
tough guys, but Tommy has proven time 
and time again that they can be.
Boone High School coach Andy Johnson 
got an eyeful of Tommy’s tough and bra-
zen nature when he ﬁ  rst coached him  in 
Tommy’s freshman spring game.
“We played him at cornerback… He 
just kept blitzing whenever he felt like it,” 
Johnson said. “I had to keep telling him 
that’s not what you do, but he just kept 
telling me he had to go make a play… He 
was like a wild stallion, and we had to 
break him.”
Tommy gets his grit from his family. 
Growing up the youngest of three broth-
ers who all played sports, he was naturally 
picked on. Tommy, clad in his older broth-
ers’ oversized Pop Warner football pads, 
would “train” with Johnny and Clay Jr. in 
the front yard. This “training” entailed his 
brothers tackling him full speed in Okla-
homa-like drills. Tommy had to learn to 
toughen up quick.
In high school, he played all over the 
ﬁ  eld as a quarterback, cornerback and 
punter in football and in the outﬁ  eld in 
baseball. But he excelled at the safety po-
sition, where he was allowed to roam the 
ﬁ  eld, make plays and produce bone-crush-
ing tackles.
“He was just really athletic. Long and 
rangy. Really good football instincts,” 
Johnson said. “And he deﬁ  nitely loved to 
hit.”
Johnson’s favorite memory of Tommy 
was in his senior year against rival Edge-
water High. Tommy made several tackles 
and two key interceptions to win the game.
“He was a hell of a safety. He had no 
fear,” Johnson said. “He probably could 
have went to college as a safety if that’s 
what he wanted to do… He’s a football 
player that happens to be a good punter.”
But Tommy said he also owes a lot to 
his brothers for his successful punting ca-
reer, especially Johnny.
“I really started to realize this punting 
thing could take me far when Johnny start-
ed to get offers from schools,” he said. “I 
just thought, ‘You know, maybe I could do 
this, too.’”
Johnny showed Tommy punting tech-
niques and the importance of going down 
and making the tackle afterward. With 
Florida in 2016, Johnny made four tack-
les (tied for most of any punter that year) Townsend is tough and entertaining at a position not known for it
Chris King / Alligator Staff•   •   •