We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
What’s coming up this year
Here’s what 2019 will bring in UF’s Student Government, 
Gainesville City Commission and UF administration, pg. 5.
From UF students to app developers
These UF alumni want to help students save money, pg. 4.Gators men’s basketball needs an attitude 
adjustment
Coach Mike White emphasized an increase in in-
tensity and aggression for his team as it prepares 
to play Arkansas. See what he had to say, pg. 14.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 44
THE DEVICE IS ONE OF 
A COUPLE HUNDRED 
INSTALLED ACROSS 
THE WORLD.
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students can now use a 
$200,000 printer to create projects in 
stainless steel.
The ﬁ  rst and only 3D metal print-
er in Florida opened for use Monday 
in the UF Inﬁ  nity Fab Lab in Inﬁ  nity 
Hall, lab director Juan Griego said. 
The printer, made by Markforged, a 
3D printing company, uses medical-
grade stainless steel to create every-
thing from medical tools to jewelry.
“It’s really leading edge, anyone 
that comes to visit will be one of the 
ﬁ  rst folks to have a metal-printed 
part,” Griego said.
UF bought the printer using an 
award from a UF student inventors 
program. It costs $15 to $30 for stu-
dents to print smaller items and can cost more than $100 for larger items, 
Griego said. 
There are under 200 of these de-
vices available worldwide, Griego 
said. 
UF is one of the ﬁ  rst institutions 
to have access to this type of printer 
and offers the lowest cost nation-
wide.
The ﬁ  rst time Jenny McCloskey, a 
22-year-old UF art junior, used a 3D 
printer was to create a plastic model 
of a brain ventricle, a cavity within 
the brain, for a health class. She said 
printing creations in stainless steel 
would give a new edge to her future 
projects.
“I was very skeptical of 3D print-
ers since I was used to traditional 
methods of sculpture,” she said. “Af-
ter I took a class on it, it deﬁ  nitely 
changed my mind.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgStudents can 3D print 
metal in Inﬁ  nity HallABOUT 50 PEOPLE 
REGISTERED TO VOTE AT 
THE ALACHUA COUNTY 
ELECTIONS OFFICE.
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
Daniel Reese never got to vote. 
About seven years ago, he lost 
his right to.
Reese, a 31-year-old High Springs 
resident, was convicted in his early 
twenties for aggravated stalking, 
which he said he attributes to men-
tal health issues.
“I was worried about partying 
and having fun and doing all the 
other normal kid stuff. So I never 
got to vote,” Reese said at the Ala-
chua County Supervisor of Elec-
tions Ofﬁ  ce. “People can grow and 
change.”
Tuesday marked the day about 
1.4 million felons in Florida could 
start registering to vote again after 
Amendment 4 passed in November. 
Reese gained that right back and joined about 50 other new voters 
who registered at the elections of-
ﬁ  ce, said TJ Pyche, the elections 
ofﬁ  ce spokesperson. Those 50 may 
not all be felons.
The amendment restores the 
rights of felons who completed their 
sentencing, excluding those con-
victed of murder or felony sexual 
offenses, Pyche said.
Florida voters approved the 
amendment with 64.5 percent last 
November, according to the Florida 
Division of Elections.
Tequila McKnight, a 42-year-old 
Gainesville resident and felon, has 
not voted since 2007. She said she 
registered to get her voice back, 
especially on topics about her chil-
dren’s schooling. 
“I want to vote so bad. I didn’t 
realize back when I was younger 
how important voting was,” she 
said. “I’m an everyday person. I 
need to vote. I’m not a bad person, 
I just made a bad decision.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgVoting rights restored for felons in Alachua County
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Harry Jones, a 61-year-old Alachua County resident and felon, registers to vote Tuesday at the 
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections ofﬁ  ce. Jones, who has been out of prison for 13 years, had 
his right to vote restored after Amendment 4 passed in the 2018 midterm election. Tuesday was 
the ﬁ  rst day Amendment 4 was put into effect, and about 50 registered to vote in person, said T J 
Pyche, the elections ofﬁ  ce spokesperson.   
THE GPD SWAT TEAM DEACTIVATED 
AFTER THE SHOOTING. 
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez and 
Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writers 
Gainesville Police arrested an event coordi-
nator for attempted murder on Jan. 2 in con-
nection to a November rap concert shooting.
Gainesville Police’s SWAT team deactivated 
after the shooting.
Jonathan Corey Smith, a 46-year-old 
Gainesville man known as “Jock Smooth,” was 
accused of shooting a promoter he was work-
ing with in the chest, according to a sworn 
complaint said. 
Smith and the promoter were working on the 
Boosie Badazz concert on Nov. 4 at the Heart of 
the City Hookah Lounge, at 1221 E University 
Ave., police said. The two argued about money 
during the show. 
After the concert, the other promoter went 
into the hookah lounge, police said.
At 1:31 a.m., Smith began shooting at the promoter and continued ﬁ  r-
ing after the man fell to the 
ﬂ  oor, the complaint said. 
The promoter was shot once 
in the chest and was then 
taken to a hospital.
Police said the man was 
released from the hospital 
the next day. Smith remains 
in the Alachua County Jail on a $1.25 million 
bond.
Days after the concert, the local police 
union criticized how the department handled 
the shooting. Four ofﬁ  cers resigned from the 
SWAT team after the union sent a letter to the 
city manager and Gainesville Police.
On Nov. 19, GPD Chief Tony Jones wrote a 
letter to Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell 
asking for the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce’s SWAT team to 
handle all calls and search warrants until Tues-
day.
GPD will continue to request the use of the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce SWAT team 
until March 25, Chief Inspector Jorge Campos Police arrest man accused of 
shooting at November concert
Smith
SEE GPD,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
National Ballet Theatre of Odessa
In their first visit to the U.S., the 
National Ballet Theatre of Odessa 
and 55 of its ballerinas will per-
form Swan Lake in four acts 
and an intermission. The show 
is set to start at 7:30 p.m. at the 
Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts, at 3201 Hull Road. The bal-
let is based on Russian folklore 
and German legend and follows 
a prince as he works to free a 
swan maiden from an evil spell. 
The production will be set to 
the music of Pyotr Tchaikovsky. 
Tickets range from $39 to $59. 
UF students can get a 20 percent 
discount. Seniors 65 and over can 
also get a 10 percent discount. 
Ladies’ Night and Date Night
Decadent: A Coffee and Dessert 
Bar, at 4949 Celebration Pointe 
Ave., is offering $2 off glasses of 
wine and dessert specials at 6-9 
p.m.
MicroBREWology
The Cade Museum, at 811 S. Main 
St., will provide First Magnitude 
beer, bread and pickles in the 
museum’s Creativity Lab at 6-8 
p.m. and foster a lesson on the 
process of how it’s made. Tickets 
are $30 each and are only avail-
able to those 21 and older. 
THURSDAY
Museum Nights: I, Too, Sing 
America
The Harn Museum of Art, at 
3259 Hull Road, is offering a 
chance to view photographs 
of the people behind the Civil 
Rights Movement from the 1950s 
to the 1960s at 6-9 p.m. Visitors 
can hear poetry and prose that 
highlight the struggles for justice. 
People can also meet with part-
ners such as the Students Taking 
Action Against Racism, the Civic 
Media Center, the United Church of Gainesville Racial Justice Task 
Force, the Disability Resource 
Center Ambassadors and the 
Black Law Students Association. 
Admission is free and food will be 
provided. 
Pay What You Can Night for 'A 
Doll’s House, Part 2'
For a minimum price of $5, the 
Hippodrome Theatre will pres-
ent its mainstage production for 
“A Doll’s House, Part 2” at 7 p.m. 
Wednesday and Thursday. The 
theatre, located at 25 SE Second 
Place, is inviting people to pay 
what they can to see the main-
stage play. The tickets include 
side seating and are sold only at 
the door on the evening of the 
performance.  
FRIDAY
Gators Gymnastics vs. Missouri
The Gators Gymnastics team 
will compete against Missouri at 
6:45-9:45 p.m. at the O’Connell 
Center. Tickets are $1 for a child 
and $5 for an adult. Tickets are 
free for students. 
GatorNights: Wonders of the 
World
In the first GatorNights for the 
Spring semester, visitors can ex-
plore the wonders of the world. 
The free event will take place in 
the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 
1 a.m. Attendees must be cur-
rent UF students with their Gator 
1 Card and can bring one guest. 
Visitors can also meet others in 
speed-friending hosted by the 
Campus Diplomats. Guests can 
also decorate a luggage tag, cre-
ate a take-home spray can art, 
do a treasure hunt escape room 
and participate in global trivia. 
“The Meg” will be shown in the 
Chamber at 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m.  
SATURDAY
Florida Museum 40th 
Collector’s Day 
The Florida Museum of Natural History will celebrate its 40th 
Collector’s Day from 10 a.m. to 
3 p.m. at 3215 Hull Road. The 
event is free, and it will bring in 
collectors from across the region. 
Visitors can talk to collectors to 
learn about the history and con-
text of their pieces from classic 
cars to Pokémon memorabilia. 
Roe v. Wade Anniversary 
Benefit 
The Gainesville Chapter of 
National Women’s Liberation will 
host its sixth annual Roe v. Wade 
Anniversary Benefit at the Wooly 
on 20 N Main Street. Doors open 
at 7 p.m. and donations between 
$10 and $20 will be taken at the 
door. Donations go toward sup-
port for the group. The event 
will feature local bands Glitter 
Whiskey and Routines, DJs Kelly 
Cochis and Mike Goston, com-
munity organizations, radical po-
litical theatre and a silent auction. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  65° LOW  37°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Digital News Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Alexandria Ng, ang@alligator.org
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Hanna Gibson,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesMayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Lourdes Hernandez, Blake Trauschke,
J.P . Oprison, Jane PerezMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday January 8 thru 
Friday January 12
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 44WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
From Monster Energy to Archer Farms coffee,  
shop and save close to campus.
Your Campus T arget
Just north of campus on
University and /one.lf /three.lfth StNon-stop
study sesh?
Aced.
© 2019 T arget Brands, Inc. The Bullseye Design and T arget are registered trademarks of T arget Brands, Inc. C-000807-03-011
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
Make a difference!
Become a Volunteer Crisis Line Counselor for
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Sixty hours of in-depth training are  
provided in active listening, crisis intervention, 
and suicide prevention.
Volunteering is an opportunity to impact the 
lives of fellow community members and gain 
life-enhancing communication skills.
Training begins:
January 12, 2019
For more information, please contact: 
Jan Greene at 352-264-6782 • jgreene@alachuacounty.us
or check out http://www.alachuacounty.us/crisis
Crisis Center training is a six-week training program (run three times a year) consisting of one 
full Saturday followed by six weeks of Tuesday and Thursday nights from 6:30-9:30p.m. - 
AND two four-hour sessions which can be flexibly scheduled to accommodate your schedule. 
The training requires a strong commitment – both of time and energy.
THE MOBILE APP WILL 
BE AVAILABLE ON IOS 
AND ANDROID.
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF alumni want to make 
ﬁ  nance cool. 
Bo Starr, a 23-year-old UF ﬁ  -
nance alumnus, and Aaron Froug, 
a 25-year-old UF economics alum-
nus, are launching their app called 
Griﬁ  n this summer. The iOS and Android app invests a user’s spare 
change from in-app purchases 
into the company of the product’s 
stock by rounding up to the near-
est dollar, Starr said. 
For instance, if someone pur-
chases a coffee for $3.50 at Star-
bucks, Griﬁ  n will automatically 
round up the purchase to $4 and 
invest the remaining 50 cents into 
Starbucks’ stock, Froug said.
“You get to invest into your life 
using the pennies of the purchases 
you’re already making,” Starr said.
During their four years at UF, the pair discovered that students 
didn’t have access to or interest 
in ﬁ  nance, Starr said. In Spring 
2017, the then-seniors realized 
they could develop an easy way 
for students to handle ﬁ  nancials 
and make money.
Both alumni decided to turn 
down several ﬁ  nancial sector job 
offers to pursue the creation of 
Griﬁ  n full time, Froug said.
“We’re all at an age right now 
that we’re all risk tolerant,” Froug 
said. “And worst comes to worst if 
we fail, our experiences working together towards this passion of 
ours will only help us grow.” 
They are currently paying UF 
students from any major to intern 
for the company’s pre-release trial 
that will eventually launch into a 
full-scale app later this year, Froug 
said. 
“Just love what you do every 
day and continue to grow as a 
person,” Froug said. “This is your 
life, and there are ways to make 
money and have fun.” 
Ella Starr, unrelated to Bo Starr, 
a 24-year-old UF chemical engi-neering senior, said the app would 
be useful to her after she gradu-
ates this semester. 
It is helpful to have a tool that 
manages ﬁ  nances and spending 
while transitioning into a full-time 
job, she said.
“Students have a hard time 
staying organized, especially 
when it comes to money, with so 
many things on their plate,” she 
said. “I think the app would be 
useful when it comes to saving 
into your future.”Two UF alumni made an app to help students investHE CRASHED INTO 
AND BROKE A LIGHT 
POLE. 
By Katherine Wallace-
Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A UF stu-
dent was 
accused of 
drunkenly  
crashing into 
a light pole 
Tuesday  
morning.
At 1:21 
a.m., Univer-
sity Police responded to reports 
of a car that crashed into a light 
pole on the intersection of Vil-
lage Drive and West Fraternity 
Drive, said an arrest report. 
The pole broke and blocked the 
road. 
At about 9 a.m., West Frater-
nity Drive was blocked for two 
hours to make electrical repairs 
to the pole, police said.
One of the passengers told 
ofﬁ  cers that Alexander Pippins, 
a 20-year-old UF student from Jacksonville, was driving when 
the car crashed into the pole, the 
report said.
Pippins told police he was 
sitting in the backseat and that 
another person crashed the car 
and ﬂ  ed, the report said. Pippins 
kept changing where he said 
he was sitting in the backseat, 
although police said there was 
nowhere to sit.
Pippins’ blood alcohol levels 
both tested above the legal limit, 
the report said. 
Pippins was charged with a 
DUI and damage to property.  
In January 2017, Pippins was 
seen tipping over scooters, caus-
ing about $25 in damages to one 
scooter, and was charged with 
criminal mischief, according to 
court records. The victim did not 
wish to press charges. The next 
day, he received a trafﬁ  c citation 
for careless driving. 
He was released from the 
Alachua County Jail at 12:30 
p.m. Tuesday. Pippins could not 
be reached for comment. 
@katwf98
kwallacefernandez@alligator.orgUF student accused 
of drunk drivingsaid. 
GPD is training a new team 
commander and leader and has 
updated its equipment, ﬁ  re-
arms, uniforms and vehicles, 
Campos said. The training and 
equipment is updated at least 
every six months due to changes 
in the team.
“It isn’t costing us anything 
because we have the jurisdic-
tion to go into those areas, so 
helping them was something we 
were able to do with no added 
burden,” said Art Forgey, a 
sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce spokesperson.
Since November, the sheriff’s 
ofﬁ  ce SWAT team has served 
one warrant for GPD, Forgey 
said. It was for a man stabbing 
someone in the neck.
“This is a really good op-
portunity,” Forgey said. “We 
work with other teams around 
the regions, so this will allow 
us to work even closer with the 
Gainesville Police Department. 
It’s actually a beneﬁ  t.”
@katwf98
kwallacefernandez@alligator.org
@JomarieUF
jfuller@alligator.orgAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Back on the Grind
Jane Hufnagel, an 18-year-old UF nutritional sciences freshman, 
throws an orange pingpong ball Monday during the Inter-Residence 
Hall Association’s Involvement Safari on the Reitz North Lawn. More 
than 30 organizations set up booths and educated students on how to 
get involved in the upcoming semester.
Pippins
GPD,  from pg. 1WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
In Honor Of The 
Man And His Dream
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertisingThe DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 23 is 
Friday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m.Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
DISPLAY: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463
The Alligator will not be publishing on Monday, 
Jan. 21 due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday.
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertising
The DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 23 is 
Friday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m.
Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2019:*  *  *     SPECIAL SECTION     *  *  *
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
The biggest issues the City Commission 
will face this year will be ones that were left 
unresolved in 2018. 
Appointing a city manager
Mayor Lauren Poe said the commission’s 
ﬁ  rst goal is to appoint a new city manager.
Former city manager Anthony Lyons re-
signed Dec. 11, three days after he was criti-
cized during public comment for the num-
ber of city employment hirings and ﬁ  rings.
Lyons will ofﬁ  cially leave his position on 
Jan. 17, Poe said. During the City Commis-
sion’s meeting the same day, they plan to 
pick an interim manager. 
“That’s an extremely important position, 
so that is a really big deal,” Poe said. 
Zero waste initiative 
The zero waste initiative is another 
quickly approaching topic for the Commis-
sion, Commissioner Helen Warren said. 
The goal of Zero Waste Gainesville is to be 
75 percent waste-free by 2020, 90 percent free 
by 2030 and completely waste free by 2040, 
Poe said. 
The most recent work the Commission 
has done toward zero waste is the ﬁ  rst ap-
proval of a proposal to ban the use of plastic 
bags and foam containers on Jan. 3. If ap-proved a second time, it will be implement-
ed on Aug.1. 
The next step in the initiative is to create 
a comprehensive waste management plan 
to learn about Gainesville’s waste and the 
most sustainable ways to manage it, Com-
missioner David Arreola said. 
A recycling proposal for apartments and 
a composting pilot program also has to be 
developed, Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos added.
Affordable Housing
Affordable housing will be another big-
ticket item.
Arreola said there is currently no more 
room for affordable housing, so the commis-
sion has to look toward urban centers.
GNV RISE would have allowed for af-
fordable housing to be built into Gainesville 
neighborhoods, but at the Nov. 29 Com-
mission meeting, progress on the proposal 
stopped when the majority of people ex-
pressed concern about it.
Arreola said the Commission wants to 
meet with neighborhoods to get feedback 
and then amend the plan from there.  
“There was too much confusion in the 
neighborhoods of what it meant,” Arreola 
said. 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgGainesville City Commission  
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Staff Writer
From parking accommodations to new 
learning programs, UF administration is intro-
ducing initiatives to further meet the needs of 
university members in 2019. 
Virtual Learning Program
UF joined the National Center for Faculty 
Development and Diversity this month to help 
faculty, students and administrators learn 
writing and professional development skills, 
said the UF Chief Diversity Ofﬁ  cer Antonio 
Farias. The center is a national organization 
that provides career training to graduate stu-
dents, post-doctoral students, administrators 
and faculty.
The program provides students and faculty 
with tips in strategic planning, work-life bal-
ance and maintaining professional relation-
ships, Farias said. Over 400 university mem-
bers have already joined. 
“Academics have a lot on their plates, and 
this creates a community for them to interact 
with other scholars,” Farias said. 
These classes are not given in most aca-
demic settings and are necessary for employ-
ees and students to understand how to work 
with each other to diversify their skills, Farias 
said. 
Those interested can join the program for free by signing up on the National Center for 
Faculty Development and Diversity website. 
Parking
The northern half of the commuter lot on 
Gale Lemerand Drive closed Sunday as con-
struction began for a new garage, said UF 
Parking Director Scott Fox.
The garage will open February 2020 and 
will have 2,000 spots, Fox said.
The project will cost $32 million and will 
close about 700 of the lot’s 1,100 spaces dur-
ing its construction. There is temporary park-
ing for students with green decals and staff 
with orange, blue or commuter decals. 
Active Learning Symposium
The Bob Graham Center’s annual provost 
symposium will take place in February. Speak-
ers will teach professors and faculty members 
how to incorporate interactive learning strate-
gies in the classroom, said Shelby Taylor, the 
center’s spokesperson.
“This shows professors how they can make 
their classes more intriguing and hands-on,” 
Taylor said.
Faculty attendance is optional.
“We are trying to encourage professors to 
move past only using textbook-based learn-
ing,” Taylor said.
@Taylor_Roth1
troth@alligator.orgUF AdministrationBy Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
From platform initiatives to student organi-
zation funding, here’s what you should know 
about Student Government this semester: 
Key players
Student Body President: Ian Green 
Student Body Vice President: David En-
riquez 
Student Body Treasurer: Stefan Sanguyo 
Senate President: Michael Murphy
Senate Pro Tempore: Libby Shaw
Important Dates
Senate meetings: every Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Reitz Union Chamber (ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor)Spring elections: Feb. 19 - 20
Executive Branch
Of 32 platform initiatives from the Spring 
and Fall election cycles, Green said 22 were 
accomplished. This included the promotion of 
the African American Studies Program to de-
partmental status. 
Another 19 initiatives were implemented in 
the past year, including the Bridges Minority 
Outreach Program, Green said.
Ten initiatives are still in progress. This 
includes listing mental health and emergency 
hotlines on Gator 1 cards and the expansion of 
ATMs on-campus. 
Legislative Branch
Murphy said the Budget and Appropria-tions Committee, led by Sen. Emily Dunson 
(Impact, District A), will begin meeting with 
academic and student organizations to build 
the budget for the upcoming ﬁ  scal year. There 
is about $1.5 million in funding available for 
these organizations, Murphy said. 
When it comes to legislation, Murphy is 
looking forward to a Gator Dining meal swipe 
program, led by Sen. Mauricio Perez (Impact, 
Lakeside), for food-insecure students. 
Inspire Caucus 
As of October, there are 23 Inspire senators 
and 65 Impact senators.
Minority Party Leader Felipe Gatos (Inspire, 
District D), said the caucus will focus on the 
pillars of accountability, inclusivity and trans-parency.  
There is currently a District C mailing list, 
which sends Student Government updates to 
10,000 students, Gatos said. A District D mail-
ing list is also in the works to expand access to 
information, Gatos said. 
The caucus will follow up with UF’s Chief 
Diversity Ofﬁ  cer Antonio Farias about dis-
placed Puerto Rican students after Hurricane 
Maria. These students were granted ﬁ  nancial 
aid but have not received it yet, Gatos said. 
“We have a reservoir of legislation that we 
have done and ready,” Gatos said. “We still 
need to make edits.”
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgUF Student Government  The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The relevancy of 
award shows today
Sunday night, the red carpet rolled out, marking the be-
ginning of the award show season for Hollywood. Ce-
lebrities dressed to the nines, some hope to take home a 
Golden Globe and others there to bask in the opulence 
of the night.  
But what does it mean to us, the viewers, the ones sitting at 
home dressed in sweats shoveling popcorn into our mouth? It’s 
no secret the award show’s viewership is on the decline and has 
steadily gone down over the past few years, according to the 
Hollywood Reporter. Unlike its award show brethren, however, 
the Golden Globes only fell less than ﬁ  ve percent in viewership, 
while other award shows, like the Grammys, whose viewership 
fell 28 percent, haven’t been so lucky, falling in the double digits 
percentage-wise over the past few years.
There are a few reasons that can be attributed to this drop. 
For one, instead of watching three hours of speeches, you can 
watch the ﬁ  ve-minute highlight reel the next morning. And there 
are also a few small indie companies to consider, Netﬂ  ix and 
Amazon, which may be stealing the show away from cable net-
works. Or, maybe it’s the possibility that people are failing to see 
the point of watching an entire industry praise themselves over 
the course of multiple weeks of awards.
Whatever the case may be, the question remains: Do award 
shows still have a place in our entertainment sphere? It’s hard 
to say because we don’t even watch them. We only read about 
the highlights the next morning and scroll through Twitter to 
get a general gist of the night. But we did notice one thing from 
the Golden Globes on Sunday that made us think that Awards 
shows may still have some relevance. Sandra Oh, the host of 
the Globes alongside Andy Samberg, had a short speech at the 
end of the hosts’ monologue. It was a serious one, breaking the 
tradition of comical award show monologues.
“I said yes to the fear of being on this stage tonight because 
I wanted to be here to look out into this audience and witness 
this moment of change, and I’m not fooling myself,” Oh said. 
“Next year could be different, it probably will be, but right now, 
this moment is real. Trust me, it is real, because I see you, and I 
see you, all of these faces of change, and now, so will everyone 
else.”
Oh was referring to a wave of diverse casts sitting in the audi-
ence, like “Black Panther” and “Crazy Rich Asians,” both nomi-
nated for multiple awards Sunday. Neither movies won anything 
at the Globes, but it does serve as a reminder of what ﬁ  lms and 
shows are meant to represent: life. Hollywood is notorious for 
white-washing. “Crazy Rich Asians” was the ﬁ  rst American ﬁ  lm 
in 25 years to feature an all-Asian cast and Asian-American lead.
The purpose of award shows is to highlight extraordinary tal-
ent, but if it also highlights people who represent other cultures 
and ethnicities along the way, then that’s where they stay rel-
evant. Movies and television shows are a reﬂ  ection of our own 
society, and they should convey a message that needs to be ad-
dressed. When we have award shows like the Golden Globes 
that are nominating ﬁ  lms that represent what society looks like 
today, then they are enforcing the importance of representation 
in ﬁ  lm.
Award shows may not be receiving record-breaking view-
ership, but they still receive a mountain of coverage from me-
dia outlets highlighting the social nuances of the night. Award 
shows have the ability to break boundaries that Hollywood and 
society have constructed over decades. Encouraging the creation 
of stories that mimic real life is a way to encourage the accep-
tance of society as a whole. Award shows continue to break gen-
der and race norms, giving them a place to make real changes 
in the entertainment industry and, more importantly, society.  Happy new year to everyone (except Stu-
dent Government). To us, I wish an hon-
est and transparent new year because 
I’m getting tired of some of the things 
I’ve seen come out of our current admin-
istration.
But hey, it’s a new year, so I wanted to use 
this week’s column to help clear the backlog 
of last year’s SG drama that I haven’t gotten a 
chance to address.
Something that I very much appreciate about 
SG is its participation in the Uber Safe Rides pro-
gram. For those unfamiliar with it, it was a 50 percent dis-
count for Uber rides from Wednesday to Saturday nights in a 
speciﬁ  c area around campus.
The program endured a little bit of controversy when the 
Chronicle of Higher Education published an exposé on the 
conservative group Turning Point USA’s purported meddling 
in student governments across the country. 
While many people noticed our former Student Body 
president’s smiling face plastered across one of Turning Point 
USA’s promotional brochures in which they bragged about 
“commandeer[ing] the top ofﬁ  ce of Student Body president” 
at different prominent universities, fewer noticed the Chroni-
cle identifying Uber Safe Rides as one of the common threads 
between the campaigns and student governments in ques-
tion. Why Uber? Because I suppose it’s a pretty free-market 
sort of thing (with all of those related free-market faults we 
have come to love, naturally).
But it saves us money, so whatever, right? All was ﬁ  ne 
and dandy until October when I spotted an announcement 
on the usual UF Safe Rides page noting that the service had 
become so popular that it outgrew the funding originally 
budgeted for the program and the discount would be cut 
to 25 percent. Oh, the tragedy of the commons! Also noted 
was that the Student Trafﬁ  c Court contributed an additional 
$92,000 toward the program in Fall as “we aggressively ex-
plore new funding sources and continue to provide this ser-
vice for enrolled students.” I’m not quite sure who “we” is, but good luck.
I waited for someone, somewhere, to ac-
knowledge it publicly, but it never happened. As 
with perhaps all bad news, I suppose SG likes to 
bury its head in the sand. It’s a shame; so many 
years of work went into getting the program up 
and running at UF and then it falters.
On another note, let’s talk about Student Body 
President Ian Green’s recent performance at the 
Board of Trustees meeting in December. I attend-
ed the Trustees meeting to see if Green would 
do anything regarding pushing any student ini-
tiatives; I don’t recall seeing much at all. Out of curiosity, I 
went and searched through all the published minutes to get a 
better sense of what he does during meetings to try to see if 
he has actually done much, but… yeah, I barely see his name 
past the attendance (or non-attendance) section.
Green was due to give an SG update, so I ﬁ  gured that I 
might as well make sure he didn’t say anything untruthful, 
and remarkably I didn’t notice anything that off. I did notice 
that he had passed around a handout to the other trustees. 
So, after the meeting, I went on over to the meeting table and 
took a photo of the handout to read later.
As it turns out, Green didn’t use all of his talking points. 
The second item on the handout highlighted the early voting 
location in the Reitz Union and, by name, credited the heads 
of the SG agencies. Um, what?
Now I know many journalists are hesitant to utilize the 
“L” word. I’ve made it crystal clear in past columns, how-
ever, that SG had little to nothing to do with the early voting 
site at the Reitz, so I think we’re really getting toward “lie” 
territory. I’m just a little unsettled about the thought of lying 
to (or at least misleading) the Trustees, but hey, it’s what-
ever, right? 
If you’re on the Board of Trustees and reading this, happy 
new year to you, too!
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column normally appears 
on Fridays.Tying up the loose ends of Student Government 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
Fifteen assignments, 15 places to be, 15 
clubs to join and just 15 minutes to do 
it. At least that’s how it feels. The old 
concern of gaining 15 pounds during 
your freshman year is no more. The new 
freshman 15 is the metaphorical weight 
of having to balance the items on your 
agenda. Between volunteer work, jobs, 
internships, classes, maintaining your 
mental health and a social life, the lev-
el of expectations in college is growing 
harder to meet. 
One of the best things about going to 
UF is the never-
ending fountain 
of opportuni-
ties it brings 
your way. But it 
doesn’t take long 
before it feels like 
the opportunities are overﬂ  owing, and it 
can be hard to catch your breath. The 
pressure to achieve an unlimited num-
ber of goals within the few short years of 
college can be mentally, physically and 
emotionally exhausting. From day one, 
students are told that graduating with a 
good GPA, having endless hours of com-
munity service, having incredible con-
nections and an impressive internship 
may get you a job in your chosen ﬁ  eld. 
As if that pressure wasn’t enough, 
you still have to learn to cope with the 
normal timeless struggles of being a 
freshman in college — like being away 
from your parents, homesickness or 
learning to cook on your own.
It’s no secret that the job market is 
becoming more competitive because of 
the growing number of people choos-
ing to go to college. Although a more 
educated society creates a better social, 
political and economic climate in our di-
vided world, for a college student about 
to enter the workforce, it can be rough. 
A college degree is no longer impressive enough to land you a stable job; now, 
employers require valuable, long-term 
experience and an in-depth knowledge 
of your ﬁ  eld before you even step foot 
on the job. Students are feeling the pres-
sure to do more to stand out. The intense 
stress of your studies can rank second to 
the overwhelming idea of being perfect 
on paper. 
Thirty years ago, workers were 
trained to acquire certain skills while 
they were at that job. Now, current em-
ployers seek workers that have mastered 
these skills pri-
or to getting the 
job. The oppor-
tunities given 
to millennials 
and Generation 
Z are often con-
sidered when thinking about the future 
of our own generation, but what people 
fail to notice is the pressure and stress 
that comes with these new opportunities 
we’ve been given. 
Not only is our generation having to 
handle stress meant for mature adults 
who have already had their life planned 
out, but we also have to cope with hav-
ing to compete with other students who 
may be just as qualiﬁ  ed as us. If we 
don’t take the opportunities that are pre-
sented to us then someone else will. It 
can be a heartbreaking feeling knowing 
you may have missed a good opportuni-
ty because you couldn’t handle another 
item to check off your to-do list. Being a 
product of this generation is harder than 
it looks. It’s more than social media and 
avocado toast; it’s the struggle of feeling 
like either you’re not doing enough or 
you’re simply not enough.
Dana Bryan is a UF journalism 
freshman.The freshman 15 takes on a new meaning
When I was younger, ani-
mated movies were all 
the rage. I’m sure many 
people my age can re-
late. Disney’s animated 
classics played on repeat in my 
household, and I would beg my 
parents to take me to the movies 
every time a new animated ﬂ  ick 
hit the big screen. As I’ve gotten 
older, I’ve noticed that animated 
ﬁ  lms are often placed on the back burner. 
Advertising for these ﬁ  lms is less apparent; 
their box ofﬁ  ce numbers often dwindle and 
my interest in seeing them has waned.
I’d say I’m a pretty frequent moviegoer 
but rarely do I choose to see an animated 
ﬁ  lm — especially in theaters. Now, obviously 
they’re targeted toward a younger audience 
(both in terms of a more juvenile plot and 
in terms of marketing), and this plays a part 
in my waning interest. I am sure I’m not the 
only one, however, who can still watch tent-
pole animated movies from our childhood 
like “The Lion King,” “Pocahontas” or even 
“Shrek” and still enjoy them just as much as 
I did when I was a child. Part of that may 
be the nostalgia we feel watching them, but 
I think we’ve forgotten how genuinely good 
animation can be.
Recently, “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-
Verse” has received a ton of praise online 
from fans and critics alike, so I knew I want-
ed to check it out. As much as I love Marvel, 
I'm eager to see any ﬁ  lm getting that much 
buzz. I was still skeptical about how much 
I would enjoy an animated ﬁ  lm. Watching 
this ﬁ  lm, I was excited about animation for 
the ﬁ  rst time in a long time. Not only did it 
become one of my favorite animated ﬁ  lms, but it became one of my favorite 
ﬁ  lms. Period. No qualiﬁ  er neces-
sary.
Occasionally, an animated ﬁ  lm 
will receive more attention than 
usual, like “Moana,” “Coco” or 
“Spider-Verse.” But even in those 
cases, we often use an altered 
scale to judge these ﬁ  lms. We 
may judge them against other ani-
mated ﬁ  lms we have seen, or say 
that it was good “for an animated ﬁ  lm.” It’s 
rare that an animated ﬁ  lm released this year 
or next will be any of our favorite ﬁ  lms of the 
year, without the qualiﬁ  ers — whether that’s 
because we didn’t take them seriously or we 
didn’t even watch them, to begin with. In 
fact, many of the classic animated ﬁ  lms we 
love to watch are now being recreated using 
live action and CGI: forms of moviemaking 
that are arguably more appealing to us.
Animation is just as much a craft as any 
other form of moviemaking. Animators pains-
takingly create each scene from scratch. Ac-
tors breathe life into these characters using 
solely their voices. Tons of animated ﬁ  lms 
are released every year, and it seems like 
fewer and fewer are talked about enough.
Next time you’re trying to decide what 
movie to watch, give a new animated release 
a try. Sure, the themes may be more juve-
nile, but that doesn’t make them less impor-
tant. No matter how old we are, we could 
still use a reminder that everyone deserves to 
be loved or that facing our fears head-on is 
the best way to succeed. As an added bonus, 
you’ll have a ton of fun along the way.
Katherine Campione is a UF journalism 
senior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Let’s give animation the love it deserves
The barking starts at 7 
a.m.
It’s the type of barking 
that comes from an ani-
mal in deep, emotional 
distress. It’s a Sunday morning 
and there’s nothing to be dis-
traught about. Instead, it’s Man-
go, my goldendoodle puppy, 
waking up the entire household.  
My family has had our new dog for two 
months, but this winter break was the ﬁ  rst 
time I got to experience the whole “dog life” 
phenomenon that everyone likes to talk 
about. And let me just say, I’m not with it. 
First off, Mango stalks me. I can’t go a 
minute without her wagging her golden tail 
behind me. She can change her mood in an 
instant from “stalk” to “attack,” like a toy 
dog whose switch has just been ﬂ  ipped. She 
bites at any pant leg that catches her atten-
tion, and she barks if a door happens to be 
between us. Some of you might ﬁ  nd all of 
this endearing, but I (being the intellectual 
that I am) know that it is all a scheme, a 
foolproof plan to make me go soft, out of 
my mind or, the most likely scenario, both. 
I went without a dog for 21 years. I probably could have done it for 
the rest of my life. I was never 
stressed over the existence of 
another sentient being like I am 
with Mango. Now I worry that 
she’ll run away or stumble into 
a poisonous bush while I’m at 
college. What if someone thinks 
she’s so cute they end up kid-
napping her? Or maybe she’ll 
get ahold of some chocolate I left on the 
counter.  
I can’t believe people would subject 
themselves to this psychological torture 
that comes with being a dog owner. I have 
come to realize that a lot of my anxiety over 
owning a dog stems from not being able to 
control the situation. And if we know any-
thing about dogs, it’s that they are unpre-
dictable. 
Now, I’m trapped. Not only have I 
grown to love this dog, but now I won’t be 
able to spend long periods of time with her. 
This dog has trapped me in a future that 
involves a life with dogs. Thanks to Mango, 
I now see what I’ve been missing out on all 
these years. 
Why do I hate my family dog? She made me soft. 
My family calls me the Grinch for good 
reason, but even the Grinch loved his dog 
enough to give him a cute pair of antler 
ears. 
I used to think that people who sleep 
with their dogs must be crazy. (I would 
think to myself, how is there enough space 
for both of them? And not to mention how 
warm that must be.) But, of course, after an 
hour-long nap with Mango, I have seen the 
bright, cuddly light and regular sleep has 
been ruined for me forever. 
Like many other students returning to 
school this semester, I had to wave good-
bye to my new family pet. I hate that now 
I have another thing to worry about when 
I leave home, but that worry is nothing 
compared to the love for my family’s new 
companion. One plus to living with a yappy 
puppy for an extended period of time is that 
she has no concept of time, meaning that 
I’m currently conditioned to wake up every 
morning at 7, a perfect habit to start off the 
Spring.   
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column appears on Wednesdays. My family got a puppy for Christmas, and I hate it"One of the best things about UF is the 
never-ending fountain of opportunities 
it brings your way.”
-Dana Bryan
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.org
“Not only did it ["Spider-Man: Into the Spiderverse"] become 
one of my favorite animated ilms, but it became one of my 
favorite ilms. Period. No qualiier necessary.”
- Katherine Campione
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Road to III Points: Gainesville
Find out why you need to put on your dancing shoes 
and spend Friday night at the Wooly! Pg 10THE START OF SPRING 
SEMESTER BRINGS THE 
POSSIBILITY OF CHANGE 
TO GAINESVILLE.
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
Every Spring semester is a fresh 
start for students at UF. They arrive in 
Gainesville rejuvenated, with glowing 
tans from a winter break in Miami and 
renewed ambitions… or giant hang-
overs. 
Regardless of their state of being, 
most college students enter the new 
year with a sense of purpose: Whether 
it be to boost their GPA, conquer their 
“gymtimidation” and bench press at 
Southwest Recreation Center or engage 
in endless nights of debauchery at Fat 
Daddy’s. 
Here are some of the top New 
Year’s resolutions at UF. Commit more to school
Gators will do just about anything 
to maintain their top 8 status. Students 
plan to spend many nights in Library 
West to manage their rigorous course 
loads. Classes at UF are no joke and 
require a great deal of time and effort, 
just ask any stem major! 
Improve mental and physical 
health.  
College is a time for fun, but no 
party, class or job is worth sacriﬁ  cing 
mental health.  Luckily, mental and 
physical health go hand-in-hand. Stud-
ies have shown that exercise releases 
endorphins and improves concentra-
tion levels, which in turn improves a 
person’s overall mood and ability to 
focus. Syllabus week always entails 
a swarm of students on the machines 
and lifting weights at both Student Rec-
reation & Fitness Center and Southwest 
Rec. 
Balance work and play.  
The key to living a good, healthy life in college is achieving (and main-
taining) balance. Playing may not al-
ways be downing a giant slushy at Fat 
Daddy’s or a rum bucket at JJ’s. “Play” 
can be as simple as getting coffee with 
a friend or going to the Springs one Sat-
urday. Every student needs to include 
activities separate from school in their 
busy schedules. In order to play at all 
though, a student must commit to his 
or her work. To ﬁ  nd this balance: Get 
ahead in classes, keep a desk calendar, 
practice time management and go to 
the library with friends. 
Explore Gainesville.  
UF students are always fascinated 
by how much Gainesville as a city has 
to offer. Gainesville is a great college 
town because it features activities for 
everyone. Downtown Gainesville, es-
pecially, features hidden gems like 
Maude’s Coffee Shop, Arrow’s Aim Re-
cord Store, small bakeries, thrift shops 
and eclectic dive bars where you can 
sing karaoke and listen to live music. 
Gainesville is also full of nature pre-serves, lakes and hiking trails to ex-
plore like Lake Wauburg and Paynes 
Prairie. 
Become more conﬁ  dent
College is about learning something 
in the lectures, but students grow most 
from life experiences. This year, many students want to seek out more oppor-
tunities, meet new people, talk to their 
crushes, apply for internships, make 
new friends and fall in love… even if 
it’s with the wrong person. 
emcavoy@alligator.org
Twitter: @emmamcavoy1
Asian American Student Union’s First Film Festival
Read our preview of AASU’s FilmFest! Pg 9NEW VINTAGE MARKET MAKES 
ITS GAINESVILLE DEBUT.
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Saturday, High Dive will be ﬁ  lled with a 
vast assortment of local vendors for the sec-
ond Florida Vintage Market, hosted by Gaz-
zelli Sport Vintage owners Nathalie Kanda, 
33, and Ray Gazzelli, 33.  
In December, the couple hosted their ﬁ  rst 
market at Wall Street in downtown Orlando. 
Due to the success and positive feedback 
from guests, the couple decided to host their 
second in Gainesville at High Dive. The Flor-
ida Vintage Market is at 1-5:30 p.m Saturday, 
Jan. 12, and will feature around 20 vendors. 
Kanda said they wanted to work with a 
venue that already had a big inﬂ  uence with 
the city. 
“I feel like High Dive has been around for 
a really, really long time and you know it’s a 
venue that we always wanted to work with, 
because of the type of crowd and the things 
that they do for the community,” Kanda said. 
The majority of the market will be in-
doors, Kanda said. However, Josie’s Latin 
Fusion will make a more than 70 mile trek 
from Jacksonville to serve guests from their 
food truck outside. High Dive’s bar will also 
be open and DJ Dusty Beats will be playing 
music. 
Vendors have a wide array of specialties, 
ranging from vintage jewelry to screen-print-
ing T-shirts at the event. Others sell hand-
made candles, custom cups, vintage gator gear and more. 
Kanda stressed the importance of sup-
porting local businesses and how events like 
these are a great opportunity for vendors to 
interact with customers. 
“I think it’s important to give these plat-
forms to our communities so they can show-
case what they do best,” Kanda said.
Slay Finds owner Michael Slaback, 24, 
will be selling all kinds of 80s and 90s cloth-ing items, including vintage windbreakers, 
sweaters, shirts and gator gear.
Slaback travels across Florida collecting 
pieces for his collection and participating in 
pop-ups. He enjoys the customer interaction 
in the market scene.
“I just love the social aspect of it and just 
being able to be face-to-face with the cus-
tomer as opposed to online,” Slaback said.
Always True, a clothing and art brand founded by Drew Howard, 23, Sam Howard, 
20, and Kevin Masaro, 24, will also be par-
ticipating.
The owners originally started their busi-
ness by printing T-shirts. Three years later, 
the brand has grown, and now sells custom-
made designs on T-shirts, canvases, furni-
ture, hats and more. 
Drew Howard said he uses acrylics, spray 
paint and Sharpie pens to create his designs. 
For Drew Howard, Always True is more 
than just a company, it’s a way to honor 
his older brother, Brandon K. Howard, who 
passed away six years ago and went by the 
stage name Always True.
Howard describes his older brother as a 
rapper, musician and artist.  
“The whole brand is basically living on 
the legacy of who he was and taking that 
passion that he had for music and pushing 
that through art and clothes,” Howard said. 
Always True will not be printing T-shirts 
at the venue, but Howard said he does ac-
cept design requests from customers. 
Rebecca Butler, 31, owner of Everyday in 
Retrograde, has worked with Ray Gazzelli in 
pop-ups before and organizes pop-up events 
herself now. She is excited to see her regu-
lars and to meet new customers. 
Butler will be selling vintage clothing, 
crystals, jewelry and home décor.
“It’s contagious when people see that you 
love what you do,” Butler said. “They can’t 
help but have respect for the passion you 
bring to the table and want to be part of it.” 
@vanessablankie
vblankenship@alligator.orgFlorida Vintage Market takes over the High Dive Saturday
MUSIC
Emma McAvoy, Avenue Staff
The start of the new year brings crowds to Southwest 
Recreation Center.New Year’s Resolutions at UFCourtesy to The Alligator
Rebecca Butler modeling her 
brand, Everyday in Retrograde.Courtesy to The Alligator
The ﬁ  rst Florida Vintage Market  
was at Wall Street in Orlando.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
THE AASU WILL HOST 
WONG FU PRODUCTIONS 
AND SCREEN STUDENT 
FILMS IN THE REITZ 
UNION THIS WEEKEND.
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
This weekend, UF’s Asian Ameri-
can Student Union will present its 
ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm festival, showcasing student 
ﬁ  lms alongside a screening of the 
video series “Yappie” and a live Q&A 
session by members of popular You-
Tube channel Wong Fu Productions.
FilmFest is a free event that will 
take place in the Reitz Union. Satur-
day it will be in the Grand Ballroom 
at 6:30-9 p.m. and Sunday it will shift 
to the Rion Ballroom at 2:30-5 p.m. 
There will be free food, prize rafﬂ  es 
and interactive booths.
FilmFest was created due to the 
AASU members’ desire to see repre-
sentation of Asians and Asian-Ameri-
cans in media. 
The organization’s co-presidents, Henry Nguyen and Lauren Vu, made 
the event as a way to encourage the 
Asian-American community to en-
gage in the production  and inﬂ  uence 
of the artistic medium of ﬁ  lm.
“My hope is for AASU to be an 
environment that promotes the arts, 
not just for art students, but for any-
one who has an inkling of interest,” 
said Lauren Vu, a 21-year old UF 
psychology senior.
Florida does not host its own 
Asian-American ﬁ  lm festival, so the 
co-founders wanted to start this in 
Gainesville, said Henry Nguyen, a 
22-year old UF biomedical engineer-
ing senior.
Both Nguyen and Vu hope that 
the UF community can come out, 
learn and appreciate diverse storytell-
ing and creative content.
On the ﬁ  rst day of the festival, 
twenty-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  lm submissions from 
students at UF and UCF will be pre-
sented on the big screen in two cat-
egories: exhibition and competition. 
The separate categories are meant to 
showcase creativity in both a non-
competitive and competitive format. 
For the competitive category, three winners will be selected and awarded 
on the second day of the festival.
In addition to the award ceremony 
on the second day, three members of 
Wong Fu Productions, Philip Wang, 
Jennifer Le and Jessica Lin, will par-
ticipate in a live Q&A session. They 
will also host a meet and greet and 
screen their latest work, “Yappie,” a series about young Asian profession-
als and their exploration of contem-
porary social and racial issues.
When asked to describe the “Yap-
pie” series in three words, Nguyen 
and Vu both said it is “thought pro-
voking,” “relatable” and “realistic.”
Wong Fu Productions is an inde-
pendent digital production company founded in 2003 by co-founders, Phil-
ip Wang, Ted Fu and Wesley Chan, 
according to their website. 
Their creative work has been 
recognized by CNN, NPR and the 
White House for its striking quality 
and emotional depth, as well as its 
authentic representation of Asian-
Americans. As of Jan. 7, the group’s 
YouTube channel has more than 3 
million subscribers and over 530 mil-
lion video views.
Tiffany Tran, a 20-year-old UF 
English junior and the director of 
this inaugural FilmFest, said last 
year, 2018, was a monumental year 
for Asian-American representation 
in Hollywood with the release of 
movies like “Crazy Rich Asians,” 
“Searching” and “To All the Boys I’ve 
Loved Before.” She chose the theme 
“Cognizance” for FilmFest to pro-
mote awareness of the diverse stories 
of Asian-Americans.
“I hope that everyone attending 
the event to feel welcome, have fun 
and feel that they are part of a com-
munity,” Tran said.
@sarahan921Asian American Student Union’s First Film Festival
FILM
Courtesy to The Alligator
Three members of the “Yappie” cast will attend FilmFest
THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN 
STUDIES AND THE LIFE 
OF MARTIN LUTHER KING 
JR. WILL BE CELEBRATED 
THROUGH POETRY. 
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville residents can enjoy 
a night of art, poetry and call for 
social change to celebrate the 50th 
anniversary of African-American 
studies at UF and the life of Martin 
Luther King Jr. on Thursday.
Spoken word, visual and musi-
cal artists will perform at the Harn 
Museum at 6:30-8:30 p.m.  The 
event is a collaborative produc-
tion from the museum, the Col-
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
and the African American Studies 
Program.
Many of the poets will use the 
power of their voices to shed light 
on social issues, like Martin Lu-
ther King Jr. did decades ago.
African American Studies pro-
gram chair member, Ashley Rob-
ertson Preston, arranged the event 
by employing local and student 
artists. 
Preston planned the anniver-
sary event because she wanted to 
celebrate the life of King. 
“We have been looking at cre-
ative ways, yet meaningful ways, 
to celebrate,” she said. 
King’s assassination profound-
ly impacted the African Ameri-can studies movement. After his 
death, students started demanding 
the program, Preston said. 
Yvonne Ferguson will be live-
painting during the event and Afri-
can drummer Koﬁ   Horne will also 
be performing. 
Attendees will also be given the 
opportunity to perform. There will 
be a half-hour period when any-
one from the audience can express 
themselves through poetry.
Poetry is a powerful means of 
communication, said Sharon Bur-
ney, the program assistant for 
UF’s African American Studies.
“Spoken word is used to in-
spire,” she said. “Spoken word 
is used to teach. Spoken word is 
used to deﬁ  ne ourselves.” 
Event organizers hope the 
event inspires attendees to express 
themselves and make a difference 
in society. 
“I hope that people will walk 
away from this event thinking 
more about how they can effect 
change in the spirit of Martin Lu-
ther King,” Preston said.  
Burney wants attendees to 
come to the event and understand 
the vastness of black culture and 
history.  
“I hope they come and can 
be still in the moment and lis-
ten without guilt, listen without 
control, listen without construct-
ing anything other than what the 
artist voices,” Burney said.  “So 
that their voices can be heard in 
a society in which they often feel 
silent.”
@jackiedef7Spoken word event at 
the Harn on Thursday
MLK
WHAT DO YOU DO WHEN THE NICE 
GUY IS A PSYCHO?
By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Staff Writer
This new psychological dramatic thriller begs 
the question, “What would you do for love?” as 
our seemingly meek main character, Joe, goes to 
extreme and deadly lengths to be with the woman 
he loves. 
The series originally premiered Sept. 9, 2018 on 
Lifetime, but was sold to Netﬂ  ix in late December. 
It follows the life of a young and quiet book store 
manager named Joe (Penn Badgley) who becomes 
immediately enamored with a woman who comes 
into the store named Guinevere Beck (Elizabeth 
Lail).
What may seem like the beginning of a roman-
tic comedy quickly becomes dark when Joe takes 
internet stalking to a whole new level. By Googling 
Beck’s name, Joe gets a closer look into her life vir-
tually, then physically as well, when he starts stalk-
ing her in real life. 
Although Joe may seem easy to hate due to his 
criminal acts, his ability 
to point out fatal ﬂ  aws 
in Beck’s life, like post-
ing her entire life on 
social media, makes it 
difﬁ  cult to disagree with 
his reasoning. 
The entire series is 
narrated by Joe as he 
tries to manipulate his 
way out of sticky situ-
ations and analyzes 
Beck’s friends, includ-
ing her best friend, 
Peach (Shay Mitchell, 
“Pretty Little Liars” 
alum). 
While it’s difﬁ  cult to 
rationalize the horrible 
outcomes that await these characters, viewers will ﬁ  nd themselves 
struggling with logic and reasoning as Joe predicts 
the hidden behavior of so many people. 
Joe’s attempts to protect Beck from what he be-
lieves is impending danger from negative people in 
her life navigate the plot of this series.
Although the outcomes for many of the vic-
tims of his crusade are somewhat predictable, the 
lengths he goes to before reaching these results and 
his thought processes are particularly stimulating. 
As mentioned before, Joe believes all of his be-
havior is not only justiﬁ  ed, but at times warranted 
based on his observations while stalking. 
To see a man not just want to be with a woman, 
but also want to see her succeed in her career and 
personal life is admirable. However, for a man to be 
so forceful in what he believes is best for her with-
out her knowledge or approval is terrifying.
I recommend this series for anyone looking for 
a unique thriller, which shifts the focus away from 
the violence usually prevalent in the genre, to the 
actions and intentions of humans building relation-
ships.
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgSeries review of the week: Netﬂ  ix’s ‘YOU’
Courtesy to The Alligator
Netﬂ  ix’s “YOU” stars Penn Badgley as an unlikely villian.
THE POPULAR MIAMI MUSIC 
FESTIVAL GIVES GAINESVILLE A 
SNEAK PEAK FRIDAY
By Jackie Defreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Miami music festival III Points is making 
a pit stop in Gainesville Friday night with the 
event “Road to III Points: Gainesville” at The 
Wooly. 
This is the fourth year of this event in 
Gainesville. It is organized by III Points and 
local groups, Motor Room, Lucid Nightlife 
and Over Easy Creative. 
Road to III Points has six events happen-
ing across the state of Florida to give the lo-
cal communities a sneak peak of the Miami 
music festival that will take place in Febru-
ary.
The lineup varies depending on the city. 
The Gainesville experience will feature house 
and dance music from INVT, Sinopoli, True 
Vine, Ascendants, Lost Vest and three local 
DJs, ZEROSUM, DJ Banania and Dillon Rose.About a month ago, organizers held a 
contest on Facebook to choose the DJs to 
perform in Road to III Points: Gainesville. 
The winners of the competition, ZEROSUM, 
DJ Banania and Dillon Rose, will play their 
music on one of the event’s two stages which 
will be the hub of the night’s silent disco
“Gainesville voted on their favorite local 
acts to perform on the silent disco stage dur-
ing the event,” said Les Voss, 26, of Over 
Easy Creative. “III Points picked their three 
favorite mixes out of the top ﬁ  ve via popular 
vote.” 
Hae-Yang Chang, a 22-year-old UF alum-
nus who performs as ZEROSUM, said he is 
especially excited for the event because it 
will be his ﬁ  rst time playing a silent disco. 
“I’m getting together a playlist of music 
I want to play for the event and practicing 
transitions a few hours a day,” Chang said.
Ascendants, the duo of Vijaya Seixas, 28, 
and Shaan Saigol, 31, has played at the past 
three Road to III Points: Gainesville events 
and the Miami festival the past two years. 
The pair produces “a mix of melodic, deep, dark and tech house” and will be performing 
at both concerts again this year.
If you plan to attend The Wooly this Fri-
day, make sure to wear your shufﬂ  ing shoes 
and chug a caffeinated drink since the event 
runs from 9 p.m. to 1:45 a.m. It costs $10.“I hope that people let loose for the 
night,” Chang said. “And just dance their 
hearts out.”
@jackiedef710   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
DINING OUT
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top 
it off with our famous sour orange 
pie. Now that is a meal any FL Gator 
can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. 
Only here can you see the legendary 
bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” 
Green, playing nightly.
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
I made it through the wilderness
Somehow I made it through
Didn’t know how lost I was
Until I found you Lunch: Mon-Sun 
11a m - 3pm
*NEW*  Dinner: Wed-Sun: 5pm-9pmITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out one 
of the best wine lists in town. Ask 
questions and learn while you wait 
for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners 
and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, 
Sun 5pm-9pm.  
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 
10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgSPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 years 
as an alternative to alcohol used 
for ceremonial, political, medicinal, 
and social purposes. Come try our 
Kava, Kratom, Mate, and other teas 
in Downtown Gainesville. Open 
weekdays 12pm-12am, weekends 
12pm-1am and Sundays 12pm-5pm.  
17 W. University Ave. maikaikava.com
INDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay 
oven tandoor cooking for succulent 
Halal beef, chicken, lamb, and goat 
made fresh daily for tikka masalas, 
vindaloos,  kormas, and paneers. 
Vegetarian and vegan available too! 
M-F lunch specials include rice, naan, 
appetizers, salad, desserts. Open 
Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, Sunday noon - 9. 
Delivery through Bite Squad. Order 
ahead www.kababhousegainesville.
com   604 NW 13th St. 352-792-6474.BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. 
Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 
NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available 
Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, 
senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, 
espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or 
outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-
Sat.  welcometocivilization.com 
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482Courtesy to The Alligator
The event on Friday will feature Florida-based artists and run until 1:45 a.m.
Road to III Points: Gainesville
MUSICBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYPlace an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Designated drivers are the greatestUnload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Part-time office help wanted for CPA office. 
Must be organized, able to use a scanner, 
and have great phone skills. Proficiency in 
Word and Excel is must, and Quickbooks 
knowledge is a plus. If this sounds great, 
please email us at job2018@cpa.vg    1-25-
19-7-14
★★★★★ Five Star Pizza ★★★★★
on Tower Road is now hiring Delivery 
Drivers, Pizza Makers and Phone Personnel. 
Full Time and Part Time positions available. 
Apply in person at 600 NW 75th St.    1-18-
19-5-14
WANTED SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING
INFLUENCER!!! MAKE UP TO $150 PER
WEEK!!!! Looking to brand & build strong
social media following across all platforms
(Instagram,Facebook,YouTube,Twitter)
for aesthetic business. Candidate must be
currently majoring in marketing or already
social influencer on social media. Strong
photography, video background and website 
background preferred. Expectation posting
daily, video recording/ideas/&editing along
with helping with brand ideas and website.
1-11-19-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports
Hiring PT and FT associates. Must have 
consistent availability including either Sat or 
Sun. each week. Only energetic, positive, 
team minded people please. Apply in person 
only to 1504 NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF on 
13th St.      1-9-19-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury novel begins with the line, “All of 
this happened, more or less”?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
are the two flowers traditionally associ-
ated with the month of December?
3. FOOD & DRINK: What is carda-
mom?
4. GEOGRAPHY: In which country 
is Mount Kilimanjaro located?
5. U.S. STATES: Which state’s slo-
gan is the “Land of 10,000 Lakes”?
6. TELEVISION: What was Archie 
Bunker’s nickname for his wife Edith 
in “All in the Family”?
7. CHEMISTRY: What is the lightest 
element?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was the 
Secret Service code name for Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter?
9. MUSIC: Which 1980s movie fea-
tures the song “The Power of Love”?
10. LANGUAGE: What does the 
name “V olvo” mean in Latin?
Answers
1. “Slaughterhouse-Five,” by Kurt 
V onnegut
2. Narcissus (paperwhite) and holly
3. A spice
4. Tanzania
5. Minnesota
6. “Dingbat”
7. Hydrogen
8. “Deacon”
9. “Back to the Future”
10. “I roll”
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 7, 2019King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20*RESIDUAL INCOME:
Discover the power
of SMS marketing at smsbiz.net
1-11-19-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Debbie Ellerin
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/09/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/09/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, January 9, 2019
ACROSS
1 Fall sign
6 Medic
9 6-Across’s 
“Pronto!”
13 Keep clear of
14 Sorta cousin
15 “Leaving on a 
Jet __”
16 *“Righto!”
18 “Nick of Time” 
singer Bonnie
19 Enters the wrong 
area code, say
20 *Big boss
22 Unburdened (of)
23 “Mean Girls” 
screenwriter Tina
24 Coder’s 
conditional 
construct
25 Navy builder
27 Ink spot?
29 Uses Google 
Hangouts, briefly
30 Apple’s virtual 
assistant
31 Lose one’s shirt
34 *2005 Emma 
Thompson 
magical role
37 Hurricanes and 
blizzards
38 Enjoy, as benefits
40 Mauna __
43 Mattel product
44 Tippi of “The 
Birds”
46 Parkway feature
49 Spring sign
50 Con’s opponent
51 *Cold-water 
salmon-like fish
54 Summer sign?
55 High-tech eye 
surgery
56 Ultimate 
satisfaction, 
and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
58 Far from klutzy
59 Refuge for very 
old couples?
60 1973 Stones 
ballad
61 Dropped in the 
mail
62 Oui or hai
63 Western flatlands
DOWN
1 Features of 
lasagna and 
tiramisu2 They may be 
tickled
3 Late host of 
“Parts Unknown”
4 Corduroy ridges
5 Citrus suffix
6 Unpredictable
7 Whistleblower-
protecting org.
8 Landlocked 
African nation
9 Bias
10 Meditative 
exercise regimen
11 Country music?
12 “Grand” 
mountains
15 Duke VIP
17 “How do I love 
__?”: Browning
21 Ask (for), as 
money
23 Deceptive move
26 Tops in a lingerie 
catalog
27 “Pinball Wizard” 
show
28 Basic skills
31 Greek lamb 
sandwich
32 Rip to pieces
33 Really annoyed, 
with “off”
35 Unacceptable to 
some, for short36 Protection from 
snorers
39 Italian city that 
hosts the annual 
Eurochocolate 
Festival
40 Eucalyptus 
munchers
41 Really rile
42 Inverse trig 
function
44 Offended
45 Snacks47 Not straight up
48 Greenberg  
or Golic of  
sports-talk radio
49 Catches some 
rays
52 Potter’s  
medium
53 His nap cost him 
the race
54 Stained-glass 
piece
57 Felon’s flight
By Mark McClain
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/08/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/08/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, January 8, 2019
ACROSS
1 Winter warm 
spell
5 Simon & 
Garfunkel’s “El 
Condor __”
9 Sneer (at)
14 Texas home of 
Baylor University
15 CPR pros
16 Jazz clarinetist 
Shaw
17 National Portrait 
Gallery, e.g.
19 Ugh-inducing
20 Observes 
secretly
21 67-Across exile
23 Dollar bills
24 Freebies for 
tourists
28 Soda container
30 List-shortening 
abbr.
31 The Emerald  
Isle
32 Ideology suffix
33 Little fluid holder
35 Altered, as voting 
districts
37 Merged labor 
org.
38 Medium for many 
talk shows ... 
and an apt place 
to discuss six 
puzzle answers?
40 “Give __ break”
41 Soldiers’ support 
gp. since 1944
43 Sign gas
44 “Life of Pi” 
director Lee
45 “How ya __?”
46 Not __ snuff: 
unsatisfactory
48 “Cats” poet’s 
monogram
49 Rosary recital
51 Conveyer of 
tears
54 Taiwan-based 
laptop giant
55 Spanish island, to 
locals
58 Deep cleft
61 Puzzle solver’s 
breakthrough, 
e.g.
63 Tickle
64 Dorothy’s dog
65 Tiny fraction of 
a min.
66 Jabs with a finger
67 Genesis 
paradise
68 ConcerningDOWN
1 First word of “A 
Visit From St. 
Nicholas”
2 Large plucked 
instrument
3 Film often with 
chase scenes
4 Alumnae, e.g.
5 Cuban coins
6 Blessing 
conclusion
7 Good name for 
a cook
8 Eritrea’s capital
9 Yemen’s capital
10 Hit the books at 
the last minute
11 Extra NBA 
periods
12 In top form
13 “Whiskey Tango 
Foxtrot” actress 
Tina
18 Put in the game
22 Texas border city
24 Home of the 
Braves
25 Inflatable bed for 
a guest
26 Grooms, bird-
style
27 Municipal waste
28 Noisy summer 
insect
29 “I, Robot” author30 Organ with a 
lobe
33 Napa Valley 
vessel
34 “There’s no 
doubt!”
36 Long, long time
39 “Gloria in 
Excelsis __”
42 All together
47 Illicit video 
producer
50 High points
51 Evil spirit52 Card game 
inducted into the 
Toy Hall of Fame 
in 2018
53 Pause-causing 
punctuation
55 Hand on deck
56 Tech news site
57 “I Got You Babe” 
label
58 Ballplayer’s hat
59 Managed care gp.
60 Arctic seabird
62 Coal scuttle
1.  Disastrous 
1.  Overthrow 5.  Turning ____
2.  Bring to life6.  Extension, wing
3.  Strong7.  Protect
4.  Persuaded ACGTRI
LOTPEPNTOPI
NXENA
AETNMAI
TINSEENEDDNFE
EDXOACANSWERS: 1A-Tragic  5A-Point  6A-Annex  7A-Defend
1D-Topple  2D-Animate  3D-Intense  4D-Coaxed  B-Singapore1-9-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: According to research by the British Council, 
_____ has the “fastest walkers.”
BONUS
18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
UF hurdler, sprinter and jumper 
Grant Holloway was named to The 
Bowerman Preseason Watchlist, the 
most prestigious individual honor in 
collegiate track and ﬁ  eld.Gators ﬁ  nish in top 10 for ﬁ  rst time since 2012
The Florida football team closed out the 2018 season ranked in a tie for sev-
enth in the ﬁ  nal Associated Press Poll. The AP also ranked Georgia at No. 7. 
UF concluded the season 10-3, which included wins against LSU, Mississippi 
State and Michigan.  Mark My Words / Opinion
The original premise of this 
article was going to be “Why 
Nick Saban ruined college foot-
ball,” because, full disclosure, I 
expected Alabama to win Mon-
day night. 
If you don't know, coach 
Dabo Swinney and the Clem-
son Tigers are National Cham-
pions for the second time in 
three seasons. Yet, nothing about the FBS 
changed. It remains glum and grey — or 
should I say orange and crimson — and it’ll 
stay this way for quite a while longer.
There’s a pattern here, if you haven’t 
already noticed. Yes, these two teams pos-
sess the last four National Championships, 
and they’re also the perennial No. 1 teams 
during the regular season. 
Either Clemson or Alabama has sat atop 
the AP poll for 165 consecutive weeks and 
counting. Ohio State, after Week 10 in 2015, was the last alternative team 
to be No. 1. No other program 
has had a reason to think that 
it’s better than both the Tigers 
and the Crimson Tide, and this 
nightmare will continue when 
the preseason AP poll releases. 
The 2019 season will be like 
watching the ﬁ  fth “Mission 
Impossible” movie in a televi-
sion marathon. It’s the same story over and 
over. Alabama and Clemson are both Tom 
Cruise, who plays the main character, and 
they both won’t die no matter how much 
they go through. 
Clemson lost to Pittsburgh and Alabama 
didn’t even make it to the SEC Champion-
ship last year. Still, they proceeded to meet 
in the semiﬁ  nals. The only difference be-
tween college football and the actual Mis-
sion Impossible is that it lasts 15 weeks Clemson and Alabama have 
collectively ruined college football
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejrMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
No one was more disappointed 
in Florida’s recent loss to South 
Carolina than coach Mike White.
No one was more disconcerted 
at the lack of intensity shown at 
various points in the game.
And there’s no one searching 
for more answers for the team’s 
struggles than the men’s basket-
ball coach. 
Losses to Michigan State, Okla-
homa and Butler (the ﬁ  rst meeting 
on Nov. 23) were letdowns, but 
they were hardly tougher to digest 
than a double-digit collapse in the 
conference opener to a subpar op-
ponent.
That’s why UF’s upcoming 
matchup against Arkansas on 
Wednesday night is so important. 
By the 8:30 p.m. tip off in Fay-
etteville, Arkansas, White’s squad 
will need more fervor, more urgen-
cy and more aggression than it has 
shown up to this point. 
“I think we have a few guys 
with very good sense of urgen-
cy," White said. "We don’t have enough of them, though. Some-
times you feel like ... you feel like 
you’re dragging these guys a little 
bit. That’s not a sign of a great 
team, when you’ve got to coach ef-
fort in practice. I’ve said it all year. 
When you’ve got freshmen lead-
ing, not a sign of a great team.”
That freshman is guard Noah 
Locke, who is the team’s second-
leading scorer (10 points per 
game). His conﬁ  dence and consis-
tency on the court has thrust him 
into a role that has required him 
to grow up quickly. He and fellow 
freshman guard Andrew Nemb-
hard may have to do even more as 
the team goes further into its SEC 
slate with many of its veterans 
struggling.
The Razorbacks are hard to beat 
at home, and they always present 
a tough challenge for the Gators.
Florida can no longer afford for 
its on-the-court struggles to be ex-
acerbated by a continued lack of 
effort and toughness, especially 
against Arkansas’ full-court press. 
Otherwise, the Gators run the risk 
of opening league play 0-2. White demanding more toughness as Gators travel to Arkansas
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida is coming off a last second loss to South Carolina on Saturday where it lead for the majority of 
the game. "Sometimes you feel like ... you feel like you're dragging these guys a little bit, " White said.
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Sunday’s 64-56 loss at the hands of Au-
burn raises an interesting question about 
the Florida Gators women’s basketball 
team: Who can the team turn to when its 
two leading scorers, Funda Nakkasoglu 
and Delicia Washington, aren’t at the top 
of their games?
That was the case on Sunday, when 
the two guards combined for just 14 
points. The 4-11 Gators did well to make 
it a game against the 13-2 Tigers, but with 
Nakkasoglu and Washington struggling, 
the team lacked the ﬁ  repower needed to 
pull off the upset. The loss highlighted 
Florida’s need for a player who can step up when the team is desperate.
Perhaps the most obvious candidate is 
the team’s third-leading scorer, forward 
Zada Williams. The redshirt junior has 
played well lately, scoring double-digit 
points in ﬁ  ve of the last eight games af-
ter doing it just twice in the ﬁ  rst seven 
games. Williams is averaging 9.1 points 
per game, but with more playing time 
(she’s currently averaging about 24 min-
utes a game), it’s not hard to envision her 
as a more proliﬁ  c scorer.
Another player to look out for is Ki-
ara Smith, Florida’s leading scorer against 
Auburn. The 5-foot-10 guard has proven 
her ability to play well when her team-Where can UF turn when 
its leading scorers are 
playing inconsistently?
SEE WOMEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 15WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
Among many of White’s concerns head-
ing into the matchup is the fickle play of 
guard KeVaughn Allen.
Allen leads the Gators in scoring (10.3 
points per game), but his inconsistency has 
been unmistakable this season. The senior 
collected 10 points (4-of-5 shooting) in the 
first half against the Gamecocks but took 
just one shot in the second. 
“I can’t explain it,” White said of Allen’s 
play. “He’s very talented, and he got off to 
a really good start … When he’s playing ag-
gressive and confident, he’s really good and 
we’re much better for it. I don’t know how 
to channel it; I don’t ...Together we’ve got 
to find a way, whether he’s making or miss-
ing shots, urge him to be more confident. 
Together we all have to get him more ag-
gressive, whether that’s taking a shot or at-
tacking.”
As Allen returns to his hometown, he’s 
expected to get quality minutes because he’s 
a leader, but when White spoke to the media 
on Tuesday, he was clear in his willingness 
to rotate guys based on who shows up from 
the opening tip.
“People ask me all the time ... ‘Why 
you get him out of the game?’ Well, if he 
did what he was supposed to do, I’d keep 
him in the game. Trust me,” White said. 
“I would like to play five guys 40 minutes. 
My life would be so much easier. And you 
know what, we’d execute better, we’d know 
where we’re getting our shots from, we’d know who to call plays for. It’d be very, very 
simple and we’d be pretty damn good.”
White seemed exasperated as he reiter-
ated the same sentiments he has all season. 
He said every guy on the court has to show up against Arkansas on Wednesday the 
same way he does in practice. 
And for Allen, it’s a matter of bringing the 
same mental aggression to every matchup.
“Just, no matter who we play, we just have to bring the same intensity for every 
team,” he said. “No matter what the jersey 
says, we have to play like that every game.”
 
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Allen scored 10 points in the first half, was held scoreless in the second
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen leads the Gators in scoring with 10.3 points per game. "He's very talented and he got off to a really 
good start, " coach Mike White said. "When he's playing aggressive and confident, he's really good and we're much better for it. "
mates struggle – she scored 14 against In-
diana when Nakkasoglu scored just five, 
and scored a season-high 15 on Sunday. 
She’s still only a sophomore with room to 
grow, but with just four games this year in 
double-digits, she could benefit from a bit 
more consistency in scoring.
Smith leads the team with 50 assists 
and is second on the team with 33.0 min-
utes per game.
Perhaps the two most intriguing candi-
dates are two freshmen. Nakkasoglu is a 
redshirt senior, and the Gators will have 
to replace her team-leading 18.2 points per 
game next year. Guard Ariel Johnson is a 
bit of a wild card, but she has shown an 
ability to be lethal from beyond the arc in 
limited opportunities this year. Johnson 
is second on the team behind Nakkasoglu with 21 threes despite only playing the 
sixth most minutes.
Nakkasoglu’s Australian compatriot 
Kristina Moore has also shown flashes of 
scoring prowess this year. The forward 
has an affinity for the three-ball, and is 
fourth on the team with 12 three-pointers 
this season. Moore is the only player to 
have started all 15 games this year, and 
coach Cam Newbauer’s continued faith in 
her means that she should have more op-
portunities to shine going forward.
Of course, transfers and freshmen can 
easily change the dynamic of the team 
next year. For Florida to improve this 
year, however, it needs to get more pro-
duction from the supporting cast. Nakka-
soglu and Washington can only carry the 
team so far.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgWOMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg. 14Funda Nakkasoglu leads the team with 18.2 points per game
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Gators guard Kiara Smith led the team in scoring during UF's 64-56 loss to Auburn on 
Sunday. She scored 15 points against the Tigers and went 3-of-6 from beyond the arc.
instead of 90 minutes. 
Trevor Lawrence and Tua Ta-
govailoa are the lead characters, 
and they’re unquestionably the 
2019 Heisman Trophy favorites. 
There isn’t a single returning 
player who rivals their talent, and 
nobody should challenge them 
statistically because their upcom-ing schedules are way too easy.
Each quarterback will face 
only two teams that finished 2018 
ranked in the AP Top 25. Law-
rence gets Texas A&M at home 
and goes to Syracuse, while Tago-
vailoa goes to College Station to 
play the Aggies and hosts LSU at 
Bryant-Denny Stadium. 
Everyone knows Clemson will 
win the ACC again, but for those 
of you saying, “Maybe Georgia or Florida can finally win the 
SEC next year, or maybe LSU, 
Auburn or Texas A&M can claim 
the West,” just stop. Regardless 
if Alabama wins the SEC or not, 
they’ll still be in the playoff some-
how. 
We’re talking about Nick Sa-
ban, after all. Since 2009, Saban 
has followed up any season in 
which he hasn’t won the nation-
al championship by winning the SEC or just flat-out taking the na-
tional title without even going to 
Atlanta. His teams return with a 
vengeance, and they always come 
back to win big. 
So, Alabama fans, don’t bother 
staying for the second half of any 
of your home games next season. 
In fact, don’t even go. Watch it 
from somewhere with air condi-
tioning and save your money for  
next year’s College Football Play-off game against Clemson. And 
Tigers fans, I suggest you do the 
same. 
For everyone else, support 
your team at all costs. But ask 
yourself if you should really even 
care. 
Mark Stine is assistant sports 
editor at the Alligator. Follow him 
on Twitter @mstinejr or contact 
him at mstine@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg 14Clemson and Alabama will face two ranked teams apiece in 201916   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSNBA
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
It was an exciting week for 
former Gators in the NBA with 
many holding multiple headlines 
throughout.
With Washington Wizards star 
guard John Wall sidelined due to 
a heel injury, Bradley Beal has 
shined, averaging 27 points to go 
along with 5.8 rebounds and 5.8 
assists per game in Wall’s absence. 
Beal, who has worn No. 3 his en-
tire NBA career, recently joined 
Dwyane Wade’s #OneLastDance Tour when he swapped jerseys 
with his “idol” after what may be 
the ﬁ  nal time the two meet.
“He’s part of the reason I wear 
No. 3,” Beal said to reporters fol-
lowing the game. “I basically 
called him my idol and ‘thank 
you,’. . . because ‘you paved the 
way for me, you paved the way for 
a lot us in today’s game.”
Though Beal and company are 
3-2 since Wall’s season-ending in-
jury, they continue to struggle sit-
ting eight games under .500 for the 
season.
Udonis Haslem also made headlines around Miami as he an-
nounced via Twitter that he will 
retire after the season, through 
a post titled “End of the Road 
for Udonis Haslem.” Many have 
showed support to the 16-year 
veteran who has played his entire 
career with the Heat. Undrafted in 
2002, Haslem was given a chance 
by the Heat organization and slow-
ly became a hometown hero and 
centerpiece of the Heat culture for 
almost two decades. Though Has-
lem has played in just three games 
this season, his role with the Heat 
in recent years has focused primar-ily on leadership and being a vocal 
presence for the younger guys on 
the team.
Chandler Parsons hasn’t been as 
fortunate as Haslem in regards to 
playing for one city. He had stints 
in Houston and Dallas, and now he 
and the Memphis Grizzlies agreed 
to part ways earlier this week after 
a disagreement between both sides 
about a possible G League assign-
ment peaked. Parsons said he is 
“disappointed” to leave Memphis 
but is hopeful for his future in the 
league and is “ready to play.”
Parsons is still owed $38 mil-lion from his four-year, $94 mil-
lion maximum contract signed in 
2016, including $25.1 million for 
the 2019-2020 season. Despite this, 
the Grizzlies are conﬁ  dent they 
can trade him without including a 
ﬁ  rst-round draft pick. Parsons was 
limited to just 73 games during his 
time in Memphis primarily due to 
knee injuries that cut both of his 
seasons short. He averaged seven 
points in 19.3 minutes per game 
with the Grizzlies.
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgGators in the NBA: Jersey swaps, retirements and breakups
The Associated Press
Washington Wizards guard Bradley Beal is averaging 27 points per game with 5.8 rebounds per 
game and 5.8 assists per game since John Wall went down with a heel injury on Dec. 26.
SPORTS MEME OF THE DAY