We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Another TEDx
TEDxGainesville to have ﬁ  rst show Saturday, pg. 8
Remembering a tragedy
Historian retells story of Rosewood Massacre, pg. 8UF basketball visits top-ranked 
Tennessee on Saturday
Coach Mike White and the Gators will try and avoid 
three straight SEC losses in Knoxville, pg. 14FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 56
Nicole Needles / Alligator Staff
BREAKING DOWN HATE
Rachel Marks, a 20-year-old UF political science and public relations sophomore, paints a cinder block 
Thursday afternoon on the Reitz Union North Lawn for the Writing on the Wall project. Each volunteer 
wrote a derogatory word on their respective block. The block will be used to build a wall meant to symbolize 
the oppression and mistreatment of others. The wall will be built Monday and torn down Friday following a 
ceremony. “They can overcome it through community, positivity and self-empowerment, ” Marks said.
By Emily Kracht
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Health Lung Trans-
plant Program broke a Tampa 
hospital’s 2018 record for the 
number of lung transplants in a 
year. 
After completing 70 trans-
plants, UF has set the high-
est number of lung transplants 
completed in Florida within one 
year.
The previous record of 58 was 
set by Tampa General Hospital, 
said Dr. Satish Chandrashek-
aran, a transplant pulmonologist 
with UF Health. 
Chandrashekaran said im-
plementing a new team, start-
ing with three new surgeons in 
2014, and advancements in tech-
nology are the primary reasons 
they broke the record.The UF Health program has a 
shorter wait time and lower mor-
tality rate than any other pro-
gram in Florida, Chandrashek-
aran said. The average wait time 
for the program has shortened 
to under three months. The pro-
gram also willingly accepts older 
patients, which other programs 
in Florida are often wary to do.
Typically, UF Health per-
forms anywhere from 30 to 40 
lung transplants per year, Chan-
drashekaran said. 
Dr. Ashwini Arjuna, a cli-
nician in training in the Lung 
Transplant Program wrote in 
an email, “The strength of this 
program is that the whole team 
is a comprehensive unit which 
works very well together as a 
well oiled machine always work-
ing towards making patient care UF Lung Transplant 
Program sets new 
Florida record
 NEW PROGRAM NOT 
YET DECIDED
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Gov. Ron DeSantis signed an 
executive order to end Common Core education, leaving Alachua 
County Public Schools unsure of 
what will replace it.
Until Common Core is replaced 
with a new program, nothing will 
change. Right now, there is no 
implementation date. The school 
board does not know how this will affect the state-issued exams 
students currently take, said Jack-
ie Johnson, the Alachua County 
Public Schools spokesperson. 
The order states that by Jan. 
1, 2020, Florida Commissioner 
of Education Richard Corcoran 
must review Florida’s academic standards and provide recom-
mendations on how to eliminate 
Common Core and return to the 
basics of reading, writing and 
mathematics. 
The training for teachers and 
textbooks that are used are based 
on Common Core teachings. Mov-ing on to something else would 
require new training and text-
books, Johnson said.
The school board will not 
know how much this will cost 
until the new standards are de-
veloped and approved, Johnson Alachua County Public Schools unsure of post-Common Core futureSEE LUNG,  PAGE 3FALL GRADUATES WILL BE 
INDIVIDUALL Y RECOGNIZED
By Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
After only a third of graduates showed up 
to their Fall graduation, UF decided it had to 
make changes, again. 
UF students graduating in Fall will once again walk across the stage at the O’Connell 
Center and have their names read, said 
Stephanie McBride, UF’s director of com-
mencements. The single university-wide 
commencement at the Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium won’t be held for future Fall graduates. 
There will be three bundled ceremonies 
for bachelor’s and master’s graduates from 
different colleges during this weekend. 
The decision to make the changes came 
in part after about 530 guests and graduates of last Fall’s commencement completed a 
survey about their experience, McBride said. 
Some said they enjoyed the changes, but 
others noted a dislike for bearing the rainy 
weather in the open stadium and the feeling 
of a sparse crowd. 
The decision was also motivated by num-
bers, she said. There are typically about 
3,600 graduates in December and 8,500 grad-
uates in May. The O’Connell Center seemed 
to be a better ﬁ  t for the smaller Fall graduat-ing class size. 
These changes will not apply to the Spring 
commencements, which will follow the for-
mat started last Fall of having a university-
wide ceremony in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium as 
well as college recognition ceremonies over 
the course of the weekend, McBride said. 
Summer commencement will remain as 
it always has, with two ceremonies held at UF Fall commencement procedures change again
SEE COMMENCEMENT,  PAGE 3
SEE COMMON CORE,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING
FRIDAY
GatorNights – Iconic Movies
This week’s free movie-themed 
GatorNights will be held from 8 
p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. 
Students must bring their Gator 
1 Card. One guest per student is 
allowed. A Campus Movie Fest 
premiere, a “The Shawshank 
Redemption” escape room and 
movie trivia are some of this 
week’s activities. Crafts are “The 
Wizard of Oz”-themed and in-
clude a twister in a jar or wood-en trinket boxes. Popcorn and 
soda will be given out for this 
week’s movie, “Fantastic Beasts: 
The Crimes of Grindelwald” at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Chamber. There will 
be bowling and billiards in the 
Game Room. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  82° LOW  55°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Lily Griton, 
Hope Hathcock, Ashlyn Jones,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Graham Marsh, Shelby Smith, 
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 56FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Reach 50,000+ sports fans by featuring 
your ad on the NCAA T ournament  
Bracket! This special bracket will be a 
pull out section that Gator fans can use 
for the whole three weeks of March 
Madness to track their favorite teams.
RUN DATE
Mon, March 18DEADLINE
Thurs March 14T ake the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Starting at
$241.79
includes full color
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Contact Alligator Advertising
Reserve your space today!
376.4482 
said. Companies that produce the 
textbooks and course materials 
also can’t begin making them un-
til the replacement is found. 
Costs for retraining teachers 
and buying new materials will 
vary based on how quickly the 
new system must be implement-
ed, Johnson said.
“Will we have one year to implement? Will it differ depend-
ing on the subject? We just don’t 
know at this point,” she said. 
Robert Hyatt, the chairman 
of the Alachua County School 
Board, said this isn’t the ﬁ  rst time 
the state has tried to move away 
from Common Core. In 2014, the 
Florida Comprehensive Assess-
ment Test was eliminated and re-placed with the Florida Standards 
Assessments. The new test re-
quired the same curriculum, just 
under a different name, he said. 
The program revolves around 
what goes on standardized tests, 
which can lead to a narrowing of 
what is taught, Hyatt said. 
“It’d be interesting if we gave a 
test today on geography and com-
pared it to a test we gave 30 years 
ago,” he said. “My guess is that students from 30 years ago would 
have a better idea of national and 
global geography.”
Ester de Jong, a UF profes-
sor and director of the School of 
Teaching and Learning, agreed 
with Hyatt. The method of teach-
ing the Common Core curriculum 
is the real issue, rather than Com-
mon Core itself, she said.  
The current state law requires 
standardized assessments to be 
given every year. These tests 
are used to give schools a score 
which determines their funding, de Jong said.
The teachings create high-
stake situations in which teach-
ers spend their time teaching stu-
dents to pass the test because of 
a fear that failing scores would 
reﬂ  ect badly on the school, she 
said. 
“This issue will not go away 
just by removing Common Core,” 
de Jong said.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgCOMMON CORE,  from pg. 1Costs for retaining teachers will varybetter.”
A lung volume reduction surgery, extra-
corporeal membrane oxygenation system 
and a lung perfusion system called XVIVO 
are some of the technologies that help maxi-
mize the efﬁ  ciency of the donated lungs and 
the patient’s health. The XVIVO lung perfu-
sion system allows doctors to ventilate a lung 
and determine if it can be used by a patient. The extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
system oxygenates the blood and acts as an 
exterior lung for the patient, helping patients 
stay alive while awaiting the transplant.
The average size of a donor’s lungs may 
be too large for a patient, making it hard to 
match patients them. But Chandrashekaran 
said the reduction surgery enables the pro-
gram to reduce the volume of the lungs, 
meaning that more donated lungs can be 
used and more transplants can be done.Chandrashekaran said this combination 
of technology is unique to UF and is part of 
what helped break the record.
Chandrashekaran hopes that reaching out 
to local communities and hospitals will bring 
more transplant patients who may not be 
able to receive treatment at other hospitals 
to UF Health. 
“We’re trying to see how we can help 
more patients in the community, in the state 
and in the region,” Chandrashekaran said. LUNGS,  from pg. 1Lung reduction surgery helps transplantsthe O’Connell Center, one for doctoral 
graduates and the other universitywide, 
McBride said. 
UF changed the commencement 
procedures in Fall after nearly 50 years 
of the same routine following national 
news of at least three black students 
being shoved off stage last Spring by a 
marshal. They were seemingly rushed 
off for pausing on stage to perform a celebratory dance, which was a his-
torical multicultural fraternity ritual for 
some. 
Anthony Rojas, a 23-year-old UF 
political science master’s student who 
led a campaign against the university-
wide stadium graduation, said student 
pushback helped show administrators 
how important being individually rec-
ognized is. 
“My heart breaks for the people 
who did not get this chance,” Rojas 
said. “I’m happy we can learn from the mistake and see this was not the 
best way to go about it.” 
UF continues to focus on their com-
mitment to celebrating students for its 
accomplishment at graduation, said UF 
spokesperson Margot Winick.
“This seemed like the best way 
to honor the students and create a 
celebratory environment and atmo-
sphere,” Winick said.  
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.org Commencement changes follow graduates’ low ratingsMay  2018:  At least three students are pushed off 
stage during Spring commencement.
September 2018:   UF announces plans for new 
university-wide commencement ceremony. 
September 2018:  Students protest the new 
commencement change at Tigert Hall. 
December 2018: One-third of graduates attend the 
university-wide commencement. 
January 2019:  UF decides to go back to the old 
graduation model for Fall commencements.  
UF HEALTH LUNG TRANSPLANT 
PROGRAM BY THE NUMBERS
56 transplants in 2017
44 transplants in 2016
37 transplants in 2015
12 transplants in 2014COMMENCEMENT,  from pg. 14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
HIS BOND IS SET AT $12,500
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A man on horseback wasn’t able 
to escape a deputy Tuesday after-
noon.
The deputy was notified of a 
trespasser at the Ashton Biological 
Preserve, at 22215 SW 119th Ave., 
at about 4:10 p.m., according to an 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office ar-
rest report. 
The trespass-
er, Scott Jameson 
Weltz, 51, of Ar-
cher, was accused 
of running a man 
over with his horse 
in November, the 
report said. The 
man, who works at 
the research center, filmed Weltz on 
his cellphone riding his horse toward 
him. 
He jumped to the side and shoved 
the horse’s face away from him, the 
report said. The man said Weltz 
constantly rides his horse up to the gates of the research center to call 
him names and told his dogs to at-
tack him. 
While a deputy drove to Weltz’s 
residence, which is near the center, 
he saw him riding his horse toward 
him on the 11900 block of Southwest 
230th Street, the report said. The 
deputy parked and told Weltz to stop 
and get off his horse.
Weltz commanded his horse to go 
faster and rode past the deputy, the 
report said. The deputy followed in 
his patrol car, pulled alongside him 
and told him he was under arrest and 
to get off the horse. 
Weltz then fled into the woods, 
the arrest report said. Deputies set up 
a perimeter and later arrested him. 
The horse was safely returned to 
family in the area, ACSO spokesper-
son Art Forgey said.
He was charged with failing to 
obey law enforcement and aggravat-
ed assault with a deadly weapon, the 
report said.
Weltz remains in the Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $12,500 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgMan on horse tries to 
ride away from deputy
Weltz
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Changeville Sound
Itawe Correa, the lead singer for the Grammy-nominated band Locos Por Juana, performs 
Thursday night on Bo Diddley Plaza. The performance was part of the Changeville 
festival, which takes place Thursday and today. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Student and community activists criti-
cized UF’s lack of action on environmental 
and mental health issues Wednesday night. 
These topics of concern, alongside plans 
of action, were presented by students, fac-
ulty and residents at the ﬁ  rst “UF Campus 
Coalition Teach-In.” 
The Alachua County Labor Coalition 
suggested starting the event to bring the 
Gainesville and UF communities togeth-
er to coordinate their ideas, said Ashley 
Nguyen, a coalition coordinator. 
About 50 members of the Gainesville 
community came out to the event in Tur-
lington Hall. The event was followed by 
public discussion.
Gainesville mayoral candidate Jenn 
Powell attended the event and said she was 
interested in hearing about the university’s 
energy consumption to learn about getting 
UF’s main campus on the Gainesville Re-
gional Utilities grid.
“I’m not a politician,” Powell said. “I’m 
an activist.” 
The two-hour teach-in was the ﬁ  rst of a 
potential monthly series held by the Alach-
ua County Labor Coalition at the universi-
ty, said Nguyen, a 20-year-old UF interna-
tional studies and political science junior. 
“My hopes, and that of the people pre-
senting, is that more students will get in-
volved in these issues,” Nguyen said. “And pushing for the university to accommodate 
for these commands.”
The topic of UF’s energy consumption 
began with Wendell Porter, a UF assistant research scientist of agricultural and bio-
logical engineering. He discussed how UF 
sources its energy and the environmental 
impact it has in Gainesville, expressing concern for the lack of enforcement of its 
carbon neutrality position. 
Porter was followed by Divest UF, a 
campus organization of students, faculty 
and community members who aim to chal-
lenge UF’s investment in fossil fuels. The 
organization is campaigning a Student 
Government resolution to cut all ties with 
fossil fuel companies within ﬁ  ve years. 
“The time is here to change how we get 
our power on campus,” Porter said. 
The next topic presented was mental 
health on campus, starting with Zachariah 
Chou, a UF SG Murphree area senator and 
UF Student Body presidential candidate. 
Chou presented a history of the Counseling 
and Wellness Center through archived The 
Alligator articles and discussed its ﬂ  uctua-
tions in funding. 
Chou was followed by Othelia Jumapao, 
who spoke about mental health and diver-
sity, and then the co-chairs of the Graduate 
Assistants United at UF, who advocated for 
mental health programs for graduate stu-
dents. 
“You also have to ﬁ  nd a counselor that’s 
right for you,” Chou said. “You might as 
well do that at UF where it’s free.”
Cheyenne Cheng, a 21-year-old UF psy-
chology senior, found the event to be a call 
to action and plans to attend monthly.
“It was not just to learn but how to 
progress,” Cheng said.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgUF students, activists come together to make change 
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Wendy Thomas has overseen 
“doing” in Gainesville for 2 1/2 
years and brought virtual inspec-
tions and artiﬁ  cial intelligence to 
city planning. 
Thomas, director of the De-
partment of Doing, submitted her 
letter of resignation to Deborah 
Bowie, the interim city manager, 
on Feb. 1. She chose to leave for 
personal reasons, Thomas said. She was the 
ﬁ  rst director of 
the department, 
which oversees 
city planning 
and building, 
Thomas said.
This is the 
ﬁ  rst resignation 
of a city director 
or manager since Anthony Lyons 
resigned as city manager on Dec. 
11.
Andrew Persons, the senior planner for the Department of Do-
ing, will become interim director 
on March 2, said Chip Skinner, the 
city spokesperson. 
In July, Thomas, 56, was diag-
nosed with breast cancer, so she 
wants to spend more time with her 
husband who serves at Scott Air 
Force Base in Illinois. 
Thomas began as director in 
September 2016 and said she 
couldn’t resist working in a de-
partment with “doing” in its name.
Under her leadership, Gainesville became the ﬁ  rst city in 
Florida to conduct virtual inspec-
tions of buildings and develop ar-
tiﬁ  cial intelligence with UF to re-
view building plans, Thomas said. 
These virtual improvements will 
lessen the department’s carbon 
footprint in the future. 
Thomas said the building and 
planning teams worked separately 
before she came to the depart-
ment. She made it her mission to 
bring them together.
In November, the department proposed the gnvRISE program 
to create affordable housing in 
Gainesville. This project was met 
with mixed reviews in a Novem-
ber city commission meeting 
when the commission decided not 
approve the proposal.
“The work that we did around 
proposing an incentive-based af-
fordable housing program is work 
that I am, in fact, very, very proud 
of,” Thomas said.
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgGainesville Department of Doing director submits resignationKelly Hayes / Alligator Staff
Jeremiah T attersall, the lead organizer of the Alachua County Labor Coalition, 
presents the speakers at the ﬁ  rst teach-in event held by ACLC at UF.
Thomas
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The sun and the heat are ﬁ  nally back where they belong 
in the Sunshine State, and it’s time to get back to busi-
ness as usual — days beside the pool. You grab your tow-
el and slide your sunglasses onto your face, making your 
way down to the pool. You slip into one of the reclining 
chairs that line the outside of the pool and begin to relax. 
Thoughts of midterms pushed ﬁ  rmly out of your head, the 
only thing on your mind is the shoreline that awaits you 
during Spring Break.
You let the sunlight sink into your skin, relaxing your 
muscles that grew tense over the past week. A loud splash 
ruins your moment of Zen as a mountain of water falls 
onto you. You quickly get to your feet, incredulous. You 
most certainly didn’t go to the pool to actually get wet. You 
huff and look at the culprits, two people who decided now 
would be a good time play with a beach ball.
Just as you’re about to say something, the beach ball 
comes ﬂ  ying at your face. With a smack, your head is 
knocked backward. ‘That’ll leave a mark’, you think. While 
still rubbing your cheek you pick up the heinous ball. You 
see large letters plastered across the front of it. You see now 
it makes sense; you were smacked in the face with…
Darts and Laurels
We’re starting out with a laurel this week for Richard 
Cole, the managing partner of Cole, Scott & Kissane 
in Miami, who gifted $20 million to UF’s Levin Col-
lege of Law this week. The donation is in honor of 
his late father, Robert B. Cole. Both Richard and 
Robert are UF alumni. Cole said he hopes the donation will 
put an emphasis on health law, which will help the state with 
health issues it’s facing with a growing number of elderly resi-
dents. This is the college’s largest donation to date.
It’s the ﬁ  rst full week of Black History Month. Howev-
er, companies and politicians have had to offer apologies 
for racist acts. A dart goes to Gucci and Adidas, who both 
pulled products from recent releases after the products’ 
questionable implications. Gucci pulled an $890 sweater 
from its website after it was called out for its blackface 
imagery. The black-knit women’s balaclava was a part of 
Gucci’s fall-winter 2018 collection. It could be pulled over 
the lower half of the wearer’s face, featuring bright red 
lips around an open mouth, imagery often associated with 
blackface. Also, Adidas released an almost entirely white 
pair of sneakers that were meant to celebrate Black History 
Month. The sneakers received backlash for their question-
able meaning toward Black History Month.
However, Gucci is not the only entity being accused of 
blackface. A growing wave of politicians are also being 
accused of it. A dart goes out to Democratic Gov. Ralph 
Northam, Attorney General Mark Herring and Republican 
Sen. Thomas K. Norment Jr., for all being involved in cases 
of blackface. Blackface has been an issue for the past 200 
years, but it’s about time people became educated on its 
harmful implications and give it a zero tolerance policy.
Finally, we would like to hand a laurel out to UF’s class 
of 2023, which is being announced Friday. About 14,800 
students will be admitted out of the 42,000 students who 
applied. Admittance to UF continues to grow more competi-
tive each year, with about 40,800 students applying in 2018 
and about 34,000 applying in 2017. However, we’re excited 
to meet this new class and see the great things they’re going 
to accomplish at UF.The issue of immigration is back in the spot light
Anyone who has ever dealt with the 
U.S. immigration system is likely to la-
bel the process long, challenging and 
sometimes discouraging.
And earlier this week, most music 
and hip-hop fans saw ﬁ  rsthand how this broken 
system can affect real people.
She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, more widely 
known as 21 Savage, was detained by U.S. Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement. According 
to ICE spokesman Bryan Cox,  Abraham-Joseph 
stayed unlawfully in the U.S. and has a felony conviction. 
His overstay in America resulted in an arrest in the Atlanta 
area. He was also put into deportation proceedings.
Charles H. Kuck, Abraham-Joseph’s current immigra-
tion lawyer, said the rapper applied for a U.S. for a U visa 
in 2017, which is a legal way for victims of crime to keep 
residency in the U.S.
According to Kuck, Abraham-Joseph was born in Lon-
don and moved to Atlanta, Georgia when he was 7. As the 
spokesperson for ICE conﬁ  rmed Abraham-Joseph’s arrest, 
it became clear he could face potential deportation, a fac-
tor that is likely to impact his Feb. 27 performance at the 
O’Connell Center.
The news of Abraham-Joseph’s real hometown spread 
swiftly on Twitter. It made the rounds with all the major 
news outlets and quickly became the latest meme of the 
new year. Initially, it was clear many of Abraham-Joseph’s 
fans felt betrayed by the rapper. They assumed just because 
he had an English birth certiﬁ  cate, he was not truly from 
Atlanta. I disagree with this notion. Where you were born 
does not necessarily dictate where you are from. Where 
you grew up is where you became who you are. Abraham-
Joseph spent the majority of his formative years on U.S. 
soil. Imagine going to elementary, middle and high school 
all in one country but still not being able to claim it as your home. 
The memes about 21 Savage are admittedly 
funny; however, they begin to distract us from 
the main issue, which is people being taken 
away from where they grew up. Abraham-Jo-
seph’s situation feels similar to many Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals recipients. DACA, 
an Obama-era program, allowed for undocu-
mented immigrants who came in as children to 
stay in the U.S.
In 2017, President Donald Trump effectively 
ended the DACA program, no longer allowing for new ap-
plications. As the program ended, there was no clear way 
forward for individuals who once lived under its protective 
net. This situation has shed some much-needed light on our 
immigration system. Those who might be unfamiliar with 
legal protections are getting a crash course in civics, while 
others who might be in a similar situation as Abraham-
Joseph can feel like their issues are being brought to light.
This week, social media has been an enormously ef-
fective tool for spreading immigration awareness, but it 
has also been a forum for hate. Many conservative outlets 
praised ICE for detaining Abraham-Joseph, making their 
loyalty to the executive ofﬁ  ce apparent.
So, when people on Twitter try to be funny by claiming 
Abraham-Joseph is not really American, they’re unknow-
ingly pushing the broken rhetoric our current presidential 
administration subscribes to. Those who are in favor of 
keeping DACA as a part of our immigration system, and 
protecting children now and in the future, should show 
their support for those facing the very real possibilities of 
deportation. 
Elijah Rawls is a UF journalism senior. His column ap-
pears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Elijah Rawls
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
The ﬁ  rst article I ever published for 
The Independent Florida Alligator 
was a comedic piece about where 
to study around campus. One of the 
places I suggested going to was Plaza 
of the Americas, and I stand by this state-
ment. It’s still where I eat and study most 
weekdays. I spend most of my waking hours 
on Plaza because Krishna Lunch has become 
a staple in my diet. No, seriously. I eat it all. 
the. time. And that’s saying something be-
cause I am an extraordinarily ﬁ  nicky eater. 
If you asked me to describe Krishna 
Lunch, prepared and provided by the local 
group of Hare Krishnas, I would not know 
where to start. I could not do it justice if I 
tried. Eating Krishna Lunch is like receiving 
a warm hug on a cold, sad day or, more ac-
curately, like tasting magic. Krishna Lunch 
brings heaven to you. I have truly never ex-
perienced something so ethereal, so perfect. 
Krishna won’t cure your depression, but it at least can make your days a little 
bit better. 
You may be thinking, “I’m a 
picky eater. I won’t ﬁ  nd anything 
I want to eat there.” Let me be the 
one to tell you you’re wrong. I am 
the pickiest eater that has ever 
lived, and you can still catch me 
at Krishna every weekday. If I can 
love it, so can you. 
It is Wednesday as I write this, 
which means it's Spaghetti Day. Or, should 
I say, Penne Day? I’m still working on the 
new title. I have heard a lot of complaints 
about the recent switch from spaghetti 
to penne pasta, but I must say, this was a 
change for the better. I mean, Wednesday 
has always been my favorite, but penne 
noodles are a refreshing change. Now, when 
I go “full Krishna” and drench all of my food 
in the almond dressing, each noodle is per-
fectly covered due to the divots in the penne seeping up the dressing. It’s the 
perfect pasta-to-dressing ratio, 
which could never be achieved 
with spaghetti.  
About the term “full Krishna.” 
Some people prefer to keep their 
salad separate from the rest of 
their food, only putting the al-
mond dressing on the lettuce. 
This is a grave mistake, and by 
not drenching your noodles, po-
tatoes and rice in almond dressing, you are 
missing out on the ﬁ  ner things in life. 
Let’s talk about the price of Krishna 
Lunch: It’s $5 for all you can eat delicious-
ness. Not a bad price for an all you can eat 
scenario. You can save money and still have 
a great college experience by eating Krishna 
for every meal all four years. 
The environment of Plaza is also a great 
mood-booster. No one is sad at Krishna 
Lunch. Maybe you were sad upon arrival, but I promise you won’t be for much longer. 
Failed a test? Eat Krishna. Just got dumped? 
Eat Krishna. Just realized our government 
is spiraling out of control and the two-party 
system was a colossal failure and we’re all 
probably going to die from imminent climate 
change? Eat Krishna. 
I don’t know what else to tell you. Just 
get yourself to Plaza, bring some Tupper-
ware, and allow your mind and taste buds to 
be blown. Each day brings something new 
to the table, so you’re never bored. Did I 
mention there are also vegan options? Krish-
na Lunch is truly the best place for a picky 
eater. And it’s the perfect time to relax and 
enjoy the beautiful weather. You can read, 
study, nap, spend time with friends and eat 
a delicious meal – what’s not to love? 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English 
sophomore. Her column normally appears 
on Mondays.Krishna Lunch is the cure for a bad day and here's why you shouldn't miss outSo there I was on Saturday afternoon, 
existing.
I stared at my phone and saw Im-
pact Party has posted some sort of pre-
platform, featuring three of their “new-
est initiatives.” Uh... “dockless scooter 
sharing?” Interesting, tell me more. I 
look at the comments section where I 
see the Impact folks tagging their friends 
and pretending they are spearheading 
the most exciting initiative since sliced 
bread, ﬁ  re or the polio vaccine.
Flashback to May 2018: A friend hits 
me up on Facebook saying, “Hey have 
you seen the bird scooter thing? I want 
to bring these things to campus.” He’s 
been in contact with the scooter com-
pany. He puts me in contact with the 
scooter company, Bird. 
On June 2, a Gainesville Sun headline 
blares “Dockless scooters could roll in 
soon.” On June 5, I gave an information-
al presentation to the Senate about Bird 
scooters. After about a month of emails, 
I forwarded all the information I had to 
Impact-afﬁ  liated Student Body President 
Ian Green since I’m a nice guy and like 
to include people on projects. Bird had 
talked to Transportation and Parking 
Services (TAPS). I talked to TAPS. My 
friend and I talked to the Ofﬁ  ce of Sus-
tainability.
Flash forward to Sept. 27. It’s the 
Gainesville Sun again and this time, the 
headline is “City gears up for dockless 
scooter launch.” In the article, Assis-
tant City Manager Dan Hoffman tells the 
Gainesville Sun it’s not a matter of if but 
when.
Flash forward to this past Tuesday 
when I emailed the city to see if this 
really was an Impact initiative. The 
folks from the city were kind enough to 
loop in the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability and 
TAPS, who all clariﬁ  ed who actually has 
been working on the legal language for 
months and no, they did not mention 
Impact. At this point, they are in the ﬁ  -
nal stages of their work and from there, 
it’s on to the City Commission and so 
on.So how is this now one of “Impact 
Party’s three newest initiatives?” I didn’t 
think ownership of other people’s work 
worked like that. It seems that Impact 
just wanted to be able to say “We are 
the party that brought electric scooters 
to campus” even though most, if not all, 
of the work has been done by other enti-
ties. The next thing you know, Impact 
might put “the next time Kent Fuchs 
smiles” on their platform and then try to 
take credit the next time our Gator dad 
graces the world with his pearly whites.
But I think that’s what Impact does. 
Remember the exciting news of in-
creased Bright Futures funding? I’ve al-
ways been skeptical of Impact trying to 
lay claim to these sorts of things. 
To investigate, I put in a public re-
cords request for all Student Govern-
ment emails and documents mention-
ing Bright Futures and/or lobbying for 
expanded Bright Futures over the last 
ﬁ  ve years. Now, I don’t want to make a 
claim as bold as to say Impact had little 
to nothing to do with all these Bright Fu-
tures improvements over the years. But, 
I'll let you decide for yourself.
Something of particular to note is on 
page 91 of the public records requests 
form, where “Summer Bright Futures” 
is listed as a “current effort/accomplish-
ment.” For the record, I do not believe 
effort equates to accomplishment and I 
think that it’s a particularly problematic 
participation-medal-mindset that should 
not be rewarded.
A lack of culture, transparency and 
accountability in SG makes it easy for 
you to be treated like a fool, but it 
doesn’t have to be this way. You de-
serve better than “bread and circuses.” 
Vote for people who will give you a fair 
shake when it comes to Student Govern-
ment. Reg.Pol.Ad
Zachariah Chou is a UF political 
science junior. He is currently running for 
Student Body president with Inspire Party. A commentary on Impact's actions
I  am a victim of a spoiler. 
In an interview before 
the Screen Actors Guild 
Awards, Angela Bassett 
and husband Courtney B. 
Vance revealed details about 
the second “Black Panther” 
movie. The actors got too 
excited and decided to drop 
spoilers. Herein lies the issue: 
My unexpecting ears weren’t 
prepared to hear this information.
Spoiling a movie or TV show takes away 
the excitement and overall pleasure in a 
story. I love the anticipation of watching 
something new. When you watch a new 
movie or read a new book, it’s like being in 
line at an amusement park. You’re waiting 
to get on the mysterious ride. You have no 
idea what is going to happen, but you’re 
ready for all the twists and turns that will 
come your way. Now, imagine someone in-
tervening and telling you every important 
detail about this ride. All the mystery of 
the ride is gone. So you end disappointed: 
you either leave the line, or stay and let 
your nervous eat you alive. But in any sce-
nario, the experience isn’t the same as it 
would have been if you’d been kept in the 
dark. This is what happens when a story 
is spoiled for you. You no longer have that 
same excitement you started with because 
you know what the climax of the story is 
going to be. Like many, you may no longer 
want to watch, listen or continue to read. 
On the other hand, I can understand the no-
tion that spoilers are inevitable. Nowadays, 
whenever a new episode of a show comes 
out, people feel the need to hide from the 
internet, especially social media. Other-
wise, they have to scroll quickly past any 
potential spoilers. I often ﬁ  nd myself yell-
ing “I haven’t watched it yet” whenever my 
friends start talking about the latest episode 
of “How to Get Away with Murder.” How-
ever, there’s always that one person in the 
group that ﬁ  nds a weird happiness in spoil-ing the episode for everyone. 
I’ve heard the argument that 
spoilers improve the experience of 
watching a show. The argument is 
that good storytelling doesn’t need 
to rely on anticipation and suspense. 
If a story is good, people are going to 
enjoy it whether or not it’s spoiled. 
However, good storytelling captures 
your attention from the beginning. 
It moves you emotionally through 
the character’s actions. If good storytell-
ing doesn’t need to rely on anticipation and 
suspense, then why listen, watch or read a 
story if you already know how it ends? 
It’s the emotions that go along with the 
story that make a spoiler impactful. When 
a story is spoiled, you can’t produce the 
same authentic emotions you would’ve felt 
if you hadn’t been spoiled. Consequently, 
you are no longer emotionally connected to 
the story. We need to give people the com-
mon courtesy of allowing them to experi-
ence something in a way that is personal 
to them.
Like many others, when I don’t know 
how a story will turn out, I appreciate it 
more. Next time you catch yourself about 
to spoil a story, check yourself. Make sure 
to ask if everyone is up to date. If not, ﬁ  nd 
ways to discuss the story without spoiling 
it. That also goes for social media. Before 
you post something that might be a spoiler, 
make sure you include the word “spoiler” 
before any information.
When the second “Black Panther” comes 
out, I’m not going to be able to watch it 
with the same enthusiasm and joy as I did 
watching the ﬁ  rst “Black Panther.” I sadly 
won’t be able to experience the same shock 
value as everyone else. Learn from my ex-
perience. Be aware. Let’s all agree to be 
spoiler-free.
Anede Siffort is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.Show bingers beware: Spoiling is 
on the rise and it needs to stopLetter to the Editor Column
Column
Anede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
By Abraham Hunt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Shaneequa Cannon wants inspiration to 
be born from her TEDxGainesville talk on 
Saturday.
“I want to live up to my kinetic potential 
and reach out to everyone and aid them to 
their own,” said Cannon, a 36-year-old au-
thor on her experience with sexual assault. 
“This is the stage to do it.”
Cannon and nine other speakers will 
deliver similar messages at the inaugural 
TEDxGainesville event from 1-5 p.m. at the 
Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention, 
at 811 S. Main St. 
The event will also include vendor ta-
bles before the talks and three performanc-
es during intermission.
TEDxGainesville is an independently 
organized part of the TED organization, 
which stands for Technology, Entertain-
ment and Design. TEDxUF events have 
been running for 10 years. 
Speakers will have 10 minutes to give 
a talk on an issue in their profession, said 
John Coffill, a TEDxGainesville spokesper-
son. 
The issues will include mental illnesses 
and the dangers of not reaching one’s full 
potential. 
The event is limited to 100 attendees 
and tickets have sold out, he said. For the last four years Leadership 
Gainesville, a 10-month community lead-
ership program, has been trying to bring 
TEDxGainesville but hasn’t because mem-bers didn’t think it would fix city prob-
lems, Coffill said. 
After a UF inequity report published 
in January 2018 showed that more than 40 percent of African American children 
live in poverty in Alachua County, current 
members of the group decided it was time 
to start TEDxGainesville, he said.
“How does Alachua County, University 
of Florida, Santa Fe College and our com-
munity have that much disparity,” Coffill 
said. “We have to start the conversation.”
The Leadership Gainesville Alumni As-
sociation and sponsors budgeted about 
$17,000 for the event, Coffill said. They are 
still looking for sponsors. 
Heather Sarkis was among 200 other 
applicants that applied in December for 
TEDxGainesville.
After a month-long selection process 
— which involved sending written essays 
and presenting five-minute talks — run by 
Leadership Gainesville, Sarkis was one of 
the 10 selected to speak.
“The TED stage is a great platform to 
discuss how society treats mental illness,” 
said Sarkis, a 36-year-old psychiatric men-
tal health nurse practitioner.
Coffill said if the Saturday event turns 
out to be a success, Leadership Gainesville 
wants to make it sustainable and have it in 
future years. 
“This event will start the conversation 
in Gainesville, and it will break social 
norms for the better in our community,” 
Coffill said.
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
Lizzie Jenkins, the author of the 1998 book “The Real Rosewood, ” 
speaks Thursday to a crowd of about 85 people at the Matheson 
History Museum. Jenkins spoke about her aunt who was assaulted 
during the 1923 Rosewood Massacre as well as her own experiences 
with racism during the civil rights movement. “What happened to me, ” 
Jenkins said, “I don’t want it to happen to anybody else. ” 
Historian tells story of the Rosewood Massacre  
Mental health to be discussed at first TEDxGainesville
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Mary Alford, 57, speaks Wednesday during a dress rehearsal for 
TEDxGainesville: Courageous Conversations at the Acrosstown Repertory 
Theatre. TEDxGainesville will perform at 1 p.m. Saturday at the Cade Museum 
for Creativity and Innovation, at 811 S. Main St.More than 100 African Americans were killed in the 1923 massacre
By Naomi Cruz
Alligator Contributing Writer
An audience of about 85 
gripped onto Lizzie Jenkins’ 
every word as she retold the 
history of Rosewood, Florida, 
a town where black residents 
were massacred in 1923.
The Matheson History Muse-
um hosted Jenkins, an 80-year-
old author and historian, to 
share research she has done on 
the Rosewood Massacre and tell 
her family’s personal accounts 
in celebration of Black History 
Month Thursday night.
In 1923, a white woman, 
Fannie Coleman Taylor, claimed 
that a black man assaulted her. 
Her husband, James Taylor, as-
sembled a mob that included 
Ku Klux Klan members. The 
mob went to Rosewood, a pre-
dominantly black town, and 
killed townspeople. 
Jenkins talked about her 
aunt, Mahulda Carrier, who 
was one of the survivors of the 
massacre. She said Carrier’s 
husband was beaten by the 
mob and was almost shot be-
fore Sheriff Elias “Bob” Walker 
put him in a Gainesville prison. 
She said the number of those 
killed is still unknown, but it 
could be more than 100.
Jenkins is also the founder 
of the Real Rosewood Founda-tion Inc., which focuses on edu-
cation and preservation of the 
history of the Rosewood Mas-
sacre, she said. 
The foundation sold prints, 
T-shirts and Jenkins’ book, 
“Alachua County, Florida” a 
part of the Black America Se-
ries, she said. All proceeds went 
toward the foundation’s effort 
to create a museum of Rose-
wood’s history. 
“You would never know 
anything about anybody if you 
don’t talk,” Jenkins said on the 
importance of sharing history. 
The museum staff hosted 
Jenkins for the first time and 
wanted to have her because of 
her accomplishments, said Peg-
gy Macdonald, the museum’s 
executive director. She said 
having Jenkins was important 
so others could learn about lo-
cal history.
Rose Sintulaire, a 21-year-
old UF family, youth and com-
munity sciences senior, said 
she went to learn about black 
history in the Gainesville area 
because she didn’t know much 
about it. 
“It gave me a bit more per-
spective on Gainesville and the 
events that happened to African 
Americans that were living in 
the area and their history,” she 
said.  “It was very interesting to 
hear a live perspective. It made 
it more real.”THE 1923  
ROSEWOOD  
MASSACRE  
Fannie Coleman T aylor 
claimed to be assaulted 
by a black man who 
may have been hiding in 
Rosewood, Florida, which 
was a predominantly 
black area.
A telegraph was sent to 
Gainesville about Fannie 
T aylor’s allegations which 
caused the Ku Klux Klan 
to go to Rosewood and 
join in the massacre. 
The amount of people 
killed in the massacre 
is still unknown, but 
believed to be more than 
100, said Lizzie Jenkins, 
an 80-year-old author 
and historian.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
A team collects itself Thursday during the Purple Rain dodgeball tournament on 
Norman Field. More than 300 people attended the event.
Davis Rash, an 18-year-old UF computer engineering freshman, hurls a paint-
soaked ball Thursday at an opponent during the third annual Purple Rain dodgeball 
tournament on Norman Field. Fifty-two teams of five competed in the bracket-style 
tournament hosted by Alpha Chi Omega.
Graham Woods, a 20-year-old UF information systems sophomore, competes in the third annual Purple Rain dodgeball tournament Thursday on Norman Field. The 
competition benefitted Peaceful Paths, a safe house for women.
The sun was out, but that didn’t stop the purple 
rain. Alpha Chi Omega hosted its third annual 
Purple Rain dodgeball tournament Thursday 
on Norman Field. Fifty-two teams of five peo-
ple threw foam balls soaked in purple paint until there was only one team standing in the men’s 
and women’s brackets. The men’s bracket had 33 
teams and the women’s bracket had 19 teams, and 
more than 300 people participated in the event. All 
proceeds from the tournament went toward Peace-ful Paths, a safe house for women who have been 
abused. Cilantro Tacos, a local Gainesville food 
truck, provided the competitors a chance to grab a 
bite to eat between matches. Making It Rain
Photos by Chris King
Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
By Curt Anderson 
and T erry Spencer
Associated Press
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) — The 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School 
massacre resulted in criminal and civil court 
cases and the creation of a state investiga-
tive panel examining the shooting’s causes. 
A look at where those stand:
CRIMINAL CASE
The murder case against 20-year-old 
Nikolas Cruz is moving slowly and could 
take years. Defense lawyers are gradually 
interviewing dozens of prosecution wit-
nesses, and there have been several legal 
skirmishes over release of Cruz’s medical 
and school records and attempts to obtain 
evidence. No trial date has been set, even as 
prosecutors have pushed to start this year. Cruz’s lawyers have repeatedly said he will 
plead guilty to 17 counts of murder and 17 
counts of attempted murder in return for a 
life prison sentence, but Broward County 
prosecutors want his guilt and ultimate fate 
decided by a local jury. They are seeking 
the death penalty. Meanwhile, Cruz also 
faces assault and other charges for allegedly 
attacking a corrections ofﬁ  cer in jail.
CIVIL LAWSUITS
The Parkland shooting spawned numer-
ous lawsuits, including a negligence case 
brought by a victim’s family against sher-
iff’s deputy Scot Peterson for failing to con-
front the gunman. More than 100 notices 
of intent to sue have been ﬁ  led against the 
Broward County school system, again for 
negligence and similar allegations that of-
ﬁ  cials failed to protect students and staff. 
Shooting survivors have sued in federal court claiming their civil rights were vio-
lated. And survivors and victims’ families 
alike have sued Cruz, the family he was liv-
ing with at the time of the shooting, three 
mental health agencies who evaluated Cruz 
and the maker of the AR-15 riﬂ  e used by the 
shooter. More lawsuits are likely.
MARJORY STONEMAN DOUGLAS 
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
The 15-member commission issued a 
458-page report in January after meeting 
periodically for nine months to investigate 
the massacre’s causes and examine how 
future school shootings can be prevented. 
Its most controversial recommendation: 
Florida teachers who volunteer, pass back-
ground checks and undergo extensive train-
ing should be allowed to carry concealed 
handguns. The members argue that seconds 
count, and waiting for police to arrive al-lows shooters time to kill more students. 
Opponents include the Florida teachers 
union and the state PTA. They say teach-
ers should not also be security guards, and 
putting more guns on campuses will make 
schools more dangerous, not less. The com-
mission found numerous failures in the 
school system, in law enforcement and at 
Stoneman Douglas. Among them: failure of 
school ofﬁ  cials statewide to examine and 
ﬁ  x campus security shortfalls; poor train-
ing for Broward County sheriff’s deputies in 
confronting mass shooters; and failures by 
Stoneman Douglas security ofﬁ  cers that al-
lowed the shooter to enter the campus. The 
commission is composed of law enforce-
ment, education and mental health profes-
sionals and the fathers of two children who 
were killed. The panel will continue peri-
odic meetings for the next four years.School shooting’s criminal, civil cases slowly creep forward
$19,222 HAD BEEN 
PREVIOUSL Y BUDGETED 
FOR THE INCREASE
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Four high-ranking city ofﬁ  cials 
will not get raises despite getting 
about a $1,600 bonus last year.
The commission voted 4-3 to 
not give raises to Gainesville Re-
gional Utilities General Manager 
Ed Bielarski, City Auditor Carlos 
Holt, City Attorney Nicolle Shal-ley and City Clerk Omichele Gain-
ey.
Commissioners Harvey Ward, 
Gigi Simmons, Adrian Hayes-San-
tos and Mayor Lauren Poe voted 
against the pay increase because 
they said it wouldn’t be fair when 
some city employees make less 
than a living wage, which is $15 
an hour.
“There was a lot to be done 
and you performed on it,” Ward 
said to the city ofﬁ  cials. “But I’m 
not convinced on the raises.”
Commissioners Helen Warren, David Arreola and Gail Johnson 
voted to grant the raise. 
Two percent raises for one 
year, which totaled $19,222, were 
budgeted, said Lisa Jefferson, di-
rector of human resources. 
Before deciding whether to use 
the budgeted funds for the raise, 
the commissioners gave evalua-
tions of the four city ofﬁ  cials on 
a scale from 1 to 5, with 1 being 
unsatisfactory and 5 being out-
standing. The scores from the 
commission were combined to get 
an average rating. Interim City Manager Deborah 
Bowie and Equal Opportunities 
Director Teneeshia Marshall did 
not receive evaluations because 
they are new to their roles, Jef-
ferson said.
Shalley had a 4.571 average 
rating. Bielarski and Holt received 
a 4 average rating. Gainey had a 
3.86 average rating. 
Hayes-Santos gave out the 
lowest scores, rating Bielarski, 
Holt and Gainey at 2. Ward gave 
all the ofﬁ  cers a 5 rating. 
Commissioner Helen War-ren, who also gave all high rat-
ings, said she thought the ofﬁ  cers 
earned a raise.
“I feel like two percent is not 
a lot,” Warren said. “These indi-
viduals earned more than just a 
pat on the back.”
The city commission plans to 
discuss the evaluations of the six 
high-ranking city ofﬁ  cials in more 
detail at their next meeting on 
Feb. 21.
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCity Commission votes against pay raise for GRU general manager
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N       2-8-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      2-8-
1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/11- 
2/14 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & 
W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” 
then "workshops” to register.      2-11-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SERVICE DOG - PTSD, AUTISM CERTIFIED
3 months old, AKC yellow lab, male. 
Comes with training. $1800. 352-472-6099. 
Volunteers needed.              2-18-19-5-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attem -
ted to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-
4903 2-08-7-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Andy Morrison
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/08/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/08/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, February 8, 2019
ACROSS
1 Yukon supplier
4 __ pants
9 Scorned lover of 
Jason
14 Aptly, it rhymes 
with “spa”
15 CNN 
correspondent 
Hill
16 Big period
17 TV trailblazer
18 Boxing 
academy?
20 Loud noises
22 “There, there,” 
e.g.
23 One at the top of 
the order
26 Whirling
30 Optimist’s hopeful 
list?
33 “Othello” role
34 Pamphlet ending
35 Have __ for
36 Colorful bird
37 Literal and 
figurative hint 
to four puzzle 
answers
41 Field supervisor
43 Sword-and-
sandal feature, 
e.g.
44 Turkish title
47 Award using 
spelled-out 
initials
48 Wild party in 
Dallas?
51 Wednesday, to 
be exact
53 Souvenirs
54 Plays ball
57 Musical 
collaboration 
instruction
58 Literary alliance?
63 A, in Aachen
64 Senate staffers
65 Coke or Pepsi
66 Young Darth’s 
nickname
67 Bright
68 Hindu mystics
69 Ballet composer 
Delibes
DOWN
1 Refuse
2 Poe genre
3 Title servant in 
a 1946 Paulette 
Goddard film
4 Mag mogul5 Home of the 
2001 World 
Series champs, 
on scoreboards
6 Eighteen-
wheelers
7 Call back?
8 Only deaf 
performer to win 
an Oscar
9 Waikiki, to 
surfers
10 Recipient of a 
New Testament 
epistle attributed 
to Saint Paul
11 __-wop
12 Prefix with 
conscious
13 Calder Cup org.
19 Without
21 Vast expanse
24 Tuck away
25 1974 CIA spoof
27 Discounted 
combo
28 Supermarket 
chain
29 “__ is the 
winter of our 
discontent”: 
Shak.
31 Luau ring
32 Architect’s 
addition36 Start to manage?
38 Summer 
refresher
39 College 
admissions fig.
40 Document with 
bullets
41 Cousin of org
42 Band of Tokyo?
45 Sincere
46 Hall of fame
48 Puerto Rico, e.g.: 
Abbr.
49 Barely makes it50 Handle  
preceder
52 Discharge
55 Iberian river
56 Metallic waste
58 Lived
59 Basket border
60 Early civil rights 
activist __ B. 
Wells
61 Covert maritime 
gp.
62 Cred. union 
offerings
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/07/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/07/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, February 7, 2019
ACROSS
1 Correspondence 
sign-off
5 Musical series 
set at McKinley 
High
9 “Wealth of 
Nations” author 
Smith
13 Pot for paella
14 Speaks up?
15 Bit of folklore
16 Mature gentle 
treatment?
18 B’way hit signs
19 News letters
20 “Have some”
21 Decides not to 
dele
22 Bodega miss
25 Roe-producing 
fish
26 Mature sprightly 
piano classic?
30 Canaanite deity
32 Half a cocktail
33 Handler of “Sex 
and the City”
34 Costa del __
35 Mature young 
infatuation?
39 Taking a sick 
day, presumably
40 Trivial, as talk
42 Versailles ruler
43 Mouselike 
animal
45 Mature news 
newbie?
49 Salty margarita 
glass spots
50 Low-alcohol 
beverage
54 Dries gently
56 French menu 
word
57 Singer Grande’s 
perfume brand
58 “__ move”
59 Mature “Agnus 
Dei” translation?
63 Air
64 Word with 
offering or officer
65 “Who __ 
knows?”
66 Scandinavian 
literary work
67 Lie next to
68 Wedding couple?DOWN
1 Phony
2 Run secretly to 
the chapel
3 Dispatched, as a 
dragon
4 Ankle pic
5 Cavern
6 Brit’s facilities
7 Bud on a spud
8 Snaky curve
9 On the line
10 Stunt performer, 
say
11 Boatloads
12 Food in a hall
14 Braid
17 Notable Ford of 
the ’70s
21 “__ Persisted”: 
children’s 
book about 
inspirational 
women
23 Andean tuber
24 Pit-digging insect
25 Handmade blade
27 Eastern “way”
28 Second-oldest 
Ivy
29 NBC show since 
197530 Portend
31 Versatile
34 Bro or sis
36 Rich rocks
37 Political initials 
since 1884
38 Exceedingly
41 Asmara’s nation
44 Poetic sphere
46 Rental ad abbr.
47 Veto
48 Brownish gray
51 Birdie topper52 Jagged, as a 
leaf’s edge
53 Carnival 
attractions
54 Data unit
55 Musician’s forte?
59 Place for a 
chemical peel
60 Lang. of the Torah
61 __ minérale: 
French spring 
supply
62 Gratified
1.  Sturgeon roe
1.  Reason for a filling5.  Snake ____
2.  French ____6.  Pierce
3.  Farmer’s ____7.  Water ____
4.  Skill, ability ARVCAI
TCVAYIMNVEO
CLENA
LALNVAI
ANACALMCTAFEU
NTATELANSWERS: 1A-Caviar  5A-Venom  6A-Lance  7A-Faucet
1D-Cavity  2D-Vanilla  3D-Almanac  4D-Talent  B-Vatican City2-8-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This takes up 110 acres. BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Kelly Barnhill and the Florida 
softball team begins the 2019 
season this weekend at the USF 
Opening Weekend Invitational. 
UF's first game is Friday against 
Illinois State.Gators down Alabama at the O'Dome
The Florida women's basketball team defeated the Alabama Crimson Tide 
57-55 on Thursday night at the O'Connell Center. Guard Funda Nakkasoglu 
led all players with 20 points on 7-of-15 shooting, including a 40 percent clip 
from beyond the arc.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s basketball 
team hasn’t lost three-straight 
games this season. But it’ll have 
to pull off a major upset if it 
wants to keep it that way. 
Next up is No. 1 Tennessee 
on Saturday, and UF will have 
to take on the nation’s top team 
on the road.
The Gators hit perhaps their 
rock bottom in conference play 
when they were dominated 
by Auburn on Tuesday night. 
Florida led in the ﬁ  rst minute of 
that game and not a minute af-
terward. The Tigers leapt ahead 
by as much as 18 points in a 76-
62 win, snapping an 11-game 
losing streak to the Gators. UF 
committed 17 turnovers in the 
defeat. 
Senior center Kevarrius 
Hayes knew that wasn’t enough 
of an effort to compete in the 
SEC.
“We weren’t very poised tak-
ing care of the ball,” he said in 
a release after the game. “We knew that part of their game 
plan is to play fast and try to 
turn us over. That gives them a 
chance to get out in transition — 
and they’re a very good team in 
transition.”
Florida (12-10, 4-5 SEC) lim-
ited the turnovers in their ﬁ  rst 
matchup against the Volunteers, 
a 78-67 loss on Jan. 12 in the 
O’Connell Center. The Gators 
hung around until the end of 
that game, but 34 combined 
points from Vols stars Grant 
Williams and Admiral Schoﬁ  eld 
allowed UT to pull away late.
Tennessee (21-1, 9-0 SEC) is 
still unbeaten in the SEC, and 
its lone loss of the season came 
in overtime against Kansas on 
Nov. 23. If Florida wants to be 
the ﬁ  rst team to down the Vols 
in Knoxville, Tennessee, it’ll 
have to play much tighter than 
it did against Auburn.
KeVaughn Allen and Noah 
Locke scored 18 points and 16 
points, respectively, in the ﬁ  rst 
game against the Vols. Florida 
shot 41.3 percent in the ﬁ  rst With loss to Auburn behind it, UF turns attention to Tennessee
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida center Kevarrius Hayes scored 11 points on 3-of-4 shooting on Tuesday against Auburn.
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
24-Evan / Opinion
Florida’s baseball team enters 
the 2019 campaign with high ex-
pectations, as it should.
The club is fresh off its fourth-
straight College World Series ap-
pearance and is looking to make 
its eighth trip to Omaha since 2010 
this season.
With all of that success in mind, 
it’s hard to imagine this Florida 
squad — ranked as high as third in 
various preseason rankings — could be consid-
ered overrated, right?
Wrong.
Just look at the overhaul that has turned this 
season’s roster on its head.
Ace pitcher Brady Singer? Gone. First-round 
third baseman Jonathan India? Gone. Veteran 
starters Deacon Liput, JJ Schwarz and Nick 
Horvath? Gone, gone and gone.
Not to mention Jackson Kowar (10-5, 3.04 
ERA in 2018) and Michael Byrne (the pro-
gram’s all-time leader in saves) are also no lon-
ger on the roster.
Oh, and yeah. Relief pitcher Andrew Baker 
and ﬁ  rst baseman Keenan Bell have left the program as well.
With all of that turnover, it’d be 
moronic to assume this team won’t 
at least encounter a few growing 
pains in the season’s early stages.
The Gators look to have imme-
diate contributions from some of 
their newest members, like fresh-
men Jud Fabian and Cory Acton. 
They are expected to be thrust into 
the starting lineup at center ﬁ  eld 
and third base, respectively.
Fellow rookie Kendrick Calilao is also pro-
jected to be in the starting lineup, replacing 
Schwarz/Bell at ﬁ  rst.
Now don’t get it twisted, the three young-
sters have talent and probably deserve to be 
starters at some point. Fabian in particular was 
named to the 2018 Florida High School All-
State Team.
The fact is, none of them have competed at 
the college level yet, and that inexperience is 
almost guaranteed to breed costly mistakes for 
Florida during February and March.
Over on the mound, there’s even more ques-Gators may be worse oﬀ   than you think
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
There are only two SEC gymnastics 
teams unbeaten in conference play. 
Come tomorrow night, there will only be 
one.
The No. 2 Gators (3-1, 3-0 SEC) host 
the No. 12 Auburn Tigers (5-0, 4-0 SEC) 
tomorrow night at the O’Connell Center 
for the “Link to Pink” event in support of 
breast cancer awareness. Florida enters 
the meet looking to regain momentum 
after a close loss to Oklahoma, and the 
Tigers hope to remain unbeaten after 
beating the Kentucky Wildcats at home.
Here’s what to expect from both of 
the SEC’s top programs when they step 
on the mat tomorrow night.
 
Tigers by the Tail
The Auburn Tigers are the third tiger 
team UF will face this year, and they’ll be far from its easiest opponent.
Auburn hasn’t defeated Florida in 
the O’Connell Center since 2004, and 
it’ll brave the arena once again with ﬁ  ve 
wins under its belt, including victories 
over No. 5 LSU and No. 6 Georgia.
One gymnast to watch is freshman 
Derrian Gobourne, a two-time SEC Fresh-
man of the Week winner this season. Go-
bourne had a 9.950 on the ﬂ  oor in the 
team’s meet against Georgia and shared 
the all-around title with teammate Drew 
Watson with a score of 39.350 against 
Kentucky.
While Auburn has yet to lose, its last 
two meets have been staggeringly close. 
The Tigers only beat Georgia by .375, 
and their last meet against Kentucky was 
a very tight 196.125-196.000.
When the Tigers come to the 
O’Connell Center tonight, they’ll be wor-Florida hosts Auburn in 
“Link to Pink” Meet
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
Evan Lepak
Twitter: @EvanMPLepakFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15
  CB Chris Steele. Bellflower, CA
  CB Kaiir Elam. North Palm Beach, FL
  WDE Khris Bogle. Fort Lauderdale, FL
  OLB Tyron Hopper. Roswell, GA
  TE Keon Zipperer. Lakeland, FL
  OLB Mohamoud Diabate. Auburn, AL
  WR Arjei Henderson. Richmond, TX
  OLB Diwun Black. Kissimmee, FL
  OG Deyavie Hammond. Lakeland, FL
  WDE Lloyd Summerall. Lakeland, FL  RB Nay’Quan Wright. Opa Locka, FL
  DT Jaelin Humphries. Lawrenceville, GA
  OT Michael T arquin. Citra, FL
  QB Jalon Jones. Richmond, VA
  CB Jaydon Hill. Madison, AL  OG Wardrick Wilson. Opa Locka, FL
  OT William Harrod. Fort Washington, MD
  CB Chester Kimbrough. New Orleans, LA
  WR Dionte Marks. Deland, FL
  OG Riley Simonds. Buford, GA
  WR Ja’markis Weston. Clewiston, FL
  OG Kingsley Eguakun. Jacksonville, FL
  OLB Jesiah Pierre. Mount Dora, FL
  WR Trent Whittemore. Gainesville, FL
  OT Ethan White. Clearwater, FL2019 FOOTBALL RECRUITING CLASS
BY THE NUMBERS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s basketball 
team has been in a rut all season.
They couldn’t make a shot if 
the ofﬁ  cials made the rim bigger. 
They get outrebounded nearly ev-
ery game. They just don’t have 
enough developed talent to be 
competitive in the SEC. 
It has been a bad season, the 
worst since coach Mike White 
took over four years ago. Flori-
da’s offensive woes are starting to 
catch up, and its fanbase is losing 
hope for the season.
But is it UF’s worst offense 
since the turn of the century?
In our ﬁ  rst edition of alliga-
torSports “By The Numbers,” we 
look into whether this is an accu-
rate statement or not, all based on 
pure stats and analysis. Question: Is this Florida bas-
ketball’s worst offense in the 
past 20 seasons?
It’s hard to believe it isn’t. Es-
pecially the way this season has 
gone.
The Gators are averaging 68.7 
points per game, which is the second worst in the SEC ahead 
of only Missouri (68.0). They 
are turning the ball over nearly 
12 times a game, and they aren’t 
creating nearly enough assists to 
make up for it (13.1 per game).
Mix those stats with a low 
42.1 percent shooting average 
from the ﬁ  eld and a sub-par 34.7 three-point shooting percentage, 
and it’s clear to see why Florida 
is struggling this season. It cur-
rently sits at a 12-10 record mid-
way through conference play. Not 
an ideal season for a team coming 
off an NCAA Tournament appear-
ance.
Answer: No, it’s not the 
worst. But it’s close, very close.
This season has made a lot 
of fans forget just how bad the 
Gators were in 2014-15, Billy 
Donovan’s last season at the helm 
before leaving to coach the Okla-
homa City Thunder.
They couldn’t do anything 
well that year. UF averaged 63.7 
points per game, shot just over 32 
percent from beyond the arc and 
shot 63.5 percent from the char-
ity stripe. All worse than this sea-
son’s numbers.
The 2014-15 team also turned 
the ball over more (12.4 per 
game) and grabbed less offensive 
rebounds (10.5 per game).
That team went 16-17 and 
missed the postseason for the ﬁ  rst 
time since 1997-98, the second 
season under Donovan.
If we had to point to any offen-
sive campaign as the worst in the 
past two decades, it would clearly 
be this one. 
But Florida is ﬂ  irting with the 
wrong side of history this season. 
That seems to be because it isn’t 
adapting as college basketball 
continues to evolve. 
UF’s average scoring has been 
on the decline since the 1999-2000 
season, when it averaged 83.8 points per game. Not even the 
back-to-back championship years 
from 2006-07 could match that. 
They only averaged 79 points per 
game during that two-year span.
Now those numbers are inch-
ing closer to the upper 60’s. Some 
of that can be attributed to the 
increase in the amount of threes 
Florida takes. Last season saw it 
take 832 threes, the most since it 
attempted 939 in 2011-12.
Another reason for the de-
cline could be the lack of assists. 
The Gators have been hovering 
around just over 13 assists per 
game for most of the past ﬁ  ve 
seasons. During the champion-
ship years, they were averaging 
16 per game.
Conclusion: This is not UF’s 
worst offense in the past 20 
seasons.
The only category this Florida 
team is the worst in is its 42.1 
ﬁ  eld goal percentage.
Everything else is either lower-
middle-of-the-pack or relatively 
close to the bottom. 
The Gators are in their worst 
season under White, but at least 
it’s not the worst in the past two 
decades.
Check the @alligatorSports 
Twitter page and vote for the 
next “By The Numbers” story you 
would like to see.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
  Is this Florida basketball’s worst oﬀ  ense in the past 20 seasons?
2018-19 season: 
22 games played 
68.7 points per game 
0.421 ﬁ  eld-goal shooting 
0.347 three-point shooting 
13.1 assists per game 
12.0 turnovers per game2014-15 season: 
33 games played 
63.7 points per game 
.434 ﬁ  eld-goal shooting 
.323 three-point shooting 
13.1 assists per game 
12.4 turnovers per game2006-07 season:
40 games played 
79.8 points per game 
.526 ﬁ  eld-goal shooting 
.409 three-point shooting
15.3 assists per game 
14.1 turnovers per game
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Men’s basketball coach Mike White and the Gators are in the middle of one of the worst offensive 
seasons in the past 20 years. They are averaging 68.7 points a game, the second lowest in that span.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!tion marks.
The 2018 three-day rotation has 
been ripped to shreds with Singer and 
Kowar now Major League Baseball 
hopefuls.
Those two combined for 22 wins 
and 229 strikeouts last year.
You aren’t going to just snap your 
ﬁ  ngers and replace that kind of pro-
duction.
And yeah, sophomores Jack Left-
wich and Tommy Mace started in 
some games and junior Tyler Dyson 
has plenty of experience to assume the 
role of UF’s new ace, but you simply 
can’t compare them to what the team 
lost.
Leftwich and Dyson combined for 
a 10-8 record last season with both 
ERAs hovering over four.
Mace was 5-0 in 26 appearances 
but only made six starts.
The bullpen has now been over-
loaded with freshmen as well. Six 
pitchers were playing high school 
baseball in 2018.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan admits to 
some of the uncertainty that is hover-
ing over this year’s team, and it seems 
he realizes the impact some of the 
newcomers will make on its perfor-
mance early in 2019.
“There’s a lot of question marks,” 
O’Sullivan said. “But from a talent 
standpoint, it’s a good nucleus.”
It’s obvious O’Sullivan has con-
ﬁ  dence in his young players to take 
their lumps and come out just ﬁ  ne 
when the calendar turns closer to 
summer. He has seen it happen, and 
I’m not saying I don’t agree with him.
All I’m saying is, don’t be surprised 
when the Gators drop a series to Win-
throp or lose a game to Jacksonville 
before SEC play gets started.
Evan Lepak is a sports writer. Follow 
him on Twitter @evanmplepak and con-
tact him at elepak@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 14
rying about themselves, not the 
Gators.
“I think it’s really important 
just because you don’t need to 
look at anybody else’s scores,” 
Watson said in a release. “We are 
with ourselves, and I think that 
we have enough competitiveness 
within our team that we don’t 
need to look outside at that.”
The Lighter Orange and Blue
The Gators didn’t do quite 
enough to knock off Oklahoma on 
the road last Friday, but they’re 
certainly still feeling conﬁ  dent af-
ter the loss.
The team’s 198.025 was its 
highest score on the year, and 
it featured performances from 
sophomore Alyssa Baumann and 
freshman Trinity Thomas that 
earned them the SEC Specialist 
of the Week and SEC Freshman 
of the Week awards, respectively. 
Thomas has won an SEC award 
every week of the season.Senior Alicia Boren noted 
Auburn’s impressive record but 
didn’t look past her own team.
“Auburn is really good, and 
they’ve improved a lot this year,” 
she said. “But we keep getting 
better, as well.”
UF will look to shape up its 
vault landings, which have con-
tributed to the lower scores in 
the event this season, while con-
tinuing its success on events like 
the bars and the beam, where it 
is tied for and holds the season 
high, respectively.
The Gators may be aware of 
Auburn’s status as the only other 
undefeated team in conference 
play, but they’re ready to step up 
to the challenge head on come to-
night.
“That’ll be fun,” Thomas 
said of the meet on Wednesday. 
“That’ll be interesting. We’re ex-
cited, we’re ready, and we can’t 
wait to take on Auburn.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14Florida scored season-high 198.025 against OU
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Sophomore gymnast Alyssa Baumann earned SEC Specialist of 
the Week for her performance against Oklahoma on Friday.
half and led by three at the break. But if 
the Gators want to win this time, especially 
playing on the road, they will have to avoid 
another second-half collapse. Florida will 
need a consistent offensive performance 
throughout to keep pace with the Volun-
teers, who boast the sixth-best scoring of-
fense in Division I basketball. 
UF’s 18th-ranked scoring defense will have its hands full against Schoﬁ  eld and 
Williams, who both cracked the Late Season 
Top 20 Watch List for the Wooden Award. 
Hayes and forward Dontay Bassett face the 
tough task of defending Williams on the in-
terior. He’s one of the most dynamic players 
in the country and can hurt his opposition 
in multiple ways, whether it be from the 
mid-range or driving to the basket.
If he can take over the game the way he 
did the ﬁ  rst time around, it could be a long 
afternoon for the Gators.After playing the Volunteers, Florida 
has a stretch of winnable games, and how 
it performs in those games will determine 
its tournament fate. But unless UF puts to-
gether an uncharacteristically strong perfor-
mance against Tennessee, it will likely have 
to dig itself out of an eleven-loss hole.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Tennessee has the sixth-best scoring ofense in the NCAA