We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
GATORS SHARPEN THEIR GAME
Fourteen Gators are playing collegiate sum-
mer baseball, pg 10. Man charged with Alachua shooting 
Thaddeus Mark Surrency, 43, was identiﬁ  ed in a photo lineup 
before being arrested, pg 4
Locals remember Stonewall riots 50 years later
The Pride Community Center of North Central Florida honored 
the riot’s 50th anniversary on Saturday, pg 6FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
TUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 98
MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE ARE 
EXPECTED TO ATTEND THE 
EVENT AT SMATHERS LIBRARY 
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
UF Smathers Library and the Bob 
Graham Center for Public Service is 
partnering with former Senator Bill 
Nelson to host a discussion on bipar-
tisanship. 
Nelson will gather with Republican 
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio in the Grand 
Reading Room on the second ﬂ  oor of 
Smathers Library today at 2:30 p.m., 
where they will speak for about an 
hour, said Misty Colson, library ad-ministration executive assistant. 
More than 200 people are expected 
to attend. Due to limited space and 
high interest, it will also be streamed 
online, Colson said. 
Smathers Library has never hosted 
an event like this before. 
Nelson deposited a collection of 
papers and other historical materials 
to the George A. Smathers Libraries 
after stepping down as senator that 
established the Bill Nelson Initiative 
on Ethics and Leadership at UF, said 
Judith Russell, Dean of University Li-
braries. 
This initiative will include an ongo-
ing series of speakers and seminars, 
classes for UF undergraduate and 
graduate students and a fellowship program for UF graduate students in-
terested in more in-depth examination 
on ethics and leadership, Russell said.  
This ﬁ  rst event was planned largely 
around the schedule of Senator Rubio 
and the U.S. Senate. 
Because the Senate is in congres-
sional recess from Monday to Friday 
for Independence Day, it was a con-
venient time for Rubio to come to UF, 
Russell said. 
“Nelson wanted this ﬁ  rst one to be 
clearly bipartisan and to be reﬂ  ective 
of the way that he and Senator Rubio 
have worked together for many years 
for the good of the country but par-
ticularly for the good of the citizens of 
Florida,” Russell said. 
Adreanne Martinez, 20-year-old UF history and political science senior, 
attends many of the Bob Graham Cen-
ter events on campus because it ties 
into her ﬁ  eld of interest, she said. She 
is excited to hear from both political 
ﬁ  gures.
“I am very excited for this event be-
cause Rubio and Nelson will discuss 
their thoughts on bipartisan coopera-
tion in the U.S. Senate,” she said. “I 
think this is important because our 
country has become increasingly hy-
per-partisan over the past few years, 
especially in legislative politics.”
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgSen. Rubio, former Senator Nelson to speak at Smathers
“WE ARE OFTEN 
MISUNDERSTOOD 
OR FLAT-OUT DENIED 
CARE DUE TO OUR 
IDENTITIES”
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
Nathan Quinn came out as 
transgender at 17. However, he 
found his identity became a bar-
rier to ﬁ  nding an adequate medi-
cal professional. 
Although Quinn, now a 
21-year-old UF psychology senior 
and president of the UF Pride 
Student Union, came out before 
college, he said he didn’t feel 
comfortable seeing any ordinary 
doctor in Gainesville. 
“We are often misunderstood 
or ﬂ  at-out denied care due to our 
identities,” Quinn said. 
After a long search, Quinn 
found a medical physician in the 
UF Health network who took transgender patients in order to 
access care in Gainesville. 
“Luckily, she had sought out 
the education she needed to help 
trans patients who were other-
wise being denied care,” Quinn 
said. 
Although Quinn found a doctor who he trusted, other LGBTQ+ 
patients cannot say the same, said 
Merry-Jennifer Markham, associ-
ate director for medical affairs at 
the UF Health Cancer Center. 
Inclusion at Shands
Last year, UF Health Shands 
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Nathan Quinn is a 21-year-old UF psychology senior and 
president of the Pride Student Union. “I didn’t go to any doctor 
before ﬁ  nding someone I would be comfortable seeing, ” Quinn 
said. “I luckily was able to ﬁ  nd a doctor in Gainesville before 
moving here for college. ”
UF Health transforming medical 
assistance for LGBTQ+ patientsACCENT SPEAKERS BUREAU 
IS HOSTING ACTOR AND 
SOCIAL MEDIA INFLUENCER 
JOSH PECK ON JUL Y 10TH
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer
Lock your doors, UF. It’s not cra-
zy Steve, but the infamous theater 
thug, that’s comin’ to town. 
Woah, take it easy man. He 
was just the actor.
That’s right, actor, producer 
and social media inﬂ  uencer Josh 
Peck, best known from the Nick-
elodeon TV show “Drake and 
Josh,” is coming to UF as a guest 
speaker for the Accent Speakers 
Bureau. 
Peck is speaking on July 10 at 
the University Auditorium, said 
Henry Fair, Accent chairman. 
Doors open at 6:30 p.m., and 
the event, which is open and free 
to the public, starts at 7:30. 
The Alligator submitted a pub-
lic record request for Peck’s con-
tract. The amount he is being paid 
is unknown at this time. Peck will be speaking about his 
career, overcoming the stigma of 
being a child actor and how he’s 
transitioned into different ave-
nues like social media, Fair said.
Peck was chosen because he 
resonates with students, Fair said. 
The event is expected to reach ca-
pacity at about 850 students.
Students can pick up tickets 
July 8 through July 10 from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Student Government suite with 
their Gator 1 ID, he said. 
Leftover tickets will be at the 
University Auditorium box ofﬁ  ce 
and will be available when doors 
open. 
Lexi Cook, a 17-year-old UF 
political science freshman, wants 
to hear Peck speak after watching 
Drake and Josh. 
“I’m just excited to see him be-
cause I’m a fan of Drake and Josh 
— everyone is,” Cook said. “I’ll 
be there for it.” 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgJosh Peck to speak at UF 
SEE SHANDS,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Social Media StrategistUniversity EditorHIGH  97° LOW  77°
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasFanfares and Fireworks
On Wednesday, visit Flavet 
Field, 605 Woodlawn Drive, 
from 6 to 10 p.m. for an 
Independence Day celebration. 
The fireworks show will begin 
around 9:40 p.m. Food trucks 
from PDQ, Twisted Okie, 
Loagies, Hyppo Ice Pops and 
Cilantro Tacos will be onsite. 
There will be live music from 
Bears & Lions, Wax Wings, 
Billy Buchanan & his Rock ‘n 
Soul Revue and Gainesville 
Community Band. For safety 
reasons, no dogs, sparklers, 
drones or alcohol are allowed 
at the event. Coolers are al-
lowed but may be subject to 
search by the UPD.
20th Annual Fourth of July 
Celebration in Alachua
On Thursday, you can attend 
“The Largest Small Town 
Fireworks Display in America” 
at the Hal Brady Recreation 
Complex, 14300 NW 146th Terrace, from 3 to 10 p.m.  
There will be dozens of ac-
tivities for the kids including 
bounce houses, rock wall 
climbing, bungee jumps, wa-
ter slides, a spray park and a 
skateboard park located on 
site.  There will also be several 
vendors, bingo contests, danc-
ing groups and live music. The 
celebration concludes with a 
finale of fireworks at 9:30 p.m.
Micanopy July 4th Celebration
The annual red, white and 
blue parade rolls down 
Cholokka Boulevard. start-
ing at 11 a.m. A family-
friendly festival takes place 
at The Ballpark, 352 NW 7th 
Terrace, with music, food and 
a bounce house for kids before 
the fireworks display at dusk.
Other than emergency ser-
vices, all Alachua County gov-
ernment offices will be closed 
Thursday for Independence Day. Residential curbside 
collection service for solid 
waste, recycling and yard 
trash will be delayed by one 
day. The regular schedule 
will resume on Monday. The 
five Alachua County Rural 
Collection Centers will not be 
affected by the holiday and 
will be open for their regularly 
scheduled operational hours.
Florida Museum hosts 
free movie: ‘Ever After: 
A Cinderella Story’
The Florida Museum is host-
ing a screening of “Ever After: 
A Cinderella Story” on Friday. 
An opening reception begins 
at 6 p.m., followed by a panel 
discussion exploring the bal-
ance between science and art. 
The museum's permanent ex-
hibits, except the “Butterfly 
Rainforest” and “Discovery 
Zone,” will be open to the pub-
lic for extended hours until 10 
p.m. The movie is rated PG-13. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 98
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, located 
at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from 
now until Wednesday, July 10th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The 
Alligator by Friday, July 12th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator ofﬁ  ces in 
a meeting open to the public on Friday, July 26th. Applicants must be degree-
seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who 
have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL semester:TUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 TUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
THE PROJECT WILL COST ABOUT 
$16 MILLION 
By Tien Le
Staff Writer
The Gainesville Regional Airport will 
rise to new heights with an expansion 
project on the horizon. 
The 15,200-square-foot expansion will 
include the addition of two gates, be-
tween 16 and 28 restroom stalls and a 
larger food concession area. 
The airport is about 70 percent through 
with the first phase of the expansion, 
which involves the underground utility 
work. This phase started in Fall 2018. Erin 
Porter, manager of marketing and public 
relations at Gainesville Regional Airport, 
said the second phase, the terminal ex-
pansion, is expected to begin in Fall 2019 
and will take about 1.5 years. 
The terminal will have a pet relief 
area available after passengers have gone 
through security. The terminal will also 
have a lactation lounge for mothers, a 
chapel/reflection room and a play area for 
children. 
Porter wrote in an email the expan-
sion is taking place because the commu-
nity and airport are growing. The growth 
will only increase the need for additional 
flights and routes. 
The project is expected to cost 
$15,957,488, Porter said. It will be funded by federal and state 
grants. 
These funds come from the Federal 
Aviation Administration Airport Improve-
ment Program, Florida Department of 
Transportation grants, passenger facility 
charges and revenue from the Gainesville 
Alachua County Regional Airport Author-
ity. 
Passenger facility charges are fees that 
are included in the price of airplane tick-
ets that go toward the maintenance of air-
ports. PFCs are capped at $4.50 per ticket 
by the Federal Aviation Administration.
The Gainesville Alachua County Re-
gional Airport Authority is currently com-
peting for a Federal Aviation Administra-
tion Airport Improvement grant of over $7 
million. 
If the grant is not approved, the airport 
authority can reduce or defer parts of the 
expansion project.  
City Commissioner David Arreola said 
it’s exciting to have growth at the airport 
since it has been a topic of discussion 
among the city commission for some time. 
“We’ve always been trending in that 
direction,” Arreola said, “and it’s nice to 
see, you know, this kind of investment 
being made to grow the number of servic-
es. It’s going to be great for Gainesville.” 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgGainesville Regional Airport 
expansion project to take off
Courtesy of the Gainesville Regional Airport
The Gainesville Regional Airport has plans to continue a 15,200-square-foot terminal 
expansion in order to accommodate the growing Gainesville population. The second phase 
of expansion is expected to begin in the fall. The expansion will include two additional gates, 
a pet relief area, a lactation lounge, a chapel/reflection room and a play area for children. 
formed an employee committee 
composed of people who person-
ally understand the difficulties in the 
medical field for members of the LG-
BTQ+ community, said Ed Jimenez, 
CEO of UF Health Shands. 
This particular committee is dif-
ferent from what is seen elsewhere 
because of its direct connections 
with the LGBTQ+ community, he 
said. 
Before its formation, individuals 
in the hospital would voice ideas and 
suggestions, but it’s now organized 
as an employee committee fully fo-
cused on patient care, patient educa-
tion and how to integrate families, 
Jimenez said. 
“We live in a community in 
Gainesville that is very open and 
progressive,” he said.  “For us, it’s 
really second nature to be inclusive 
and to be thoughtful and open to 
new ideas.” 
Jimenez said he hopes patients 
will feel more comfortable as the 
word gets out about physicians be-
ing more inclusive.
“We’re trying to create another 
resource, but we have to be aware 
that sometimes when you’re trying 
to be helpful, you can sort of inad-
vertently be abrasive or be demean-
ing or not be inclusive,” he said.
Jimenez said UF Health Shands 
wants to spread the word about in-
clusion and seek advice from the em-
ployee committee to gain insight on the best way to inform the LGBTQ+ 
community. 
UF Health also added new op-
tional questions to the registration 
process this past April, said Ashok 
Srihari, an endocrinologist at UF 
Health Shands. 
Srihari said these questions are 
under Sexual Orientation and Gen-
der Identity on the  registration, and 
it’s a whole field in the electronic 
medical record. 
Questions include the patient’s 
gender, gender identity and pro-
nouns in order to improve medical 
care, Srihari said. 
“This is the first step with pa-
tients in this community, and we do 
not want to push them away by mis-
gendering them,” Srihari said.
Researching Risks
When physicians take care of pa-
tients, Markham said they have to be 
sensitive to everything about the pa-
tient because certain characteristics 
may lead to increased medical risks. 
“We know that African-American 
men have higher rates of aggres-
sive prostate cancer, and that’s an 
example of how somebody’s racial 
and gender makeup actually impacts 
their risk for cancer,” Markham said. 
“The same holds true with the LG-
BTQ+ population in that there are 
certain things oncologists need to be 
aware of.”
Researchers from UF Health Can-
cer Center, the University of Miami’s 
Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer 
Center and the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center 
and Re-
search 
Insti-
tute at the University of South Flori-
da received a $150,000 grant on Aug. 
1, 2017, from the Florida Academic 
Cancer Center Alliance. The grant al-
lotted $50,000 to each institution for 
a training course. 
All three cancer centers have an 
interest in reducing health care dis-
parities in the LGBTQ+ population, 
Markham said.
The entire grant was used on 
the pilot program “Curriculum for 
Oncologists on LGBT Populations 
to Optimize Relevance and Skills,” 
which was designed to train oncolo-
gists how to properly approach treat-
ment for patients who are LGBTQ+. 
“This program was designed in 
terms of [LGBTQ+ patients’] inter-
actions with the health care com-
munity and how physicians need 
to be sensitive to their needs while 
understanding of some of the things 
that may be important to them,” 
Markham said. 
There’s data to show people who 
identify as LGBTQ+ may be more 
reluctant to go to a physician with a 
problem, Markham said. 
“They may not feel like they’re as 
welcomed,” she said. “Especially if 
the problem is a very personal one, 
like somebody who is a transgender 
woman who may have prostate can-
cer – that is a very sensitive issue for 
that particular patient.”
Markham said all of the oncolo-
gists involved in the study had pa-
tients who had a delay in their diag-
nosis of cancer because of difficulty navigating the health care system 
due to being LGBTQ+.
“We all really just felt strongly 
that eliminating health disparities is 
really important, and one important 
way to do that in this community 
was actually educating the physi-
cians,” Markham said. 
Since the grant was funded, it 
took an entire year to do the back-
ground research. The researchers 
met with focus groups, which in-
cluded members of the LGBTQ+ 
community, as well as physicians, 
oncologist and advocates.
Markham said, through the feed-
back, they developed an online train-
ing module which was then tested 
by 15 to 20 oncologists at each in-
stitution. 
“The feedback was actually very 
overwhelming,” she said. “People 
really seemed very interested in this 
kind of training and felt that it would 
be useful for their practice.”
The pilot is over, and the course 
is currently in the refinement stage 
of the educational module in order 
to make it a sustainable course, 
Markham said. 
The research team is in the pro-
cess of applying for a larger grant in 
order to make this happen. 
Part of the training included ways 
to identify a medical practice as be-
ing welcoming.
“Simple things like the signage in 
the waiting room or asking patients 
when they come in what pronoun 
they prefer to be called is part of the 
training,” Markham said. 
Markham said she hopes these 
efforts will translate to patients feel-
ing more comfortable and, in turn, reduce delays in getting care. 
She said the course is important 
for colleges to be able to take this 
kind of cultural competency train-
ing but probably more important for 
anybody in the health care setting.
“Eventually, the goal is to make 
this course available through some 
mechanism, nationwide, for on-
cologists in any setting to take it,” 
Markham said. 
From Quinn’s experience, these 
measures are necessary, and he said 
UF Health Shands should require 
trans-specific medical education to 
all doctors.
“Trans individuals face the most 
discrimination and ignorance from 
medical professionals and many 
doctors blame a lack of training and 
need help from their patients on 
trans health care,” Quinn said. 
Quinn heard about the inclusive 
policies UF is planning to implement 
and said he hopes for a better future 
for the LGBTQ+ community. 
“Some doctors are improving but 
many still deny care and remain ig-
norant,” Quinn said. 
Markham and other researchers 
hope to turn this issue around in the 
coming years with the physicians 
and the communication process. 
“I think it’s going to take educa-
tion on both sides,” Markham said, 
“but we had to start somewhere. I 
think starting with the physicians 
was crucial just to raise awareness 
amongst that group about some of 
the barriers that our patients face.” 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgSHANDS,  from pg. 1UF Health Shands received $50,0004  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, wafﬂ  es, savory wafﬂ  e cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgCOFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a 
wide array of desserts and treats made 
daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side Car Our 
Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open Late
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  Come try 
our new specials! Vegan and gluten free 
options available. Mention this ad
and get 10% off your order!BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 
am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese cuisine 
Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the 
modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
THERE IS A $1 MILLION BOND
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was charged in connec-
tion to a June 25 Alachua shooting due to the 
combined efforts of the Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies, the High Springs Police 
Department, Gainesville Police Department 
and Alachua Police Department. 
Thaddeus Mark Surrency, 43, was arrest-
ed by the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce on 
Friday after the man who was shot identiﬁ  ed 
Surrency in a photo lineup.
The man who was shot told police he and 
two passengers were approached by a white 
Ford station wagon, later found to be regis-
tered to Surrency’s wife, at the Wafﬂ  e House 
located at 15979 NW U.S. Highway 441 in Ala-
chua. The driver of the Ford parked two spots 
away. According to the report, several people 
walked back and forth between the vehicles 
before both drove to Northwest 147th Lane.
The man told police he recognized Surren-
cy when he arrived at the second location. He 
said Surrency pulled out a gun, demanded all 
of his money and ﬁ  red three shots toward the man, which struck near his heart and broke 
his elbow.
In an attempt to escape, the shooter ac-
celerated his car down the driveway and into 
a wooded area where he crashed. He got out 
of his car and took the $600 out of his back 
pocket, according to the report.   
While on patrol of the area, law enforce-
ment identiﬁ  ed a station wagon in the back-
yard of a residence in High Springs. A woman 
staying at the home told police Surrency had 
been there earlier in the day and instructed 
her to retrieve a red rag from under the seat 
of the vehicle and “hide it for him,” according 
to the report.
During investigation, police found a pink 
and silver .38-caliber revolver wrapped in a 
red rag in the car. 
Surrency was located in a home in 
Gainesville Friday afternoon. At approximate-
ly 2:30 p.m., he came out of the apartment 
and was arrested without incident. He was 
charged with aggravated battery and robbery 
with a ﬁ  rearm, both felonies. Surrency re-
mains in jail in lieu of a $1 million bond.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgPOLICE SAY HE TOLD 
ARRESTING OFFICERS, “YOU’RE 
GOING TO DIE”
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A man revving his engine at the en-
trance of Oxford Manor Apartments, lo-
cated at 2777 SW Archer Road, Friday 
was met by Gainesville Police after of-
ﬁ  cers received reports of an intoxicated 
person trying to drive a car. 
Larry Edward Wedding Jr., 42, 
jumped out of the vehicle as ofﬁ  cers ap-
proached and yelled, “I wasn’t driving,” 
according to a police report. He told po-
lice he had ﬁ  ve beers but was unable to 
tell them when he had started or stopped 
drinking.
The arresting ofﬁ  cer noted Wedding’s 
mood changed wildly throughout the 
investigation as he yelled racist and ho-
mophobic slurs and threats toward the 
ofﬁ  cers on the scene, according to the 
report.
Police attempted to conduct several ﬁ  eld sobriety tests, but Wedding was 
reportedly unable to follow instructions. 
When offered a breath test, Wedding re-
portedly told police, “F--- you, I’m not 
taking no test.”
Wedding was arrested and continued 
making threats toward the ofﬁ  cers. Ac-
cording to the report, Wedding told po-
lice he had been a boxer for 20 years and 
“to take these handcuffs off and you’ll 
see what’s up.” He also told police, “I’m 
going to drag you from the back of my 
truck. I hope you die.” 
According to the clerk of court re-
cords, Wedding was arrested for ag-
gravated assault in April 2018 after in-
tentionally ramming his vehicle into 
another man’s vehicle in an attempt to 
hurt him. He has been charged with two 
DUIs prior to this incident. 
Wedding was charged with a DUI and 
refusing to submit to a DUI test, both 
misdemeanors. He remains in jail in lieu 
of a $100,000 bond.  
@rschirmerr 
rschirmer@alligator.orgMan charged with Alachua shooting Man charged with DUI, threatsTUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
SENATORS GRABOWSKI AND LIMA 
WERE FORCED TO RESIGN THEIR 
SEATS DUE TO NON-ATTENDANCE 
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
The last regular UF Student Government 
Senate meeting of Summer A semester took 
an unexpected turn when two senators, 
Ben Lima (Inspire, District D) and Senate 
Minority Leader Ashley Grabowski (Inspire, 
Graduate), lost their seats.  
The former senators lost their seats after 
being declared constructively absent by 
Senate President Libby Shaw. This put them 
over the maximum absence limit.
Grabowski and Lima have argued the 
loss of their seats is not valid because 
constructively absent is not a term deﬁ  ned in 
the SG Rules and Procedures. Additionally, they were not removed by the sergeant-at-
arms, who Shaw said was absent from the 
meeting. 
Shaw wrote in an email that the Student 
Senate cannot physically remove members, 
which was why the constructive absence 
created.  
“It is always outlined and explained at 
orientation for all incoming senators, and 
has a strong historical precedent embedded 
in the Student Senate,” Shaw said. 
Shaw said she thinks Grabowski and Lima 
are trying to combine the procedure removal 
with constructive absence procedure, even 
though the two issues are separate.   
Shaw will petition the Student Body 
Supreme Court for a ruling on the 
constitutionality of her use of the constructive 
absence, she said. 
Since losing their seats, Grabowski and 
Lima have been trying to appeal the decision. 
Grabowski said they have been collecting statements of support from students and 
alumni. They currently have over 150. 
Grabowski said she reached out to UF 
faculty members, the UF Board of Trustees, 
the Dean of Students, President Fuchs and 
the General Counsel’s ofﬁ  ce.
She and Lima will be meeting with Kim 
Pace, the Assistant VP of Student Affairs next 
Tuesday.
Grabowski said she submitted an appeal 
to the Senate Rules and Ethics Committee on 
June 25 but hasn’t received a response.
“If nothing internally at UF works, we’re 
open to pursuing other avenues outside of 
the university,” Grabowski said. “We will 
make sure this gets handled one way or 
another.”
Grabowski said there will be people 
speaking on their behalf during public debate 
at Tuesday’s Senate meeting, including 
someone reading some of the statements of 
support they’ve collected.   @charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgTwo SG Senators appeal seats after being forced to resign
THE AGENCY WAS CRITICIZED 
FOR ITS HANDLING OF 
FATAL SHOOTINGS 
Associated Press
Florida’s largest sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce 
has lost its law enforcement ac-
creditation after criticism over its 
handling of fatal shootings at a 
high school and airport.
The Commission for Florida 
Law Enforcement Accreditation 
voted 13-0 last week not to renew 
the Broward Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce’s ac-
creditation. Commission members 
include law enforcement and other 
local ofﬁ  cials from across Florida.
They cited the agency’s handling 
of last year’s Parkland shooting and 
a 2017 shooting at Fort Lauderdale-
Hollywood International Airport as reasons for the decision.
Sheriff Gregory Tony said in a 
prepared statement that it’s dis-
heartening for the agency’s 5,400 
employees to lose their accredita-
tion for the previous administra-
tion’s mistakes. BSO’s former sher-
iff, Scott Israel, was suspended by 
the governor earlier this year.
“Since recently taking com-
mand, I have worked on improv-
ing BSO and repairing the effects of 
bad leadership and negligence by 
focusing on training and commu-
nity relations,” Tony said. “I will 
continue working hard to ensure 
that all Broward residents feel safe 
and that our agency’s reputation 
and honor are restored.”
CFA Executive Director Lori 
Mizell says 166 agencies have the 
voluntary certiﬁ  cation. An agency can keep operating without ac-
creditation. Mizell says having ac-
creditation means an agency meets 
more than 250 professional stan-
dards.
Meanwhile, Israel is running 
for his old job. He ﬁ  led paperwork 
Monday stating his intention to 
run in the August 2020 Democratic 
primary. Israel is ﬁ  ghting the sus-
pension before the Florida Senate 
and had previously committed to 
running for the seat regardless of 
whether he was reinstated.
Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis 
has accused Israel of incompetence 
and neglect of duty for failing to 
properly train his deputies for an 
active shooter situation.
Israel’s lawyer says DeSantis’ 
decision to suspend the sheriff was 
politically motivated.Sheriff’s oﬃ   ce loses accreditation after Parkland shooting
 (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)
In this Jan. 11, photo, suspended Broward County Sheriff Scott 
Israel listens to comments by his attorney at a news conference 
after new Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis suspended Israel in Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida, over his handling of February’s massacre at 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. 
The Alligator reviewed the Senate 
Rules and Procedures and the 300 codes. 
This is what was found:
323.33: During the summer terms, if a sena-
tor has two unexcused or three total absences 
from Senate, it shall constitute resignation by 
non-attendance.
323.41: A senator can submit an appeal of 
the resignation within seven days of the notice 
to the Rules and Ethics Committee Chairman. 
Rules and Procedures Rule 1, section 4b (ii): 
The sergeant-at-arms is tasked with removing 
disruptive senators. Senators will be issued two 
warnings by the Senate president prior to re-
moval. Issuing senators warnings for being dis-
ruptive is up to the Senate President.
The term constructive absence could not be 
found in either document.STONEWALL ’S 50TH 
ANNIVERSARY WAS CELEBRATED 
BY THE PRIDE COMMUNITY
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
The Pride Community Center of 
North Central Florida (PCCNCF) 
held Building on Our History — 
Stonewall 50 Celebration Saturday 
night to honor the anniversary 
of the uprising seen as the cata-
lyst for the  LGBTQ+ civil rights 
movement. 
Consisting of violent demon-
strations, the Stonewall rebellion 
centered around protesting police 
raids on gay bars. The rebellion 
started on June 28, 1969, when 
police raided the Stonewall Inn, 
located in Greenwich Village, New 
York City. 
A video of Walia Moffett, a 
21-year-old UF women’s studies 
junior, reciting the poem “Stone-
wall” by Roz Kaveney played as 
an introduction to the scheduled 
speakers for Saturday’s event.  
Moffett said she found the poem 
inside a book at the PCCNCF’s li-
brary about a month before the 
anniversary event. 
“I was really touched by this 
poem, and other board mem-
bers said this is a really powerful poem,” Moffett said.
After the video, speakers came 
to the middle of the room to talk 
about the work the LGBTQ+ com-
munity has put in to obtain the 
rights they have today and the 
work they still need to do.  
The co-president of the 
PCCNCF, Terry Fleming, 57, 
brought up concerns of LGBTQ+ 
people’s rights at the state and 
federal level. He said there is still 
a long way to go in order to obtain 
equal civil rights for the  LGBTQ+ 
community. 
“The folks at Stonewall didn’t 
look like me,” Fleming said, “and 
they were not rioting for marriage. 
It was not the purpose of the gay 
rights movement. It was a won-
derful outcome, but that was not 
where we started, and that was 
not the intention.”
He encouraged attendees to get 
involved in the PCCNCF or local 
government.
“You have got to do some-
thing,” he said. “You have got to 
talk to your legislators. You have 
got to run for ofﬁ  ce.”
The PCCNCF’s work for the 
LGBTQ+ community includes or-
ganizing Alcoholics Anonymous 
groups, Gainesville’s annual Pride 
parade and festival and health-
based programs like Gainesville 
Area AIDS Project, which helps give food and support to people 
with AIDS.
Clare Holman, a retired com-
puter programmer and now a vol-
unteer for the PCCNCF, was at a 
party blocks away from the initial 
rebellion 50 years ago.
“We were hanging out, hearing 
all these sirens and all this ruck-us coming from a block or two 
away,” Holman said. “We knew 
something was happening, but we 
didn’t know what it was.” 
As a transgender woman, vol-
unteering for an organization 
which serves the LGBTQ+ com-
munity is how Holman shows ap-
preciation for the activists who paved the way for her rights, she 
said.
“Stonewall Inn was a turning 
point,” she said. “It’s a sign post. 
It’s the beginning of not hiding 
and ﬁ  ghting for your right.”
@BtNwallace
bwallace@alligator.org6  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff 
James Brown, 34, raises his glass Saturday night in a toast to the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall 
riots and the progress the LGBTQ+ community has made during the Building on Our History — 
Stonewall 50 Celebration organized by the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. Over 
50 people attended the event which offered food, refreshments and music.
A night to remember: the legacy of Stonewall
THE BILL WENT INTO 
EFFECT IN ALACHUA 
COUNTY ON MONDAY
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
The Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce began to honor ICE detain-
ers on Monday as a result of a bill 
signed by Gov. Ron DeSantis on 
June 14 banning sanctuary policies 
that limit cooperation with federal 
immigration law.
Since September 2015, the sher-
iff’s ofﬁ  ce has not honored ICE 
detainers, or written requests for 
local law enforcement to hold a 
person in custody for an additional 
48 hours after their release to pro-
vide ICE agents with extra time to 
decide whether to take the person 
into federal custody. The sheriff’s 
ofﬁ  ce required the agency to pro-
vide either a judicial order or a 
criminal warrant, according to a 
2017 Weekly Declined Detainer 
Outcome Report from ICE Enforce-
ment and Removal Operations.
In 2018, ICE issued 177,147 de-
tainers, a 24 percent increase from 
the previous year, according to the 
2018 ICE Enforcement and Remov-
al Operations Report.
Arthur Forgey, ACSO spokes-
person, said the ofﬁ  ce chose not 
to honor detainers issued by ICE in 
order to avoid being sued for false 
imprisonment for holding a person in custody beyond their release 
date.
“We weren’t really protecting 
anyone,” Forgey said.
The effect of the new policy on 
the relationship and trust between 
law enforcement ofﬁ  cials and the 
community, a common concern 
for policies like this, remains to be 
seen, Forgey said.
Richard MacMaster is coordina-
tor for the Interfaith Alliance for 
Immigrant Justice, an organization 
that works to educate the com-
munity on the local and national 
immigration crisis. He said the 
newly passed bill is a major shift 
in policy.
“SB 168 is a very negative ef-
fect right across the board,” Mac-
Master said. “It affects not just 
undocumented people. It affects 
documented people in that these 
are their relatives, their spouses, 
their next-door neighbors. If you’re 
threatening one segment of the 
community, you’re threatening all 
of them.”
MacMaster said IAIJ is largely 
an action group and has advocated 
in the past about immigrant issues 
in the city, such as the Gainesville 
Police policies on dealing with 
non-citizens last year. The organi-
zation’s campaigns include deten-
tion and deportation, supporting 
refugees and immigration reform, 
according to the organization’s 
website. 
The bill passed by the Florida Legislature is not the only chal-
lenge the immigrant community 
faces. President Donald Trump said 
in a tweet on June 22 that the mass 
deportations he ordered to happen 
in major cities that weekend would 
be delayed for two weeks.
In 2018, ICE removed 256,085 
immigrants, a 13-percent increase 
from the previous year, according 
to the 2018 ICE Enforcement and 
Removal Operations Report.
Gainesville has had periodic 
scares of ICE raids and there is a 
fear of them in the community, 
MacMaster said.
“We have been, over time, 
publicizing what are your rights,” 
MacMaster said. “Even if you are 
undocumented, you have quite a 
lot of rights.”
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgACSO honors ICE detainers after Gov. 
DeSantis bans sanctuary policies
• In 2018 ICE issued 
177,147 detainers
• In 2017 ICE issued 
142,356 detainers
• In 2016 ICE issued 
86,026 detainers
,
‘No smoking’ laws extend to vaping
THE BAN BEGAN 
MONDAY AND 
VIOLATORS WILL BE 
FINED
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Smoking bans across Flori-
da extended to vaping on Mon-
day.
In workplaces and City of 
Gainesville facilities where 
smoking is banned, vaping 
will now be prohibited as well 
because of Florida Senate Bill 
7012, Chip Skinner, the city 
of Gainesville’s spokesperson, 
said. 
While vaping is relatively 
new compared to cigarettes, 
a ban has been in discussion 
since vapes and e-cigarettes 
entered the market, Skinner 
said. There has been some de-
bate on both the city and state 
level about whether these laws 
should include this new tech-
nology. 
Lawmakers decided vaping 
is just another form of smok-
ing, and it made sense to limit 
secondhand vapors in the 
same way they have attempt-
ed to eliminate secondhand 
smoke, Skinner said. 
“People just need to be 
aware that anywhere where 
smoking was prohibited in the 
past, it would be a good idea 
to not vape there either so that they don’t risk getting a tick-
et,” Skinner said. 
Violators of this law will 
be issued a civil ﬁ  ne, Jorge 
Campos, spokesperson for the 
Gainesville Police Department, 
said. 
The amount of the ticket 
depends on whether violators 
have broken this law before, 
and if so, it will also depend 
on the number of times they 
have broken it, Campos said. 
Campos said the new law 
will not be something which 
they actively enforce and will 
instead depend on complaint 
calls from business owners 
about people who have broken 
this law and would not stop 
when asked to, Campos said. 
However, most owners 
choose to have the person re-
moved from their property 
and issue a trespass warning 
instead. When the police re-
spond to these complaints, this 
is usually the route they take, 
Campos said. 
“It’s almost exactly the 
same as smoking,” Campos 
said, “and though the law be-
fore exclusively identiﬁ  ed and 
deﬁ  ned what smoking indoors 
was, this evolution of the vape 
meant that they needed to 
amend the law to prohibit this 
activity as well.” 
@AshleyLazarski
Alazarski@alligator.orgEditorialTUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Summer B marks the halfway point of summer session, 
but for most of the fresh faces on campus, this is just 
the beginning. With beginnings come the transition 
period of ﬁ  guring out what the hell is going on in this 
humid, and at times bizarre, place we call Gainesville. 
Your high school shenanigans may or may not have prepared 
you for this whirlwind six weeks of learning. The Editorial 
Board has a combined 14 years of experience on UF’s campus 
so take it from us…
The transportation aspect of campus life is a difﬁ  cult monster 
to handle. Parking is limited. Your bus will whiz right by if you 
stand on the wrong side of the street. Those yellow envelopes left 
on your vehicle are not love letters. 
Urban legend has it you’re not a real UF student until your 
car has been towed from parking in a tow away zone. Yes, if you 
park in the wrong zone you will get a ticket. Yes, if you park in 
a tow away zone, you will most likely get towed or booted. To 
avoid tickets or fees and save yourself from an unhealthy high 
blood pressure, take the bus. Saving the environment is pretty 
cool, too. 
Downloading the Transloc Rider app is a decent place to start, 
but do not trust the estimated time of arrival. The app’s ETA is 
like a bad ex. It will lie to your face and say it’s all your fault. 
Pay attention to the bus’ location and watch it like your favorite 
Netﬂ  ix show. Otherwise, you will ﬁ  nd yourself standing at the 
bus stop waiting for a bus already a mile down the road (similar 
to your ex who stood you up). 
Once you master transportation, naturally the next tier on the 
hierarchy of needs is food. Home-cooked meals are hard to come 
by in this town. Regardless of what year you are, nothing will 
ever compare to a dish served with a side of mother’s love. 
The bright golden arches seem like the ideal eatery to drown 
your “I don’t know how to cook anything, and I miss my par-
ents” sorrows. A good cry and hot fries never hurt anyone, but re-
member to eat food with nutrients whenever you get the chance. 
Invite your ﬂ  oormates for a dinner party. Making a family-
favorite dish can be cathartic and a way to open up to people. 
If tight on cash, the Field & Fork Pantry provides students with 
grocery items for free and is located between Marston Library and 
the Reitz Union. Getting a healthy meal may seem obvious but 
is often overlooked. Even experienced college students struggle 
with the home cooked meal crunch. 
One of Gainesville’s nicknames is Rainesville. So much of an 
unofﬁ  cial-ofﬁ  cial title, Snapchat even provides a Rainesville ﬁ  lter 
while in the city limits. But it is no joke. Bring an umbrella ev-
erywhere, even if the forecast says there is no rain. It is a good 
habit to have because around 2 p.m. most days, it rains until the 
late afternoon. The ﬁ  rst time getting caught in the middle of a 
thundershower, you’ll think it’s a ﬂ  uke. The next three times it 
happens, you’ll learn your lesson. 
But regardless of the weather, the transition period can be 
trying on one’s mental health. The UF Counseling and Wellness 
Center is where students can go get help when dealing with any 
mental health concerns. It offers group and individual counsel-
ing. 
Even if you don’t need the services, bring it up to a roommate 
if you notice changes in their behavior or harmful habits. The 
CWC also has drug and alcohol counseling, a resource to high-
light addiction’s warning signs. 
Summer B is the warm up lap. It’s arguably a fantasy. 
There is class only a few times a week. Less people are on 
campus (yes, the amount of people you see on campus these 
coming weeks is far less compared to what’s to come in fall.) 
New experiences and the potential of fresh friendships are ripe 
for the taking. 
Cherish Summer B because even though you may not know 
how to cook or who anyone is, this is the adult version of sum-
mer camp. So jump into the Swamp. 
The Alligator Editorial Board includes the Opinions Editor 
Jackie De Frietas, Editor-in-Chief Mark Stine and managing 
editors Hannah Beatty and Lindsey Breneman.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORThe beginning of any ﬁ  rst date includes 
a few things: introductions, awkward 
small talk and both parties staring 
at each other to check if their date 
looks just as good as they did in their 
proﬁ  le. With one out of every ten American 
adults looking for love online, it’s often dif-
ﬁ  cult to stand out from the crowd. Filters and 
Facetune can help, but what is the difference 
between putting your best self out there and 
pretending to be someone you’re not? 
Catﬁ  shing is used to describe a person who poses as 
someone else online, typically in a romantic setting. It can 
come in several forms, some harmless and some dangerous. 
The term “catﬁ  sh” was ﬁ  rst coined by Nev Schulman in the 
2010 documentary “Catﬁ  sh,” after he was led to believe he 
was dating a dancer who turned out to be a former ﬁ  sher-
man’s wife. 
But the dating trend didn’t end with Nev. Popular ﬁ  lms 
like “Sierra Burgess is a Loser” and “Nobody’s Fool” show 
different instances where catﬁ  shing had a positive and nega-
tive effect. Love is not an impossible outcome from catﬁ  shing 
but discomfort is more likely to occur. 
There are multiple forms of catﬁ  shing. The cookie-cutter 
catﬁ  sh is someone who claims another person’s selﬁ  es as 
theirs and has little to no relationship to the person they’re 
using for their online persona. These situations can be the 
most dangerous with strangers getting to know your person-
al information over time and using it to their advantage. Pos-
sible dangers of catﬁ  shing are the possibility of identity theft, 
fraud and spying. Typical signs of this catﬁ  sh include a lack 
of photos and lack of activity on their social media accounts.
To avoid being catﬁ  shed, be sure to ask for the person’s social media and check for anything that could 
verify their identity. Worse comes to worst, ask 
them to send you a photo through Snapchat. 
Asking them to use a speciﬁ  c ﬁ  lter or time-
stamp can make sure they can’t fake the image. 
Video chatting is also a way to assure yourself 
they are the right person. Always verify a per-
son’s identity before meeting them in person. 
Meeting in a public space, like a coffee shop 
or restaurant can be a backup safety measure 
when meeting for the ﬁ  rst time.
Another more common form is subtle cat-
ﬁ  shing, which includes heavy editing, Photo-
shop and strategic angling in photos to make the person ap-
pear differently than they regularly do. Subtleties range from 
adding a few inches on your height measurement to using a 
gender ﬁ  lter on Snapchat to catch a sexual predator. While it 
may help in getting more matches, it can cause your date to 
be disappointed and your self-esteem to get hurt. 
Smoothing out bad skin and enhancing your ﬁ  gure is a 
way for people to feel better about how they appear online. 
And as someone who edits every photo they post, I’m no 
stranger to feeling insecure about appearances. Putting your 
true self out into the world can be scary, and rejection can 
be devastating. But what’s more devastating is the moment 
your date leaves because they’re not satisﬁ  ed with what you 
look like in person. 
To avoid being the victim of dating awkwardness, be pre-
pared. Posting photos of yourself is about showing yourself 
in the best light, but keep in mind that possible dates can 
only see the version of yourself that you put online. Edited 
or not, displaying your strengths and weaknesses can help 
people see the real you. You might not match with the per-
son you thought was your soulmate, but that’s their loss.
Amanda Martinez is a senior telecommunication major. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.The various levels of catﬁ  shingColumnUF is planning for a lot of changes in the 
coming years. Earlier this month, stu-
dents found out about the $2.2 billion 
expansion and projects planned by ad-
ministrators. These include an expand-
ed honors program residential space, a new stu-
dent healthcare facility and turning Union Road 
and parts of Newell Drive into pedestrian walk-
ways. Although these changes sound appealing, 
I have some thoughts on them.
The expanded honors college is long overdue. Anec-
dotal reports I’ve heard have said while the early class 
registration offered by the honors program is a big bene-
ﬁ  t, there is otherwise little distinction between the hon-
ors program and the traditional college track. Under this 
plan, a new UF Honors College Complex would include 
1,400 beds, a 27,000-foot social and learning space, and 
a 50,000-foot common area with a library, honors pro-
gram ofﬁ  ces, and study and meeting rooms. This space 
would provide more services to honors students, mak-
ing their experience distinct from the regular UF track.
A new and expanded Student Health Care Center is 
also planned for the southwest part of UF’s campus near 
the baseball facilities, which would replace the current 
inﬁ  rmary on Fletcher Drive. A larger healthcare facility 
for an increased student population seems like a great 
idea. On the other hand, the current inﬁ  rmary location 
is near the center of campus. The new location would 
be closer to dorms like Springs and Lakeside, but resi-dents of the other dorms will have to travel 
farther to get on-campus healthcare.
Lastly, we have the pedestrianizing of 
Union Road and the stretch of Newell Drive 
around Turlington. At ﬁ  rst, I thought this was 
a great idea. Cars and students around this 
stretch of road seem to have a mutually harm-
ful relationship. Students crowd sidewalks, 
and drivers often have to wait several min-
utes while students cross at trafﬁ  c-light-free 
crosswalks. 
But the buses along this stretch play a key role in 
transporting students to and from class. Where will the 
buses go once Newell is pedestrianized? If they’re re-
routed, will this new route be convenient to students? 
These are questions that should be answered before 
moving forward. 
While I still have concerns about some of these proj-
ects, I have to admit the choices administrators made 
came from necessity in most cases. These projects won’t 
even start until 2023, long after I and many of my read-
ers graduate. There’s plenty of time to cheer on UF’s 
plans as the administrators hope to bring our school 
into top ﬁ  ve status, but there’s also time to ask ques-
tions and wonder what impact these changes will have.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.UF expansion plans bring both good ideas and concernsColumn
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.org
Amanda Martinez
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Did you know? Modern brunch was first pro-
posed in 1895 as a post-hangover meal.SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
Designated drivers are lifesavers.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
4 bedroom, 4 bath condo each room with
walk-in closet for rent! $385.00 per room
includes cable, electric and internet. Washer 
and Dryer included in condo, common area
is furnished. Condo is located right next to
the pool, gym and volleyball court. Plenty of
parking available. Condo is located on the
main bus route to campus, 10 minute bus
ride. Call- 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031
7-18-19-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
Please recycle this newspaper.
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
1. In 2018, Texas’ Adrian Beltre 
became the all-time major league lead-
er in hits by a Latin American-born 
player. Who had held the mark?
2. Who were the last pair of Phila-
delphia Phillies before Maikel Franco 
and Aaron Altherr in 2018 to each hit 
a grand slam in the same game?
3. How many times have the Kansas 
City Chiefs won three consecutive 
AFC West titles?
4. Entering 2019, the University of 
Miami’s (Fla.) men’s basketball pro-
gram has had five players who were 
chosen in the first round of the NBA 
Draft. Name three of them.
5. How may consecutive seasons 
have the Pittsburgh Penguins reached 
the NHL playoffs?
6. In 2019, Gregg Berhalter became 
the first coach of the U.S. men’s soc-
cer team to also have played for the 
team in a World Cup. When was that?
7. When was the last time before 
2019 (Country House) that the win-
ning horse of the Kentucky Derby 
had odds of winning as being at least 
65-1?
Answers
1. Rod Carew, with 3,053 hits.
2. Ryan Howard and Raul Ibanez, in 
2009.
3. Once (2016-18).
4. Rick Barry (1965), Tim James 
(‘99), John Salmons (2002), Shane 
Larkin (‘13) and Lonnie Walker (‘18).
5. Thirteen consecutive seasons.
6. He played in the 2002 World Cup.
7. It was 1913, when Donerail had 
odds of 91-1.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
July 1, 2019King Features Weekly Service
1. MUSIC: What was the last name 
of the three brothers who made up the 
pop music group The Bee Gees?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Where is Cape 
Flattery located?
3. LANGUAGE: Who is attributed 
the phrase “bread and circuses”?
4. ANIMAL KINGDOM: How many 
walking legs does a lobster have?
5. LITERATURE: Which Russian 
novel begins with the line, “All happy 
families are alike”?
6. COMICS: What does Pokemon 
mean in English?
7. HISTORY: What does the Mexi-
can holiday Cinco de Mayo celebrate?
8. GEOGRAPHY: Which European 
country has the longest coastline?
9. GAMES: What is the meaning of 
the word “canasta” in the card game?
10. MOVIES: In which movie did a 
female monster first appear?
Answers
1. Gibb
2. Washington state, at the most 
northwestern point of the contiguous 
United States
3. The Roman poet Juvenal
4. Eight
5. “Anna Karenina,” Leo Tolstoy
6. Pocket monsters
7.  Mexico’s victory at the Battle of 
Puebla
8. Norway
9. Basket (Spanish)
10. “Bride of Frankenstein”
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 1, 2019King Features Weekly ServiceTUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
A+ CLEANING & PAINTING SERVICES
Seeking homes and offices to clean or paint. 
We customize for each client.
In Central Florida since 1986.
Call 386-717-2929    7-11-5-15
Kay Landscapes
Design | Landscape Installs | Outdoor Living
Plants, Sod, Mulch, Paver & Concrete 
Patios, Screened Rooms, Outdoor Kitchens
(352) 318-7790
7-2-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!By Emily Ludolph and Jeff Chen
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/02/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/02/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, July 2, 2019
ACROSS
1 Former NFL 
running back 
Jennings who 
won “Dancing 
With the Stars” in 
2017
7 Cuban dance
12 Govt. Rx 
watchdog
15 Give in (to)
16 Thorny plant
17 Belonging to us
18 Invisible 
impediment in the 
workplace
20 The Pac-12’s 
Trojans
21 Solar phenomena
22 Kooky traits
24 Flub it
25 Able to speak 
easily, as a 
language
27 Badly mistaken
31 Average schlub
34 53-Down noise
35 Not worth 
debating
36 Is in the red
37 Civil suit cause
38 Predators in pool 
halls
40 Designer Jacobs
41 Set in stone, say
42 Benevolent
43 Hägar’s wife
44 Paul Newman 
caper film
46 Comedian Elayne
48 Full of moxie
49 Theater segment
50 “Reservoir Dogs” 
co-star Harvey
52 Find at a dig
57 Blackjack eleven
58 Invisible 
impediment in 
the sky
61 Twitter guffaw
62 Chose (to)
63 Bit of ramen
64 Football lineman
65 Prerequisites
66 “Communist 
Manifesto” 
co-author with 
Marx
DOWN
1 Garb for many a 
Dickens waif
2 Rights-defending 
org.
3 Read quickly
4 Gas brand with 
toy trucks5 Marketing  
jargon
6 Interior designs
7 Grand slam 
quartet, in 
baseball 
shorthand
8 Internet address 
letters
9 1002, in old 
Rome
10 Regal meals
11 Participates in a 
debate
12 Invisible 
impediment in 
the theater
13 Nightfall
14 Curved sections
19 French “to be”
23 Workers’ 
earnings
25 Scandinavian 
cruise sight
26 “Please 
understand ... ”
27 Eight-member 
ensemble
28 Suds
29 Invisible 
impediment in 
science fiction
30 Packaged buy 
including shower 
curtain, towels, 
etc.32 Join the flow of 
traffic
33 Basketball Hall of 
Famer Robertson
35 Like some stray 
mutts
38 Slalom setting
39 Clue
43 Producer of curls
45 Attaches with 
rope
46 Cutting remark
47 Number on a 
pump50 Curly leafy  
green
51 Micro or macro 
subj.
52 Tacks on
53 Pond critter
54 Staff helper
55 Phone in a 
pocket
56 “__ chic!”
59 Sporty truck, 
briefly
60 Nancy Drew’s 
beau
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/21/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/21/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, June 21, 2019
ACROSS
1 It’s sold in bars
5 D-Day invasion 
city
9 Live
14 Willing follower?
15 Forked over
16 Certain Ivy 
Leaguer
17 That’s a wrap
20 Make more 
flavorful
21 Poet’s 
preposition
22 Fascinated by
23 Opposite of 
hence
25 Gym shorts 
go-with
27 That’s a wrap
35 Bushy-tailed 
canines
36 Eat-on-the-street 
places
37 What an amateur 
may turn
38 Like some 
audiobooks
39 Goes from site 
to site
40 School for a 
prince
41 Beehive State 
athlete
42 Start a court 
contest
43 Radiates
44 That’s a wrap
47 Ike’s WWII arena
48 Italian god
49 Made it up
52 Find fault to a 
fault
55 Evades
60 “That’s a wrap!”
63 Frequent genre 
for composer 
John Williams
64 Bay, play or gray 
follower
65 Kurylenko of 
“Quantum of 
Solace”
66 Identity __
67 Provoke
68 Mulching material
DOWN
1 Loses elasticity
2 “Hamilton” award
3 Opposite of Zulu?
4 They’re often 
adopted5 Like angel food 
cake
6 Strain
7 Bothersome bugs
8 Reason to use 
Febreze
9 Salon supply
10 Not as trusting
11 Author 
Hilderbrand
12 Dust bunny 
component
13 Danish brick
18 Male razorbacks
19 Iconic Chevys
24 Goes down, so to 
speak
26 Reactions to 
missing things
27 2013 role for 
Johnny Depp
28 Get all A’s
29 Common 
hummingbird 
feeder color
30 Cocoon dweller
31 Cause 
resentment
32 __ disc: eye part
33 Stock
34 Quite a stretch
35 Common par
39 Resort near 
Flagstaff40 Former 
Radiohead label
42 Financially 
secure
43 “Star Wars” 
critters
45 Started
46 Dreary
49 Out of concern 
that
50 Rainfall measure
51 Singer Brickell
53 Miles away54 Copter’s 
forerunner
56 2007 Applebee’s 
acquirer
57 Part
58 Costume made 
from a sheet
59 Sports page 
entry
61 Require no 
alteration
62 Honolulu Airport 
wreath
06/20/201914 Help Wanted 18 Personals 13 Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Former UF volleyball player 
Rhamat Alhassan was chosen 
on Thursday to play with T eam 
USA in the 2019 Pan-American 
Games this August.UF athletics program ranked third in nation
Florida's athletics program was ranked third in the Learfield IMG College 
Sports Directors' Cup Standings. Florida is one of three schools to win a na-
tional title every year since the 2008-2009 athletic season.BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
 
The college baseball 
season came to a close 
last Wednesday when the 
Vanderbilt Commodores 
defeated the Michigan 
Wolverines to win the 
program’s second national 
championship.
The Gators' season, 
meanwhile, ended against 
Dallas Baptist in regional 
play on June 2.
For some college 
baseball players, however, 
the grind doesn’t stop 
after their school’s season 
concludes.
Collegiate summer 
baseball gives hundreds 
of players the chance to 
improve in areas that they 
underperformed in during 
the spring.
This year, 14 Gators are 
participating in collegiate 
summer leagues across the 
country, including catcher 
Brady Smith, two-way player Kirby McMullen 
and reliever David Luethje.
Collegiate summer 
baseball isn’t a small 
operation. There are 
over 40 leagues scattered 
throughout the United 
States and Canada.
Prospects from the 
NCAA, NAIA and NJCAA 
use the summer to take 
advantage of extra reps 
and to learn from coaching 
staffs with years of 
baseball experience.
Seasons usually last 
from early June to mid 
August and have 40 to 
70 games, including a 
postseason.
The leagues are 
sometimes referred to as 
“wooden bat leagues" 
because they forego the 
metal bats used by the 
NCAA to prepare players 
for the next level.
 
***  
Florida catcher Brady 
Smith isn’t concerned 
about burning out 
this summer after a 
long spring season 
in Gainesville. The  
junior from Niceville, 
Florida, is far more 
concerned with 
enjoying what summer 
ball has to offer.
“I’m here to develop more as a player 
and to work on my craft,” 
Smith said. “Hopefully 
open some people’s eyes 
and build relationships 
with the coaches and 
players I’m playing with 
here.”
This summer, 
Smith is in Chatham, 
Massachusetts, playing for 
the Chatham Anglers.
The Anglers, one of 
10 teams in the Cape 
Cod League, are led by 
manager Tom Holliday. 
Holliday is the former 
head coach at Oklahoma 
State and the father of 
veteran MLB player Matt 
Holliday.
Coach Mickey Tettleton 
is also on Chatham’s staff 
and has been working with 
Smith since his arrival. He 
brings with him 13 years 
of MLB experience at the 
catcher’s position.
“He has really helped 
me since the first day I 
got here,” Smith said, 
referring to Tettleton. 
“He’s helped me with 
catching and all aspects of 
the game, really.”
So far, Smith has seen 
success, batting .364 
through nine games in 
Massachusetts.
“I’m just focusing on being confident at 
the plate,” Smith said. 
“There’s no scouting 
reports in summer ball like 
there is at Florida, so you 
just have to have the right 
approach and, again, be 
confident.”
Outside of hitting, 
Smith looks to continue 
molding himself into a 
balanced player on the 
field as well as in the 
clubhouse.
“I’ve only been a 
(catcher) for a little 
over three years now, 
so I’ve really just been 
focusing on getting 
better at that position,” 
Smith explained. “Just 
continuing to understand 
the role, and learning 
how to control the game 
better.”
This is Smith’s second 
year of CSB. After his 
freshman season at UF, 
he played in 23 games for 
the Cotuit Kettleers of the 
Cape Cod League, batting 
.333 with one home run 
and 10 RBIs.
“Getting that experience 
after my freshman year 
was pretty awesome,” 
Smith said. “And this 
season, I was fortunate 
enough to get to come back 
to the Cape Cod League… UF improves with summer baseball
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer 
The Gators men’s basket-
ball team already had a top-10 
class to look forward to this 
fall. On Friday, it made yet 
another huge addition. 
UF announced that Kerry 
Blackshear Jr., a 6-foot-10 
power forward from Orlan-
do, had transferred to Flor-
ida from Virginia Tech. The 
Gators have had great success 
with Hokies in the past, as the 
team’s highest scoring gradu-
ate transfers in Jalen Hud-
son and Dorian Finney-Smith 
both started their collegiate 
careers at VT. Blackshear Jr. 
is a graduate transfer himself, 
and he’ll be able to play for 
the Gators immediately.
Blackshear Jr.’s arrival 
should make an immedi-
ate impact on the roster. He 
earned a Second Team All-
ACC nod for his efforts with 
the Hokies last season, aver-
aging 14.9 points and 7.5 re-
bounds in his 2018-2019 cam-paign. He helped cap off VT’s 
season with five double-dou-
bles in his last 10 games and 
put up 18 points, 16 rebounds 
and five assists in the Hokies’ 
loss to Duke in the Sweet 16.
Blackshear was a crucial 
element of Virginia Tech’s 
success last year, and coach 
Mike White will look to bring 
his abilities to an already tal-
ented UF basketball team.
“He’s just become so in-
tegral to literally everything 
we do on both ends,” former 
Virginia Tech coach Buzz 
Williams said in a release af-
ter VT’s victory over Notre 
Dame last season. “When I 
took (Blackshear Jr.) out in 
the second half, he was just 
exhausted because he is so 
important to what we were 
doing.”
Blackshear Jr.’s arrival 
bolsters an already impres-
sive UF roster. Returning 
forwards Dontay Bassett and 
Isaiah Stokes averaged a mere 
2.7 points each last year, 
so the new big man should make an instant impact in 
Gainesville. Blackshear Jr. is 
joined by another forward in 
6-foot-9 recruit Omar Payne, 
who was ranked No. 43 in the 
247Sports rankings, as well 
as five-star recruits Tre Mann 
and Scottie Lewis. 
With sophomores Andrew 
Nembhard, Noah Locke and 
Keyontae Johnson returning 
this season, Blackshear Jr. 
will slot right into a UF squad 
that retains three of its start-
ing five from last year.
Blackshear Jr. chose Flori-
da over Tennessee, Kentucky 
and Arkansas, along with a 
possible return to Virginia 
Tech. He entered this year’s 
NBA Draft, but he withdrew 
his name just hours before the 
deadline.
Florida has the seventh-
ranked 2019 class in the 
NCAA and the second-best 
class in the SEC, according to 
247Sports.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgBlackshear brings extra 
element to UF team
The Associated Press
Power forward Kerry Blackshear Jr. (24) averaged 14.9 points per game 
and 7.5 rebounds per game last year with Virginia T ech. 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida catcher Brady Smith is spending his summer with 
the Chatham Anglers of the Cape Cod League. 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 12TUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
ALLIGATOR AWARDS
For our second installment 
of this summer’s Alligator 
Awards, four of our writers 
go head-to-head and debate 
which Florida coach deserves 
to be named alligatorSports 
Coach of the Year. Track and 
ﬁ  eld coach Mike Holloway, 
football coach Dan Mullen, 
softball coach Tim Walton 
and men’s tennis coach Bryan 
Shelton are all contenders.  
Bryan Matamoros: Coach-
ing one team and having it 
perform consistently at a high 
level throughout the season 
is difﬁ  cult. So coaching two 
teams — at the same time — 
must be impossible, right?
Not for men’s and wom-
en’s track and ﬁ  eld coach 
Mike Holloway, who had both 
teams ranked in the top 10 
nationally for the indoor and 
outdoor portions of the 2018-
19 campaign.
The men’s team took home 
the NCAA Indoor Champion-
ship for the second-straight 
year and ﬁ  fth time since 2010. 
Holloway joined UTEP’s Ted 
Banks and USC’s Dean Crom-
well as the only men’s coach-
es in Division I history to win 
ﬁ  ve NCAA Indoor titles.
UF was also the runner-up 
at the NCAA Outdoor Cham-
pionships, falling 10 points 
short of ﬁ  rst-place Texas 
Tech. That was Florida’s 23rd 
second-place ﬁ  nish in the last 
34 NCAA Championships. 
Its indoor and outdoor per-
formances earned it the No. 1 
and No. 2 spots, respectively, 
in the U.S. Track and Field 
and Cross Country Coaches 
Association rankings.
The women’s team re-
mained consistent throughout 
the year, too.
It’s sixth-place showing at 
the NCAA Indoor Champion-
ships made UF the only pro-
gram with top-10 ﬁ  nishes by 
both its men and women. 
The Gator women also ﬁ  n-
ished sixth in the NCAA Out-
door Championships. They 
are one of two teams to come 
in the top six each of the last 
three years, the other being 
USC.
Holloway’s ability to man-
age two track and ﬁ  eld teams 
— and have them both com-
peting on the national stage — 
earns him Coach of the Year.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgJoseph Salvador: Dan Mul-
len came to Gainesville expect-
ing to return UF to its former 
glory in the college football 
world. He accomplished that 
goal in just one season, and 
for that reason he is my pick 
for Coach of the Year.
Mullen took over a football 
program that had a 4-7 record 
in the nation’s most difﬁ  cult 
conference and ended his ﬁ  rst 
season 10-3. The campaign 
was capped off with a domi-
nant 41-15 win over No. 7 
Michigan in the Peach Bowl.
It’s not like UF had the best 
recruiting class of 2018, either. 
It was ranked No. 14 in the na-
tion and just ﬁ  fth in the SEC. 
I think that Mullen’s coaching 
was the most signiﬁ  cant thing 
that the Gators had going for 
them last season, and it will 
be what carries this team for 
years to come.
@JSalvador_14
jsalvador@alligator.org
Jack Braverman: Despite 
being marred with inconsis-
tencies for nearly the entire 
season, the Gators softball 
team still managed to make a 
deep playoff run, capturing a 
second-consecutive SEC Tour-
nament title, cruising through 
NCAA Regional play un-
scathed and arriving in Okla-
homa City as a potent threat to 
bring home a national champi-
onship.
Finding success in what 
may be seen as an off-year 
is a testament to the superb 
leadership of head coach Tim 
Walton, my pick for Coach of 
the Year.
The 14-year veteran’s knack 
for grinding out wins was on 
full display earlier this sum-
mer, when the Gators rode the 
arm of senior ace Kelly Barn-
hill and the slugging of senior 
Amanda Lorenz all the way to 
the Women’s College World 
Series.
Dan Mullen, my close run-
ner-up, may very well be the 
biggest celebrity of the bunch, 
and deservedly so. Football is 
its own entity in the realm of 
Florida sports, and Mullen’s 
commitment to developing 
excellence has not gone un-
noticed.
But while Dan Mullen 
manufactured a top-15 recruit-
ing class last year and took 
a team with blossoming NFL 
potentials to a New Year’s Six 
Bowl victory, Tim Walton led an SEC-worst offense and one 
star pitcher to college soft-
ball’s biggest stage.
I think the choice for Wal-
ton is clear.
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org
Dylan O’Shea: Bryan Shel-
ton is undoubtedly the alliga-
torSports Coach of the Year.
Shelton brought the usu-
ally underperforming men’s 
tennis program to rare heights 
in 2019. At season’s end, Shel-
ton had coached his squad 
to a 25-4 record. No other 
UF men’s tennis team had 
reached that mark since the 
1999-2000 season. 
This year, Shelton coached 
his team to a third-place tie 
in the SEC Tournament and 
a regular season conference 
championship. More impor-
tantly, he led the squad to just 
its third NCAA Final Four in 
program history.
Shelton did this with only 
three upperclassmen on the 
entire roster.
During the team’s best sea-
son in almost two decades, 
Shelton courted a roster of in-
experienced underclassmen, 
headlined by freshman and 
team captain Sam Rifﬁ  ce. Un-
der Shelton’s coaching, Rifﬁ  ce 
upset the No. 2 player in the 
country in JJ Wolf and went 
further in the NCAA singles 
tournament than any fresh-
man in the country.
The other coaches on this 
list fed off of historically suc-
cessful programs, upperclass-
man presence and top-notch 
recruiting.
Shelton did not come away 
with a bowl win like Mullen, 
an NCAA Indoor Champion-
ship like Holloway or a con-
ference tournament champi-
onship like Walton. He did 
something even more special:
He took a young team and 
changed the culture. He is the 
Coach of the Year, and I be-
lieve he’ll be a nominee for 
this award for many seasons 
to come.
doshea@alligator.org
@dylanoshea24Alligator Awards: University of 
Florida Coach of the Year
Alligator File Photo
UF track and ﬁ  eld coach Mike Holloway led the men’s team to the indoor 
national championship and the women’s team to a top-10 ranking.
I’m going to try my 
best not to contra-
dict myself.
A few weeks 
ago, I wrote a 
column arguing that 
Major League Base-
ball does not have a 
future in the state of 
Florida.
I still don’t believe 
the Tampa Bay Rays and Mi-
ami Marlins have enough fans 
to warrant their existence. The 
fans they do have, however, de-
serve to be treated better than 
Rays’ owner Stuart Sternberg 
has treated them.
I’m sure you’ve seen it by 
now: A couple of weeks ago, the 
Rays announced plans to split 
their home games between Tam-
pa Bay and Montreal, with two 
new ballparks built as a result.
You, the reader, don’t need 
me to tell you how ridiculous 
the proposal is, but I’ll do it 
anyway. It would be a logistical 
nightmare for players, broad-
casters and others afﬁ  liated with 
the team who would literally 
have to move to another country 
in the middle of a season. There 
is no common ground between 
fans in either city, and both de-
mographics would still feel like 
they deserved their own team. 
Sternberg, who has been trying 
to rip off taxpayers in Florida 
for years with various stadium 
proposals, would never get any 
public money toward a new sta-
dium to be used for only half a 
season.
The entire proposal is a slap 
in the face to Rays fans, who 
have lined Sternberg’s pockets 
over the years despite the fact 
that he continually trades fan-
favorite players; despite the fact 
that the team plays in a bad sta-
dium in a worse location; and 
despite the fact that the team 
hasn’t won a playoff series in over a decade.
The split season 
proposal is, in all 
likelihood, just an-
other negotiating 
tool in Sternberg’s 
arsenal as he at-
tempts to get a new 
stadium in Tampa 
Bay. After all, the 
Rays have a contrac-
tual obligation with 
St. Petersburg to play all home 
games there through 2027. 
Mayor Rick Kriseman almost 
instantly shot down the idea as 
soon as it was announced, call-
ing it “silly” in a press confer-
ence and assuring fans that St. 
Pete had no intention of allow-
ing it to happen.
Which makes Sternberg’s 
comments at a press conference 
a few days later all the more 
perplexing. A few highlights:
“We want to do this because 
we are champions of Tampa 
Bay.”
“(People from Montreal) will 
come here in droves to watch 
our baseball team, to set up 
businesses, visit our beaches, 
shop in our shops, eat in our 
restaurants, share in our com-
munity, perhaps retire here.”
“I don’t see it. I don’t see it 
happening in St. Petersburg, 
and I would be hard-pressed to 
see it in Tampa as well, given 
what I know… We are sim-
ply not well-suited for a Major 
League Baseball team that needs 
to draw tens of thousands of 
people for each of its 81 games 
to its ballpark.”
You don’t deserve this, Rays 
fans. Stuart Sternberg made 
a mockery of the entire Tam-
pa Bay area. No businessman 
should treat his customers like 
this, and if that’s the way he’s 
going to act, then he has no 
business owning a Major League 
Baseball team.Stuart Sternberg is a disgraceSam’s Strike Zone
Sam Campisano
twitter: scampisano
scampisano@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 2, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYFOOD TRUCK
GRAND OPENING
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Craft Pints$6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Sam Adams Drafts
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueJULY 3RD & 4TH @ 8 P.M.
2pm - close
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSI’m just building a lot of connections and 
learning from a lot of people.”
Besides Smith, seven other Gators are 
in the Cape Cod League this summer, 
including starting pitcher Jack Leftwich 
and relief pitcher Nolan Crisp.
“I sure hope to get a chance to face 
them,” Smith said. “I’d love to face one of 
my fellow Gators and maybe show them 
up.”
***
A typical day during the collegiate 
summer baseball season is a bit different 
for Kirby McMullen compared to most 
players.
That’s just the way it goes for someone 
who spends time both at the plate and on 
the mound.
“I’ve always learned growing up that 
you can’t overdo it as a two-way player,” 
McMullen said. “You gotta be smart and 
you gotta pay closer attention to your reps 
on the ﬁ  eld so your arm isn’t worn out 
when it’s time to pitch.”
McMullen participates in batting 
practice, and he’ll sometimes head down 
to the bullpen for a session to stay sharp 
on the mound.
In what is McMullen’s third summer 
participating in collegiate summer baseball, 
he’s in Charlottesville, Virginia, playing for 
the Charlottesville Tom Sox of the Valley 
Baseball League.
“I came here last year and had a really 
good time,” McMullen said. “So I had it 
kind of set up to come back after talking 
with the staff here in Charlottesville.”
McMullen has been getting an extended 
amount of at-bats in the batter’s box. He’s 
hitting .367 with two home runs and seven 
RBIs through 13 games.
“Coming up after the college baseball 
season, I just wanted to get in as many at-
bats as I could,” McMullen said. “I wanted 
to get some innings on the mound as well, 
hoping to be as successful as I could be… 
I’m just wanting to go up there and throw 
strikes, get some groundball outs and throw some good quality 
innings.”
In limited action on the 
mound, McMullen is 1-0 
with a 1.58 ERA.
With the lack of school during the 
summer, CSB presents a chance for players 
to focus on themselves and their game 
more than anything.
“I know a lot of us try to work out as 
much as possible during our time here to 
get bigger and stronger since we have the 
time,” McMullen said. “It’s a really relaxed 
schedule for us overall, so we get a chance 
to get some extra time in the weight room.”
A less strenuous schedule and a chance 
to wind down from the usual grind of the 
college season is something McMullen 
enjoys about summer ball.
“At school, we have tutoring, classes, 
actual set times when we need to go to 
the weight room, actual set times for when 
we eat and everything,” McMullen said. 
“Here, it’s pretty relaxed. We pretty much 
do everything on our own time and get in 
the ﬂ  ow of playing baseball.”
Two other Gators accompanied 
McMullen to Virginia. Catcher Cal 
Greenﬁ  eld and Gators’ signee Brock Edge 
are both on the Charlottesville roster.
Edge, a transfer from Santa Fe College in 
Gainesville, is hitting .273 with eight RBIs 
through eight games.
“Me and Brock have been in the outﬁ  eld 
many times so far this season,” McMullen 
said. “He’s an all-around good player. 
Great in the outﬁ  eld as well as at the plate. 
Hopefully he can add some power to our 
offense at UF next season. … He’s deﬁ  nitely 
going to be a good addition to our team.”
***
Coming off of his ﬁ  rst season at UF, 
pitcher David Luethje is now getting a 
chance to experience collegiate summer 
baseball for the ﬁ  rst time.
Luethje is in Wisconsin, playing in 
arguably the most well-known CSB league 
— the Northwoods League — for the 
Kenosha Kingﬁ  sh.
“I learned a bit about summer ball and 
the Northwoods League from other players 
on the team,” Luethje said. “They just 
told me it’s a good experience, and I was 
excited to get up here.”The Vero Beach, Florida, native has 
turned some of that excitement into 
positive results on the mound.
In 16.1 innings of work, Luethje has 
given up no earned runs, allowing seven 
hits while striking out 14.
“I came up here, and I had some things 
I wanted to work on,” Luethje said. “You 
have free time to work on things, so I’ve 
been doing that, and when I get in the 
games I relax, do my thing, and it has been 
working out for me so far.”
According to Luethje, UF coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan encourages members of the 
team to participate in summer ball, if 
possible.
“They want us to play (summer ball), 
so we can keep getting reps in,” Luethje 
said referring to the Florida coaching staff. 
“They designated me to go to Kenosha, and 
I was all for it, because I knew it was an 
opportunity to play in a lot of games in a 
short amount of time.”
The slog of a season in the 
Northwoods League is one 
unlike many others. With over 
20 teams participating, the 
schedule can be unforgiving.
“We play 72 games in 75 
days,” Luethje said. ”So you 
don’t get many off days… We 
get back from some of these 
bus rides around one or two 
in the morning. So yeah, 
there’s a lot of traveling, but 
the baseball aspect has been 
fun.”
While Luethje is in 
Kenosha, he — like most 
CSB players — stays with a 
host family, and they help 
provide things like food and 
transportation, on top of a 
place to sleep.
“It’s me, and then I have 
my host mom and dad, and 
they have a son as well,” 
Luethje said. “Everyone on 
the team has a host family 
and most of them live on their 
own like what I’m doing.”
Luethje probably won’t 
stay in Wisconsin through the 
end of the season.
“I’m supposed to get at 
least 30 innings while I’m here,” Luethje said. “So if I’m feeling good 
after that I’ll probably head home, but if I 
have a couple extra things I want to work 
on then I’ll probably stay and pitch a few 
more innings.”
In order for him to feel comfortable 
leaving, Luethje has a few things in mind 
he wants to shore up before coming back 
to Florida.
“I’ve been trying to tighten up my 
front side, I’ve also been working on my 
back-leg drive to help increase my fastball 
velocity,” Luethje said. “I’ve been focusing 
on my off-speed pitches, too, practicing 
throwing them for strikes, and when it’s 
0-2, working on using them as a put-away 
pitch.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgBASEBALL , from pg. 1014 Gators playing CSB
Chirs King / Alligator Staff
Summer baseball provides another opportunity for 
UF pitcher David Luethje to improve his game.
