We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators bench stepped up against Vandy
Jalen Hudson was one of the UF men’s basketball’s biggest con-
tributors Wednesday, pg. 14First plastic bags, now straws 
The Gainesville City Commission has started conversations 
about eliminating plastic straws, pg. 4
UF researcher dives deep
A 69-year-old professor dives around the world, pg. 4FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 59
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Alyson Moriarty, a 20-year-old UF neuroscience sophomore, lights 17 candles Thursday to memorialize the victims of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting. 
Moriarty attended Monarch High School, which is about 10 minutes away from Stoneman Douglas, and she had friends who were impacted by last year’s shooting.
TO: Parkland 
FROM: Gainesville
CANDIDATES 
ACKNOWLEDGED, 
APOLOGIZED FOR THEM
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Impact Party’s Student Body 
presidential candidate has issued an apology after racially insensitive 
and homophobic posts he and others 
made on his personal Facebook page 
surfaced. 
At least 20 posts on Impact’s Mi-
chael Murphy’s personal Facebook 
timeline from 2011 to 2016 include 
vulgar content, including a stereo-
typical picture of an Asian student in a math class. Murphy also com-
mented on a post saying, “C thats y 
hes a f-- he breaks into there housr R 
U SAYING ALL GAYS BREAK INTO 
HOUSE.” Murphy also commented 
on a post saying he looked different 
with, “o ya i forgot to tell you… i 
changed my gender the other day… 
the surgery was a success.”Murphy’s running mates Sarah 
Abraham, Impact’s Student Body 
vice presidential candidate, and San-
tiago Gutierrez, Impact’s Student 
Body treasurer nominee, also had 
negative posts regarding the LG-
BTQ+ community on their personal 
accounts, The Alligator found. 
The UF Pride Student Union does not condone this behavior and will 
release a statement Friday, said Alex 
Rong, the student organization’s in-
ternal vice president. 
Murphy, 21, wrote in a text mes-
sage he is “deeply sorry for [his] con-
duct back then” and hopes to convey 
his “regret to anyone hurt by [his] Homophobic posts surface from Student Body executive candidatesNEARL Y 1,200 CHILDREN HAVE 
DIED FROM GUN VIOLENCE SINCE 
THE SHOOTING
By Josephine Fuller, Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writers
Anisha Saripalli said she didn’t give herself 
enough time to grieve. She’s been numb for 
most of the last year. 
The anniversary of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting on Thursday 
caused her to mourn her friend all over again. 
Months before the shooting, Saripalli and 
Carmen Schentrup nervously completed their 
college applications together and planned to 
be roommates in Hume Hall if they were both 
accepted to the honors college. 
Plans changed after a former student shot 
and killed 17 people and injured 17 more at 
their school on Valentine’s Day. Carmen was 
among the dead. 
Saripalli, a now-17-year-old UF biomedi-cal engineering freshman, realized she would 
never be able to move in with her best friend. 
She and 47 other Douglas students would be 
starting school at UF without some friends. 
“Part of me still thinks that ‘Oh, she’s en-
joying life at University of Washington’ be-
cause that was her other choice,” she said. “A 
part of me still hasn’t come to terms with the 
fact that she isn’t with us.”
The shooting motivated the Douglas high 
schoolers to start a movement, which began 
at 3 p.m. the day after the shooting with the hashtag #NeverAgain on Twitter, to increase 
school safety and create stricter gun laws to 
prevent future mass shootings. Young people 
throughout the country followed their lead. 
Despite the movement, new gun control 
legislation and vigils, nearly 1,200 American 
children have died from gun violence since 
Parkland. So, some still ask, “How much has 
really changed?”
Teachers could be armed
The protests and fast reaction of students 
SEE SCREENSHOTS,  PAGE 3SEE MSD,  PAGE 8T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING
SATURDAY
Community Forum: “Working 
Food Southern Style”
When: 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: Working Food, at 219 
NW 10th Ave. 
What: The NAACP 
Environmental and Climate 
Justice committee and Working 
Food, a nonprofit that works to 
sustain a local food community, 
will host an interactive afternoon 
of food education. Speakers in-
clude Evelyn Foxx, the president 
of the local NAACP branch, City 
Commissioner Gigi Simmons and 
Karen Washington from Rise & 
Root Farm. Admission is free, 
and lunch will be provided. 
Mandala rock painting class
When: 2-4 p.m. 
Where: Alachua County Library 
District, at 401 E. University Ave.
What: Attendees can learn about 
how cultures value the mandala’s 
meaning. Mandalas are used as 
a therapeutic tool and a source 
of inner reflection. All ages are 
welcomed, but children need to 
be accompanied by an adult. Art 
supplies and rocks will be pro-
vided. The event is free, and no 
registration is necessary. Seating 
is limited.
 
MONDAY
Student Government elections
When: 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Monday and Tuesday
Where: Beaty Commons TV-
Recreation Room, Broward Hall 
Recreation Room, Health Science 
Center BITS C1-121, Heavener 
Hall Room 202, Levin College 
of Law BGH Student Commons, 
Marston Computer Lab Second 
Floor, Murphree Hall Conference 
Room, Norman Hall Education 
Library, Reitz Union Lower Level 
SG Printing Lab, Southwest 
Recreation Center Social Lounge, 
Springs Area Office Room C202
What: UF students can vote in 
the SG election. Candidates for 
the Student Body president, vice 
president and treasurer are on 
the ballot as well as 50 senators 
by college and grade level. 
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
Alachua County Library District
African American Read-In
When: 2-3:15 p.m. Saturday
Where: Hawthorne Branch, lo-
cated at 6640 SE 221 St.
What: Attendees can discover books and stories by African 
Americans. Refreshments will be 
provided.
Black History through the Arts
When: 3-4 p.m. Sunday
Where: Archer Branch, located 
at 13266 SW State Road 45
What: Attendees can celebrate 
black history with music, dance 
performances, poetry readings 
and lectures. The keynote speak-
er will be John Gay, the past 
president of the Orlando chapter 
of the Tuskegee Airmen.
Tasty History
When: 3-4 p.m. Tuesday
Where: Cone Park Branch, lo-
cated at 2801 E. University Ave.
What: Children ages 5-11 can 
celebrate Black History Month 
and the invention of the potato 
chip.
African American Read-In
When: 2-4 p.m. Feb. 24
Where: Alachua Branch, located 
at 14913 NW 140th St.
What: Attendees, including 
community leaders, will read 
passages, poems and stories by 
black authors.
MORE
Santa Fe adjunct professors 
will speak about their union 
campaign
When: 6 p.m. Feb. 26
Where: Emmanuel Mennonite 
Church, located at 1236 NW 18th 
Ave.
What: Santa Fe College adjunct 
professors will speak about their 
unionization campaign at Santa 
Fe at the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition monthly general meet-
ing. Professors will talk about 
their almost two-year push for liv-
ing wages, better working condi-
tions and a union. Refreshments 
will be provided. 
Theater trivia fundraiser
When:  6-9 p.m. Feb. 23
Where: The Hippodrome State 
Theatre, located at 25 SE Second 
Place in downtown Gainesville
What: A theater-themed trivia 
night for Y-Not Theatre’s annual 
fundraiser aims to raise money for 
the local nonprofit that supports 
playwrights and actors across 
north-central Florida. Tickets 
are $25 before Friday; after that, 
tickets will be $35. Sababa, a 
Mediterranean restaurant, will 
provide a buffet. Cake will be 
provided by D’Lites Emporium. 
The Gainesville Improv Guild will perform a show at intermission.
Stories from the Rabbit Hole
When: 2-4 p.m. Sunday
Where: Eastside Recreation 
Center, at 2841 E. University Ave. 
What: Baba Turbado, a folklor-
ist, visual artist and storyteller, 
will use storytelling to spin tales 
that encourage good character 
and bring people together in the 
spirit of family. This immersive 
experience will include African 
drumming, dance, culture and in-
teractive mural making with Baba 
Turbado and the FentaGo Drum 
and Dance Troupe of Caring and 
Sharing Learning School.
OTHER
Life and Legacy of A. Quinn Jones
When: From Feb. 1 to Feb. 28
Where: Cone Park Library, at 
2801 E. University Ave.
What: A touring exhibit featuring 
artifacts and panels from the orig-
inal exhibit on display at the A. 
Quinn Jones Museum & Cultural 
Center.
“Marshall” film screening:
When: 3-6 p.m. Feb. 10
Where: Thomas Center, at 302 
NE Sixth Ave.
What: A screening of the mov-
ie “Marshall," a movie about 
Thurgood Marshall, followed by 
a discussion about Marshall with 
Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons, a 
UF assistant professor in the de-
partment of religion. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  54°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Lily Griton, Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones,  Shelby Smith,
Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 59FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
An Army veteran, lawyer, astronaut 
and politician.
They’re not four different people. It’s 
just former U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson.
After an extensive political career, 
Nelson deposited his collection of papers 
from his public life in a UF library.
About 800 boxes 
and 260,000 electronic 
files were delivered to 
UF’s Smathers Library 
in early January, said 
UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando.
“This is a research 
resource for historians 
when they go and put 
together different pieces of history and 
what was important,” Nelson said. “In 
my case, my work is shown not only in 
Florida, but on the national level as well.”
Nelson’s roots in Florida stem from 
as early as 1829, when his family settled 
shortly after Florida was acquired from 
Spain as a territory, he said.
Nelson was once a Gator himself in the 
early 1960s before transferring and gradu-
ating from Yale University with a degree 
in political science.
“I’ve been a lifelong Gator, so this was 
a natural place to deposit these docu-
ments,” Nelson said. 
The documents in-
clude speeches, press 
releases, letters, photo-
graphs and correspon-
dence with constitu-
ents during his term in 
Congress, he said.
A space collection 
will also be among the 
documents, which de-scribe his training and flight on the Space 
Shuttle Columbia through photographs 
and other reports, he said.
Nelson and library staff are reviewing 
the documents to determine which will be 
made public, Orlando said. The reviews 
could take several months, as some docu-
ments cannot be released until cleared by 
Nelson and other librarians and archivists. 
Once they are, they will be released a little 
at a time.
Orlando said students can use the doc-
uments for research in academic papers 
or for looking to uncover information. The 
process will take a few months and will 
be done in segments with files being both 
digital and physical.
R. Matthew Barocas, the UF College 
Democrats treasurer, said he is interested 
in learning  about Nelson’s political deal-
ings with College Democrats of Amer-
ica chapters across the country. He also 
wants to use the documents to understand 
the role of students in his past campaigns.
“Any resources on politics and his-
tory in the state of Florida are good for 
student review, especially because his 
tenure in office was so recent,” said Bar-
ocas, a 19-year-old political science soph-
omore. “There’ll be a lot of illuminating 
documents on the current workings of 
the Senate.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgFormer Sen. Bill Nelson 
archives astronomical 
amount of papers at UF 
Nelson
immature actions,” as he’s learned a great deal 
since the posts.
He asks for the university community to judge 
him by his time and record at UF, instead of his 
social media from middle school.
“I am heartbroken to think that my actions 
caused any student at UF pain, and I will work 
every day for the remainder of my time on cam-
pus to make up for it,” Murphy said.
Murphy did not respond to follow-up ques-
tions. The posts have been deleted since The Al-
ligator contacted Murphy about them. 
The posts came to The Alligator’s attention 
when an anonymous email was sent to the edi-
tor. The posts were then independently verified 
by reporters. 
One of the photos sent in the anonymous email 
shows the profile picture of Zachariah Chou, the 
Inspire Party Student Body presidential nominee, 
and another shows his name logged into the ac-
count. 
Chou, 21, said he did not send the photos to 
The Alligator but confirmed he took two of the 
photos the paper received, including one some-
one shared on Murphy’s profile of a black woman 
with the caption “Happy birfday I got you a strip-
per,” in November 2016. Murphy liked the post. 
Chou said he sent the pictures to friends via 
Snapchat in November, and one of the recipients 
most likely took a screenshot and sent the images. 
Although Chou said Murphy’s posts were im-
mature, he believes his opponent’s values have 
changed.
“People grow up in these enclaves where they 
don’t have access to different sorts of diversity,” 
Chou said. “If you don’t have access to people of 
different backgrounds, that’s going to temper the 
way they post online.”
The Alligator also searched through the social 
media of Chou; 20-year-old Gouthami Gadamset-
ty, Inspire party’s Student Body vice presidential 
nominee; and 19-year-old Mackintosh Joachim, 
Inspire party’s Student Body treasurer nominee 
but did not find posts with crude terms or dis-
criminatory meanings upon multiple searches.
Murphy said the posts in question were cre-ated because he was assigned to a shared middle 
school computer for class and would often inad-
vertently leave his account logged in, which is 
when he said other middle school students would 
post the vulgar comments.
“I never should have allowed them to remain 
on my page, and for that, I am again truly sorry,” 
Murphy said.
In February 2014, Impact’s current Student 
Body treasurer candidate Santiago Gutierrez, 20, 
had a Facebook post that said, “I’m coming out!! 
I want the world to know! Got to let it show!” on 
his page. There were 10 comments below, includ-
ing Gutierrez claiming his brother “hacked” him 
and that he is “not gay.”
Gutierrez replied to a comment saying “si tio 
yo no soy marica,” which translates roughly to 
“no uncle I am not gay.” “Marica” is a negative 
term to describe gay people, however, the use and 
severity of the phrase varies depending on dialect 
and region. 
Gutierrez said he was 14 when he left his Face-
book page open and his then-20-year-old brother 
made the post. 
“I have nothing against the gay community. I 
am an ally of them,” Gutierrez said. “I have a lot 
of friends that are part of the community as well.”
The post is not accurate regarding Gutierrez’s 
thoughts on the LGBTQ+ community, he said. 
He doesn’t believe it will affect his campaign, as 
it was taken care of between him and his brother, 
although he says the post never should have been 
on Facebook.
In October 2012, Sarah Abraham, 20, the Im-
pact Student Body vice presidential candidate, 
had a picture posted on her timeline reading, 
“Roses are gay. Violets are gay. You’re gay.”
Abraham wasn’t aware the post was still on 
her Facebook and thought it was deleted. Abra-
ham said she does not condone what was posted 
on her page or using the word “gay” in a deroga-
tory manner. 
“We fail to remember that these things did 
happen so long ago,” she said, “and people were 
so young that they didn’t realize the effect that 
their words would have on the population.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgSCREENSHOTS,  from pg. 1The posts have since been deleted
Documents Deposited
• The flight suit Nelson wore while aboard Space Shuttle Columbia
• Legislation, case work, letters, speeches, press releases and photo-
graphs from Nelson’s 18 years in the Senate
• Reports detailing Nelson’s training for space travel
• Documents from Nelson’s youth spent in Florida, as well as his time 
spent at UF
• Records dating from Nelson’s early political career4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
LOVE TRANSCENDS BOUNDARIES
Alexandra Thomas, a 20-year-old UF business management 
sophomore, holds a Valentine’s Day-themed cutout of President 
Donald Trump Thursday on Turlington Plaza. Thomas, a member of 
UF College Republicans, handed out cookies and Trump valentines 
with expressions such as “I want you on my side of the wall. ”
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michael Perfit’s journey to the 
bottom of the ocean started with 
a dream of flying to outer space.
Perfit, a 69-year-old UF geol-
ogy professor, said he wanted 
to be an astronaut when he was 
younger but became too tall once 
he reached high school.
Instead of launching into the 
stars, Perfit has been exploring 
the unknown depths of the sev-
en seas. Most recently, he dove 
8,000 feet into the Pacific Ocean 
in December to further under-
stand the ocean floor, the com-
position of Earth’s interior and 
Earth’s evolution.
“It’s amazing to realize you 
are the only person who’s been 
in some of these places and to 
discover some of this stuff,” Per-
fit said. “It’s exploring; it’s how 
I keep going.”
Perfit and his team set out to 
explore volcanoes on mid-ocean 
ridges in a six-foot-wide subma-
rine called Alvin, which is the 
world’s first deep-diving subma-
rine and is named after the en-
gineer, physicist and oceanogra-
pher Allyn Vine. 
Alvin is built to go 14,764 feet 
below the surface, Perfit said. 
The deepest Perfit has ever gone 
was 11,000 feet back in 1991.
The cost of a dive trip is about 
$45,000 per day, not including 
the cost of supplies, equipment 
and staff salaries, Perfit said. 
Funding comes from govern-ment grants and contracts, as 
well as foundation and private 
donations.
Perfit said he has done about 
40 dives in Alvin, each one last-
ing about six hours, which totals 
10 days spent at the bottom of 
the ocean as an “aquanaut,” 
or someone who spends an 
extended period of time un-
derwater. 
His most recent dive 
was significant because it 
was the first dive into a 
chain of submarine volca-
noes called the 8°20’N Sea-
mounts, where divers found 
the chemical composition of 
the volcanoes to be more di-
verse than usual, Perfit said. 
Up until the 1970s, when 
Alvin started operating, sci-
entists knew almost noth-
ing about the seafloor, Perfit 
said. 
“You can’t just have 
oceanographers or marine 
biologists do this,” Perfit 
said. “You need somebody 
who understands what a 
volcano is like on land to 
figure out what they’re like 
on the bottom of the ocean.”
Carly Daniel, a 20-year-
old UF geology junior, said 
she wants to specialize in 
volcanology once she gradu-
ates. Daniel is looking for-
ward to having Perfit as a 
teacher next Spring because 
she has heard he is a great 
professor from her friends, 
she said.“They all say he is so pas-
sionate about what he teaches,” 
Daniel said. “You can tell he 
loves what he does and has so 
much experience which makes 
his classes so interesting.”Deep dive: Meet UF’s ‘aquanaut’ 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Michael Perfit,  a 69-year-old UF geology professor, inside a submarine on his most recent dive, which was 8,000 feet deep.
PLASTIC BAGS, 
STYROFOAM 
CONTAINERS WERE 
PREVIOUSL Y BANNED
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Plastic straws may be the 
next thing banned in Gainesville.
The Gainesville City Commis-
sion discussed creating an ordi-
nance that would make plastic 
straws available by request only 
before banning the product com-
pletely at a general policy com-
mittee meeting Thursday. 
Commissioners Helen War-
ren, Gail Johnson, Adrian Hayes-
Santos and Mayor Lauren Poe 
were present for the discussion, 
and all agreed a straw ordinance 
would be the next step in the 
right direction. 
“More and more people ex-
pect [a straw ban],” Poe said. 
“They see that as a logical step 
for communities to take.” The commission passed an 
ordinance last month banning 
single-use plastic bags and foam 
containers. 
The new ordinance, which 
will go into effect Aug. 1, is a 
part of the city’s initiative to 
be waste-free by 2040. Banning 
plastic straws is one of the next 
steps in that process, Hayes-San-
tos said.
Hayes-Santos suggested mod-
eling the straw ordinance after 
a similar one in St. Petersburg, 
which passed in December.
The St. Petersburg ordinance 
will first make straws available 
by request only, which means 
customers will have to ask for 
straws before restaurants give 
them out, Hayes-Santos said. 
After this period, straws will be 
banned completely, excluding 
drive-thrus. 
Warren and Poe both said 
they would like to see drive-
thru restaurants included in the 
Gainesville ordinance. 
“If you are doing drive-thru, you can also say ‘hold the straw’ 
along with the onions,” Warren 
said. 
This isn’t the first time the 
commission has talked about 
banning straws. It was discussed 
in a commission meeting in Au-
gust, but the focus was shifted to 
banning bags and foam first.  
Loosey’s, a local bar and res-
taurant at 120 SW First Ave., be-
gan completely phasing out plas-
tic products in fall 2017. 
Owner Joy Hughes said 
Loosey’s began the process with 
an offer-first system, similar to 
the one Hayes-Santos suggested 
at the meeting. 
“If you ask first, generally 
people will be like ‘Oh yeah, I 
don’t need one,’” Hughes said. 
“The offer-first policy helped us 
mitigate the cost.” 
The commission will discuss 
the ordinance again in March. 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCity discusses banning plastic straws  
His deepest exploration yet was 11,000 feetFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2019
We will not be not publishing 3/4-3/8, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 11th is 
Friday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student ID
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
NO ARRESTS HAVE BEEN MADE
Two people wanted more than fried 
chicken and biscuits when they broke into 
a Bojangles with an AK-47 assault riﬂ  e 
Wednesday. 
At about 11 p.m., Gainesville Police were 
sent to Bojangles, at 3120 SW Archer Road, 
to investigate a report of an armed robbery, according to GPD.
While employees were closing the store, 
two people wearing masks and gloves forced 
their way in, the release said. One of them 
had an assault-style riﬂ  e and went up to the 
employees demanding money. 
They took cash and left the restaurant, 
the release said. Police did not ﬁ  nd them 
during a search. At about 11:20 p.m., University Police 
sent out a series of tweets about the armed 
robbery at Bojangles. 
One of the robbers was wearing a red 
mask, green shirt and blue jeans, and the 
other was wearing an orange mask, olive 
sweater and blue jeans, UPD said. 
One was armed with the riﬂ  e, and the 
two were last seen on the 3100 block of Ar-cher Road, UPD said. 
The restaurant declined to comment. 
The previous UF alert issued was sent 
Monday when a woman was sexually bat-
tered on campus Saturday night in an alley-
way north of the Florida Gym and south of 
the Student Recreation & Fitness Center.
No arrests have been made in either case.  
POLICE SAY HE
 PAWNED A LAPTOP
Marcus Alexander Cromartie 
wasn’t a normal hotel guest. He 
was accused of stealing a mas-
ter key and robbing a hotel room 
Wednesday. 
The owners of the Wyndham 
Hotel, at 2900 SW 13th St., re-ported to police that Cromartie, 
35, of Gainesville, had stolen 
from several rooms at the hotel, 
according to a Gainesville Police 
arrest report. 
Cromartie had been in the 
hotel Monday and obtained the 
master key for almost every 
room, the report said.
Cromartie used the key to en-
ter a hotel room he and Teresa Nicole Tugerson, 32, were stay-
ing in, the report said. Manage-
ment told police the room was 
supposed to be empty. 
Cromartie was caught on sur-
veillance footage trying to enter 
multiple rooms, the report said. 
At about 1:30 p.m. Wednes-
day, he went into the general 
manager’s room and took a lap-
top that cost about $899, the re-port said. 
About three hours later, 
he pawned the laptop at Oaks 
Pawn, at 2530 SW 34th St., for 
$150, the report said. Later that 
day, Cromartie and Tugerson 
were detained at the hotel. 
He admitted to stealing and 
pawning the laptop because he 
was “hard-up for money,” the 
report said. Tugerson was not charged.
Cromartie was charged with 
burglary of a dwelling, grand 
theft from $300 to $4,999, deal-
ing in stolen property and giving 
false information during a pawn 
transaction, the report said. 
He remains in the Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $45,000 
bond. 
HIS BOND IS $73,000
After a man was accused of driving into 
a patrol car, police chased him by car and 
an aircraft.  
At about 2 p.m., an ofﬁ  cer pulled over 
Alunzo Devon Peoples, of Gainesville, 
near 1500 SE Fourth Ave., for having 
an expired registration, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report. 
Peoples, 20, then reversed into the ofﬁ  -
cer’s patrol car and drove north on South-
east 15th Street, the report said. The of-
ﬁ  cer was still in the car.
He ran a red light and a stop sign, the 
report said. Police were also following 
Peoples’ car with an aircraft.  
During the chase, Peoples let a man 
out of the car and drove behind a house at 1039 SE 11th Ave., the report said. He then 
ran until police caught him. 
While police were trying to put Peoples 
in handcuffs, they saw him toss three pill 
bags of powdered cocaine and a cannabis 
“blunt” from a bag, the report said. 
Peoples admitted to driving the car, 
owning the “blunt” and ﬂ  eeing because 
he was on probation and did not have a 
license, the report said. He was charged with possession of a 
controlled substance with intent to sell, 
aggravated battery on an ofﬁ  cer, possess-
ing less than 20 grams of cannabis, pos-
sessing drug paraphernalia, having no 
valid driver’s license and ﬂ  eeing from an 
ofﬁ  cer, the report said.
Peoples remains in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $73,000 bond. GPD: Two accused of robbing Bojangles with assault rifle
Man stole master key to break into hotel rooms, police say
Man accused of crashing into police car, chased by aircraftStories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez   |   Alligator Staff Writer
 kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org   |   Twitter: @katwf98  The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Like we said it’s the week of love, so we’ll start out by 
handing out a laurel. First, we have to hand out a lau-
rel to the Opportunity rover, Oppy, for 14 long years of 
service on the surface of Mars, sending us back infor-
mation. NASA made an announcement Wednesday that 
the robot would no longer be able to continue its job on Mars. 
NASA lost contact with Opportunity about eight months ago 
after the solar-powered rover got stuck in a major dust storm 
that blocked out the sun. It was decided Wednesday that any 
efforts to contact the rover would cease. We offer our thanks 
to Oppy for the wealth of knowledge it offered us over the past 
14 years. 
“Love is blind” isn’t just a saying. At least that’s the case 
for Americans who lost a total of $143 million to love scams, 
scams in which people often use stolen identities to attract 
victims and gain their trust, only to abuse it. According to 
the Federal Trade Commission, most of the scams involved 
gaining a person’s trust then asking for money, usually for a 
‘medical emergency.’ These scams accounted for only about 
1.5 percent of reported frauds tracked by the FTC, but they 
cost people more money than any other scam in the past year. 
A dart goes out to all those catﬁ  shers out there taking advan-
tage of people just looking for love. So, be careful the next time 
you swipe right.
Another laurel goes out to UF’s newly revamped rehabili-
tation center, which will open on Tuesday. The center was 
renovated to accommodate for a growing number of patients 
recovering from spinal injuries, strokes and neurological con-
ditions. The center is important in allowing patients to adjust 
to doing daily tasks like setting the table, opening a car door or 
washing clothes again. The facility is expected to start housing 
about 30 patients on its opening day. 
Finally, we’d like to offer a laurel to The Trace, a nonproﬁ  t 
news organization that reports on gun violence. The organiza-
tion created a project called “Since Parkland” that reported on 
the lives of the nearly 1,200 children who died by gun violence 
in the past year since the Marjory Stoneman Douglas shooting. 
The project strives to turn statistics into real-life stories. It was 
completed by 200 teenagers, the people who would relate to 
the victims the most, to tell the stories of the 1,200 children. 
These young journalists are continuing to raise awareness of 
gun violence in our country, so take the time and read the sto-
ries of these children who lost their lives too soon.It’s the day after Valentine’s Day, which means the day of 
love has come and gone just as quickly as that box of choco-
lates sitting on your dining room table. But today is even better 
because all things love-related are half off at Target. Were you 
eyeing that giant Reese’s heart-shaped candy but couldn’t pos-
sibly ﬁ  nd a reason to buy it? Well, guess what? Today, it’s only 
$5 — an instant cop. This week was about showing everyone 
you love how much you care about them, with Galentine’s 
Day, Palentine’s Day and of course Valentine’s Day. 
But today, it’s all about you. Yeah, that’s right, it’s a self-
love kind of day. So you get on with your routine and all of 
the responsibilities that go along with it like class and study-
ing. Once you’re done for the day, you make your way back 
home, where you know a bowl of popcorn and Netﬂ  ix await 
you. You plop down on the couch and start to scroll through 
all the new shows. You know exactly what you’re looking for. 
You’ve been waiting all week to be able to sit back and relax, 
and no, it’s not to watch Marie Kondo. You ﬁ  nally ﬁ  nd it, truly 
the most bingeable show; it’s...
Darts & Laurels
Stop putting celebrities on pedestals, they 
shouldn’t influence government policy 
In the age of social media, we’re pretty 
accustomed to celebrities chiming in 
with their opinions on a range of topics. 
Recently, rapper Cardi B posted a series 
of videos condemning President Donald 
Trump for the government shutdown. She 
shamed him for leaving thousands of gov-
ernment employees without pay for over a 
month and defended previous administra-
tions’ government shutdowns as being over 
more worthy causes than a border wall. The 
videos went viral, and people on both sides 
of the political spectrum commented on them. Not ev-
eryone loved it but, of course, her fans praised her for 
using her social platform to push an agenda. 
It’s almost inevitable at this point that if a celeb-
rity can articulate their thoughts on a complex topic, 
political or otherwise, they’re touted as the voice that 
will save us all. In some cases, they’re even urged to 
run for political ofﬁ  ce, like when people rallied around 
the idea of Oprah Winfrey running for president in the 
wake of the Obama administration. We view celebrities 
as saviors of sorts because we think their follower count 
makes them more powerful than we are. It’s true they 
have the opportunity to inﬂ  uence millions of people. 
They have the ability to encourage the uninformed to 
become informed and the unenthusiastic to become en-
thusiastic about an issue. 
But how productive is it to give celebrities this much 
credit, especially in situations concerning the goverm-
net? It’s not at all. While it’s great celebrities use their 
voices for what they believe in, pressuring celebrities to 
save us from all the issues plaguing the country, and the planet, detracts from our individual responsi-
bility to help solve these issues. It might not 
seem like it, but in order for problems like 
climate change and immigration to be solved, 
every single person needs to be engaged in 
making change. Your vote, your voice and 
your opinion matter. Just as much as Cardi 
B’s. Just as much as Oprah’s.
We’ve become the type of society that is 
okay with sitting back and letting others take 
the reins. That’s not to say we’re lazy, or we 
don’t care about progressing as a society. 
We’ve just come to accept the notion that those who 
have more of a platform can make change if we just 
lift them up and encourage them to keep going. And 
yes, we should deﬁ  nitely continue to do that. However, 
we shouldn’t expect their advocacy to solve everything, 
and we certainly shouldn’t substitute their advocacy for 
our own.
By getting our hopes up each time a celebrity is can-
did with their thoughts on any controversial subject, 
we’re setting ourselves up for disappointment. They’re 
still just normal people, who are allowed to have an 
opinion and voice it, just like the rest of us. Cardi B 
might have a handle on politics, but regardless, she’s 
only one vote. Each person, no matter their level of 
fame, can only do so much. We live in a democratic 
country, and even politicians can only do as much as 
we the people are willing to let them. It’s when we 
come together for causes that we start to see change.  
Katherine Campione is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column normally appears on Wednesday. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
I cry every single time I watch “Up.” Carl 
and Ellie’s heartwarming love at ﬁ  rst sight 
story just gets me, and their tragic end re-
ally opens the ﬂ  oodgates. This idea of love 
is cheesy and a little overused. I don’t even 
care that Hallmark movies use the same love 
at ﬁ  rst sight storyline, though, because it never 
gets old. I love watching those corny ﬁ  lms be-
cause I just want an instant, all-encompassing 
love to exist. I want it so bad that I have gen-
uine faith in love at ﬁ  rst sight. Don’t get me 
wrong I don’t think it’s the only way to ﬁ  nd 
love. Quite the contrary, I think it’s rarely the 
way people meet their spouses. I do believe, 
however, that this kind of love is out there, and 
some lucky people ﬁ  nd their partners that way.
I know my fellow romantics don’t even 
need to read why I believe in it. But for the 
skeptics and pessimists still reading, I’ll try to 
tug at your heartstrings and help you under-
stand love at ﬁ  rst sight does exist.
I want this kind of love to be real. Some people might deem it an idea that 
belongs in movies or fairy tales, 
but I refuse to conﬁ  ne myself to a 
world without at least a little mag-
ic. Just the idea of it encourages 
me to notice and appreciate the 
people around me. I’m not afraid 
to admit that believing in that kind 
of love comforts me and helps me 
cope with our harsh, no-nonsense 
world.
My grandfather, who I call my papa, lights 
up when he tells us about meeting my grand-
ma. He smugly sets up the scene: He was a 
young and handsome Marine. He was at 
a party with a blonde girl, but when he laid 
eyes on my grandmother, everyone else in the 
room vanished. My grandma was Italian. She 
had long, dark hair with bright, playful eyes. 
My papa pretended he didn’t know how to 
dance and asked my grandmother to teach 
him. Really, he just wanted to talk to her. My grandparents were married for 
almost 50 years before my grand-
mother died. There’s deﬁ  nitely a 
spot in my heart that hopes some 
couples today experience love at 
ﬁ  rst sight like my grandparents. I 
can’t accept the extinction of that 
romance.
Beyond my emotional longing 
for love at ﬁ  rst sight, though, I 
think its existence is logical. Urban 
legends, ghost stories and tall tales almost al-
ways stem from some scrap of truth. The same 
rule applies here. Something inspired the cre-
ation of this idea. Someone must have fallen in 
love immediately and shared their experience. 
Over time, it morphed and shaped itself into 
our present concept of this kind of love. 
Scientists believe primal attraction instincts 
play a role in love at ﬁ  rst sight, too. According 
to an article from The Washington Post, some 
scientists believe there may be a “biological ba-sis” to the phenomenon. The article explains 
that romantic attraction may have evolved to 
assist in the human process of seeking out ge-
netically compatible mates, according to ani-
mal studies. It also notes that studies indicate it 
takes only a few minutes to determine if some-
one’s partner material. I know this research 
doesn’t fully prove love at ﬁ  rst sight exists, but 
the only way to prove its existence is to experi-
ence it yourself. According to The Washington 
Post, young people have been shown to be 
more likely to experience love at ﬁ  rst sight. I 
hope you’ll able to show the skeptics the truth.
I know Valentine’s Day just passed, so a 
lot of people reading this might be sporting a 
slightly bitter #foreveralone attitude and scoff-
ing at the idea of love at ﬁ  rst sight. If love is 
what you’re after, don’t give up hope. Your 
love life could change in the blink of an eye. 
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism fresh-
man. Her column appears on Fridays.Love at first sight isn't just a myth - studies suggest it could be trueColumn
A few years ago, I found my-
self in a messy situation. 
I had been dating a guy 
for two months, and he 
clearly wanted to take the 
relationship to the next level. Al-
though our personalities meshed 
well and I enjoyed being around 
him, something wasn’t right. I 
didn’t know what it was until one 
day he leaned in to kiss me, and 
I leaned away. At that point I re-
alized I was attracted to his per-
sonality, not him. I broke up with 
him and like any person with a 
conscience, I felt horrible. 
The sad truth is this is some-
thing that happens too many. Of-
tentimes, people ﬁ  nd themselves 
in full-blown relationships and 
even marriages where they’re 
not attracted to their partner, and 
sometimes people lose the at-
traction they once held for their 
partner. It’s important to under-stand you can love someone but 
not be attracted to them. If that’s 
the case, clearly there’s no great 
way to tell your partner. However, 
here’s some advice on how to deal 
with this type of situation.
First and foremost, chances are 
your partner already knows some-
thing is up. You’ve stopped going 
on dates, stopped being intimate 
and stopped communicating effec-
tively. If you haven’t ﬂ  at out told 
them through your words, then 
you’ve certainly done it through 
your actions. Therefore, one thing 
you can do is sit your partner 
down and talk to them.
You can start off by saying 
something like this: “I need to 
talk about something that’s been 
weighing on me.” During this 
talk it’s vital you use the appro-
priate tone. Your tone shouldn’t 
be angry or resentful. It might be 
helpful to write what you want to say, then read it out loud. Practice 
your tone and delivery before the 
talk. By doing so, you’ll feel some-
what prepared for the conversa-
tion. While you’re talking to your 
partner, be open-minded and pre-
pare to hear things you may not 
want to hear. This conversation 
is emotional. Your partner might 
get upset, shut down or even start 
to cry. They are allowed to feel 
and express their emotions, but 
they also deserve the truth. At any 
point, if the conversation seems to be escalating into an argument, 
it’s perfectly okay to end it, take a 
breather and continue the conver-
sation at another time.
Let’s say you’re not ready for 
a conversation. It could be be-
cause you still don’t understand 
why you feel the way you do. It’s 
important to take time and sort 
through your feelings. Try to an-
swer the question of why you’re 
feeling this way. Why aren’t you 
attracted to your partner? It could 
be because their physical appear-
ance changed, or they’ve changed 
in general. And maybe it’s not 
them. Maybe it’s you. However, 
before you talk to your partner, 
make sure you have all of this 
sorted out. Otherwise this conver-
sation won’t be effective.
Sometimes you don’t need 
to have a conversation. Actions 
speak louder than words. Before 
jumping straight into a serious dis-cussion, try to rectify the situation 
through your actions. Don’t forget 
about the little things you loved 
about your partner when you 
ﬁ  rst met them. Becoming compla-
cent in your relationship is never 
a good thing, and it is probably 
what landed you in this situation. 
Nurturing your love through your 
daily actions is a great ﬁ  rst step in 
reviving your attraction.
A few years ago, when I real-
ized I was no longer attracted to 
the person I was dating, I made 
a conscious decision to never be 
in that same position again. By 
understanding my true feelings, 
working through them and com-
municating effectively, I was able 
to ﬁ  x an ugly situation, and I hope 
you can, too. 
Anede Siffort is a UF journal-
ism senior. Her column appears 
on Fridays.I wasn't attracted to my partner anymore, and this is how I dealt with itColumn
We all know about midlife crises. 
For those of you who understand 
the struggle people face when con-
fronting the issue of time constantly 
moving, the idea of the midlife cri-
sis may haunt you. You ask questions of your-
self: Am I doing enough? What have I done 
with the time I’ve used? How much time did 
I waste?
The mid-semester crisis is similar. The ﬁ  rst 
exams are usually the cue for realizing just 
how much time has passed and what we’ve 
been doing. I myself have just been cycling 
between eating, classes, work and sleep. Not 
always in that order. We think we can put off 
planning for the future because we’re dealing 
with so much right now. The “Oh, I can deal 
with that later,” or “It’s not due tomorrow, it 
can wait,” sayings all encapsulate the same 
emotion: anxiety.
In the past 80 years, Americans’ anxiety has 
only worsened, according to an article by The Cut. In the article, Jean Twenge, 
a social psychologist at San Diego 
State University, says there are 
many known and unknown factors 
for this phenomenon. However, 
she believes people aren’t able to 
spend time to connect with others 
like previous generations before us 
could. 
Personally, I know there are so 
many things to be stressed about, 
especially as a college student. There’s the 
common anxiety over ﬁ  nding a job or even 
the simple task of asking questions in class. I 
sometimes get anxious I’m losing my motiva-
tion with a class because it feels like it’s drag-
ging. The stress of upcoming exams is already 
overwhelming and that stress won’t end until 
after each semester. 
When our anxieties worsen, there is gener-
ally an increase in the level of our exhaustion 
and erratic behavior. We can end up losing our minds keeping everything together 
just from the classes we’re taking. 
Then add on any extracurriculars 
and now we reach a crossroads: Do 
we do things outside of class for the 
love of doing so, or are we doing it 
so we’ll feel accomplished?
The key to anything is balance. 
It’s a cliche, but honestly, it’s the 
truth. And that goes for what we do 
in our spare time. Our hobbies can 
become some of the greatest sources of joy in 
our life. I love playing card games and watch-
ing movies, but I rarely have time for either. 
I try to be involved with campus groups and 
organizations, but if they have any relation to 
a profession, it almost feels like signing up for 
another class. We deserve to treat our free time 
with the respect and joy we deserve, not ﬁ  ll it 
with secondary objectives that only add more 
stressors.
But maybe your magazine group is the source of your favorite pastime in designing 
covers. I won’t take that away from you. How-
ever, we should take a constructive look at 
how we spend our time and make sure it feels 
like we are using it with purpose. I can’t say 
for certain what that purpose is. We’re lucky to 
be able to decide that for ourselves. We cannot 
wander without a goal, because the journey is 
more important than the destination, you still 
have to have a destination.
Take a day off, and spend it how you want. 
Try to slowly strip away the everyday thoughts 
and feelings, and get to the bottom of how your 
time is spent. Maybe you’re living your best 
life, or maybe you could change a lot. Either 
way, you’ll thank yourself for at least taking 
the time out of your day to check in and see 
how everything is coming along.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism sopho-
more. His column appears on Fridays.The mid-semester crisis is difficult, but there are ways to get back on trackColumn
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.org
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.orgAnede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
More than 200 people listen to six speakers Thursday on Plaza of the Americas during the vigil for the one-year anniversary of the Parkland, Florida, shooting.
’It never gets easier’: A year after Parkland
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
Sean Heera, a 20-year-old UF economics sophomore, listens to speakers Thursday on Plaza of the Americas 
during the vigil for the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting. Attending the vigil ensures people will 
remember the impact of the tragedy, Heera said.  “It doesn’t let the memories of the kids go to waste, ” he said.
and families to start the #Never-
Again movement caused legis-
latures to act quickly in making 
new laws to strengthen school 
security and reform gun laws. 
Less than a month after the 
shooting, the Florida Senate 
passed the Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas High School Public 
Safety Act on March 5. 
As part of the safety act, the 
Coach Aaron Feis Guardian Pro-
gram — named after the football 
coach who died in the shooting 
— allows non-teacher staff at 
schools to be armed with the dis-
trict’s approval, said Tina Cer-
tain, an Alachua County School 
Board representative. 
The program requires 132 
hours of comprehensive ﬁ  rearm 
safety and security training as 
well as a psychological evalua-
tion and drug test.
Certain said the Alachua 
County School Board voted 5-0 
against the Guardian Program 
last March, but more than 20 
counties approved the program.
For now, Florida teachers 
can’t be armed, but a key state 
Senate committee passed an ex-
pansion to Senate Bill 7030 that 
would arm teachers. The bill 
will be considered by the Senate 
when it starts session in March.Not all teachers are on board, 
though. F.W. Buchholz High 
School art teacher Kristy Fos-
ter said having a gun wouldn’t 
make her feel safe. When she 
became an educator 29 years 
ago, it wasn’t to become a mili-
tant. 
“I can’t imagine bringing a 
gun to school. I’m not prepared 
for the ramiﬁ  cations of that in 
my classroom,” Foster said.
Foster prefers learning state-
mandated safety drills such as 
Alert, Lockdown, Inform, Coun-
ter, Evacuate, or the ALICE pro-
tocol. 
“It wouldn’t make me feel 
safer,” Foster said. “The things 
that we’re doing now, with AL-
ICE, those things make me feel 
safe.” 
New safety requirements, 
not enough money
Alachua County Public 
Schools had already been train-
ing faculty and staff for active 
shooter drills. After Parkland, it 
became legally required to also 
train students. 
While parents were con-
cerned about their child’s safety, 
some didn’t agree with the fact 
that students would have to go 
through the training. 
Several Alachua County par-
ents called the district asking if 
their children could be excused MSD,  from pg. 1200 attended UF’s vigilfrom the ALICE active shooter training, said 
Jackie Johnson, a spokesperson for Alachua 
County Public Schools. 
School faculty and staff began practicing 
active shooter drills in summer 2016, Johnson 
said, but the Parkland shooting made it clear 
that students should be trained too.
The county started training students with 
this program last Fall, which is now required 
by the safety act, Johnson said. Originally, it 
was planned once per semester, but the coun-
ty has been notified by the state since January 
to implement it monthly. 
The state gave Alachua County $1.6 mil-
lion to put at least one resource officer in ev-
ery school, but the district still paid another 
$600,000 to cover the costs of all the officers, 
she said. The Gainesville Police Department 
also helped with the expenses.  
After the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School Public Safety Commission found that 
Douglas had unsecured points of entry at the 
time of the shooting, school boards and law 
enforcement reviewed school safety in all 67 
counties. 
They examined the placement of cameras, 
fencing and single-point entries as well as 
campus visitors and procedures on when to 
lock gates and doors daily, Johnson said. 
The district will receive a state grant for 
more than $1 million to further strengthen se-
curity on campuses where lapses were found. 
But Johnson said that will not be nearly 
enough to cover it. 
“A lot of the things that the state required 
cost a lot of money,” Johnson said, “and they 
didn’t provide anywhere near enough money 
to cover all of the things that they were requir-
ing us to do.”
A Valentine’s Day spent alone
Sarah Lerner’s morning on Feb. 14, 2018, 
started like any other. 
She had probably slept through her alarm, 
hurried to get ready for work and shuffled 
herself and her son into the car for their five-
minute commute to school. 
She dropped her son off at his middle school, right next door to where she worked 
as an English teacher at Douglas.
She brought Hershey’s Kisses to cheer up 
her students and celebrate the holiday while 
she quizzed them on “1984.” Their quiz was 
interrupted by a fire drill, and then rounds of 
gunshots. 
“In my head, I’m screaming. But I can’t 
make a sound,” she said. “So you just have to 
sit there quietly and have all of these reactions 
internally.”
Lerner did not go to school on Thursday. 
Or the day after. She planned to get a massage 
or a manicure instead.
“I need to take care of myself and not be 
in an environment that 
may trigger and bring 
up  feelings,” she said. 
“I’m planning to take it 
easy and just do stuff 
that makes me feel 
good.”
Several students 
of Lerner’s led the 
#NeverAgain movement. She’s proud of her 
students for organizing marches, registering 
young voters and speaking across the country, 
she said. 
“I had Emma Gonzalez,” Lerner said. “The 
Emma everybody sees is the Emma I know. 
She’s a badass, she’s opinionated, she’s strong 
and now everyone gets to see that.”
Thursday was a regular school day for ev-
ery Broward County school except Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas, where attendance was 
optional. 
Alachua County middle and high schools 
conducted a moment of silence Thursday, 
per a statewide request from Broward County 
Public Schools Superintendent Robert Runcie, 
Johnson said. At 10:17 a.m., classrooms re-
membered the 17 killed and 17 injured during 
the silence.
All of Florida’s 67 county school districts 
participated.
Gainesville partnered with Students De-
mand Action to plant a tree at City Hall Thurs-
day as a memorial for the 17 victims.UF remembers the 17 
Saripalli credits her smooth transition to 
college to the love and support she’s received 
from people at UF. 
She quickly became friends with her Hume 
Hall floormates. She said they’re a little family. 
At UF, she joined the March for Our Lives 
Gainesville chapter and became the communi-
ty outreach chair. She helped plan Thursday’s 
vigil on Plaza of the Americas.
More than 200 people sat on the middle of 
the plaza. Burgundy and silver, the Douglas 
school colors were mixed among the crowd. 
Some wore shirts that read “MSD Strong.” 
Others wore #NeverAgain across their chests. 
One by one, each of 
the six speakers who 
graduated from Doug-
las gave speeches to 
commemorate those 
who died and asked 
that this be a night to 
celebrate their lives. 
White tealight 
candles laid out in a row on a table were lit 
for each victim. The sound of soft cries and 
sniffles pierced the silence. 
Seventeen white paper bags with the 
names of each victim written on them in black 
Sharpie sat on the ground lining the edges of 
the plaza. A lit candle flickered in each.
Groups of students hugged each other and 
shared their favorite memories of high school. 
They talked about first day of high school 
nerves and friends who stole their phones dur-
ing lunch to take silly pictures.
When it was Saripalli’s time to speak, she 
spoke about Carmen. 
She talked about how Carmen was always 
able to open her snack container at lunch even 
when their strongest friends couldn’t. She said 
she has had several breakdowns this week 
and was dreading the anniversary. 
A year ago, Saripalli was thinking about 
her plans to room with Carmen in college. 
Thursday, she instead reflected on healing 
and coming to terms with her best friend’s 
death, she said.
Robert Schentrup, Carmen’s brother, found out about the shooting when a friend sent him 
a text letting him know there was a gunman 
in their high school. They spent the rest of the 
day huddled in front of a TV at the Univer-
sity of Central Florida, watching the news and 
sending updates to each other and family.
His family knew Carmen had been shot 
when they couldn’t contact her. They had al-
ready come to the conclusion she died before 
they were told at 2 a.m. by a Broward sheriff 
deputy, he said. The day after the shooting, 
he and a friend drove more than two hours to 
Parkland to see their families. 
“I didn’t sleep the night before. It all felt 
like I was in a video game,” he said. “It was 
like I was observing reality instead of partici-
pating in it.”
On March 16, he will visit his family, who 
moved to Bellevue, Washington, to spend 
Spring Break with them. He has worried about 
his younger sister, Evelyn, who survived the 
shooting and decided to be homeschooled af-
ter having panic attacks at her new school.
He and his parents are activists now, and 
they will use Spring Break as a time to enjoy 
each other’s company and remember Carmen, 
he said.
“We’re still a long way away, but we’re 
taking important baby steps,” he said. “This is 
better than nothing.”
While Robert spent Thursday in Orlando 
working on getting gun reform legislation 
passed, Saripalli spent it at school and at the 
vigil. She said she wishes she had taken more 
pictures with Carmen and told her more often 
how much she loves her. Carmen should be 
at UF, and it’s not OK that she’s not, she said. 
“The 17 aren’t a statistic,” she said. 
“They’re not a number. They’re real people 
who had hopes, dreams, ambitions, families, 
friends. And these people cry every day be-
cause they’re not with them anymore.”  
 
Jfuller@alligator.org
khayes@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Lily Alperstein, an 18-year-old UF chemistry freshman, pays tribute Thursday on 
Plaza of the Americas to the 17 victims of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas shooting 
at a vigil honoring the one-year anniversary of the tragedy. She wanted to honor 
those who lost their lives and to provide solace for the survivors, Alperstein said.
 
Timeline
Feb. 14, 2018 — Gunman walks into Mar-
jory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, 
Florida. Seventeen are killed; 17 are injured.
Feb. 15, 2018 at 3 p.m. — MSD stu-
dents tweet #NeverAgain; a movement is born. 
Feb. 21, 2018 — Town hall hosted by CNN 
in Tallahassee. Students, teachers and parents 
confront Sen. Marco Rubio, Sen. Bill Nelson and 
Rep. Ted Deutch as well as NRA spokesperson 
Dana Loesch on gun control. 
March 5, 2018 — Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas Safety Act is passed in Florida Senate.
March 24, 2018 — March For Our Lives, 
a gun-control demonstration organized by MSD 
students, takes place in Washington D.C. and 
across America.
Fall 2018 — Alachua County Schools start 
holding active shooter training once a semester 
for students.
January 2019 — Alachua County Schools 
changes semesterly active shooter drills to 
monthly.
Feb. 12, 2019 — Bill that would allow 
teachers to have firearms passes through first 
committee in Florida Senate. 
Feb. 14, 2019 — A year has passed, and 
1,200 American children have been killed from 
firearms. 
 In Remembrance
Alyssa Alhadeff, 14
Martin Duque Anguiano, 14
Nicholas Dworet, 17
Jaime Guttenberg, 14
Luke Hoyer, 15
Cara Loughran, 14
Gina Montalto, 14
Joaquin Oliver, 17
Alaina Petty, 14
Meadow Pollack, 18
Helena Ramsay, 17 
Alex Schachter, 14
Carmen Schentrup, 16 
Peter Wang, 15
Chris Hixon, 49
Aaron Feis, 37
Scott Beigel, 35“They’re not a number. They’re 
real people who had hopes, dreams, 
ambitions, families, friends.”
Anisha Saripalli
MSD class of 2018 alumna10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
A conservation trust has five 
months to pay $1.35 million for new 
land, or it could lose the land.
The Alachua Conservation Trust 
wants to raise $1.7 million to pur-
chase Orange Lake Overlook, a 71-
acre patch of land off U.S. 441 near 
McIntosh, Florida, said Tom Kay, 
the executive director of the trust. 
The trust protects land through pur-
chases, donations and conservation.
The land will be protected and 
new developments won’t be built on 
it, Kay said.
The $1.7 million budget is need-
ed to buy the land and will include 
funding for surveys and environ-
mental site assessments, he said. 
The contract for the overlook was 
signed Feb. 5 for $1.35 million, Kay 
said. The land used to be a citrus 
grove and shop.
The trust has until July 5 to pay 
for the land, he said. If it can’t raise 
the funds, then short term loans will 
be used.
The trust has raised about $2,000 
through its website and mail dona-
tions, he said. It has also raised 
$2,125 on its Facebook donation page as of Thursday evening. Kay 
said the trust plans on sending out 
emails, hosting fundraising events 
and using direct-mail methods to 
raise money.
Over the last 30 years, it has 
purchased more than 19,700 acres 
of land for conservation, including 
Serenola Forest and part of Lochloo-
sa Forest this year, he said.
Kay said the Orange Creek Basin, 
which Orange Lake is a major part 
of, has been one of the trust’s most 
wanted areas. Its concern is the ba-
sin, which will have an excess of nu-
trients in it if developments are built. 
“We will make it happen one 
way or the other,” he said. “It’s one 
of the most iconic properties, most 
iconic views in this whole region.”
To artist Stacey Breheny, a 
60-year-old High Springs resident, 
donating $25 was more than saving 
a piece of land, it was saving some-
thing dear to her. She has been us-
ing the outlook as inspiration in her 
paintings for the past 10 years.
“I’d be phony if I didn’t step up,” 
Breheny said. “If that were to turn 
into a subdivision, I would be heart-
broken.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgAlachua Conservation Trust to buy third property in March
The Orange Lake Overlook will cost about $1.35 million
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Alachua Conservation Trust signed a contract to buy Orange Lake Overlook, a 71-acre patch of 
land off U.S. 441 near McIntosh, Florida, for $1.35 million. The trust has until July 5 to raise the funds.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N      2-15-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
One Bedroom spacious apartment
with Balcony- 2nd Floor.
Walk to Oaks mall and Restaurants-
Call 404-323-9338      2-18-19-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Designated drivers are the greatestBusy professional looking for assistant to 
help with errands, managing household, 
etc. 3 hours/week guaranteed, $15.00/hour. 
Contact me at kathyob1961@gmail.com     
2-20-19-3-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
Do you WordPress? If so, we have a job for 
you. You must have strong WP knowledge, 
be familiar with theme development and basic 
coding languages (HTML, CSS, JavaScript & 
PHP). www.dmcreativestudios.com/careers    
2-22-19-4-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring 
deli help.  Fast paced friendly environment. 
No experience needed. Reliable transporta -
tion a must. Applications available on site at 
2327 N W 13th Street.     2-25-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
Learn today,
how to make an extra $400 per week
completing surveys as a student!
Go to www.collegeopportunity.cc     2-18-19-
3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      2-15-
1-15
MATH TUTOR
More thank 20 years of exp. UF engineer 
graduate. Please call Hermon 352-225-8980    
3-1-19-7-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
New side-hustle alert!
Join www.Brands.Buzz and start earning 
with your social network…consistently, every 
day! Free to register. Join today!       2-20-
19-5-20
"The Spiritual Power of Gratitude"
An ECK Light and Sound Service
Explore your own direct
connection with the Divine!
Sun., Feb. 15 at 1:00 PM
Courtyard By Marriott
3700 SW 42nd Street
352-378-3504
www.eck-florida.org
Everyone welcome!
2-15-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SERVICE DOG - PTSD, AUTISM CERTIFIED
3 months old, AKC yellow lab, male. 
Comes with training. $1800. 352-472-6099. 
Volunteers needed.              2-18-19-5-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By Winston Emmons
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/15/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/15/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, February 15, 2019
ACROSS
1 Dip with a kick
6 Highest
9 Video segment
13 “A Lesson  
From __”:  
Fugard play
14 Electronic music 
effect
15 Helper
16 Social media 
buzz about Alfred 
E. Neuman?
18 Labor
19 Montgomery-to-
Macon dir.
20 Founded
21 Tie feature
22 Fiscal exec
24 Removes from 
the exchange
26 It’s not an equine
31 Directed
32 Forceful
34 “There’s many 
__ ’twixt the cup 
and the lip”: old 
proverb
38 About one-third of 
Earth’s land area
39 Slyly disparaging
41 Monopoly pieces
42 Tops
44 Like some posters
46 Windows 
competitor
48 Big name in auto 
racing
49 Chicago mayor 
since 2011
53 Addams cousin
54 Actress 
Helgenberger
55 Case, often
58 Hanoi holiday
61 Radar readout 
feature
62 Jalopy that still 
works?
65 “Frozen” princess
66 Grandson of 
33-Down exiles
67 Grade describing 
the four longest 
puzzle answers?
68 Marsh plant
69 Case, for 
example: Abbr.
70 Permissible
DOWN
1 Matching
2 Jackson of 
country3 Pay dirt
4 Holding-on 
period?
5 49-Down 
remnant
6 Expos, now
7 Rough material
8 Taking more 
time, probably, 
as a test
9 Vegan regimen 
for a willowy 
look?
10 Ford Field team
11 Nitwit
12 Trapper’s 
collection
14 Athletic org. 
founded by Billie 
Jean King
17 Ends 
prematurely
22 Trysting place?
23 Pro
25 Mike Trout’s 
team, on 
scoreboards
26 Swedish auto
27 Latin I verb
28 Craigslist caveat
29 Sloth and the like
30 Musical narrated 
by Che
33 Paradise35 Rhythmic 
cadence
36 Tracy Marrow’s 
stage name
37 Salon offering
40 Outcome
43 Trifling amount
45 Old PC monitor
47 Marsh plants
49 Eventual 5-Down
50 “Atlantic City” 
director Louis
51 Stand52 More than a little 
silly
56 Angels Landing’s 
national park
57 Nation borders?
58 Soothing 
application
59 Notions case
60 Acid __
63 Half of D
64 Hudson Riv. 
engineering 
school
By Bruce Haight
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/14/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/14/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, February 14, 2019
ACROSS
1 Queen, e.g.
6 Fell for the joke
9 Put away for 
future reference
13 ArkivMusic.com 
purchase
14 Sch. with a 
Tempe campus
15 Flooded
17 “Little Book of 
Mind-Power” 
author
19 Battery inventor 
Alessandro
20 Stand food
21 Danish city 
named for a 
Norse god
23 Place for a shot
24 Gate info
25 Conversation 
stumbles
26 Gives the nod
27 Hasty escape
28 Superman 
specialty
30 Wrigley Field 
feature
31 Like beds in 
cleaned hotel 
rooms
32 Peter of “9-1-1”
34 Tunisian currency
35 Takes a casual 
drive ... and a 
literal description 
of 10 puzzle 
answers
37 Bearings
39 Casual eatery
40 Ending to avoid?
41 Interject
42 Touchdown site
46 “Well, __-di-dah!”
47 Shooting initials
48 “Jeopardy!” 
record-setter 
Jennings
49 Spa emanation
50 Source of some 
’60s trips
51 1840s-’50s home 
to Liszt
53 End of an old 
boast
54 Military camp
56 Luxury 
accommodations 
for bigwigs
58 Church offering
59 Prefix with warrior
60 1960 Wimbledon 
champ Fraser61 Laryngitis 
symptom
62 Spied
63 Fire __
DOWN
1 Wi-Fi conduit
2 Raise from three 
to four stars, as 
a hotel
3 Classic cameras
4 So
5 Singer Carly __ 
Jepsen
6 Gets thinner on 
top
7 “So THAT’s 
what’s going on 
here!”
8 Hoops goofs
9 BFFs
10 __ Jima
11 Space cadet’s 
world
12 Erik of “CHiPs”
16 Work (out) with 
effort, as an 
agreement
18 Cosmetics giant
22 What’s up?
25 Pierre’s bills
29 Designer 
fragrance
30 “To repeat ... ”31 Trivial
33 PC storage 
options
34 “Hands of  
Stone” boxer 
Roberto
35 Fortune 500 IT 
company
36 Frisky  
whiskered  
critters
37 Polo need
38 Excited41 Tap outflow
43 Tiki bar cocktail
44 Small battery
45 Swindle
47 Win the first four 
World Series 
games
48 “Whammo!”
52 Flaky mineral
53 Contender
55 Acidity nos.
57 German 
conjunction
1.  Overseas
1.  ____ rhino5.  Tasteless
2.  Type of oven6.  Polynesian kingdom 
3.  Riders, e.g.7.  Circular decoration
4.  Hanks filmAOBADR
LNOABINBALD
OTGAN
SRROATE
DNDAAEDAHRTWE
LASPHSANSWERS: 1A-Abroad  5A-Bland  6A-Tonga  7A-Wreath
1D-Albino  2D-Roaster  3D-Addenda  4D-Splash  B-Bananas2-15-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are more than 1,000 types of ____.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment
Designated drivers are the greatestFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Pitcher Kelly Barnhill and the 
Gators softball team will compete in 
the Littlewood Classic this weekend 
in T empe, Arizona. UF takes on 
Illinois State and Arizona State on 
Friday.Florida falls to Maryland at home
The No. 4 Gators lacrosse team lost to the No. 2 T errapins on Thursday night  
17-12 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. UF attacker Lindsey Ronbeck scored 
eight goals, while attacker Grace Haus notched three and midﬁ  elder Sydney 
Pirreca netted one.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer 
Vanderbilt forward Matthew Moyer did ev-
erything he could to stop Deaundrae Ballard.
The Florida guard held the ball with Moyer’s 
hand right in his face before he swiftly leaned 
to his right. The move threw the Vanderbilt 
defender off balance just long enough for Bal-
lard to load up behind the three-point line. He 
drilled the three with two seconds left on the 
shot clock with 11:50 remaining in the ﬁ  rst 
half.
Those kinds of plays from Florida’s bench 
helped the Gators to a 66-57 win over Vander-
bilt on Wednesday night.
It wasn’t easy. 
Florida’s best shooters, Noah Locke and 
KeVaughn Allen, combined for just nine 
points. And Kevarrius Hayes, the Gators’ best 
defender, spent 27 minutes on the bench.
“Odd that you win a game with your two 
leading scorers, who have really carried you in 
league play offensively, going 2 for 19,” coach 
Mike White said of Locke and Allen.
But this game wasn’t about the top scorers.
It was about the role players on a UF bench 
that has been outscored by its opponents in 
four of the last six games.
Here’s a look at how the Gators’ reserves 
performed against the Commodores:Senior Guard Jalen Hudson
Jalen Hudson seems to have found a little 
bit of his game as of late. 
He scored 15 against Tennessee, 11 against 
Kentucky on Feb. 2, and his 10 points against 
the Commodores led a Florida bench that 
scored 29 points to Vanderbilt’s seven.
Most of the senior guard’s points came ei-
ther in the paint or at the free-throw line. He 
made six of eight from the charity stripe.
Only one other UF player (freshman Keyon-
tae Johnson) scored in double ﬁ  gures (15).
Redshirt freshman forward Isaiah Stokes
Isaiah Stokes saw a bigger role as Hayes 
was limited by four personal fouls. 
Stokes couldn’t completely make up for the 
energy Hayes usually brings on defense, but 
the Gators led by as many as 11 in the ﬁ  rst 
half aided by his eight points and two offen-
sive rebounds.
He helped UF hold the advantage in total 
rebounds (39) and points off turnovers (26), 
and he was one point away from matching 
his career high in just nine minutes of playing 
time.
“It felt good,” Stokes said of his perfor-
mance. “I just seized my opportunity that I 
had… I just played. Just play as hard as you 
can.”Florida’s bench steps up amid oﬀ   night from Allen, Locke 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF guard Jalen Hudson scored 10 points against Vanderbilt on Wednesday.
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
Many gymnastics teams would con-
sider a top-10 matchup a highlight of 
its competitive schedule. For the Florida 
Gators, it’s just another Friday.
UF is set to embark on its third top-10 
matchup in six meets when it heads to 
Tuscaloosa to take on the No. 9 Alabama 
Crimson Tide at the Coleman Coliseum 
on Friday. The Gators will don their pink 
leotards for the second-straight meet as 
Alabama hosts its “Power of Pink” event.
The home team has taken the victory 
in every Florida and Alabama clash since 
2003, and here’s what the Gators have 
been looking out for and working on in 
hopes to break that streak.
Turning the Tide
Alabama (8-2, 3-1 SEC) is coming off 
a 196.700-195.800 victory over the No. 21 Arkansas Razorbacks, and that meet’s 
star gymnasts hope to make an impact 
when they host the Gators.
The standout was Lexi Graber, the 
team’s all-arounder. She won the all-
around with a 39.375, which included 
a 9.950 on the vault and a 9.900 on the 
balance beam. Graber got an SEC All-
Freshman nod last year, and she’ll look 
to continue the momentum of her high 
scores on the vault and beam come Fri-
day. Another gymnast to watch is fresh-
man Emily Gaskins, who netted a 9.925 
on the uneven bars.
Despite the Crimson Tide’s record and 
No. 9 status, it may quickly ﬁ  nd them-
selves in trouble against the No. 2 Gators. 
Alabama has yet to break past 197 in any 
of its meets so far, a feat that UF has ac-
complished in all of its own. On top of 
that, the Crimson Tide or more renowned Gators travel to Tuscaloosa 
to face top-10 AlabamaMark My Words / Opinion
Even when it tries to be good, 
the National Football League is 
still bad. 
The NFL donates millions of 
dollars each year to youth football 
programs, like Pop Warner foot-
ball here in Gainesville, especially 
in low-income communities. It 
pays for equipment, uniforms, 
new ﬁ  elds, etc.
Yet fewer and fewer parents al-
low their children to play the full-contact sport 
for an obvious reason: concussions and other 
injuries. And the NFL, with its signiﬁ  cant sup-
port of youth football, is contributing heavily 
to kids sustaining brain injuries. 
The amount of boys from upper-middle 
class families playing football in full pads is 
decreasing. Studies are showing that CTE 
(chronic traumatic encephalopathy) can de-
velop in teenage brains, and parents are taking 
notice. However, kids from low-income house-
holds are more than replacing those from the 
upper-middle class. In a piece by Bernard Goldberg 
about this participation trend on 
HBO’s “Real Sports with Bryant 
Gumbel,” the state of Illinois was 
used as sample to show the partici-
pation levels across the country. 
The total participation in foot-
ball among boys in Illinois steadily 
decreased in the upper-class and 
middle-class communities from 
2012 to 2017. But the state had a 
25-percent participation increase among boys 
from low-income communities in that ﬁ  ve-
year span. 
After requesting information from youth 
football leagues from across the country, “Real 
Sports” found that participation is decreasing 
overall, but rising in households receiving gov-
ernment assistance. 
So what does this mean for the NFL? The 
league is just giving back to underserved com-
munities, right? 
The NFL contributing essentials so children The NFL’s charitable contributions 
have sinister truths behind them
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejr
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15
BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Baseball is officially back.
The 2019 campaign for Florida’s baseball 
team gets underway tonight, as UF matches up 
with Long Beach State to begin a three-game 
weekend series at McKethan Stadium at 6:30.
The Gators are 6-3 all-time against the self-
proclaimed Dirtbags of the Big West Confer-
ence, having last faced off in 1993. LBSU had 
a rough season a year ago, finishing an injury-
plagued spring/summer under .500 for the first 
time since 2010.
Despite the struggle, the program has a rich 
postseason history and returns a lot of experi-
ence from last season’s squad, highlighted by 
junior pitcher/center fielder Clayton Andrews.
Andrews led the team in ERA (1.99), in-
nings pitched (99.2) and strikeouts (118), 
earning the 2018 Big West Pitcher of the Year 
award.Injection of youth meshes  
with Florida’s veterans
If you compare this season’s roster to last 
season’s for Florida, you’ll notice a number of 
its best players are no longer listed.
Shortstop Deacon Liput, first baseman/
catcher JJ Schwarz and third baseman Jona-
than India — players who helped anchor 
2018’s College World Series-appearing team 
— now have their eyes centered towards the 
MLB.
Not every contributor is gone, however, 
as UF returns a quartet of players who were 
mainstays in last season’s lineup. That group 
(junior left fielder Austin Langworthy, senior 
second baseman Blake Reese, senior designat-
ed hitter Nelson Maldonado and junior right 
fielder Wil Dalton) will be surrounded by fresh 
faces with as many as three freshmen (third 
baseman Cory Acton, center fielder Jud Fabian and first baseman Kendrick Calilao) potentially 
being listed on the lineup card this evening.
Sophomore standout Brady McConnell is 
expected to get the job at shortstop after mini-
mal playing time last season, and Brady Smith 
— another sophomore — looks to have won 
the job behind the plate at catcher.
Dyson gets opening-night nod
 for Gators on the mound
O’Sullivan elected to give Tyler Dyson, his 
most-experienced pitcher, the opportunity to 
start Friday night against Long Beach State. 
Dyson, a junior righty, started 11 games last 
year, primarily on Sundays. He compiled a 5-3 
record in his sophomore season and struck out 
51 batters in 50.1 innings.
Sophomore RHP Tommy Mace will take 
the mound to start Saturday night. Mace went 
5-0 last season, starting six times and throwing 
62.2 innings, the fourth-most on the team.Jack Leftwich will close out the weekend 
on Sunday. Leftwich, a sophomore RHP, threw 
81.1 innings, the most of any of the returning 
pitchers. He put together a 5-5 record in 12 
starts.
The first pitcher out of the bullpen on Fri-
day, according to O’Sullivan, will be sopho-
more southpaw Jordan Butler. Because the 
team lacks lefties – only three listed on the en-
tire pitching staff – Butler will be getting a lot 
of work in relief once again. 
One of the other lefties is Devin Hemenway, 
a sophomore transfer from Santa Fe College. 
Sophomore RHP Hunter McMullen is another 
arm to watch in the bullpen. O’Sullivan lauded 
McMullen’s offseason improvement.
Alligator Sports writer Kyle Wood contrib-
uted to the story.
Evan Lepak is a sports writer. Follow him 
on Twitter @evanmplepak and contact him at 
elepak@alligator.orgUF welcomes Long Beach State in season-opening seriesBY THE NUMBERS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida football coach Dan Mul-
len captured the hearts of Gators 
fans everywhere with his latest re-
cruiting class.
He was winning battles on the 
recruitment trail. He reestablished 
a relationship with Lakeland High 
School, where UF legends like Ah-
mad Black, the Pouncey twins and 
Chris Rainey came from.
He even flipped cornerback Kai-
ir Elam from Georgia, cornerback 
Chris Steele from USC and weak-
side defensive end Khris Bogle from 
Alabama.
It was a satisfying recruiting 
class for the Gators. But where does 
it stack up against other recruiting 
classes since Urban Meyer’s first 
year as head coach in 2005?
In our second edition of alliga-
torSports’ “By The Numbers,” we 
look into just how well Florida did 
in the 2019 class, and how that 
compares to its last three coaches.
Question: How does Mullen’s 
latest recruiting class stack up 
since Meyer’s first year?
It seems like it did well on pa-
per. The Gators signed 17 four-
stars, the most since 2010, Meyer’s 
last season at UF.
They won some key battles as 
well. Mullen landed the Lakeland 
trio of outside linebacker Moham-
oud Diabate, tight end Keon Zip-
perer and weak-side defensive end 
Lloyd Summerall. He flipped re-
ceiver Arjei Henderson from Florida 
State. He even took some offensive 
linemen from Miami in Michael 
Tarquin and Kingsley Eguakun. 
He reloaded on positions — like 
offensive linemen, linebacker and 
defensive end — that are depleted 
due to graduation or declaring for 
the NFL Draft.
It was a good enough class to 
place UF at No. 9 in the nation and 
No. 5 in the SEC. Mullen seems 
pleased, and the fans do as well.Answer: It was the best class 
Florida has seen since 2013. But 
it’s still not where it needs to be.
The Gators tend to follow a 
similar pattern most schools go 
through: recruiting classes are not 
as good in years where there is a 
coaching change. 
Meyer’s first class in 2005 had 
no five-stars and seven four-stars. It 
was the No. 12 class in the NCAA. 
Muschamp’s was No. 11 in 2011 
and featured one five-star and 10 
four-stars. McElwain’s was ranked 
No. 21 in 2015, a class that featured 
two five stars and two four stars.
Mullen fell victim to this trap. 
He pieced together a class on short 
notice, and signed 13 four-stars, the most since 2013.
We’ll exclude McElwain from 
the rest of this section. His classes 
got better every season after his 
first but not by much. The only big 
difference was he added more four-
star talent while keeping the num-
ber of three-stars consistent.
Meyer and Muschamp respond-
ed to average first years with top-
three recruiting classes the next. 
Meyer had the No. 2 class in 
2006, then the No. 1 class in 2007. 
This was during the height of Flor-
ida’s national championship reign. 
He brought in nine five-star recruits 
during that span.
Muschamp was almost the 
same. His second and third seasons 
saw UF with back-to-back No. 3 
classes, but with only five five-star talents.
Mullen’s 2019 class was good. 
One of the best in a long time for 
Florida. But it still isn’t near the 
level of Meyer and Muschamp’s 
classes.
Conclusion: Florida’s recruit-
ing classes won’t be up-to-par 
until it starts getting some five-
stars.
The Gators haven’t had a five-
star talent in one of its recruiting 
classes since 2015. They were for-
mer offensive lineman Martez Ivey 
and former defensive end CeCe Jef-
ferson, and that was under McEl-
wain in his first season as coach.
Another trend to pay attention to is that under McElwain, the 
number of three-stars in the class 
increased to new highs. In his first 
two classes, McElwain brought on 
16 each.
Since Mullen took over, that 
number has gone down. He hasn’t 
even recruited 16 total in his two 
seasons so far. 
Stars don’t mean much some-
times. Defensive lineman Jachai Po-
lite and offensive lineman Jaawan 
Taylor were three-stars when they 
were recruited, and now they are 
projected first-rounders in the 2019 
NFL Draft.
But getting more five-stars can 
only help. Just ask Alabama, Clem-
son or Georgia.
Check the @alligatorSports Twit-
ter page and vote for the next “By 
The Numbers” story you would like 
to see.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgHow does Mullen’s latest recruiting class stack up since Meyer’s first year?
Comparing Classes
2019 Recruiting Class
Coach: Dan Mullen
NCAA Ranking: 9
SEC Ranking: 5
No five-stars
17 four-stars
8 three-stars
2007 Recruiting Class
Coach: Urban Meyer
NCAA Ranking: 1
SEC Ranking: 1
6 five-stars
12 four-stars
6 three-stars
2012 Recruiting Class
Coach: Will Muschamp
NCAA Ranking: 3
SEC Ranking: 2
3 five-stars
12 four-stars
7 three-starsChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Dan Mullen signed 17 four-star recruits in his 2019 recruiting class. It was the Gators’ 
best class since 2013.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
as road warriors this year, as it's undefeated on 
the road but have lost in two of its three home 
meets so far.
If Alabama hopes to beat Florida, it’ll need 
to find a way to transcend the 196 threshold it’s 
been stuck in, and fast.
 
Riding the wave
The Gators (4-1, 4-0 SEC) have bested every 
SEC team they’ve faced so far, and they aren’t 
keen on ending that streak any time soon.
While Alabama’s lower scores put them at a 
disadvantage against the Gators, UF is still hold-
ing stock in the history between the two squads.
“The tradition and the history of excellence at 
Alabama is second to none,” coach Jenny Row-
land said. “We gotta go in with our A-game if we 
want to be competitive.”
The meet will also mark the second week in a 
row that freshman Savannah Schoenherr will be 
on the floor unit. Schoenherr’s 9.850 on her floor routine last week contributed to the team’s high-
est floor score this year, and she’ll look to keep 
up the success in Tuscaloosa.
“Floor is special, I guess, because you kinda 
get to show your personality throughout your 
routine,” she said. “Looking up and dancing to 
the crowd and seeing everyone dance along with 
you and do the Gator chomp with you is a really 
cool experience.”
While the Gators are used to large crowds 
at the O’Connell Center, Alabama’s home-meet 
advantage is notorious among SEC teams. The 
Crimson Tide drew an impressive 13,823 people 
at its last meet against LSU, which is a better 
showing than any home meet at UF this year.
The Gators, however, aren’t fazed. In fact, 
they plan to use it to their advantage.
“I think we actually do better when we’re in 
front of a big crowd like that,” sophomore Alyssa 
Baumann said. “We just use the energy whether 
it’s for us or not and just roll with it.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14Schoenherr scored a 9.850 on her floor routine against Auburn
can play organized sports seems 
like the right thing for a money-
making powerhouse to do. That 
is, until you look at the motivation 
behind it. 
The league’s tactic is to get 
these kids hooked on football and 
turn them into fans early. Spending 
money on them now means mak-
ing more money in the future.
Kids as young as 5 can start 
playing in full pads in NFL-spon-sored leagues. That should make 
your stomach hurt. Children who 
hardly possess the skills to read are 
being put in danger of incurring 
brain injuries. 
Sure, you can blame the parents 
of these kids for letting them play 
at such an early age. Some even 
thrust their child into the sport 
whether they like it or not. But a 
surprising amount of low-income 
families aren’t educated on the 
topic, and you can’t blame them 
for that.
Youth from high annual income families (between $75,000 and 
$124,999) are about twice as likely 
to know what to do if they have a 
suspected concussion compared to 
youth from lower annual income 
families (below $35,000) according 
to a study by the National Center 
for Biotechnology Information. If 
these kids don’t know, it’s likely 
their parents are unable to teach 
them. 
We do know the NFL is well-
educated on concussions... kind of. 
The league and USA Football, 
youth football’s governing body, sponsor the Heads Up Football 
program. In 2016, the organiza-
tions said that an independent 
study from 2015 showed that the 
program reduced injuries by 76 
percent and concussions by 30 per-
cent, but the study actually said 
Heads Up Football had no notice-
able effect, as was revealed in an 
article by the New York Times. 
Executive director of USA Foot-
ball Scott Hallenbeck said,”We re-
gret the error,” to the Times in an 
email. 
So, if the NFL is going to donate millions of dollars to youth foot-
ball, it should spend more money 
on educating all communities 
about the dangers associated with 
the sport. It should recommend 
young children don’t play full con-
tact. And it could at least be hon-
est with America when analyzing 
independent studies about its edu-
cation programs.
Mark Stine is assistant sports ed-
itor at the Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @mstinejr or contact him at 
mstine@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14Sophomore forward Dontay Bassett
Dontay Bassett matched the third-most minutes he’s played 
this season with 18. He didn’t contribute much with his scoring 
— his only field goal was a mid-range jumper in the first half — 
but the 6-foot-9 forward gave Florida some size and much-needed 
physicality on defense with Hayes barely on the court and Stokes 
the only other player over 6-foot-7. 
Bassett helped the Gators hold Vanderbilt to 35.5 percent 
shooting and 21 percent from three.
Sophomore guards Deaundrae Ballard and Mike Okauru
White said Mike Okauru and Ballard were the best they’ve 
been in about a month at Monday’s practice. 
That showed against the Commodores.
Okauru finished with a season-high five points after being held 
scoreless in his previous six games.
He collected two rebounds, an assist and a steal in 13 minutes.
Ballard’s only field goal was the three pointer over Moyer early 
in the first half, and it was the first time in four games he didn’t 
record multiple turnovers.
Against an SEC team that hadn’t lost its previous 10 conference 
matchups, Florida’s overall performance might not have been 
enough to get a win.
It shot just 33.3 percent from the field, and only one of its start-
ers finished in double figures.
But White may find solace in the fact that his bench, which 
hasn’t been great all year, helped UF scrape by.
“They’ve been challenged daily,” White said of his bench. 
“And they were very good, got contributions from a lot of guys 
in a game when we probably needed it the most. So hats off to 
those guys.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14White: Okauru, Ballard best they've been in the past month
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF guard Deaundrae Ballard made a three pointer against Vanderbilt on Wednesday, his only basket of the 
night. It was also the first time in four games he didn't turn over the ball multiple times.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida gymnast Alyssa Baumann had two 9.9's against Auburn, including a 
9.925 on her floor routine.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   
the shoulders of the pitching staff. Although 
the Gators are ranked in the top 10 in ev-
ery major preseason poll, one of the main 
knocks on the team is youth and, therefore, 
inexperience.
Youth is a valid criticism as it applies to 
the sophomore pitchers, but inexperience 
is not.
It’s not often a freshman has pitched in 
every major postseason situation. That’s ex-
actly what Leftwich did.
“I’ve pitched in Omaha, pitched in Re-
gionals and Super Regionals,” Leftwich said. 
“That just makes the game easier, and now I 
know what I need to do to be successful this 
year early on and just help the team win.”
Leftwich started 12 games, had a total 
of 24 appearances and posted a 5-5 record 
last season. Despite starting in half of his 
appearances, he was second on the team in 
saves.
Pitching in relief helped him with his 
starts. 
“Whenever you get called from the bull-
pen, you just got to get ready and get going, 
and you can’t think,” Leftwich said. “It used 
to take me a few innings to warm up and 
get ready, but now if I’m going into a game, 
since I was relieving, I can just throw strikes 
right away.”
His days of coming out of the bullpen 
are likely over, as he moves into the Sunday 
starter role. He’s most excited about ﬁ  gur-
ing out his weekly exercise routine.
Between his afﬁ  nity for working out and 
doing yoga, Leftwich said it was sometimes 
difﬁ  cult not knowing when he would pitch. 
Now, his role will allow him to prepare for 
his starts and ﬁ  nd time to hit the weights 
and the yoga mat. 
He keeps up with this habit, which be-
gan his senior year, by using an app on his 
phone.
“I also think it’s good for your mental 
health too, like the focus, because some-
times yoga’s a little hard,” Leftwich said. 
“So you have to be locked in, and that’s 
how you have to be when you pitch.”
He’s not only prepared to start, but he 
expected the promotion.
“Last year I wanted to be in the starting 
rotation right away, and I ended up being 
at the end a little bit,” Leftwich said. “I ex-
pected that, that’s what I worked for.”
He attended TNXL Baseball Academy for 
his ﬁ  nal two years of high school, taking on-
line classes and preparing for the demand-
ing regimen of a collegiate – and potentially 
professional – baseball player.
“I would train everyday, so that’s what I 
was working for,” Leftwich said. “I just felt 
that that prepared me more than any other 
pitcher ‘cause I had done all the workouts and basically had a college schedule.”
 
Breathe in. Breathe out. 
When Tommy is on the bump, that’s the 
tactic he employs to calm his nerves.
Mace emerged from the bullpen in some 
big spots in the 2018 postseason. Now, he’ll 
be doing most of his work as the Saturday 
starter.
Cracking the starting rotation has always 
been his goal.
“It still hasn’t really set in, it won’t set in 
until I throw a couple games in the SEC in 
the weekend rotation, but right now it’s still 
up for grabs,” Mace said. “I mean, a fresh-
man could take it.”
To avoid that happening and to put the 
ball where he wants to every pitch, Mace fo-
cuses on one thing above all else: his heart 
rate.
“In a game your heart rate starts to el-
evate and that’s where you can lose track of 
where you’re throwing the ball,” Mace said. 
“So if I slow my breathing, slow my heart 
rate and just relax and focus on what pitch I 
need to throw, I know I can compete against 
any hitter in the SEC.”
Last season it appeared that Mace was 
able to control his heart rate relatively well, 
posting a perfect 5-0 record and the third-
best strikeout-to-walk ratio (3.75) on the 
team behind only Singer.
Mace learned from Kowar and Singer that consistency is the most important part 
of the game for a starting pitcher. And he 
said that’s what he has to focus on if the 
Gators are to return to Omaha. Other than 
his heart rate, of course.
The odd man out could be the go-to guy 
out of the bullpen and even at the plate.
Butler plays some inﬁ  eld and occasion-
ally hits. But Mace expects him to be the 
heir to Byrne as closer.
“I think he has the attitude that he’s not 
scared of anything, and I think he’s gonna 
do really good in the bullpen. I think he’ll 
kinda take place of being our closer this 
year,” Mace said of Butler.
Leftwich compared Butler to Byrne say-
ing that the former closer was “just a differ-
ent animal, and I think Jordan’s a little bit 
like that.”
O’Sullivan didn’t go as far as saying But-
ler was the designated closer, mentioning 
that it’s “certainly by committee.”
But he did say that Butler would be the 
ﬁ  rst out of the bullpen on Friday nights.
“Even though he’s only a sophomore, 
he’s got more experience than anyone in the 
bullpen right now,” O’Sullivan said.
Of the four sophomore pitchers, Butler 
allowed the lowest ERA (4.10) and the low-
est batting average (.203), and his 31 ap-
pearances were the third-most in the SEC 
and the most by a freshman. His six wins 
are the most by a Florida freshman since 
2015.
As one of just three left-handed pitchers 
on the roster – there are 16 right-handed 
pitchers – Butler’s presence on the mound 
is worth more than just a fresh arm out of 
the pen.
When asked about his expected role, 
Butler didn’t let on that he would be the go-
to guy late in games. Rather, he’s comfort-
able continuing to be a Swiss Army knife 
of sorts.
“Whatever they need me to do, start 
midweeks, close it out, come in mid-game, I 
mean I don’t know, it doesn’t matter to me, 
just that we win the game,” Butler said.
And not just on the mound.
At the plate, Butler hit .308, albeit in just 
13 at bats, with two RBI and ﬁ  ve walks. His contributions there and on the mound led to 
him being named to the 2018 Freshmen All-
American team by Collegiate Baseball.
“Wherever they need me I’m gonna be,” 
Butler said. “If they need me at ﬁ  rst base I’ll 
go to ﬁ  rst base, if they need me to pinch hit, 
I’ll pinch hit.”
Despite McMullen’s lack of experience 
last season, his former roommate on the 
road and fellow reliever thinks he can per-
form whenever called upon.
“Hunter throws really hard, he throws 
like 98 with incredible sink,” Butler said. 
“So I think he’s gonna be really good this 
year either out of the bullpen, midweek, 
whatever they need him to do.”
McMullen had the least experience of any 
of the four pitchers last year, primarily out 
of the bullpen. He expects to remain in his 
reliever role and occasionally start midweek 
games. McMullen started twice last season 
and had 17 total appearances.
With experience in both roles, McMullen 
recognizes the importance of starters being 
able to rely on the relievers to ﬁ  nish the job 
late in games.
“Just helping our starters out however 
we can, allowing them to not have to go 
super deep in the ball games and having a 
reliable bullpen that we can sit on so that 
our starters can be a little bit less fatigued,” 
McMullen said of the bullpen’s role this sea-
son.
No one did that better than Florida’s all-
time saves leader (35), and McMullen recog-
nizes the gaping hole that Byrne’s departure 
for professional baseball left in the bullpen. 
But McMullen believes he and the other re-
lievers will be able to step up this season.
“Anyone in our bullpen is capable of do-
ing the same stuff that Byrne did,” McMul-
len said “Maybe not as many saves as that, 
but I think we can deﬁ  nitely lock it down 
run-wise and deﬁ  nitely help the team get 
the win.”
At an MLB pipeline like Florida, the 
next crop of talent is never far behind.
Two years ago, the freshman class in-
cluded Singer, Kowar and Byrne. Those 
three eventual MLB draft picks threw less 
than 100 innings and had less than 100 
strikeouts between them.
The 2014 class, which included ﬁ  ve fu-
ture draft picks and was headlined by Lo-
gan Shore, A.J. Puk and Dane Dunning, 
was one of two in the past 11 years to sur-
pass the 2018 freshmen’s inning total with 
247.2. They had 194 strikeouts and a 16-11 
record.
Leftwich, Mace, Butler and McMullen 
combined for 219.1 innings, 206 strikeouts 
and a 16-7 record in 2018.
“Those guys are mature beyond their 
years, given the opportunities that they 
were given last year,” O’Sullivan said.
Their coach will give them even more 
opportunities this year. It’s up to them to 
deliver.
“What they’ve done their ﬁ  rst year and 
what they’ve been able to do now is not 
surprising at all,” O’Sullivan said. “If they 
were not pitching like they are, or were ca-
pable of doing, I’d be more surprised that 
they were not performing up to their abili-
ties.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org
 •   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   •
•   •   •
be doing most of his work as the Saturday 
Mace learned from Kowar and Singer 
Jack LeftwichT ommy MaceALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!SOFTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Gators softball team (6-0) 
heads out to Tempe, Arizona, to 
partake in ﬁ  ve games at the Little-
wood Classic following two mid-
week games against Team Japan 
and North Florida. Here are three 
things to know about Florida’s start 
to the season:
Pitching depth shines
The Gators knew going into 
the season that they had one of 
the nation’s best pitchers in the 
country: Kelly Barnhill. The se-
nior from Henrietta, Georgia, has 
performed as advertised, allowing 
only two runs across 20 innings 
of regular-season play and is tied 
for the ninth-most strikeouts in the 
country with 26. She is 4-0 on the 
season along with saves against 
Arizona and North Florida. 
Sophomore Natalie Lugo, how-
ever, hasn’t been very far behind. 
Lugo started against North Florida 
Wednesday night after a rough re-
lief outing against Team Japan. She 
went six innings and allowed only 
two hits and one earned run while 
dishing out one walk in the Gators’ 
3-1 win.
It’s performances like that, 
along with solid games against Ari-
zona and South Florida, that give 
Gators coach Tim Walton conﬁ  -
dence whenever Barnhill isn’t in 
the circle and the ability to limit 
Barnhill’s innings and keep her 
fresh for later in the season.
And that’s not mentioning the 
team’s two freshman pitchers, 
Danni Farley and Elizabeth Hight-
ower, both of whom Walton wants 
to use more in the future. Early offensive struggles
It’s a good thing that the Gators 
have options in the circle, because 
their offense is off to a slow start. 
Aside from its season-opening 15-0 
win over Illinois State, Florida has 
struggled to hit with runners in 
scoring position. 
After hitting 7 for 14 against the 
Redbirds, the Gators have gone 
8 for 43 (.178) at the plate with 
runners in scoring position in the 
regular season. Their best game 
in regards to hitting with runners 
in scoring position in that stretch 
was a 3-for-14 (.214) performance 
against then-No.19 Michigan.  
The good news is that the Gators 
haven’t struggled to put runners in 
scoring position in the ﬁ  rst place. 
Florida has batted .325 as a 
team, which is 50th in the coun-
try, while also playing against two 
ranked teams already. 
There’s simply too much 
power and skill between outﬁ  eld-
ers Amanda Lorenz and Jaimie 
Hoover, catcher Kendyl Lindaman 
and designated player Danielle Ro-
manello for the Gators’ offensive 
slump to continue, but it’s deﬁ  -
nitely something to keep an eye on 
in Tempe. 
Dancing with the (Sun) Devils
Florida’s biggest challenge at 
the Littlewood Classic is going to 
be against No. 14 Arizona State (5-
1). The Sun Devils’ high-octane of-
fense will pose an interesting chal-
lenge for Florida’s pitching staff. 
They were shut out by Missouri but 
have scored 60 runs in their other 
ﬁ  ve games. Arizona State has three 
batters hitting over .400 and no one 
is below .300. Junior catcher Maddi Hackbarth 
leads the team with three home 
runs, and her 10 RBIs are tied for 
ﬁ  rst on the team with senior out-
ﬁ  elder Morgan Howe. Compara-
tively, Jaimie Hoover is the only 
Gator batting above .400, Danielle 
Romanello leads the team in home 
runs with two and Hannah Adams 
is the only player with more than 
ﬁ  ve RBI’s. Florida’s advantage, however, 
is in the circle with its 10th-best 
team ERA and depth. Arizona 
State has gotten a few decent starts 
from junior Samantha Mejia (4-
0, 2.14 ERA) but has struggled to 
ﬁ  nd quality pitching performances 
from redshirt junior Cielo Meza (1-
1, 8.81 ERA). Playing Illinois State 
ﬁ  rst on Friday and then Arizona 
State’s pitching staff later in the night presents a great opportunity 
for Florida to get out of its offensive 
funk. 
The Gators round out the week-
end by playing a doubleheader 
against San Diego and Utah State 
on Saturday and Central Michigan 
Sunday morning. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
  What to know about UF heading into weekend out west
Aaron Ritter / Alligator File Photo
UF third baseman Jaime Hoover leads the Gators with a .400 batting average this season.
The Core of Four
Sophomore-studded pitching rotation returns for 2019 seasonINSIDE
Leftwich, Mace, Butler and McMullen saw significant playing time as 
freshmen. A year later, they are leading Florida’s pitching staff.
ONLINE
Check out our latest poll on the @alligatorSports Twitter and vote for which 
“By The Numbers” story you would like to see next.By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The future of Florida’s pitching staff 
is here.
One year ago, throughout opening week-
end, the Gators baseball program saw a 
glimpse of its next generation when four 
members of the class of 2017 appeared on 
the bump.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan called on his 
freshmen out of the bullpen four times. And 
four times they trotted out to the mound 
and executed.
The focus that weekend was naturally 
on the MLB prospects that would lead UF 
to its fourth-straight College World Series 
appearance. Juniors Jackson Kowar, 
Brady Singer and Michael Byrne 
were stellar on the mound that 
weekend, and throughout their 
careers as Gators.
But in their stead came 
four freshmen: ﬁ  rst Jor-
dan Butler, the next day Jack Leftwich and then, lastly, Tommy 
Mace and Hunter McMullen.
Those four freshmen pitchers threw 
a total of ﬁ  ve innings in relief, struck out 
nine batters and allowed just three hits and 
zero runs when the opening weekend series 
against Siena came to a close.
A promising start, to say the least. But 
could O’Sullivan lean on them once SEC 
play began? Or in Omaha?
The answer was an overwhelming yes. 
Butler, Leftwich, Mace and McMullen 
saw the third-most time on the mound for 
any of O’Sullivan’s 11 freshman classes as 
Florida’s head coach. They were the small-
est group of the top three. 
They amassed more 
strikeouts than any other 
freshman class of pitchers 
during that time. All with 
24 starts and three saves be-
tween them.
Now sophomores, Mace 
and Leftwich move into the 
coveted role of weekend 
starters, replacing the now 
departed Kowar and Singer, 
while Butler and McMullen 
attempt to ﬁ  ll the void left by 
Byrne as the de facto closer.
Butler knew Mace from their 
hometown. He knew Hunter 
from travel baseball. And he has 
roomed with Leftwich for two 
years now. 
He’s the odd man out as a 
lefty and two-way player, but 
he’s what brings players from 
four different high schools 
across the state together.Butler and Mace are both from Tampa, 
and McMullen and Leftwich weren’t far 
away in Ocala and Orlando, respectively. 
Their play on the diamond grabbed the at-
tention of Florida’s head coach.
O’Sullivan said he knew he was signing a 
strong class back in 2017, and the numbers 
support that sentiment.
In Leftwich, Mace and McMullen, the 
Gators signed the No. 1, No. 5 and No. 
18-ranked right-handed pitchers in Florida, 
per Perfect Game, whereas Butler was the 
No. 15 left-handed pitcher. They all had 
decorated careers at their respective high 
schools, but this talented crop of UF pitch-
ers almost never came to be.Three of the four were drafted in the 
2017 MLB Draft, yet they all opted to honor 
their commitments to Florida.
“We didn’t really know each other too 
much but we started to learn that ‘Hey, this 
is our class, this is who we’re gonna be,’” 
Mace said. “And we need to be close and 
work with each other to go to Omaha and 
hopefully win a national championship.”
In their freshman campaigns, they fell 
just short, losing in the College World Se-
ries.
The goal is to ultimately return to Omaha 
and win a national championship as the 
2017 team did before them.
Much of that responsibility will fall on FIRST PITCH
Editor: Jake Dreilinger   Photo for Cover Illustration: Jordan Bourne
Alligator, Friday, February 15, 2019
Projected FLORIDA lineup
CP1B2B SS
3BLFCF
RF
Brady 
SmithTyler 
DysonKendrick 
CalilaoBlake 
ReeseBrady 
McConnell
Cory 
ActonAustin 
LangworthyJud 
Fabian
Wil 
Dalton
Hunter McMullen
Ocala
Forest High School
Tommy Mace
T ampa
Sunlake High SchoolJack Leftwich
Orlando
TNXL Academy
Jordan Butler
T ampa
Alonso HighFlorida’s four sophomores anchor the pitching staﬀ   
Hometowns•   •   •
on the MLB prospects that would lead UF 
to its fourth-straight College World Series 
appearance. Juniors Jackson Kowar, 
Brady Singer and Michael Byrne 
were stellar on the mound that 
weekend, and throughout their 
careers as Gators.
But in their stead came 
four freshmen: ﬁ  rst Jor-
dan Butler, the next 
Florida’s head coach. They were the small-
est group of the top three. 
strikeouts than any other 
freshman class of pitchers 
during that time. All with 
24 starts and three saves be-
tween them.
and Leftwich move into the 
coveted role of weekend 
starters, replacing the now 
departed Kowar and Singer, 
while Butler and McMullen 
attempt to ﬁ  ll the void left by 
Byrne as the de facto closer.
Butler knew Mace from their 
hometown. He knew Hunter 
from travel baseball. And he has 
roomed with Leftwich for two 
years now. 
lefty and two-way player, but 
he’s what brings players from 
four different high schools 
across the state together.
Alligator File Photo
Gators coach Kevin O’Sullivan smiles while talking to Siena coach T ony Rossi before 
Florida’s game against the Saints.
Jordan Butler