We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
EVALUATING UF’S DEFENSIVE LINE
Redshirt junior pass rusher Jabari Zuniga 
headlines the Gators’ defensive line, pg 11
Florida panther population revitalized
With the help of UF and some T exas pumas, Florida’s state ani-
mal has battled back from the brink of extinction, pg 3
UF employee charged with false imprisonment
Brian Fischbach, 37, has worked at UF since May 2015, pg 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 104
THE 2020-21 BUDGET 
IS $22,087,482 
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
The Student Senate began the process of 
deciding how student fees for the 2020-21 
school year will be spent. 
The Senate did a ﬁ  rst reading of the Fund-
ing for Fiscal Year 2020-21 Activity Service Fee 
Budget Tuesday night. The 2020-21 budget is 
$22,087,482, which is about a 3 percent in-
crease from the 2019-20 budget. 
During his presentation of the budget, Bud-
get and Appropriations Committee Chairman 
Cooper Brown said the increase came from an inﬂ  ux of credit hours, meaning the student ac-
tivity fee didn’t have to be raised to allocate 
the extra money.
Brown said it’s common for the next year’s 
budget to be voted on this early. He said there 
is usually an amendment process in May, be-
fore the ﬁ  scal year begins July 1.
“I am very excited that the budget passed 
with almost a unanimous vote during its ﬁ  rst 
reading,” Brown said. “It’s great to see that 
this had bipartisan support, and I am elated 
to see how it will positively impact students 
in 2020-21.”
During the pro-con debate on the budget, 
many senators praised it and the work the 
committee put into it.
Others pointed out even though it had in-
creased, there weren’t allocations for things discussed by the Senate in the past, like adding 
more emergency blue lights to Fraternity Drive 
and setting up livestreams for all meetings. 
The Senate Livestreaming Act was passed 
in January 2018, and it mandated the Informa-
tion and Communications Committee would 
livestream all Senate meetings. However, a 
centralized livestream still hasn’t been set up, 
with the only livestreams coming from indi-
vidual senators.
Deputy Minority Party Leader Nikolas Bin-
di said he sees both the positive and negative 
aspects of the budget.
“It’s a good budget when it comes to the 
things it has,” Bindi said. “But a lot of the stuff 
that’s missing is what detracts from it.”
The budget passed its ﬁ  rst reading and will 
receive a second reading at the next Senate meeting.  
Open Senate and Committee seats were 
also a topic of controversy at Tuesday’s meet-
ing.
The Replacement and Agenda Committee 
submitted recommendations to ﬁ  ll in open 
seats, including eight students for permanent 
Senate seats, one for an open District D sum-
mer replacement seat and ﬁ  ve recommended 
for vacant Judiciary Committee seats.
There was also a nomination for a vacant 
Information and Communication Committee 
seat.
However, the recommendation that gar-
nered the most discussion was Sydney Spen-
ce’s for the open District D summer replace-SG Senate votes to approve 3-percent budget increaseTHERE MAY BE A NEW ROUTE 
FROM HAILE PLANTATION TO 
THE UF CAMPUS
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
The Regional Transit System 
Advisory Board announced 22 
route changes and a new route 
150 for fall 2019 at a public meet-
ing Wednesday night.
The new route would go from 
Haile Plantation to UF campus —
with one stop in Haile Plantation 
at the Publix on Tower Road — 
and would stop twice on campus. 
The campus stops would be at 
the Hub and UF Health at South-
west Archer Road, Krys Ochia, the 
transit planning manager for RTS, 
said. 
The board presented the ser-
vice change as a way to enhance 
the bus service effectiveness and 
efﬁ  ciency. The goal is to improve 
network and system operation, as well as respond to customer con-
cerns and address driver issues.  
The RTS services will be imple-
mented Aug. 19, the day before 
Fall classes start for both UF and 
Santa Fe, Jesus Gomez, the RTS 
transit director, said. 
The RTS bus routes are changed 
by the advisory board three times 
a year following the Fall, Spring 
and Summer semesters. The 
City Commission will review the 
changes Aug. 15, Gomez said.   
In addition to routes, the ad-
visory board also discussed cus-
tomer service.
Patti Wiggs, the transit custom-
er advocate, said the majority of 
the customer service complaints 
include drivers passing riders at 
stops and rude drivers. 
She presented to the board the 
customer service summary from 
May and June. In May, RTS had 
76 customer complaints and found 
39 valid. In June, RTS had 70 cus-
tomer complaints and found 48 RTS bus schedules 
change for Fall 2019 
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
People board and exit an Regional Transit System bus Wednesday afternoon by The Hub on UF’s campus. The RTS 
Advisory Board annouced a new route on Wednesday that may run from Haile Plantation through campus.
SEE SG MEETING,  PAGE 3SEE BUS MEETING,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasSocial Media StrategistHIGH  83° LOW  70°
Florida Museum hosts free 
Creative B movie 
The Florida Museum is hosting 
a screening of “Mr. Peabody 
& Sherman,” released in 2014 
and rated PG,  Friday at 7 p.m. 
Visitors can discuss the film 
with a panel of scientists, artists 
and special effects experts prior 
to the movie and explore the 
balance between science and 
art. The museum's permanent 
exhibits, except the “Butterfly 
Rainforest” and “Discovery 
Zone,” will be open until 10 
p.m.Corrections: In an article 
entitled "UF researcher 
awarded $2.5 million federal 
grant" that ran in Thursday's 
edition, the grant total was 
$1.9 million. The full name 
of the center to which it was 
awarded is the Preston A. 
Wells, Jr. Center for Brain 
Tumor Therapy. Dr. Duane 
Mitchell’s full title is a UF 
professor of neurosurgery 
and co-director of the 
Preston A. Wells Jr. Center 
for Brain Tumor Therapy. 
In an article entitled "Disease that kills palm trees spreads 
to Alachua County" that ran 
in Tuesday's paper, there are 
7.2 million trees in Gainesville 
and 43,000 are Sabal palms.  
In an article titled "Alachua 
County therapy ban meets 
resistance" that ran in 
Tuesday's edition, The 
Alligator cited a study 
conducted by a task force 
convened by the American 
Psychological Association. 
The task force was convened 
in 2007, but the report was 
published in 2009.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 104
FRIDAY 26TH
POWER NIGHT (7PM)
SATURDAY 27TH
YOUTH CONFERENCE (10AM)
FAMILY FUN NIGHT (6PM-9PM)
SUNDAY 29TH
THANKSGIVING & 
IMPARTATION (9AM)
4908 NW 34BLVD, SUITE #9
GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA 32605
TEL: 352-231-9031
THURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 RESEARCHERS FOUND IMPROVING 
THE GENETIC DIVERSITY OF FLORIDA 
PANTHERS WILL INCREASE SURVIVAL  
By Meleah Lyden 
Staff Writer
Faced with threats from heart defects to 
habitat loss, Florida panthers have struggled 
to live throughout the years. 
But recent research may give these endan-
gered animals another chance.
Researchers from UF’s Department of 
Wildlife Ecology and Conservation and the 
Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Com-
mission conducted a study to find solutions 
for endangered panthers. 
The study found improving the panthers’ 
genetic diversity by breeding with Texas pu-
mas helped them not only survive, but thrive, 
said UF wildlife ecology and conservation 
professor Madan Oli. 
The study is a synthesis of 30 years of 
work.  
This is just one of the projects UF has done 
with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conserva-
tion Commission, said its communications di-
rector Kelly Richmond. 
“We collaborate with UF on a variety of 
different projects,” she said. “It’s a good part-
nership.” 
The problem with Florida panthers stems 
back to before the mid-1990s when the popu-
lation was very small — around 20 to 30 pan-
thers in South Florida, Oli said. In addition, 
the panthers had health problems like heart 
issues and more. Wildlife managers decided they needed to 
do something to recover the population. 
They conducted an experiment in which 
they brought eight pumas from Texas to Flor-
ida. Five of these pumas ended up breeding 
with the panthers to produce hybrid offspring 
that created more genetic diversity, which is 
how varied a gene pool is. In addition, the 
number eight seemed like a good number for 
this research, Oli said.  
“Why not more? Why not less?” he said. 
“If you bring in too many individuals from 
Texas, then what could happen is that Texas 
genes could potentially dominate Florida pan-
ther genes.” 
And if one or two Texas pumas were 
brought in and they happened to die, then the 
experiment couldn’t happen, he said. 
The results showed an increase in the Flor-
ida panther population size from 20 to 30 in 
1995 to 120 to 230 today, he said. This was 
from creating more genetic diversity by not 
inbreeding. 
It was found those with mixed ancestry 
fared better in terms of survival and reproduc-
tive success, because more genetically diverse 
animals tend to be healthier. 
“And because they are healthier, they sur-
vive better and reach a reproductive age,” he 
said. 
The reproductive age for females is about 
2.5 to 3 years, but for males it is 3.5 to 4.
To Oli, these results give hope.
“The significance [of this research] is that 
there’s hope for endangered species,” he said. 
Research also looked for any indication of 
inbreeding returning to the population and found the best solution might be bringing five 
females every 20 years. However, this is not a 
proven fact, Oli said. 
“It’s not like we’re suggesting this be 
done,” he said. “What we are suggesting is to 
keep an eye on the population.” 
However, conserving the panthers’ habitat 
is the key to helping this endangered species, 
he said. Without a good habitat, diversifying 
the genetics of this species won’t work. Flor-
ida panthers live in a mixture of all different 
environments — from forests to wetlands to 
swamps. They use all the available resources 
of their respective environments. 
To help conserve the panthers’ habitat, 
Oli discourages deforestation. In addition, Oli 
encourages people to be more welcoming to panthers and disproves any misconceptions 
the public may have of the violence of the 
animals. 
“One misconception we hear quite fre-
quently is that by bringing in excess genes, 
we have created a monster,” he said. “That’s 
a myth and there’s absolutely no science to 
back it up.” 
Even though work still needs to be done in 
the future to help these animals, the research 
still gives hope and showed progress. 
“The experiment worked,” Oli said. “And 
we know that because now the panthers are 
healthier, happier, and the population in-
creased.” 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgIntroduction of pumas helps 
Florida panther population 
Courtesy of the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission
An endangered Florida panther walks in Hendry County. The Florida panther 
population has risen from 20 to 30 in the 1990s to 120 to 230 today. 
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
Kaelin MaGrath, a 21-year-old UF health science senior, said 
she has donated blood on campus once a year for the past three 
years. 
“The experience has been great,” MaGrath said. “The employ-
ees showed their appreciation and gratitude for donating. They 
also made sure that I was in good shape before I left.”
Gainesville is now facing a blood shortage and MaGrath’s con-
tributions are needed more than ever.
LifeSouth Community Blood Centers has issued an emergency 
need for all blood types. The blood bank has received orders for 
every blood type, except Type AB, that it cannot supply, said Life-
South Community Development Coordinator Laura Bialeck.
“You don’t normally see that we’re back-ordered O-positive 
blood, which is one of the most common blood types, but we are,” 
Bialeck said.
LifeSouth has back-ordered 38 units of red-blood cells from UF 
Health Shands, Bialeck said.
Before donating, every person gets a “mini physical” to check 
blood pressure, temperature, iron levels and cholesterol, and they 
receive a free LifeSouth T-shirt afterward. 
Bialeck said common misconceptions often heard from stu-
dents on campus are that they cannot donate because they have 
a tattoo or they have to wait for a 12-month period after getting a 
tattoo before donating. 
“A lot of people think that they can’t donate blood when they 
actually can,” Bialeck said. “I would encourage people, just be-
cause they think they can’t donate, to definitely stop at the blood-
mobile or ask one of us, because they may be able to.”
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgLifeSouth in need of donors 
due to low blood supply
AN EMERGENCY NEED FOR ALL BLOOD 
TYPES HAS BEEN ISSUEDvalid. 
“Around 50 percent of 
the complaints are usu-
ally valid,” Wiggs said. 
The board said it hopes 
adjusting the routes will 
minimize complaints in 
the following semesters. 
Richard Nelson, a 
learning specialist at the 
UF Disability Resource 
Center, spoke on behalf 
of the population needing 
the Americans with Dis-
abilities Act accommoda-
tions on the bus. 
“The majority of the 
drivers in my routes the 
last few months have 
been pleasant,” Nelson 
said, “but I would recom-
mend some sensitivity 
training, because those 
of us who are chair users 
are still valid customers.”  
The board also opened 
the floor for public com-ments.
Kenneth Levinson, a 
frequent bus rider, com-
plained many announce-
ments on the bus appear 
to belong to a different 
bus route. 
“I’ll be on Univer-
sity for quite some time 
and then I’ll hear an an-
nouncement that we are 
turning on West Univer-
sity,” Levinson said. 
The board said they 
will look into it. 
Levinson also com-
plained about buses with 
large advertisments mak-
ing it difficult to see out-
side.
“I know you’re not go-
ing to do anything about 
this, but it’s virtually im-
possible to see outside of 
the lawyer bus at night,” 
Levinson said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgBUS MEETING,  from pg. 1
ment seat.
During public debate, Colin Solo-
mon, a 19-year-old UF criminol-
ogy sophomore, spoke to the Senate 
about his frustrations regarding that 
seat.
Solomon was set to be a District 
D summer replacement senator, but 
all of the summer replacements were 
nullified in May by Senate President 
Libby Shaw, so Solomon lost his seat.
Since then, Solomon has been ap-
plying to open Senate seats. Most re-
cently, he applied to the seat Spence was chosen to fill. 
“This was my seventh application 
and third interview,” Solomon said.
Solomon said he hopes Spence 
does well in the position, and he 
plans to keep applying for vacant 
seats.
All of the Replacement and Agen-
da Committee’s recommendations 
were set to be voted on in a block, 
meaning all 15 recommendations 
would be voted on at once. 
Before the block was voted on, 
Bindi moved the block be broken up 
so each nomination could be heard 
and voted on individually. A major-ity of senators present voted against 
his motion.
“I stand firmly in the stance that 
it should not be allowed because it’s 
not a specific right that’s given to us, 
and it discourages debate on certain 
applicants,” Bindi said. 
Once the block was voted on, it 
was passed by a majority of the sena-
tors present and all of the Replace-
ment and Agenda recommendations 
were approved.
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSG MEETING,  from pg. 1
4  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Pentecostal
Prevailing Word
Bible Church, Inc.
Sunday Worship: 9 am
Friday: 7 pm
4908 NW 34th BLVD Suite #9
Pst. Olabode Ogedengbe, Resident Pastor (352)231-9031
Helping ordinary people to 
become passionate followers 
of God! The Church you can 
belong to before you believe!
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Wed: Contemporary service
@6:35 pm
in Trinity Chapel
Sunday services:
9:30 & 11:00 am
352-376-6615
TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
GUIDEWORSHIP
GUIDEWORSHIP
GUIDE
WORSHIP
WORSHIP
WORSHIP
Contact Alligator Advertising:
Contact Alligator Advertising:
352.376.4482ALMOST 400 REFUGEE 
CHILDREN PARTICIPATED 
IN A STRESS INTERVENTION 
STUDY
By Alexa Spicer
Contributing Writer
A UF researcher spent a year 
studying Syrian refugee children and 
their ability to handle stress. 
The study, published in PLOS 
ONE, revealed both factors of genet-
ics and environment play a signiﬁ  -
cant role in how children process and 
respond to trauma.
Almost 400 Syrian refugee chil-
dren, who ﬂ  ed to Jordan, participated 
in an eight-week stress intervention 
study run by the Mercy Corps, a non-
proﬁ  t organization focusing on hu-
manitarian issues.
Connie J. Mulligan, an anthropol-
ogy professor and Genetics Institute afﬁ  liate at UF, said the kids (between 
the ages of 12 and 18) met twice a 
week to do arts and crafts, learn com-
puter skills or do a variety of other 
activities.
Mulligan and ﬁ  ve other re-
searchers examined a gene called 
monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) to 
determine how genetics may have 
impacted the amount of stress the 
children displayed. Decades of previ-
ous research studies show if children 
have the risk allele of MAOA and ex-
perienced a form of abuse, they were 
at an increased risk for developing ag-
gressive or antisocial behavior. 
Mulligan said one of her anthro-
pology graduate students, Christo-
pher Clukay, analyzed the results and 
found the Syrian children who partic-
ipated in stress intervention and had 
the risk allele showed reduced stress 
over time.
The study also looked at the im-pact of the environment on the chil-
dren’s personality traits — speciﬁ  -
cally resilience — when faced with 
traumatic situations. 
Clukay looked for a relationship 
between resilience and six psychoso-
cial and mental health measurements 
developed in Middle Eastern areas, 
Mulligan said. Some measurements 
included the Perceived Stress Scale 
and the Validation of the Arab Youth 
Mental Health Scale. 
“People think of resilience as 
something that is just about me,” 
Mulligan said. “You know, am I re-
silient or not? But actually, resilience 
is about me, the support I get from 
my family, the support I get from my 
community, so it’s a much bigger pic-
ture of resilience.”
Catherine Panter-Brick, an an-
thropology professor at Yale Univer-
sity and principal investigator on the 
study, adapted an existing question-naire on resilience and studied how 
support from the family and com-
munity affected the resilience shown 
by the child. If children had both the 
MAOA risk allele and high levels of 
resilience, then they showed the most 
promising stress reduction of anyone 
in the study.
Panter-Brick said there is a great 
deal of concern regarding the mental 
health and social development of the 
children and adolescents affected by 
the war. She said the study shows the 
positive impact of the intervention 
and helped establish relationships 
between researchers at Yale, Florida 
and Jordan.
“The most remarkable aspect of 
the study was their eagerness to be 
put on the map of the world by partic-
ipating in a scientiﬁ  c study,” Panter-
Brick said. “They were very excited 
by science.”
Mulligan said the data was collect-ed at three different times along the 
course of the year-long study: before 
the stress intervention began, at 12 
weeks after the intervention was over 
and after a year. Signiﬁ  cant effects 
were noticed at the 12-week mark.
Although the results show that 
nature and nurture are both at work, 
Mulligan said it would be better to fo-
cus on the environment rather than 
more complicated solutions such as 
gene therapy. Programs similar to the 
stress intervention would focus on 
building up resilience in at-risk chil-
dren.
Mulligan said she is conﬁ  dent she 
will receive future grants so she can 
continue her study into Syrian refu-
gees and genetics.
“Most people don’t have the col-
laboration like ours, where we have 
people studying both the genetics and 
the psychosocial environment,” Mul-
ligan said.THE UNIVERSITY WILL RECEIVE $1.5 
MILLION PER YEAR FROM THE STATE 
FOR RESEARCH
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer 
Earlier this year, colleges all over Florida 
applied to receive funding to lead a new Con-
sortium for Medical Marijuana Clinical Out-
comes Research. UF came out on top.
The university announced last month it 
was selected by the State University System 
of Florida Board of Governors to take the 
lead on the project, which will bring other 
universities and researchers across the state 
together to explore potential impacts of medi-
cal marijuana on public health, said Dr. Rob-
ert Cook, a UF professor of epidemiology.
UF will receive $1.5 million per year to 
fund the research project, Cook said. 
The project is still in the early stages of 
planning, he said. Pending approval from 
the consortium’s board, Dr. Almut Winter-stein, a professor and chair of pharmaceuti-
cal outcomes and policy at the UF College of 
Pharmacy, will be the consortium’s director. 
Cook will be the director of the clinical re-
search core within the consortium.
The goal of the consortium will be to ex-
plore the effects of medical marijuana prod-
ucts currently dispensed by the state. It will 
also examine possible harmful effects of 
medical marijuana to make sure it doesn’t 
pose a risk to the public, Cook said. 
The consortium will compile a database 
of research relating to medical marijuana 
from different institutions across the state, 
he said.
“The consortium doesn’t fund a speciﬁ  c 
research project,” Cook said. “Its purpose is 
to provide a research infrastructure that can 
help us identify and answer the critical ques-
tions related to medical marijuana.”
About $600,000 from funding will be used 
by UF to provide grants to other state institu-
tions doing similar research and encourage 
collaboration, Cook said.
UF already has a variety of research pro-grams related to cannabis, including the 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ 
Industrial Hemp Pilot Project and a study on 
cannabis receptors taking place in the Col-
lege of Pharmacy. 
Since it is still in the early stages of de-
velopment, Cook said he isn’t sure how UF 
students will be able to get involved in the 
consortium’s research efforts. Cook said stu-
dents may be involved with monthly meet-
ings of people interested in marijuana re-
search or with the creation of an internship 
program. However, such involvement will 
be at least a year down the road. 
“I hope we can come up with some ways 
to support student involvement,” Cook said. 
“We are certainly open to ideas on how to 
engage students.”
Christelle Lteif, a 28-year-old UF pharma-
ceutical sciences graduate student, said she 
thinks the consortium is a good thing for UF 
because it will help expand the research the 
university is already doing. 
“As a pharmacist, I think it’s good to 
know the beneﬁ  ts and clinical outcomes of something,” Lteif said. “So if we can do more 
research on [medical marijuana] to know if 
it’s useful or not, that’s a good thing.”  
@charlie_daffron 
cdaffron@alligator.org
Researcher studies how Syrian children respond to traumaUF to blaze trail in the field of medicinal marijuana
UF will lead a consortium dedicated to 
medical marijuana research. What to 
know:
• The consortium will be state-
funded.
• UF will be awarded $1.5 million 
per year for research efforts.
• Around $600,000 of the $1.5 
million will be used to establish a 
grant program for other institutions 
conducting similar research.
• Pending approval by the 
consortium’s board, UF faculty 
members Dr. Almut Winterstein 
and Dr. Robert Cook will lead the 
research efforts. THURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
THIS EFFORT WAS MEANT 
TO RAISE AWARENESS 
FOR THE UPCOMING 
PLASTIC BAN
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Gainesville residents saw some 
familiar faces on their morning 
commute Wednesday as Com-
missioner Harvey Ward, Commis-
sioner Helen Warren and Mayor 
Lauren Poe passed out reusable 
grocery bags on multiple RTS 
routes.The reason they did this was 
twofold, Gainesville spokesper-
son Chip Skinner said. First, they 
wanted to raise awareness for the 
upcoming plastic bag and Sty-
rofoam ban, which will go into 
effect in January. Second, they 
wanted to open a dialog with citi-
zens. 
“We thought it would be a 
good idea to give citizens a chance 
to talk to [Gainesville’s govern-
ment ofﬁ  cials] and ask any ques-
tions that they have about the ban 
or anything else,” Skinner said. “It 
was very positively received.” 
This effort is based on an idea by Shelby Taylor, Gainesville’s di-
rector of communications. Taylor 
said it is necessary for ofﬁ  cials to 
get out into the community, and 
she thought the bus system was 
an effective way for them to do so. 
Starting at the Rosa Parks 
downtown bus station, Mayor 
Poe, Commissioner Warren and 
Commissioner Ward each rode on 
a different route from beginning 
to end, Taylor said.
“Each one of them probably 
interacted with anywhere be-
tween 30 and 50 residents and 
spoke with them as [they] handed 
out bags today,” Taylor said. They have scheduled two addi-
tional routes in the coming weeks, 
which will feature Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos and Com-
missioner David Arreola, Taylor 
said. 
“We are working hard to re-
think waste in our community,” 
Taylor said, “and it is important 
to give citizens the opportunity to 
learn more about that effort and 
other ways the city and the county 
are working together to improve 
our environmental ethic.” 
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgMayor Poe and city commissioners give out reusable grocery bags on RTS routes
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE TOLD POLICE HE WAS DRUNK 
AND HAD MONEY PROBLEMS 
A Gainesville resident used the Find my 
iPhone app to ﬁ  nd his stolen phone and help 
Gainesville police ofﬁ  cers make an arrest con-
nected to three burglaries.
Two roommates were in their Southwest 
Sixth Street home at the time of one of the 
incidents Thursday morning. One of the resi-
dents woke up around 5 a.m. and noted the 
house was secured, as the other roommate 
slept on the couch, according to a GPD report. 
When a friend came over to visit at 7:30 a.m., 
the front door was wide-open.
Both residents noted missing items includ-
ing approximately $100 in cash, an iPhone 
and an Xbox One. An estimate of $1,000 in 
items were stolen, according to the report.
After using the Find my iPhone app, one 
roommate found his phone on the roof of a 
nearby home, next door to the house where 
21-year-old Santa Fe student Christian Alva-rez was charged Friday.
Alvarez pawned the 
Xbox One, according to 
the report. His ID and ﬁ  n-
gerprints were provided 
on the pawn shop form. 
After investigating other 
items Alvarez pawned, 
Gainesville police identi-
ﬁ  ed two other homes on 
Southwest Sixth Street that had been burglar-
ized over the last week. 
Under questioning, Alvarez admitted to 
burglarizing the home along with the two 
other houses. He told police he robbed the 
houses because he had been having money 
problems and was drunk at the time.  
Alvarez was charged with multiple bur-
glary, grand theft and dealing in stolen prop-
erty charges. He was released on $130,000 
bail Saturday. 
He could not be reached for comment.Santa Fe student charged with 
multiple burglaries, grand theft 
HE WORKED AT UF FOR OVER 
FOUR YEARS
A UF employee was charged Monday 
by Gainesville Police with battery and false 
imprisonment of his girlfriend for a July 13 
incident. 
Brian Joseph Fischbach, 37, got into an 
argument with his girlfriend at his house 
that evening, resulting in the woman say-
ing she wanted to leave. Fischbach took 
her phone and car keys to prevent her 
from leaving or calling 911, according to 
a GPD report.
Fischbach then grabbed the woman 
and held her down on the bed. When the 
woman screamed for help, he covered her 
mouth and shoved her head into the mat-
tress, according to the report. The woman 
told police the incident lasted for about 
three hours.A warrant was is-
sued for Fischbach’s 
arrest. He was charged 
with battery, false 
imprisonment and 
preventing communi-
cations with law en-
forcement. The two 
latter charges are both 
felonies.
Fischbach is employed at UF as a 
data management analyst, according to 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. He has 
worked at UF since May 2015 at the UF 
Clinical and Translational Science Institute 
at 2004 Mowry Road.   
Fischbach posted a $45,000 bail on 
Monday and was released. He is still em-
ployed by UF as of publishing, Orlando 
said. 
He could not be reached for comment.UF employee charged with 
battery, false imprisonment
Alvarez
 Fischbach
January 17: The Gainesville City 
Commission voted unanimously to 
pass an ordinance banning single-use 
plastic bags and Styrofoam containers in 
Gainesville to start on Aug. 1.
February 14: City Commission discussed 
creating an ordinance that would make 
plastic straws available by request only 
before banning the product completely.
March 28: The commission voted 5-2 to 
move the date to January.
April 2: The Alachua County Commission 
made a motion to create a single-use 
plastic and Styrofoam ban.
Jan. 1, 2020: Plastic ban goes into effect.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgBy Rachael Schirmer
Staff WriterEditorialTHURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The last thing you want to do right now is go outside, 
but your dog needs a walk. You grab the leash, clip it 
to your furry friend’s collar and get ready for the heat 
and humidity to hit. It’s actually not too bad today, 
so you feel you might give your dog the walk she de-
serves. Two miles later, you return to your apartment feeling 
accomplished and worthy of calling yourself an above-average 
pet owner. As you get to the pathetic, small grass area around 
your apartment, you can’t believe your eyes. Someone “for-
got” to pick up after their dog. The worse part: it kind of spells 
something out...
Darts & Laurels
Forever 21 has taken it upon itself not only to deliver the sum-
mer’s weirdest styles but also to supply diet bars to customers. 
Some customers were given Atkins sample bars in their ship-
ments. Atkins is a weight loss brand known for its low-carbohy-
drate foods. A dart goes to Forever 21 for thinking for even one 
second this was a smart idea. No one asked for these bars with 
their clothing order. Although on social media it seemed the bars 
were being sent with orders of plus-sized clothing, Forever 21 
said the samples were sent with orders of all types of sizing. It is 
safe to say companies should keep quiet about customers’ diets. 
In other food-where-it-shouldn’t-be news, a perfectly kept In-
n-Out Burger was found on the street... in New York City. Did we 
mention In-n-Out is a predominantly West Coast food chain? The 
closest location to New York City is more than 1,500 miles away. 
So, yes, it is bizarre to say the least how a pristine double-double 
burger ended up in the streets of Jamaica, Queens. We are giving 
a laurel to this bona ﬁ  de miracle (or amazing publicity stunt).
A dart goes to the “Cats” trailer because after watching it, not 
only are we scared, we can’t look at cats or humans the same 
way. The movie is yet to come out, so there is still hope for the 
singing, dancing and general magniﬁ  cence of director Tom Hoop-
er to save us from this CGI creepiness. But after so many dis-
appointing attempts at live-action remakes this past year (we’re 
looking at you, “Aladdin”), we should be conditioned for just 
about anything once the movie comes out around the holiday 
season. 
“Blade Runner” actor Rutger Hauger has died at the age of 
75. The Dutch cult actor died Friday after a short illness. Hauger 
appeared in “True Blood” and Christopher Nolan’s “Batman Be-
gins.” He founded an AIDS awareness organization called the 
Rutger Hauer Starﬁ  sh Association. A laurel goes out to his mem-
ory.  
A design ﬂ  aw in Facebook’s Messenger Kids app allowed  
thousands of chats with unauthorized users, according to the 
Verge. The whole point of the app is for children to talk to only 
users approved by their parents. But in a group chat, the protec-
tion can be avoided. Children can enter a group chat with unap-
proved users thanks to the design ﬂ  aw. A dart goes to Facebook 
for this ﬂ  aw because the app is designed for children under the 
age of 13. This comes the same time the Federal Trade Com-
mission announced on Wednesday that Facebook CEO, Mark 
Zuckerberg, will be personally responsible for any future privacy 
cases.  
Three attorneys commissioned by Puerto Rico’s House of Rep-
resentatives found ﬁ  ve impeachable offenses for Gov. Ricardo 
Rosselló, according to Telemundo. This comes after 12 days of 
protest, one of the largest ever for the island. On Saturday, 900 
pages of group chat messages between the governor and his close 
associates showed homophobic and misogynistic comments. We 
are giving a dart to the governor, as he and those in the group 
chat, but a laurel to the protesters in Puerto Rico for making their 
voices heard in a time of political mayhem. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORAudrey Wikan was caught lying to the 
Student Government Senate about a job 
she never had.
We brought our allegations before the 
Senate and attempted to rescind Wikan’s 
appointment to the budget and appropriations 
committee.
We got Senate President, Libby Shaw, to read 
selections from a public records request which 
conﬁ  rmed Wikan never served as district secre-
tary, was hired as a clerk and had applied with 
the “intention of interning” under the actual dis-
trict secretary.
Wikan also provided her own “evidence” in the form of 
a letter from Florida House of Representatives member Jen-
nifer Sullivan. Shaw began to read the letter from the top be-
fore Wikan cut her off saying, “I think the second paragraph 
is the most relevant.” 
We didn’t realize this until later, but the paragraph Wikan 
got Shaw to skip was the one that says “while serving as my 
intern, she had the opportunity to work alongside others in 
my ofﬁ  ce as she was getting trained in the District Secretary 
position.”
Luckily, “later” was mere seconds after Shaw ﬁ  nished 
reading because Minority Party Leader Ashley Grabowski 
stood up and inquired if any part of the letter actually said 
Wikan had served as district secretary, causing Shaw to read 
the ﬁ  rst part of the letter, ending with the quoted passage 
above.
The majority party still attempted to defend Wikan. 
“Based on just grammatical sentence structure; if you’re 
trained to fulﬁ  ll a position then you, as an intern, she was 
trained until she fulﬁ  lled the position. That’s just how se-
quential grammar works — mom was third grade teacher 
we learned that really well,” Allocations Chairwoman Katie 
Hernandez incoherently blurted out.
Grabowski shot back: “I graduated with an English de-
gree from the University of Florida; that’s not correct.” 
Shaw quickly moved us into a vote that ended up with 
Wikan keeping her seat on the budget committee.In public debate after the vote, we displayed the evidence 
against Wikan which included selections from our public re-
cords request as well as screenshots from Wikan’s Facebook, 
Instagram and Twitter bios; all identiﬁ  ed her as a “Former FL 
Legislature District 31 Secretary.”
Wikan responded, “I ﬁ  nd it despicable that 
members of the Inspire Party would go to such 
lengths to accuse me of providing misinforma-
tion to the Senate body…. If a signed statement 
today did not prove that I served as district secre-
tary, I don’t know what will.” 
Bold words for someone lying.
After the meeting a couple things happened.
I received an email from Sullivan in response 
to an email I sent to her ofﬁ  ce earlier. 
“What was speciﬁ  cally her job title?” I asked. 
“She helped perform the duties of that of a 
District Secretary,” Sullivan responded.
I ﬁ  led another public records request to the state legisla-
ture since I wanted to see how Wikan’s letter from Sullivan 
came to be. I was shocked to receive emails from Wikan 
communicating with the district legislative aide, pushing the 
aide to make changes to the letter to support her falsehood.
“In addition — can we potentially say ‘ultimately mov-
ing into that position.’ after it states ‘While serving as my 
intern....’ My job application for the Florida Legislature states 
‘District Secretary.’ I want to ensure that the letter reﬂ  ects 
that,” Wikan wrote.
The aide responded, “Unfortunately, I was not able to 
make the changes prior to the Rep going into a meeting ... I 
apologize for the inconvenience.”
This explains why we ended up with a letter that did not 
support Wikan’s narrative.
Weeks later, all references to previously serving as district 
secretary of such disappeared from Wikan’s social media 
bios. I sure wonder why.
Finally, after accumulating enough absences, Wikan lost 
her Senate seat. She successfully appealed her resignation 
and was reinstated but lost her budget seat in the process. 
She did not reapply. 
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.How to catch a liar (part 3)Column
President Donald Trump is scrambling to 
put a citizenship question the 2020 cen-
sus, despite the Supreme Court rejecting 
Trump’s current rationale for adding the 
question. 
However, on July 11, Trump backed away 
from adding the citizenship question to the cen-
sus and instead said the administration would ob-
tain the information through an executive order 
for government agencies.  
On the surface, it doesn’t seem like a citizen-
ship question on the census would be controver-
sial. However, adding this question would defy the purpose 
of the census as stated by the U.S. Constitution.
A once-per-decade census survey is mandated by the 
Constitution to determine the number of congressional rep-
resentatives for each state and the amount of federal funding 
a state will receive. Undocumented immigrants, although not 
citizens, still constitute part of the population currently living 
in the U.S. Furthermore, many undocumented immigrants 
attend public schools or rely on nutrition assistance pro-
grams, both of which are funded by the federal government. 
If the U.S. doesn’t count undocumented immigrants in the 
2020 census, states with high populations of non-citizens, 
such as Florida, will lose necessary funding. 
Adding a citizenship question to the census will likely 
cause an undercount, according to a projection by think 
tank Urban Institute. If the question, “Is this person a citizen 
of the United States?” was added to the 2020 census there 
would be an undercount of roughly 601,803 Hispanics in the state of Florida, according to The Washington 
Post. This would inevitably lead to a deﬁ  cit of re-
sources for the state. This would include lack of 
funding for Medicaid, which nearly four million 
Floridians rely on.
There is also likely a political reason for add-
ing this question to the census. A citizenship 
question on the census could help Republicans 
in elections by allowing them to draw electoral 
maps based on citizen population, rather than 
the total population, according to Reuters. This 
would weaken the strength of blue states with  
large immigrant populations, such as New York and Cali-
fornia. More congressional power would then be transferred 
to Republican states with low immigrant populations in the 
center of the country. 
While there isn’t anything inherently wrong with asking 
a citizenship question itself, this question doesn’t belong on 
the census. There are already multiple government agencies 
that collect this data like the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity and the Social Security Administration. It is important for 
the federal government to have a general idea of how many 
people are in the U.S. illegally. This allows them to see if 
the number of undocumented immigrants has increased or 
decreased over time. Plus, this data will help Congress de-
termine what immigration policies to put into place and how 
much funding these programs need.
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Thursdays.A citizenship question on the 2020 census will only hurt Florida
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Cassidy
Hopson
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
The agony of being a Mets fan (and why I am 
one)
Pg. 12Gators in the NFL: Preseason edition
T ake a look at former Gators preparing the new season as NFL 
training camps get underway
Pg. 11
NAGRI IS ONE OF FEW NON-GUILD 
MEMBERS TO GET THIS HONOR
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Editor
Most Floridians recognize a midday rain-
storm as an inconvenience or hindrance on the 
day’s plans. 
For local artist Michelle Nagri, it’s only an 
opportunity to create art and take a different 
look at the world. 
“I like the way nature and man-made ob-
jects interact,” Nagri said. “Nature is very ac-
cessible and beautiful. I’m usually called to a 
certain composition or something and then cap-
ture things that way.
It was almost a decade ago when the 
32-year-old artist and writer picked up her ﬁ  rst 
digital camera to show her friends the details 
she sees in the world around her. Starting Fri-
day, local residents can gather at the Artisans’ 
Guild Gallery as she is honored for her great 
work in photography.
Nagri has been announced as the Artisans’ 
Guild Gallery Artist of the Month and will have 
her work displayed in the gallery from July 26 
to Aug. 22. 
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery, established in 
1970, is a co-op of local artists who come to-
gether to help promote and sell their art. 
After trying her hand at painting, Nagri said 
she wanted a more accessible art form that 
could help her show others what she saw in 
the world. 
“I always had, an eye for details that nobody 
really noticed,” she said. “The photography is a 
way to be like, ‘Okay, instead of me telling you 
what it is, I’ll show you what it is that I notice.’” 
She attributes her ﬁ  ve-year membership in 
the Gainesville Photography Club to aiding in 
her discovery of the possibilities of photography 
and art. 
“It gave me insight into where you could 
go, in some pretty incredible types of photog-
raphy,” she said. Nagri explained there were a 
variety of photographers shooting wildlife and 
landscapes, which showed her a wide range of 
subjects and digital processing techniques. 
Those digital processing techniques became the catalyst for starting her complex 365 project.
Post-processing is a core element of photog-
raphy that people often forget. Nagri explained 
post-processing digital techniques intimidated 
her and she stayed away from it until she began 
working with another photographer who asked 
her to use Photoshop. 
As Nagri started to use the program more 
in her work, she said she was faced with the 
conﬂ  ict of having multiple edited versions of a 
photo that she liked.
“I had a lot of different versions and thought, 
what if I let myself keep all of these versions 
and let go of that fear of ‘I don’t know where I 
want to go [from] here,’” Nagri said. 
It was with that attitude in mind, as she ap-
proached 30, Nagri said she decided to defy the 
aging rut most of her friends fell into and on 
July 22, 2017, she created the blog for the 365 
project. The project consisted of Nagri taking 
one photo and editing it a different way in Pho-
toshop every single day. 
“I created the blog, so people would know 
the story behind the image and what I was feel-
ing before I made that edit,” she said. That proj-
ect and blog resulted in the creation of a 232-
page book available as personally signed copies 
on Nagri’s website. 
Work from the 365 project will be on display 
in Nagri’s featured Artist of the Month section 
of the gallery. 
According to Gainesville jewelry designer 
and guild president Jeanne Bunting, the Artist 
of the Month honor is still a generally new pro-
cess. She said the selection process isn’t very 
speciﬁ  c and based on recommendations of in-
teresting artists to feature either in or outside of 
the guild from its current members. 
Nagri said she was very excited when she 
got the news and added in her Facebook post 
about the event that it must have something 
to do with the month of July, which has now 
become very special to her — July is her birth-
day month, as well as when she started the 365 
project. 
Nagri added she is also excited for people 
to see pieces from her newest project “For the 
Love of Water.” She said the project came about 
because of her love of the element and desire to 
start shooting after 365 ended. 
“I missed shooting and water was the ﬁ  rst 
thing that came to mind, especially now be-
cause of all the issues with pollution and cli-
mate change,” Nagri said. 
While she doesn’t know when her cur-
rent project will be ﬁ  nished, Nagri has already 
thought of a theme for her upcoming project. 
“I have a couple of pieces that have some 
space qualities to them, so I think it would be 
interesting,” Nagri said. “It would be fun to see 
what I can hunt [down] in nature to replicate 
some of those elements.”
The opening reception for the gallery and 
Artist of the Month exhibit will be held during 
Artwalk Gainesville Friday from 7 to 10 p.m.
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgMichelle Nagri named Artisans’ 
Guild Artist of the Month
THERE’S A LOT 
MORE THAT MEETS 
THE EYE
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
For thrift store owners 
the affordable clothing 
process can cost a lot.
Sabrina Kaar originally 
owned La Chua Vintage, 
which she ran and man-
aged alone. The 34-year- 
old said all of the efforts 
required took a toll on 
her as she also balanced 
being a mother. To al-
leviate the workload she 
closed her store and de-
cided to join two women, 
Nikki Kragiel and Sam 
Salay, to create the AUK 
Market located in the Cu-
ria Complex. 
Amy Greene, 43, 
opened Future Perfekt 
Vintage in 2017 and also 
struggled with man-
agement of the store. 
Greene said when she 
ﬁ  rst opened the store she 
wasn’t prepared for the drastic business slow-
down in summer when 
students leave the area.  
Lack of resources forc-
es both owners to travel 
long distances to ﬁ  nd 
pieces for their stores. 
Kaar said she travels 
to ﬁ  nd vintage clothes 
for her store about once a 
week, while Greene trav-
els once a month to keep 
her store stocked. 
“The key to this [own-
ing a vintage store] is re-
ally traveling, like you’re 
not gonna be able to do 
this if you’re just picking 
local thrift stores or es-
tate sales,” Kaar said.
The hunt to ﬁ  nd vin-
tage clothes has taken 
Greene across Florida, 
Georgia and Alabam, 
while Kaar has been as far 
as Virginia. When search-
ing for vintage clothes 
you have to be willing to 
take items that are not in 
perfect condition, Greene 
said. However, she said 
there are some damages too serious to restore.
Greene spends money 
on gas, hotels for the 
night and purchasing 
clothes; yet, all of the 
work can still be in vain if 
no one buys the clothes. 
Greene said sometimes 
she only makes $1 off a 
piece of clothing. 
Although there is a lot 
of work and expenses in 
selling vintage, both Kaar 
and Greene love their job. 
Kaar said she wants to 
encourage more people 
to sell vintage or second 
hand. She ﬁ  nds it a great 
way to start a business 
despite all the hard work 
it takes.  
“I don’t see it as com-
petition, I think of it more 
like a community coming 
together prop each other 
up. ” Kaar said.
@BtNwallace
bwallace@alligator.orgThe other side of thrifting: the 
vintage process explained
FASHION
 ART
Michelle Nagri to The Alligator
Self-portrait of Nagri as photo number 
365 for her daily editing project.
Brittany Wallace // Alligator Staff
Sam Salay helping a customer at the AUK Market.8  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
Courtesy  to The  Alligator
Actors Joe Boover (Elvis Presley), Sam C. Jones (Carl Perkins), James Penca (Johnny Cash) and Brady Wease (Jerry Lee Lewis) play classic rock’n’roll songs that take audiences 
back in time.
Courtesy  to The  Alligator
FALaFEL members gather around mycologist, Dr. Rosanne Healy, at 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens Sunday for the Summer Fungal Foray. 
‘AT EVERY SINGLE SHOW, THERE’S 
A STANDING OVATION’ 
By Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
Elvis has not left the building. 
The rock’n’roll star and his friends are stick-
ing around through the summer for a few more 
curtain calls in Gainesville.
The staff at the Hippodrome is extending its 
showings of “Million Dollar Quartet” from July 
21 to Aug. 4. This is the second time the Tony 
award-winning musical has been extended, 
and according to the Hippodrome’s marketing 
coordinator, Julia Campitelli, it’s because the 
show has been a hit with the audience. 
“At every single show, there’s a standing 
ovation. Everyone is dancing in the aisles. It’s 
a very interactive show,” she said. 
The musical opened at the Hippodrome Theatre on May 31 and has been drawing 
record-breaking crowds throughout its entire 
run,which prompted the need for an extension.
The musical recounts the famous 1956 jam 
session of rock’n’roll legends Johnny Cash, 
Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Pres-
ley with high-energy musical performances 
and comedy.  On that day, the four musicians, 
by chance, had shown up at Sun Records stu-
dio in Memphis, Tennessee. The musical is 
recounted from the perspective of character 
Sam Phillips, who in real life was a record pro-
ducer at that time. Phillips guides the audience 
through the pivotal career moments of each 
famed man. 
“I think people love it because, for a lot of 
people, it’s the songs of their childhood. It’s 
the songs they grew up listening to, and even if 
you weren’t alive in the ’50s and ’60s, you still 
know the songs,” Campitelli said. 
Hugh Hysell, who portrays Phillips, told Gainesville Downtown he has been pleased 
with the enthusiastic Gainesville audiences 
and that the production has been extended a 
second and ﬁ  nal time.
The performers play classics such as “I 
Walk the Line” by Johnny Cash, “Great Balls 
of Fire” by Jerry Lee Lewis and “Hound Dog” 
by Elvis Presely.  
“Million Dollar Quartet” appeals to just 
about everyone and anyone, according to 
Campitelli. 
“We have an older crowd, but I’ve seen 
kids as young as six in the audience and people 
as old as 99,” she said. 
The musical will only be around for about 
two more weeks, but the staff at the Hippo-
drome is already looking forward to their new 
show debuting on Aug. 30. 
“Our next show is called ‘The Curious Inci-
dent of the Dog in the Night-Time,’” she said. 
“The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time” is another Tony award-winning 
play about a young detective who is trying 
to resolve the murder of his neighbor’s dog, 
which has been killed with a garden fork. As 
the boy details the facts of the mystery, he 
faces resistance from his father and uncovers 
life-changing discoveries.
The Hippodrome and UF School of Theatre 
and Dance are co-producing the new show, ac-
cording to Campitelli. 
“A lot of UF theater students are going to be 
in the show,” she said.  
Details about the remaining showtimes and 
ticket prices for “Million Dollar Quartet,” as 
well as information about the Hippodrome’s 
new season, can be found on their website, 
thehipp.org. 
@harleyj_smith
harleyjune8@gmail.comThe Hippodrome extends ‘Million Dollar Quartet’ musical
MUSICTHE GAINESVILLE CLUB 
PROMOTES LEARNING IN 
LICHEN AND FUNGI
By Priya Dames
Avenue Staff Writer
“Did anyone do the optional 
homework?” a woman at the front 
of the room asked with a smile.
A few raised their hands as 
newcomers ﬁ  led into the small 
meeting room with baskets of 
mushrooms.
The woman, Sarah Prentice, 
walked around the room looking 
at the ﬁ  eld data slips ﬁ  lled out by 
the 15 members uniﬁ  ed by their 
interest in fungus. Books sprawled 
on the table with detailed illustra-
tions of mushrooms.
The meeting was the fourth 
workshop in a ﬁ  ve-week series 
called “The Fungus Among Us,” 
hosted by the Florida Academic Li-
chen and Fungi Enthusiast League 
(FALaFEL) at the Alachua County 
Library. The workshop teaches 
participants the different tech-
niques for identifying the fungi.
Prentice used a projector to 
show the different species of mushroom while passing around 
fresh toadstools for demonstra-
tion. Participants inspected the 
mushrooms for gill spacing, cap 
surface and stem shape to make 
their decisions.
Connie Morrison, a retiree from 
Gainesville and new member of 
FALaFEL, said she wishes she 
joined earlier. Now, she’s on the 
lookout for mushrooms wherever 
she goes. After weeks of searching 
for mushrooms with no luck, Mor-
rison ﬁ  nally found some over the 
weekend. 
“I got these mushrooms from 
my neighbor’s backyard,” she 
said. “I was getting desperate!”
FALaFEL was co-founded in 
2017 by Prentice and has grown 
to include 300 members. Prentice, 
30, graduated from UF in 2010 
after studying religion and envi-
ronmental studies. She went on 
to take a graduate course called 
Fungal Biology which sparked her 
interest in fungus.
“I was kind of sad when the 
class ended,” Prentice said. “I 
wanted to continue learning about 
fungus.”
After searching for mycology clubs in Gainesville with no luck, 
she decided to start her own. The 
inspiration for the name of the 
club came from an unexpected 
source.
“I was really hungry one day 
and pitched ‘FALaFEL’ as a joke,” 
Prentice said, laughing. “Who 
doesn’t love falafel?”
According to Prentice, the 
group is very informal and wel-
come to all levels of experience 
in mushroom collecting. The 
group is associated with the North 
American Mycological Association 
(NAMA), a nonproﬁ  t organization 
for amateur fungi enthusiasts.
This past weekend, nearly 40 
members gathered at Kanapaha 
Botanical Gardens to collect mush-
rooms.
Prentice said she hopes more 
fungi enthusiasts will be encour-
aged to join the club.
“I just want to make this as free 
and accessible as possible,” Pren-
tice said.
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduGainesville club strives for fungal fun
LIFESTYLETHURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.orgThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
SIMEDHealth is looking for Certified Medical 
Assistants (MA). Qualified candidates will 
have graduated from an accredited Medical 
Assisting program and be BLS/CPR certified. 
Apply at www.simedhealth.com today!    7-30-
19-7-14
Administering and scoring two day batter-
ies of psychological and neuropsychological 
tests. May be perfect for someone recently 
graduated who wants experience before ap-
plying to grad school. Min. BA in Psychology, 
may train right person in exchange for 1 yr 
commitment to paid F/T position. e-mail let-
ter of interest and vita to info@cpancf.com.    
8-6-19-7-141For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
“The liberty of the press is essential to the 
security of the state.” – John Adams
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
SOLUTION ON PG. 1010   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
★★★★★Five Star Pizza on Tower Road is 
now hiring delivery drivers, pizza makers and 
phone personnel. Day shift and nightshift 
available, full time and part time positions. 
Please apply in person at 600 NW 75th St     
8-8-19-5-14
BARTENDERS, WAIT STAFF & SECURITY
Silver Q Billiards & Sports Bar @SilverQgnv
Bartenders & wait staff service minimum/tips 
Security staff $10 per hour
Apply in person Thursday July 25th, 1-5pm
225 W. University Ave. Downtown Gainesville
7-25-19-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      1-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Did you know? On August 10, 1984, Red 
Dawn  became the first movie to be released 
with a PG-13 rating.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbestos 
victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or email can-
cerFL@breakinginjurynews.com      7-25-1-
16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/25/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/25/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, July 25, 2019
ACROSS
1 Diet food phrase
6 Puny pencil
10 __ gin fizz
14 Ancient market
15 Long Island Iced 
Tea coloring 
provider
16 Double-decker 
checker
17 Detergent sold 
around Yankee 
Stadium?
19 Village People 
megahit
20 Good to go
21 Put up
22 Fell off
23 Title characters, 
typically
25 Tetris shape
26 Chicken __
27 Jingle for a 
detergent ad?
33 Stuck, with “down”
35 Game official
36 Mediterranean 
tourist site
37 “Go team!”
38 Detergent 
for fishing 
equipment?
41 Same old routine
42 __ sax
44 Charge
45 Large sea ducks
47 Directors in 
charge of a 
detergent?
50 Junior prom 
attendee
51 G.I. chow
52 “Snowy” bird
54 No-sweat class
57 Copier of old
59 Member of the 
fam
62 Quickly down
63 Detergent 
for seasonal 
cleaning?
65 Kon-Tiki Museum 
city
66 Acorn droppers
67 Three on a  
par-five, say
68 Hard on the ears
69 Military outpost
70 Composition for 
nine
DOWN
1 Bags
2 Fantasy brute
3 Stage illumination4 Prince Valiant’s 
son
5 Many an offshore 
bank account
6 Go downhill fast
7 __ the line
8 Film beekeeper
9 Keep out
10 Color named 
for a natural 
phenomenon
11 Spot for a nest
12 A while back
13 “Good grief!”
18 Atlantic catch
22 Stately tree
24 Brain scan, for 
short
25 __ White, 
Jennifer 
Hudson’s role 
in the film 
“Dreamgirls”
26 Fluffy-eared 
critter
28 Pushy type
29 “V for Vendetta” 
actor Stephen
30 It may have an 
arrow
31 Store, as ashes
32 Title pets in a 
Lilian Jackson 
Braun mystery 
series33 Thin nail
34 “Moll Flanders” 
novelist
39 Cause of 
a brewed 
awakening?
40 Ammonia 
component
43 “Heavens!”
46 Snider of Twisted 
Sister
48 Sports __
49 End
53 High-ranking off.54 Earth Day  
subj.
55 “Understood”
56 “Mr.” on a sci-fi 
bridge
57 Film-rating org.
58 Bothers
60 Like much 
chitchat
61 Borscht 
vegetable
63 Blubber
64 Confucian  
path
By Howard Barkin and Sam Buchbinder
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/24/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/24/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, July 24, 2019
ACROSS
1 King canine
5 “The Good Wife” 
and “The Good 
Fight” network
8 Isn’t honest with
14 “Moby-Dick” 
captain
15 14-Across’ yes
16 In a fog
17 Target of 
campaign finance 
laws
19 Fast-food toy 
giveaways, 
typically
20 Himalayan of 
legend
21 Jazz dance
22 19th-century 
education 
reformer
25 Bit of election 
season ugliness
28 In order (to)
29 Cry bitterly
31 Travels like a 
shark
32 Chocolate-and-
toffee bar
33 __ vera
34 Like a 
momentous 
event
37 Short holiday?
38 Bad reviews
39 Network 
connections
40 Facial spasm
41 Set to the same 
time, say
42 Hill helpers
43 Dawg and bae, 
e.g.
46 “Gilmore Girls” 
matriarch
47 Spirals
52 Hampton Inn rival
54 Some of this, 
some of that ... 
and a hint to the 
circled squares
55 Flares up
56 Deux divided by 
two
57 TV drama that 
begins with the 
crash of Oceanic 
Flight 815
58 Philly team
59 Deux, across the 
Pyrenees
60 Callers’ links to 
specific depts.DOWN
1 Support after a 
bad break?
2 “Nope”
3 Mocking remark
4 Follow the 
leader
5 Hostage taker
6 Via plane
7 “Just a __!”
8 Barista’s 
decoration
9 They’re not 
meant literally
10 Plant swelling
11 Wham-O 
summer lawn toy 
that needs water
12 Base __
13 Pigs out (on), for 
short
18 Go over once 
more
21 Hurries
23 With skepticism
24 “It’s __ fault”
25 Hindu religious 
leaders
26 Medicine man 
in “The Princess 
Bride”
27 CPR providers
30 Asks for a treat, 
dog-style31 Risqué message
32 Lean-to relative
33 J.Lo’s fiancé
35 Sailor’s 
telescope
36 Strand, as in 
“57-Across”
41 Twisted Sister 
frontman Dee
42 Some green 
cards?
44 Elicit oohs and 
aahs45 Animal whose  
full name  
is from the  
Greek for  
“nose-horned”
48 Not doing much
49 GameCube  
rival
50 Dawn direction
51 LAPD ranks
52 TD scorers
53 Boxer Laila
54 Sludge
07/23/19
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home 
by drunk drivers
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Did you know? Geckos can turn the stickiness 
of their feet on and off at will.
16 Health Services 23 Rides 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the robot maid on the animat-
ed series “The Jetsons”?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Greenland?
3. MUSIC: Who composed the 
18th-century “Messiah”?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What was the purpose of the Berne 
Convention of 1886?
5. GAMES: What is the goal in the 
board game “Risk”?
6. MOVIES: In which Martin Scors-
ese film did a group called The Dead 
Rabbits appear?
7. HISTORY: Who was the lon-
gest-reigning king in European history?
8. ANATOMY: What part of the 
human body is affected by a temporary 
paralysis called Bell’s palsy?
9. DISCOVERIES: Who is credited 
with discovering sickle cell anemia?
10. ASTRONOMY: How many 
times does the moon orbit the Earth in 
a calendar year?
Answers
1. Rosie 
2. Nuuk
3. George Frideric Handel
4. Agreement for international rec-
ognition of copyright
5. Take over the world
6. “Gangs of New York”
7. Louis XIV , the “Sun King” of 
France (72 years)
8. The face
9. Dr. James Herrick
10. About 13 times
 © 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 22, 2019King Features Weekly Service1. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the robot maid on the animat-
ed series “The Jetsons”?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Greenland?
3. MUSIC: Who composed the 
18th-century “Messiah”?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What was the purpose of the Berne 
Convention of 1886?
5. GAMES: What is the goal in the 
board game “Risk”?
6. MOVIES: In which Martin Scors-
ese film did a group called The Dead 
Rabbits appear?
7. HISTORY: Who was the lon-
gest-reigning king in European history?
8. ANATOMY: What part of the 
human body is affected by a temporary 
paralysis called Bell’s palsy?
9. DISCOVERIES: Who is credited 
with discovering sickle cell anemia?
10. ASTRONOMY: How many 
times does the moon orbit the Earth in 
a calendar year?
Answers
1. Rosie 
2. Nuuk
3. George Frideric Handel
4. Agreement for international rec-
ognition of copyright
5. Take over the world
6. “Gangs of New York”
7. Louis XIV , the “Sun King” of 
France (72 years)
8. The face
9. Dr. James Herrick
10. About 13 times
 © 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.July 22, 2019King Features Weekly Service19 Connections
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
UF kicker Evan McPherson was 
named to the Lou Groza Award 
Watch List. The award recognizes 
the best kicker in the nation. Six UF lacrosse players named to honor roll
Lexi Bolton, Brianna Harris, Haley Hicklen, Kenzii Kittell, Caroline May 
and Emily Petillo earned at least a 3.50 GPA over the last academic year 
and were named to the IWLCA Zag Sports Division I Academic Honor Roll. FOOTBALL
NFLBy River Wells
Sports Writer 
Florida isn’t just known 
for its secondary.
While UF’s vaunted cor-
ners and safeties have often 
claimed the title of “DBU”, 
the Gators also boasted a 
talented defensive front that 
caused plenty of problems for 
opposing teams on its own. 
As UF prepares to head into 
the 2019 season, its defensive 
line will feature both return-
ing stars and new additions.
The player to watch on 
the defensive front this year 
is redshirt senior Jabari 
Zuniga. The edge rusher has 
made his way onto numer-
ous award watch lists – the 
Chuck Bednarik Award, the 
Bronko Nagurski Trophy and 
the Lott IMPACT Trophy – 
just as seamlessly as he made 
his way into the backfield last 
season, accruing 6.5 sacks 
and 11 tackles for loss.
With the loss of both Ja-
chai Polite and Cece Jefferson 
from last year’s squad, Zuni-
ga will also be the line’s vet-
eran leader heading into the 2019 season. Polite’s pres-
ence is certain to be missed: 
He netted 11 sacks and 17.5 
tackles for loss en route to a 
third-round selection by the 
New York Jets. Jefferson was 
a consistent mainstay for the 
group, starting in eight of the 
11 games he played in last 
year.
Kyree Campbell and 
graduate student Adam 
Schuler are the only other 
defensive linemen on this 
year’s squad who started 
consistently last year (Camp-
bell started in 11 games and 
Schuler started in 10). Both 
players recorded 3.5 tackles 
for loss and 1.5 sacks each in 
2018 and are two prime can-
didates to fill the void left by 
Jefferson and Polite.
The Gators’ roster also 
features rotational players 
who could look to play a 
bigger role in the defensive 
line. Juniors Elijah Conliffe  
and Tedarrell Slaton both 
started two games last year 
(Charleston Southern and 
Kentucky) and both recov-
ered a fumble in 2018. Red-
shirt senior Luke Ancrum was notable for his efforts 
against Tennessee, where he 
notched an interception.
In addition to its return-
ing pieces, UF has a single 
newcomer on the defensive 
line for 2019. Freshman Jae-
lin Humphries is a four-
star recruit out of Mountain 
View High School in Georgia, 
where he played on both the 
offensive and defensive line. 
Humphries turned down of-
fers from Alabama, Geor-
gia, LSU, Mississippi State 
and Tennessee to come to 
Gainesville. The Lawrencev-
ille, Georgia, native was 
ranked the 17th best defen-
sive lineman of the 2019 class 
and made the ESPN 300 at 
No. 217.
UF may have some holes 
to fill on the line, but with  
veteran leadership in Zuniga 
and a supporting secondary 
that’s more than ideal, the 
rest of the SEC could find the 
Gator defensive front a sig-
nificant problem come 2019.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer 
The NFL returns Aug. 1 
with the Hall of Fame Game, 
which means training camp is 
right around the corner. It’s 
the perfect time for draft picks 
and players on the bubble to 
prove themselves. Here are 
some former Gators to look 
out for as NFL training camps 
get underway:
Offensive tackle Jawaan 
Taylor was drafted by the 
Jacksonville Jaguars 35th 
overall in the 2019 NFL Draft 
and will get his first taste of 
NFL action against the Balti-
more Ravens at 7:30 p.m. on 
Aug. 8. Taylor, who is set to 
be a starter at right tackle, 
joins former Gators Taven 
Bryan and Lerentee McCray 
in Jacksonville. The Jags are 
coming off a disappointing 
5-11 season and will look 
to establish themselves in a 
competitive AFC South di-
vision. They open training camp today.
Edge rusher Jachai Po-
lite, who was drafted by the 
New York Jets 68th overall, 
will make his professional de-
but against the New York Gi-
ants at 7:30 p.m. on Aug. 8. 
The Jets have high hopes this 
season because of the sign-
ing of running back Le’Veon 
Bell and the expectation that 
quarterback Sam Darnold will 
improve after a solid rookie 
year. Polite will be joined by 
former UF players Jonotthan 
Harrison, Marcus Maye, Brian 
Poole and Deonte Thompson 
and will serve as a rotational 
player in the Jets’ pass rush.
Defensive back Chauncey 
Gardner-Johnson was se-
lected in the beginning of the 
fourth round (105th overall) 
by the New Orleans Saints 
and joins a team with lofty 
expectations.
The Saints were eliminated 
in the 2019 NFC Champion-
ship Game by the Los Angeles 
Rams after a controversial no-call on a potential pass inter-
ference in the final minutes. 
Gardner-Johnson, who 
performed well in minicamp, 
joins former UF teammate 
and linebacker Alex Anza-
lone in New Orleans. Training 
camp begins Friday, and the 
Saints kick off against the Vi-
kings at 8.p.m. on Aug. 9. 
Linebacker Vosean Jo-
seph was drafted by the Buf-
falo Bills (147th overall) and 
will see his first NFL action 
against the Indianapolis Colts 
at 7 p.m. on Aug. 8. The for-
mer Gator will start training 
camp Thursday at St. John 
Fisher College in New York.
Joseph is likely to make 
the team after training camp. 
His playing time, however, 
may be limited because the 
Bills already having an estab-
lished linebacker corps.
Running back Jordan 
Scarlett was drafted by the 
Carolina Panthers (154th 
overall) and will play the 
Chicago Bears on Aug. 8 at 8 p.m. The Panthers start train-
ing camp Thursday and Scar-
lett will look to fight for a spot 
in the running back rotation 
behind All-Pro Christian Mc-
Caffrey.
Scarlett will have his work 
cut out for him, as there are 
four other experienced backs 
who are competing for spots. 
He is joined on Carolina’s 
roster by former Gator Bryan 
Cox Jr., who was drafted by 
the Panthers in 2017.
Offensive lineman Fred 
Johnson will be fighting for 
a roster spot with the Pitts-
burgh Steelers when they 
begin training camp Friday. 
As an undrafted player, John-
son’s chances of making the 
team are slim; he will have to 
thoroughly impress at train-
ing camp if wants to make his 
NFL debut.
 
@JSalvador_14
jsalvador@alligator.orgPosition-by-Position: Evaluating UF’s defensive line
Gators in the NFL: Preseason edition
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Third-round draft  pick Jachai Polite will make his 
professional debut with the New York Jets on Aug. 8.Chris King / Alligator Staff
Senior defensive lineman Jabari Zuniga was named to the Preseason All-SEC First T eam.
12  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 25, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseFRIDAY
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
NightsThe cruelest thing my parents ever did was take me to Shea Stadium. Child 
services should’ve taken me away right there.
It was May 17, 2005 – a typical spring day in that area, the temperature 
somewhere in the 60s and not a cloud in the sky. I was 6 years old, just 
wrapping up my ﬁ  rst year at Harrison Elementary School and my ﬁ  rst 
season of tee-ball in northern New Jersey. For whatever reason, that was the 
night my parents decided to change my life.
They dressed my brother and I in matching Mets shirts and drove us to 
Queens. I remember being in awe of the cavernous old ballpark; I had never seen 
so much green grass or anything as colorful as that scoreboard in my whole life.
The Mets beat the Cincinnati Reds that night 2-1, courtesy of a two-run homer 
in the seventh inning from Kaz Matsui. I was in love.
Unfortunately, that love affair continues to this day.
I (somewhat obsessively) root for one of the most dysfunctional organizations in sports. 
It’s not just that the Mets are a bad team (two seasons above .500 since 2008) – it’s that they 
are, for lack of a better word, a circus. Some highlights from this year alone:In an unprecedented move, they hired an agent as their GM. He 
promptly traded some of the organization’s best prospects for 36-year-
old Robinson Canó ($120 million over ﬁ  ve years remaining on his 
contract, .250 average) and closer Edwin Díaz (4.81 ERA). Star player 
Yoenis Céspedes, who was already injured, broke his ankle falling in a hole 
at his Florida ranch and is out for the season. Manager Mickey Callaway and 
pitcher Jason Vargas were ﬁ  ned for cursing out a reporter. Two living people 
were included in a memorial video for deceased members of the 1969 team.
I love the Mets, but they’ve (for the most part) never loved me back. That’s 
OK.
At this point, they’re just a part of who I am. Suffering is part of being a 
sports fan. It builds character. It makes the great moments (like the Mets’ run 
to the 2015 World Series) even sweeter. If the Mets were like the Yankees (i.e., 
successful) I wouldn’t be the person I am today.
A lot of things have changed in my life since that night in 2005. I don’t have 
any of the same friends. I don’t live in the same place. I really don’t care about any of the 
things I cared about then.
The one constant has been Mets baseball. No matter how I’m feeling, what’s going on in 
my life, I can count on them to be there every day for six months of the year. That’s what 
makes being a baseball fan special.The agony of being a Mets fan (and why I am one)Sam’s Strike Zone
Sam Campisano
twitter: scampisano
scampisano@alligator.org
By River Wells
The Associated Press
Pete Alonso, one of the few bright spots of this Mets season, 
looks down in frustration after striking out earlier this month.
MEME OF THE WEEK