We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperCan I have $50 million, please?
That’s just some of what UF is lobbying for, pg. 3
Otter parents: Are they ‘pup’ to the challenge?
Two otters made some babies quickly, zoo says, pg. 8It’s a strange feeling when 
someone who has al-
ready been immortalized 
dies.
The record will reﬂ  ect 
that Kobe Bryant will live 
forever in Springﬁ  eld, Mas-
sachusetts, in the Basketball 
Hall of Fame, and at some 
point soon, he will literally 
be carved into history in the 
form of a statue in front of the Staples 
Center.
But Kobe was supposed to be there to 
celebrate those things with us. His funeral 
wasn’t supposed to come before his Hall 
of Fame coronation. The photos were 
supposed to be as vibrant as the man was. 
They weren’t supposed to be black and 
white as a way of letting those few who 
Kobe’s legend escaped know that he is no 
longer with us.
He died Sunday in a helicopter crash 
along with his 13-year-old daughter Gi-
anna and the world is a darker place. Not 
the basketball world, or Lakers Nation — 
the world is worse off without Kobe in it.
That’s right, Kobe. It takes a certain 
level of notoriety — whether via fame or 
infamy — to ascend to international ﬁ  rst-
name basis. He cleared that bar a long 
time ago.I ﬁ  nd myself often ex-
plaining to people my Lakers 
fandom. Well, it’s the same 
story as how my basketball 
fandom began. It started with 
me staying up way too late to 
watch West Coast basketball 
games with my dad.
Kobe was captivating. And 
a shared passion for watching 
him play, watching the Lak-
ers and soon catching random basketball 
games brought my dad and me closer as 
I began to prefer shooting a basketball 
in my driveway to hitting off a tee in my 
backyard. So thanks for that, Kobe.
Why? Because I could mimic Kobe’s 
jab step and patented fadeaway, of course.
With basketball, passion became love; 
and that love became obsession. And 
there’s not a doubt in my mind that that’s 
the way Kobe would have wanted that 
seed to grow. His will to win inspired me 
to accomplish much less noble and nota-
ble feats than hitting game-winners.
If Kobe can wake up at 4:30 a.m. to 
train for four hours before the rest of the 
world has even clocked into work, then 
I can ﬁ  nish this paper tonight, I told my-
self. And that’s how the Mamba Mentality 
seeped into my life, for better or worse.
White doesn’t mince words 
after Baylor loss
Sports writer Joseph Salvador breaks 
down coach Mike White’s postgame 
press conference, pg. 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 51
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
LOWELL PRISON
SOME UF 
SPONSORED 
PROGRAMS MAY BE 
AFFECTED
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students, faculty 
and staff received an 
email Friday about the 
deadly coronavirus out-
break with preventative 
information for students. 
UF ofﬁ  cials sent an 
email about the deadly 
coronavirus outbreak in 
the wake of several con-
ﬁ  rmed cases of the illness 
around the world.
UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando said about 1,800 
UF students are from Chi-
na and may be traveling 
to and from these areas, but the focus is on moni-
toring travel in general 
rather than China itself.
Orlando said he en-
courages students to 
register with the UF In-
ternational Center if they 
plan to travel abroad so 
ofﬁ  cials are aware of any-
one traveling to affected 
areas. 
“We want people to 
know that there are re-
sources and information 
available that we want 
them to be aware of,” he 
said.
The email mentioned 
that some UF sponsored 
programs like study 
abroad may be affected 
in impacted areas, but 
Orlando said no decision 
has been made to alter 
them yet.Coronavirus is the 
name of a group of virus-
es. It includes common 
cold viruses, said Dr. Ron 
Berry, the interim direc-
tor of UF Student Health 
Care Center. He said the 
emerging cases are more 
serious because there is 
no current vaccination or 
cure. 
The email lists preven-
tion methods and pos-
sible symptoms from the 
Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention. The 
symptoms include fever, 
coughing and difﬁ  culty 
breathing, with extreme 
cases leading to respira-
tory illnesses, worsened 
by the current lack of 
treatment.
THERE WERE ABOUT 
30 STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT 
OFFICALS
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government of-
ﬁ  cials attended a four-hour 
Green Dot Gators Bystander 
Training Sunday in part of an 
effort to lessen rising sexual 
violence on campus.
The training, where about 
30 SG senators and executive 
branch members participated 
in, was announced Jan. 7 at 
the ﬁ  rst Senate meeting of the 
semester. This training was 
speciﬁ  cally for Student Gov-
ernment, but anyone with an 
active RecSports membership 
could sign up online, according 
to the website. 
They were taught tactics for 
intervening in violent situations 
and preventing it.
Representatives from the UF 
Sexual Trauma Interpersonal 
Violence Education organiza-
tion and SG advising helped GatorWell health promotions 
specialist Megan Johnson lead 
these trainings, which are the 
second part of GatorWell’s 
four-phase plan to execute 
Green Dot Gators. The ﬁ  rst step 
was to train faculty and staff. 
Now, they’ve trained student 
inﬂ  uencers and leaders. 
“The idea is that these stu-
dents can help role model the 
positive bystander behaviors to 
shape and change our culture,” 
Johnson said. 
The training included anon-
ymously polling participants 
online on topics like power-
based violence, stalking and 
dating violence. Students used 
a code to log on and then an-
swered questions about the 
presentation. The results post-
ed on the board. 
“There’s a certain power 
to knowing that in a room, 
and when we’re all answering 
anonymously, that the large 
majority of the room is actually 
affected by this problem, or at 
least in reach,” Gator Party vice 
presidential candidate Laure-
dan Ofﬁ  cial said. “And that’s just super eye-opening.”
Phase three will offer train-
ing for the Student Body and in-
coming students, Johnson said. 
Phase four will implement out-
reach programs that reinforce 
the lessons in “action events.” 
The ﬁ  rst action event will be in 
February. 
Inspire Party Student Body 
candidate Matthew Diaz at-
tended the training and helped 
promote the training alongside 
Sen. Tyler Kendrick and Inter-
nal Affairs Agency Head J.R. 
Molm.
“I really love the way that it 
was able to engage with people 
and encourage people to share 
their own experiences in a way 
that felt like a very safe space,” 
Diaz said. “That kind of activi-
ty-based learning makes people 
retain information a lot better.”
There are three more of 
these trainings this semester: 
Feb. 21, March 19 and March 
27, according to the registration 
site. 
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgUF monitoring coronavirus
SG attends Green Dot trainingSEE CORONAVIRUS,  PAGE 4
SEE KOBE BRYANT,  PAGE 11Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
Rep. Dianne Hart talks to protesters on Sunday. The protesters are a part of the National 
Council for Incarcerated and Formerly Incarcerated Women and Girls. 
Thanks for everything, KobeKyle’s Files
By Kyle Wood
Twitter: Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  62° LOW  43°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.MONDAY
Joe Knetsch Talks WWI and 
Florida
Where: Alachua County 
Library Headquarters, located 
at 401 E. University Ave.
When: 5:30 p.m.
What: Friends of the Library 
will bring American author 
and historian Joe Knetsch to 
discuss World War I and the 
Influenza Pandemic of 1917 
and how it relates to Florida 
at the Headquarters Branch in 
Meeting Room A. This is a free 
event.
TUESDAY
McCarthy Moment: The Johns 
Committee in Florida
Where: Matheson History 
Museum, located at 513 E. 
University St.
When: 11 a.m.-4 p.m.
What: McCarthy Moment: The 
Johns Committee in Florida is 
the first Matheson exhibition to 
focus on local LGBTQ+ history 
and will have its opening 
day Tuesday. The Johns 
Committee tried to uncover 
what it deemed “subversive 
activity” in Florida. The 
committee  targeted the 
National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored 
People, communists and people 
in the LGBTQ+ community. 
The “McCarthy Moment” 
exhibition does contain 
sensitive information such 
as self-harm, sexual acts and 
persecution of the LGBTQ+ 
community. Museum staff is 
available if any visitor would 
like more information before 
entering the exhibition.WEDNESDAY
Santa Fe River Paddle
Where: The Santa Fe River 
When: 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
What: The Alachua 
Conservation Trust will host a 
paddle on the Santa Fe River 
to help inform residents about 
efforts to permanently protect 
the area. Space is limited, and 
participants need to pay $15. 
The money will be donated 
to support the Santa Fe 
Springs Project. Event-goers 
are responsible for their own 
watercraft.
THURSDAY
Science on Tap: Mosquitos
Where: Cypress & Grove 
Brewing Co., located at 1001 
NW Fourth St.
When: 6:30-8:30 p.m.
What: The Florida Museum 
of Natural History and the 
UF Thompson Earth Systems 
Institute will host “Science on 
Tap: Mosquitoes” at Cypress 
& Grove Brewing Co. The free 
event will be led by Lawrence 
Reeves, an entomologist at the 
Florida Medical Entomology 
Laboratory. The event is part 
of the museum’s series, “Is 
Florida Trying to Kill Me?” 
Food and drinks can be 
purchased there. 
“The Committee” with Author 
Sterling Branson
Where: Matheson History 
Museum
When: 7-8:30 p.m.
What: Author Sterling Branson 
brings “The Committee,” 
a novel set in Gainesville 
during the 1950s. The novel 
pits protagonist Tom Stall, a 
scholarly and ambitious man 
rising in his world of teaching 
and administration, against 
a colleague, a university president and an old friend 
turned deadly enemy. A book 
signing will follow Watson’s 
presentation.
Catherine Russell
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts, located at 
3201 Hull Road
When: 7-10:30 p.m.
What: Catherine Russell is 
back after her show, Jazz at 
Lincoln Center Orchestra: Big 
Band Holiday in 2017. Russel 
is known for her booming, 
brassy vocal power and 
"honeyed smoothness." Before 
launching her solo career, 
Russell was a backup singer 
and multi-instrumentalist with 
artists such as David Bowie, 
Steely Dan, Cyndi Lauper 
and Paul Simon. She draws 
inspiration from her mother 
Carline Ray, a jazz pioneer, 
and her father Luis Russel, a 
longtime bandleader for Louis 
Armstrong. Tickets are $50 for 
general admission and $10 for 
UF students.
FRIDAY
Southern Culture on the Skids, 
Rick Ryan Band
Where: The High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave.
When: 7 p.m.
What: Southern Culture on 
the Skids has recorded and 
toured around the world 
since it started in 1983, and 
the current lineup, with Dave 
Hartman on drums, Mary Huff 
on bass and vocals and Rick 
Miller on guitar and vocals, 
has played together for more 
than 30 years. The band’s 
music has been featured in 
movies and TV, and their live 
shows are a testament to the 
therapeutic powers of foot-
stomping, butt-shaking rock 
’n’ roll. Tickets are $15 in 
advance and $18 the day of 
the show. Event-goers must be 
over 18 unless accompanied 
by a legal guardian. There is a 
$3 fee charged at the door for 
everyone under 21.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 51
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Donny CunninghamADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Lonnie Numa, Joseph OprisonMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Diane Hernandez, Ellen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoTHE GUARD ALLEGEDL Y PUT BLEACH 
IN AN INMATE’S CUP 
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
A concrete sign on the front lawn of Lowell Correctional 
Institution reads, “We Never Walk Alone.” Across the street, 
former inmate Jordan Upchurch holds up a cardboard sign with 
that exact message scribbled across it. 
Upchurch, who spent the majority of her 120-month sen-
tence at Lowell Correctional Institute, said just as Lowell’s sign serves to represent the unity of their staff, hers symbolizes the 
solidarity of the inmates, both former and current. 
“We’re not ever gonna go away,” Upchurch, 39, said. 
Upchurch was one of nearly 80 protesters who gathered in 
front of Lowell Sunday afternoon to demonstrate against inmate 
abuse by correctional officers. Protesters, most of whom were 
former inmates, loved ones and prison reform activists, wore 
pink and blue T-shirts while carrying picket signs that displayed 
photos of inmates.
The Civic Media Center organized a carpool system to and 
from the prison, which lies 40 minutes south of Gainesville, tri-
pling the number of Gainesville attendees from the last protest 
at Lowell, said Jordan Mazurek, a 28-year-old employee at the 
CMC. 
Mazurek organizes with groups such as the Campaign to 
Fight Toxic Prisons and the Gainesville Incarcerated Workers 
Organizing Committee, both of which work to protect incarcer-
ated people in Gainesville and beyond.
They said Sunday’s protest is one of the only prison dem-
onstrations they have seen led by former inmates themselves.
“If you just go talk to the women that show up today… ev-
ery single one of them has a different story of some level of 
abuse by the guards or really bad treatment,” Mazurek said.
This is the third protest at Lowell centered around inmate 
abuse and mistreatment by correctional officers. 
Lowell is one of the largest women’s prisons in the country 
and has faced several allegations of abuse in recent years. Last 
year, four guards assaulted and left inmate Cheryl Weimar para-
lyzed. None of the guards were arrested for the assault. 
As recently as Saturday, a Lowell prison guard was arrested 
on allegations of spraying bleach on an inmate’s food. Qualesha 
Williams, 28, reportedly set aside a cup sprayed with bleach for 
an inmate when the two got into a heated argument.
The Florida Department of Corrections emailed the follow-
ing statement to The Alligator Sunday in response to questions 
about the protest and recent abuse allegations:
“The Florida Department of Corrections takes all allegations 
of abuse or mistreatment of inmates seriously and encourages 
all inmates and staff to promptly report inappropriate or illegal conduct,” the statement read. “The leadership at Lowell Cor-
rectional Institution has a track record of holding employees 
accountable for misconduct.”
Debra Bennett, the main organizer of the protest and a for-
mer Lowell inmate, drove to the protest in a white van with the 
words “NO MORE LOWELL C.I. BLEACH OR BUST!” painted 
in large red letters on the outside. 
Bennett, 52, who spent five years inside Lowell, is in con-
stant contact with inmates inside the prison. She said she re-
ceives dozens of messages a day from those inside Lowell using 
the app JPay, which allows inmates to communicate with those 
on the outside via kiosks or tablets in the prison. 
Bennett said she remains in daily contact to keep tabs on 
what’s happening inside the prison. 
“I probably get about 50 to 75 JPays a day,” Bennett said. 
“They are our eyes.”
State Rep. Dianne Hart, who focuses much of her efforts on 
criminal justice reform, also joined protesters outside the prison 
Sunday. 
In the last few months, Hart filed House Bill 189, which 
would let nonviolent or first-time offenders serve a minimum 
of 65 percent of their sentence instead of 85 percent, and House 
Bill 531, which focuses on improving the treatment of inmates. 
Hart, who has visited Lowell six times to see the conditions 
herself, said she wanted to come and show her support for the 
women at the prison.
”I just wanted them to know that I stand with them and I am 
a voice for them,” Hart said.
Bennett said her movement against the abuse at Lowell is 
only growing. She plans to be in Tallahassee Feb. 5 for Lobby 
Day to support bills affecting inmate treatment and prison re-
form and anticipates another protest in the next 60 to 90 days. 
“We’re getting bigger, we’re getting stronger, more people 
are aware,” Bennett said. “Our nation seems to be recognizing 
the different atrocities that are happening inside the prison.”
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
Billie Laurin and Beth Dodd, both ex-inmates, participate 
in the protest against Lowell Correctional Institution on 
Sunday.Third protest at Lowell follows arrest of guard 
AN ADDITIONAL ALMOST $16 
MILLION HAS BEEN REQUESTED 
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
When Samantha Sexton was a UF political 
science freshman in 2007, it was UF’s goal to 
rank among the top 10 public universities, she 
said. Thirteen years later, she’s helping the 
university get there. 
“At a certain point, it gets to be more and 
more difficult to climb the ranks,” said Sexton, 
UF’s director of government relations. “It’s like 
a diet. Once you get to the top, or the last few 
pounds, it’s really hard to make incremental 
changes.” 
To reach this goal, Sexton is lobbying the 
Florida Department of Education for this year’s 
most ambitious request: $50 million. 
The Florida legislative session began on 
Jan. 14, kicking off 60 days of lobbying at the 
state capital. If awarded, the money will help 
recruit world-class faculty and reduce class-
room sizes to 16:1, Sexton said. This is the uni-versity’s No. 1 legislative priority. 
UF lobbyists are also hoping to earn fund-
ing for other projects, Sexton said. These proj-
ects are known as “moonshots,” initiatives 
that address socioeconomic issues like climate 
change.
“We are trying to solve the world’s most 
pressing challenges,” she said.
For instance, Sexton is lobbying the state’s 
education department for $1.1 million to fund 
UF’s iCoast. iCoast monitors water quality, 
tracks marine life interaction and detects tidal 
changes and algal blooms, she said. 
The goal of the project is to create a map 
of the Florida coastline with real-time data 
that can impact industries like real estate and 
tourism. If won, the money will go toward hir-
ing more staff and purchasing equipment like 
a $167,500 research vessel, according to the 
budget request.
UF’s College of Medicine in Jacksonville is 
requesting $300,000 from the Florida Depart-
ment of Health to fund child abuse pediatrics 
fellowships, according to the budget request.  
Douglas Bell, a lobbyist from the Metz, Hus-
band & Daughton law firm, is representing the pediatricians for this project. He said he would 
be disappointed if the funds were denied.  
“There’s always a lot of pressure,” he said. 
“We want to be successful for our clients. This 
one in particular — it’s important for children’s 
health.”
So far, responses from legislators and com-
mittee staff have been promising, he said. Still, 
Sexton said denied funding is always a possi-
bility. 
“Every year, we have priorities that are not 
funded, or underfunded,” Sexton said.
In those cases, UF seeks private funding 
and research grants, she said. If a project is a 
high priority, they’ll continue to lobby legisla-
tors for it the following year. 
The total funding UF earns from the state 
has steadily increased over the years, accord-
ing to a summary of state appropriations by 
the State University System of Florida. Since 
the 2009-2010 fiscal year, state appropriations 
have increased by 42 percent.
“We’re very thankful for the executive 
branch,” Sexton said.
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgUF lobbyists ask legislators for $50 million to achieve top five rank
NINE PEOPLE DIED
 IN THE CRASH, 
INCLUDING BRYANT’S 
13-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
NBA legend and All-Star Kobe 
Bryant died Sunday morning in a he-
licopter crash. He was 41 years old.The retired Los Angeles Lakers 
player was flying over Calabasas, 
California, when fog and low-
visibility conditions caused the 
crash, killing nine people, includ-
ing Bryant’s 13-year-old daugh-
ter, according to the Los Angeles 
Times.
Los Angeles County Sheriff 
Alex Villanueva criticized TMZ 
for breaking the news before the 
family was notified. “It would be extremely disre-
spectful to understand that your 
loved ones perished and you 
learned about it from TMZ,” he 
said. “That is just wholly inap-
propriate. So we’re not going to 
be going there.
Josh Rios, a 19-year-old UF 
political science and economics 
freshman, said he was shocked 
when he heard about Bryant’s 
death. He said that Bryant embod-ied the tough-
ness and tenac-
ity it takes to be 
a human being.
“He tran-
scended social 
life,” Rios said. 
“Even people 
who don’t 
like basketball 
know the name 
Kobe Bryant.”Jordan Levi, a 22-year-old UF 
chemistry and materials science 
senior, said he has always been 
a fan of Bryant for both the way 
he played basketball and the mes-
sages he tried to send to those 
watching the sport. 
“He was a beast,” he said. “He 
used his abilities to profoundly 
impact the game of basketball for 
the better.”Students react to Kobe Bryant’s death after helicopter crash  Appropriations Project Bills 2020 
• UF is lobbying to fund teacher 
recruitment and class size reduction 
initiatives to rank among the top five 
public universities: $50 million
• UF Lastinger Center is lobbying to fund 
Algebra Nation, a free online math 
resource for middle and high school 
students and teachers: $2.65 million
• UF College of Dentistry is lobbying 
to fund supplemental payments for 
faculty dentists: $1,695,804
• UF Health is lobbying to fund research 
on Friedrich’s Ataxia, a genetic disorder 
for which there is no current treatment 
available: $850,000   
• UF is lobbying to fund the Center for 
Application of Artificial Intelligence for 
the application and commercialization 
of AI: $3,880,688
 
Bryant and his late 
daughter Gianna 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020THIS YEAR’S FLU SEASON 
COULD BE ONE OF THE 
WORST IN 40 YEARS
By T J T omkunas
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jorge Gomez was on vacation in 
late December when he caught the 
flu. Gomez, a UF biology lab man-
ager, wasn’t the only one. 
According to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, this flu 
season has seen at least 15 million 
illnesses, 140,000 hospitalizations 
and 8,200 deaths caused by the flu. 
Additionally, the CDC reported that 
as of Jan. 11, 48 states and one U.S. 
territory have reported widespread 
influenza activity. 
Gomez said that he contracted 
the flu during the last week of De-
cember, and it lasted through the 
beginning of January. He and his 
family were camping in the moun-
tains of North Carolina and Georgia 
when they started experiencing se-
vere symptoms.
He said that during their trip, he 
and his family members, including his 8-year-old daughter, had stom-
achaches, headaches and fevers 
reaching 102 degrees. This flu ex-
perience was the worst one that he 
could recall. 
“Based on the timing and the 
incubation period, we actually 
probably got it here in Florida and 
brought it with us over there,” Go-
mez said.
Due to the timing of the illness, 
he did not fall behind on work and 
said he only missed two days dur-
ing syllabus week. However, he is 
concerned for his students who may 
catch the flu later in the semester 
and how it will impact them.  
“We have maybe 2,000 students 
in and out of the labs each day,” he 
said. “They come from all over the 
world and can bring whatever they 
may have had with them.” 
Cisco Marcano, a 23-year-old UF 
history senior, also caught the flu at 
about the same time as Gomez.   
“I didn’t want to see anyone or 
hear from anyone,” Marcano said. 
“I didn’t leave the house unless it 
was to work out and try to sweat 
it out.” 
Marcano also said that he had similar symptoms to that of Gomez 
and was taking several flu and al-
lergy medications.  
While Marcano was not sick dur-
ing the middle of the semester or 
during an exam week, he said that 
it has happened to him in the past 
and caused him to worry about his 
grades.  
“You really don’t want to do 
anything, including studying,” he 
said. “All you are worried about is 
feeling better, and you can’t worry 
about your studies.” 
Although there may appear to 
be signs of an epidemic nationwide, 
the severity of the outbreak on cam-
pus is unknown, said Cecilia Luna, 
a spokeswoman from the UF Stu-
dent Health Care Center.
“We really have no way of know-
ing just how many people have the 
flu or have had the flu on campus,” 
she said. 
Luna said one of the reasons 
why the healthcare center is unsure 
about the flu’s impact is because not 
every student is treated on campus.  
While Luna and other staff at the 
health care center are always con-
cerned about flu season, she said that each season is unpredictable 
for a variety of reasons.  
“Some years it will be the A 
strand, and the next it could be the 
B strand,” she said. “There is no 
way of knowing what strand will 
occur next season.” 
Luna said there are multiple 
ways to be prepared and to fight it 
off. Getting enough sleep, maintain-
ing a healthy diet and staying away 
from people you know are sick are 
some basic steps to take. 
“The best advice I can give to 
students is to get vaccinated,” she 
said. “It is not too late into the flu 
season to get one, and they are cov-
ered by most students’ insurance.”  
She also said that the vaccine 
offers several benefits, including 
protection from the flu and the 
weakening of severe symptoms. If a 
student’s insurance does not cover 
the shot, she said that the care cen-
ter will cover the cost for them. Vac-
cine shots are available at the care 
center’s main building next to the 
Florida Gym. Flu outbreak’s impact at UF unknown Places in Gainesville 
to get a flu shot:
CVS
You can get a flu shot both 
at CVS and in CVS pharmacies 
inside of Target.
Publix
The flu shot is available in 
any Publix with a pharmacy.
Walk-in clinics
You can get a flu shot at 
CareSpot UrgentCare Midtown, 
Gainesville Archer and 43rd 
Street.
Health Department
The vaccine is available at 
the Gainesville Family Planning 
Clinic and the Alachua Southwest 
Clinic.
UF
Students can receive a flu shot 
at the Student Health Care Center 
free of cost.
The outbreak began in early 
December in Wuhan, China. 
Those who have been in Wuhan 
in the past 14 days and are ex-
periencing symptoms should seek 
medical attention immediately 
and not have contact with others, 
according to the CDC. Chinese of-
ficials closed ports to enter and 
leave Wuhan.
Dr. Berry said the new virus 
has never been seen in humans. It was likely an animal virus that 
was transmitted to humans, ac-
cording to the CDC.
Dr. Berry said Gainesville resi-
dents are more likely to catch the 
cold and flu than the coronavirus. 
He said updates will be given as 
necessary, and ongoing knowl-
edge is being provided by the 
CDC, which has issued a level 3 
health warning to avoid all non-
essential travel to the Chinese 
Hubei Province, including Wu-
han.He said he is glad that UF has 
been proactive in releasing the 
preventative information for stu-
dents to be aware of.
“We don’t want it to be an 
alarm,” Dr. Berry said. “There’s 
no expectation that we’ll be hav-
ing this here.”CORONAVIRUS,  from pg. 1There is no current vaccination or cureEveryday actions to prevent the spread of 
respiratory viruses, according to the UF email:
• Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 
seconds. 
• Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed 
hands.
• Avoid close contact with people and stay at home when you 
are sick.
• Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue and throw the tissue 
away.
• Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.
Nathan Denette // The Canadian Press via AP 
People wear masks following the outbreak of a new virus as people arrive from the International terminal at T oronto Pearson International Airport in T oronto on Saturday, 
Jan. 25, 2020. A T oronto hospital said Saturday it has a confirmed case of the deadly virus from China, Canada’s first. Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre said it is “caring for 
a patient who has a confirmed case of the novel coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, China. ”
SHE STARTS WORKING 
AT GEORGE A. SMATHERS 
LIBRARIES IN EARL Y 
FEBRUARY 
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF will have its first diversity, eq-
uity and inclusion librarian at George 
A. Smathers Libraries. 
Twanna Hodge said she will help 
the libraries dig deeper into diversity, 
equity, inclusion, accessibility and so-
cial justice.
Hodge said she will take over the 
libraries’ diversity committee as its liai-
son and start her position in early Feb-
ruary. Her duties will include working 
on training and organizational devel-
opment activities, doing presentations 
on personal bias and cultural humility 
and working with the human resourc-
es office to improve hiring and recruit-
ment policies, she said. 
She said she will look to support 
certain underrepresented groups and let 
the libraries know how they can better 
support them and their needs.
“There are things that they’re doing 
really well, but there are things that 
they could work on,” she said.
Hodge was selected largely based on 
her passion and approachability, said 
Brian Keith, associate dean of adminis-trative services and 
faculty affairs for 
George A. Smathers 
Libraries. He said 
he anticipates that 
Hodge will connect 
the libraries with 
important external 
dialogues and op-
portunities.
Keith said the library faculty said 
hiring Hodge will bring organizational 
growth and change to the functions of 
the libraries.
“Twanna Hodge is a great hire,” 
Keith said. “I am confident she will do 
many great things at UF.”
Despite her position, Hodge said 
she hopes there will be no need for 
jobs like hers in the future. She said 
diversity, equity and inclusion should 
be embedded into everything automat-
ically as opposed to an afterthought.
“I think now more than ever, peo-
ple understand that we all have bias-
es,” she said. “We’re all a reflection of 
the society we grew up in.”
Hodge said she is excited to join 
the Gator family, and is glad UF has 
seen the need for a position like this. 
She said she hopes to turn the page on 
tolerance and move toward complete 
acceptance.
“Diversity is our survival,” she said.MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE MANAGER EMAILED CITY 
COMMISSIONERS ANNOUNCING 
THE PAUSE
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Regional Utilities is once again 
in the spotlight after it announced the pause of 
its plan with Florida Power & Light.  
GRU general manager Edward Bielarski Jr. 
announced the tabling of its Generation Transi-
tion Plan in an email to city commissioners and Utility Advisory Board members Friday night, 
as reported by The Gainesville Sun. 
The agreement is a proposed 30-year transi-
tion plan that includes a partnership with FPL, 
a power utility company that services more 
than 10 million Floridians. It would begin in 
2022 and save GRU up to $400 million. 
Bielarski brought the item to the January 
city commission meeting with urgency, but the 
commissioners unanimously voted to move 
the item to the Feb. 6 meeting.
In the email, Bielarski explained that he will 
not hold a previously scheduled public Q & A 
on Jan. 28 to discuss concerns with citizens or bring the agreement to the Feb. 6 city meeting. 
He told The Alligator Sunday that the plan 
was paused because FPL wants to increase the 
agreement’s tariff, which would increase the 
fee annually by $1.5 million for GRU. 
Bielarski said that his goal is to ensure that 
the price does not increase. 
There is no agreement with FPL yet, and 
GRU needs to sit down and address the con-
cerns with the proposed agreement, he said. 
But everything depends on what changes 
FPL decides to make, he said.
“It’s not always pretty, but it’s what manag-
ers and leaders do in these circumstances to get to the final and best product,” Bielarski said.
City Commissioner Helen Warren said the 
agreement would be a win-win for both GRU 
and FPL. She said the utility can increase its 
capacity while transitioning to green energy, 
given that FPL has increased its solar power 
production. 
Warren believes that the GRU staff, engi-
neers and finance employees are simply taking 
their time to confirm that the deal is beneficial 
to the Gainesville community.
“We want to make sure we do it right,” 
Warren said. 
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgGRU general manager pauses agreement with FPLPRESIDENT TRUMP PLANS 
TO ANNOUNCE THE 
EXPANSION MONDAY 
By Samantha Chery 
and Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writers
Citizens from seven additional countries could 
now be restricted from entering the United States due 
to an expansion of President Donald Trump’s travel 
ban.
Countries that may be added include Belarus, 
Myanmar, Eritrea, Kyrgyzstan, Nigeria, Sudan and 
Tanzania, according to The Associated Press. Iran, 
Libya, Somalia, Syria, Yemen, Venezuela and North 
Korea were affected under the original ban in 2017. 
The restrictions are meant to prevent potential terror-
ists from countries that do not properly vet travelers 
to the U.S., according to the Wall Street Journal.
The proposed countries will not be finalized until 
Trump’s official announcement on Monday, and the 
government has currently listed exceptions to obtain 
a visa or refugee status, The Associated Press re-
ported. Applicants must have business ties or family 
in the U.S., which can be through a parent, spouse, 
child, sibling, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or fiancee.
However, some UF students worry about the neg-
ative impacts this government decision could have 
on their lives.
Mumtaz Abdulhussein, whose family is Tanza-
nian of Indian descent, said she is frustrated that 
Tanzania and Nigeria are included in the ban, but 
not Saudi Arabia. She said the administration simply 
doesn’t have the correct information. 
“It’s a contradiction of who we are — how we choose 
the people we exclude and include,” the 20-year-old UF 
political science and economics junior said.While Abdulhussein views the proposal from the 
perspective of her family background, Valentina Fan-
dino, the president of Gators for Refugee Medical Re-
lief, sees the proposal as a threat to refugees in the 
Middle East and Asia.
Although the Trump administration cites national 
security reasons to support the ban, Fandino said she 
believes there is underlying racism motivating it. She 
worries that immigrants from countries on the list 
will face additional discrimination.
“There’s absolutely no reason, in my opinion, for 
us to continually marginalize groups of people who 
are already facing extreme poverty,” the 22-year-old 
UF master of public health candidate said.
Gators for Refugee Medical Relief has helped 
refugees from Syria, Myanmar and the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo by donating toys, medical sup-
plies, and fundraising and tutoring kids in Jackson-
ville, according to its Facebook page.
Refugees from these countries face a number of 
obstacles when settling in the U.S., such as learning 
English and assimilating into American culture, often 
with little assistance from the government, Fandino 
said.
Fandino said based on conversations she’s had 
with refugees, she’s learned they could potentially be 
jailed or even killed for things they say in their home 
countries.
“We have to be honest and realize that all of these 
families and these people aren’t doing this out of 
choice,” Fandino said. “They really are doing it be-
cause they have no other options. There’s no other 
hope. And for us to turn our backs on them, it’s just 
un-American.”
@SammyChery4276
@GrethelAguila
schery@alligator.org
gaguila@alligator.orgUF students react to possible travel ban
Hodge
UF names first diversity, 
equity and inclusion librarian6  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020
THERE HAS BEEN A 17.18 
PERCENT INCREASE 
SINCE 2018
By Valentina Botero
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Regional Airport 
reached new heights in passenger 
records and last year had more 
than 500,000 passengers travel 
through the airport for the ﬁ  rst 
time since records began in 1961.
In 2019, the airport had ex-
actly 558,246 passengers ﬂ  y in 
and out of the airport  an increase 
of slightly more than 17 percent 
in 2018. This increase then helps 
generate more revenue the airport 
administration  can put back into 
projects like safety improvements 
such as runway lighting and they 
are also able to give employees 
more beneﬁ  ts they deserve, said 
Gainesville Regional Airport CEO 
Allan Penska. The airport has more pas-
sengers because ﬂ  ying out of 
Gainesville costs less and is 
simpler to do than to travel out 
of other nearby cities, said Erin 
Porter, manager of marketing and 
public relations at the airport.
“We know people have a 
choice where they ﬂ  y out of,” 
Porter said. “Chances are, the 
fare out of Gainesville is going to 
look higher, but when you add 
in the cost of getting to Orlando 
or Tampa, it just doesn’t make 
sense.” 
Two new daily non-stop 
ﬂ  ights were added to Dallas Fort 
Worth International Airport, Pen-
ska said. TSA Precheck was also 
added for every ﬂ  ight, which has 
helped make security lines short-
er, Penksa said.
Penksa expects there will be 
more passenger growth in 2020. 
But he’s unsure if there will be 
additional airlines or ﬂ  ights add-ed this year. 
However, the airport’s admin-
istration will continue to meet 
with airlines to show them the 
airport’s passenger trafﬁ  c and de-
mographic data and consider the 
possibility of adding new ﬂ  ights 
the community wants, Penska 
said.
The airport also began con-
struction of a 15,200-square-foot 
terminal expansion in November. 
It should be ﬁ  nished by 2022 and 
will have more restaurants, lacta-
tion rooms and electronic charg-
ing stations, Penksa said.
“We couldn’t do the things 
that we’re doing without in-
creased revenue that comes from 
additional passengers,” Penksa 
said. “The more the community 
supports us, the more we’re able 
to put back to the airport.”
@lvbotero_
vbotero@alligator.orgGainesville Regional Airport reaches 
new heights with passenger recordBy Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
can ﬁ  nally revamp its “A Christ-
mas Carol” costumes after re-
ceiving $168,000 from the Collier 
Challenge Campaign.
The campaign, which is meant 
to support local actors, programs, 
script royalties and the theater 
education department, ﬁ  nished 
its ﬁ  rst year collecting dona-
tions for the Hippodrome, which 
a nonproﬁ  t theater located at 25 
SE Second Place in downtown 
Gainesville. The campaign was 
created by Nathan Collier, a long-
time supporter of the Hippodrome 
and the chairman of The Collier 
Companies, a real estate and in-
vestment company. 
Collier, a Gainesville native, 
grew up attending shows at the 
theater. 
“The Hipp was part of my 
youth,” Collier wrote in an email. 
Campaign supporters pledged 
to give a set amount every year for 
the next nine years, which totaled 
to $84,000 this year. Collier said 
he pledged to match that amount 
every year for the next nine years, 
which brings the annual amount 
donated to about $168,000.
“One of the Hipp’s biggest 
challenges is a lack of steady 
funding, which leads to a continu-
ous crisis mode funding,” Collier wrote. “The campaign is designed 
to foster a long term commitment 
in the hearts and minds of Hipp 
supporters.”
The money will help the the-
ater provide for anticipated plans 
such as expanding the education 
department for adults and chil-
dren, said Julia Campitelli, the 
marketing coordinator for the the-
ater.
“In recent years, funding for 
the arts has been steadily declin-
ing,” Campitelli said. “So this is 
just a great way for us to make 
sure we maintain funding and we 
are able to keep bringing great 
work to Gainesville.”
Hippodrome staff sent out let-
ters, posted Facebook messages 
and talked to people in Gainesville 
to receive donations, Daenzer 
said.  
The campaign started at the 
beginning of 2019 and ended on 
Dec. 31 with 197 supporters. The 
donations will help the theater  a 
lot because the cost of one of its 
current shows is $87,000, said Ni-
cole Daenzer, the managing direc-
tor of the theater.
“We’re still thinking of pos-
sibilities and things that we can 
do,” Daenzer said.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgCampaign for Hippodrome 
State Theatre raises $168,000
A GAINESVILLE NATIVE WILL MATCH DONATIONS 
FOR THE NEXT NINE YEARS
Courtesy to The Alligator
A zookeeper holds a new Asian small-clawed otter pup at the Santa Fe College T eaching Zoo.
THERE ARE FIVE 
NEW BABIES
By Jessica Green
Alligator Contributing WriterFor the ﬁ  rst time in a decade, 
new otter pups were born at the 
Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo.
The zoo formally announced 
it on Jan. 16, and the ﬁ  ve Asian small-clawed pups were born on 
Nov. 25. 
The pups’ parents were received 
within the last year, said Jonathan 
Miot, the zoo’s director and Santa 
Fe College associate professor.
The father, Duncan, came 
from Disney’s Animal King-
dom and their mother, Chitra, 
came from the Santa Barbara 
Zoo. Miot said it was surpris-
ing how quickly the pair mat-
ed.
“Just before Thanksgiving, 
zookeepers reported hearing 
tiny squeaks coming from Duncan and Chitra’s den,” the San-
ta Fe College Teaching Zoo wrote 
in a Facebook post.
The zoo used a camera trap to 
photograph the newborn pups out-
side of the den on Dec. 20.
Zookeepers are keeping their 
distance besides cleaning and sup-
plying den materials, such as pine 
needles and blankets, Miot said. 
The newborn otters are still not 
eating solid food, Miot said. The 
mother is receiving an increased 
diet to help provide nutrients for 
her and the nursing pups.
Miot said the zoo estimates it will keep the otter pups for three 
to ﬁ  ve years before they are placed 
at other zoos that are accredited by 
the Association of Zoos and Aquar-
iums across the U.S. 
Taking care of the otters has 
been a great experience for the 
students, said Sierra Spears, a zoo 
animal technology senior at the 
college.
“We are super fortunate to be 
able to take care of them and ob-
serve as necessary,” Spears said. 
“Moving forward it will be an in-
credible opportunity to have seven 
otters so they can learn and see 
them grow from start to end.”Otter pups born at Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo
Courtesy to The Alligator
A zookeeper takes a picture of a newborn Asian small-clawed otter pup. 
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
Amy Guerra, a 22-year-old UF microbiology senior and president of the UF Puppy Club, picks up one of the playful puppies to put in front of the yoga class. She has raised 
three trainee puppies and said each has a unique personality. “We are currently trying to fundraise $5,000 for the upcoming walkathon fundraiser, so that is why we put 
together the puppy yoga, and these puppies also need socialization, ” she said. The walkathon will be held on April 4 at the Tioga T own Center. 
“Doing puppy yoga is fun, relaxing and it’s a de-stressor that gave me an overall wonderful 
experience, ” said Brenna Chadwick, who works for a medical software development 
company. “That really put my mood into a positive atmosphere. ”
On Sunday afternoon, multiple people attended the puppy yoga class at local yoga center Flow 
Space. The ages of the trainee guide puppies ranged from 12 weeks old to 1 year old.
Photo Story by Laura San Juan / / Alligator Staff 
Downward Dog
On Sunday afternoon, Flow Space, a local yoga center, 
and the UF Puppy Club partnered together to host puppy 
yoga. The student organization supports Southeastern 
Guide Dogs. Southeastern Guide Dogs is a nonprofit that 
trains guide dogs for the visually impaired and veterans 
with disabilities at no cost. 
Mikayla Holder, 24, hugs a guide 
dog trainee at the yoga session 
Sunday afternoon. Holder is a 
physical therapy student at the 
University of St. Augustine. BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
SEASONED OAK FIREWOOD
Split & delivered. $120 for 1/2 cord.
Call James 386-292-5219        1-29-20-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2bd/2bth fully furnished townhouse, SW 
Gainesville, stone's throw from Haile Town 
Center, front garden, back porch face woods, 
high ceiling, utilities & wifi included, $350/
wk. No pets. Email: vchow331@yahoo.com    
2-10-20-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Frank Virzi
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/27/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/27/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, January 27, 2020
ACROSS
1 Tibetan monks
6 Rise up against 
authority
11 U.S. interstate, 
e.g.
14 Grind, as teeth
15 Amazon Echo 
Dot’s voice 
service
16 West end?
17 *Mystery/soap 
(1956-’84) 
that ultimately 
dropped “The” 
from its title
19 Pilot-licensing org.
20 “Grrr!” is one
21 Understood by a 
select few
23 Garden shed tool
24 Smidge
26 Give in
27 Light-circling 
insects
29 Send out
32 “Got it”
33 Start, as of 
symptoms
34 John Brown’s 
eulogist Stephen 
Vincent __
36 “If only __ 
listened”
37 *One of the four 
Seven Sisters 
magazines that 
are still in print
40 H.S. equivalency 
test
43 Hopscotch
44 Sonnet line 
quintet
48 Chrysler Building 
architect William 
Van ___
50 Campus official
51 Longest river in 
France
52 As found
54 Cartoon frame
56 Prefix with gender
57 Christmas saint
60 Quarterfinalists’ 
count
62 Suffix with alp
63 *Televised 
panelist shown 
from the 
shoulders up
66 Opposite of oui
67 Under-the-roof 
room
68 Prefix for sun
69 Clock-setting std.
70 Sierra __, Africa
71 Prom attendeesDOWN
1 Tee size: Abbr.
2 “... et cetera”
3 Fridge stickers
4 On the briny
5 *Infielder 
typically  
between second 
and third
6 Campaigned
7 Nobelist Wiesel
8 Pleads
9 Urged strongly
10 Barista’s  
creation
11 Browser update 
button
12 New employee
13 Passed, as a bill
18 Miami’s st.
22 Yale student
23 Med. care plan
25 Campaign  
face-off
28 Use an axe on
30 High-IQ group
31 Simpatico 
(like Justin 
Timberlake’s 
band?)
35 Rear warning 
lamp, and what 
can go with the 
end of each 
answer to a 
starred clue38 Soften, as one’s 
voice level
39 Ex-NBA star Ming
40 Opposite 
of losing, 
weightwise
41 Weather-
changing 
currents
42 Climber’s 
downward 
journey
45 “Glee” star  
Lea __46 Great __: 
London’s island
47 French 
possessive
49 Medical research 
org.
53 Bottom line
55 Dusk, in poetry
58 Choral part
59 Organ that may 
itch
61 Indian butter
64 __ cream soda
65 Spanish two
By Evan Kalish
(c)2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/25/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/25/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, January 25, 2020
ACROSS
1 Moisture-
catching linings
11 Barbecue crust
15 Period that 
included the Civil 
War
16 Place with rolling 
pins, perhaps
17 Making a plea
18 Present opener?
19 Have the 
chutzpah
20 Farm structure
21 Word with 
interest and error
22 Farm structure
23 Date night 
convenience
24 Pauses
25 “Femina Cup” 
(1910s contest) 
competitor
28 Turn
29 Informal “Right?”
32 Ball, e.g.
33 Links legend
34 It’s above lead 
on tables
35 Ring of Saturn?
36 Hash ingredient
37 Makes even 
more gross?
39 Plural 
possessive
40 Leo is one
41 Jalopies
43 __ wolf
44 Nasty current
47 R&B family 
name
48 Caps on a 
protective vest
50 Fundació Joan 
__: Barcelona 
museum
51 Family member
52 Blocks off
54 Level
55 Gerald Ford and 
Glenn Ford, e.g.
56 Blues first name
57 Intermediary’s 
compensation
DOWN
1 They often have 
runners
2 Succeed in
3 Contest form
4 Estate unit5 __ the line
6 “Dang!”
7 Part of the 
Enterprise’s 
power source
8 Diamond of song
9 Bond classic
10 Decline
11 Leverage
12 Early code 
name?
13 Alphabetically 
second on a list 
of U.S. state 
capitals
14 Put back
21 Curse
23 All in
24 Whopper you 
can’t eat
25 Ever so slightly
26 Not remotely 
fresh
27 Flees in a panic
29 Like eight 
Supreme Court 
justices
30 Chasing, with 
“of”
31 Artificial 
intelligence 
framework32 __ Torino: 1970s 
Ford
35 Bacchanalia
37 Beneficiaries of 
a 1944 bill
38 PAC’s election 
season purchase
40 “30 Rock” 
creator
42 One-third of 
dodeca-
44 No longer forced 
to deal with45 Sherlock’s foe 
Adler
46 Term in Old West 
and hip-hop 
culture
48 Indian garb
49 Chirpy bird
50 Keyword in 
Newton’s second 
law
52 Texting partner, 
like, srsly!
53 Ford product
01/24/20
solution on pg. 9MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Watch TV, Share It, Get Paid.  Easy
Check Out This New Streaming TV Service
www.freedomtimemoney.com
2-3-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist. BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info                                    
1-29-20-5-14
Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
Tutor-needed to help perform high energy cal-
culations for the universe. Energy of Inflation, 
Energy of Big Bang, black hole energy with a 
caveat. Grad or Dr. student with open mind. 
Contact Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-5-
20-7-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 60 y.o. MALE
Spinal Cord Injury with Quadriplegia 
Safe Central Gainesville Location 
6 AM to 10:30 AM - 12 to 16 hours weekly 
$17 to $20 hour - CNA or Equivalent
Details Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net    
2-3-20-5-14
Small country church near Gainesville is 
seeking part time worship/song leader 
for Sunday morning services. Contact D. 
Cousino 352-389-4081; email:
 dcousino1987@gmail.com.        2-3-20-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Designated drivers are the greatest14 Help Wanted 18 Personals
1.  Grassy plains 
1.  Rain ____5.  Wanderer
2.  Souvenir6.  Famous, eminent
3.  Examiner 7.  James ____
4.  Manage, tolerate PASMPA
HOOCPNDANOM
TODEN
MTONMEE
UAIDRTORMONEO
LEANHDANSWERS: 1A-Pampas  5A-Nomad  6A-Noted  7A-Monroe
1D-Poncho  2D-Memento  3D-Auditor  4D-Handle  B-Montana1-27-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The state animal of ____
is the grizzly bear.
BONUS
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
ScrabbleGrams  solutionThis journey has always 
been about reaching your 
own other shore no matter 
what it is, and that dream 
continues.
—Diana NyadCryptoQuote solution1. Who was the last Oakland A's player before 
Khris Davis in 2018 to lead the American League 
in home runs for a season?
2. How many times has a Tampa Bay Rays pitcher 
won 20-plus games in a season?
3. Who scored the first rushing touchdown in Su -
per Bowl history?
4. Name the last Division II men's college bas -
ketball player to be selected in the NBA Draft.5. Which player won the most Stanley Cups with -
out ever playing for the Montreal Canadiens?
6. In 2019, the U.S. women's national soccer 
team set a record for biggest margin of victory 
in a World Cup game (13 goals). Which country 
had held the mark?
7. Of WBC heavyweight boxing champion Deon -
tay Wilder's 43 pro bouts, how many have ended 
with Wilder recording a knockout?
  answers below© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
1. Who was the last Oakland A’s 
player before Khris Davis in 2018 to 
lead the American League in home 
runs for a season?
2. How many times has a Tampa Bay 
Rays pitcher won 20-plus games in a 
season?
3. Who scored the first rushing 
touchdown in Super Bowl history?
4. Name the last Division II men’s 
college basketball player to be select-
ed in the NBA Draft.
5. Which player won the most Stan-
ley Cups without ever playing for the 
Montreal Canadiens?
6. In 2019, the U.S. women’s nation-
al soccer team set a record for biggest 
margin of victory in a World Cup 
game (13 goals). Which country had 
held the mark?
7. Of WBC heavyweight boxing 
champion Deontay Wilder’s 43 pro 
bouts, how many have ended with 
Wilder recording a knockout?
Answers
1. Mark McGwire hit 52 homers to 
lead the A.L. in 1996. 
2. Twice — David Price won 20 in 
2012, and Blake Snell won 21 in 2018. 
3. Green Bay’s Jim Taylor, in the 
second quarter of Super Bowl I in 
1967.
4. Robert Whaley of Walsh Univer -
sity was selected with the 51st pick in 
2005.
5. Red Kelly won eight Stanley 
Cups, four with Detroit and four with 
Toronto, between 1950 and 1967. 
6. Germany won a World Cup match 
by 11 goals in 2007.
7. Wilder has recorded 41 knockouts 
on his way to a 42-0-1 record.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
  solution below
• It was famed cultural anthropologist Margaret Mead who made the 
following sage observation: "One of the oldest human needs is having 
someone to wonder where you are when you don't come home at night."
• It's been estimated that a million pigeons live in New York City.
• When pop star Christina Aguilera is on tour, she insists on having a 
police escort. She hates to be stuck in traffic. 
• It was Abraham Lincoln who signed into law the legislation that cre -
ated the Secret Service. That very night, he was assassinated. 
• Those who study such things say that on the 13th of every month, 
triskaidekaphobia  causes a loss of $83 million to American business due 
to absenteeism from work and other disruptions. 
• In the United States, more babies are born on Oct. 5 than on any other 
day of the year. If you do the math, you'll find that New Year's Eve is 9 
months and 5 days before that. 
• • •
Thought for the Day: "Show me a hero, and I will write you a tragedy." 
-- F. Scott Fitzgerald
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.• It was famed cultural anthropolo-
gist Margaret Mead who made the fol-
lowing sage observation: “One of the 
oldest human needs is having someone 
to wonder where you are when you 
don’t come home at night.”
• It’s been estimated that a million 
pigeons live in New York City.
• When pop star Christina Aguilera is 
on tour, she insists on having a police 
escort. She hates to be stuck in traffic. 
• Next time you’re heading to Illinois, 
you can stop off in Metropolis and visit 
the self-declared birthplace of Super -
man. In honor of their hometown super -
hero, the citizens erected a 15-foot 
bronze statue of him on Main Street.
• It was Abraham Lincoln who signed 
into law the legislation that created the 
Secret Service. That very night, he was 
assassinated. 
• Those who study such things 
say that on the 13th of every month, 
triskaidekaphobia causes a loss of $83 
million to American business due to 
absenteeism from work and other dis-
ruptions.
• In the United States, more babies 
are born on Oct. 5 than on any other 
day of the year. If you do the math, 
you’ll find that New Year’s Eve is 9 
months and 5 days before that. 
***
Thought for the Day: “Show me a 
hero, and I will write you a tragedy.” 
— F. Scott Fitzgerald
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
By Samantha WeaverKing Features Weekly Service
January 27, 20201. Mark McGwire hit 52 homers to lead 
the A.L. in 1996. 
2. Twice -- David Price won 20 in 2012, 
and Blake Snell won 21 in 2018. 
3. Green Bay's Jim Taylor, in the second 
quarter of Super Bowl I in 1967.
4. Robert Whaley of Walsh University 
was selected with the 51st pick in 2005.
5. Red Kelly won eight Stanley Cups, 
four with Detroit and four with Toronto, 
between 1950 and 1967. 
6. Germany won a World Cup match by 
11 goals in 2007.
7. Wilder has recorded 41 knockouts on 
his way to a 42-0-1 record.Sports Quiz  answersFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020
www.alligator.org/sportsGators land commitment from five-star receiver
Former Penn State wide receiver Justin Shorter announced his commitment 
to UF on Sunday. He was the No. 1 receiver in the 2018 class. Shorter is the 
third five-star transfer the Gators have landed under coach Dan Mullen.Former Gators running back 
Lamical Perine was named 
Outstanding Player for the 
South T eam in the Reese's Senior 
Bowl. He scored the game's first 
touchdown and had 59 total yards.
Samantha Harrison  // Alligator Staff
Guard Lavender Briggs scored a team-high 17 points in the road 
loss to Arkansas on Sunday.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Eighteen points in five minutes. 
When Florida’s women’s basketball team faced No. 21 
Arkansas on the road Sunday, the Razorbacks concluded 
the first quarter on an 18-2 run. It put them up 26-13, and 
ultimately propelled Arkansas over the Gators at Bud Wal-
ton Arena 79-57. 
It became obvious during that first-quarter spurt, but 
UF’s inability to keep up with Arkansas’ speed up and 
down the court killed any chances the Gators had of stay-
ing competitive in the game. Razorbacks guard A’Tyanna 
Gaulden consistently pushed the ball up the floor every 
time Florida missed a field goal or turned it over. She facili-
tated the Razorbacks’ track-style offense, leading the game 
with five assists in just 17 minutes of action. 
“Offensively, we got some good looks, but they just 
didn’t go down,” coach Cam Newbauer said. “We kept 
fighting the whole way through, and I don’t think the score 
is indicative of that at all.”
Unsurprisingly, the best Gator throughout the contest 
was guard Lavender Briggs. She continued her impressive 
freshman campaign with 17 points, leading Florida in scor-
ing as she often does. 
However, the lack of scoring elsewhere hurt Florida. 
Guard Kiara Smith was the only other Gator in double fig-
ures with 10, but it was at an inefficient clip as she was 
4 for 13 from the field and 1 for 5 from behind the three-
point line. 
Going into this game, a key ingredient for UF (11-9, 2-5 
SEC) to steal a victory on the road was the inside game as Arkansas does not have a player taller than 6-foot-3. Ar-
kansas (16-4, 4-3 SEC) scores at a high volume, averaging 
85.3 points per game heading into Sunday, but the bulk of 
that comes from guards like senior guard Alexis Tolefree, 
who averages 14.4 points per game.  
That was no different against Florida, as three of its 
top four scorers were guards. The Razorbacks dominated 
the Gators in the paint, 44-28, but that was mostly due 
to unguarded fast-break points (25), not low-post scoring. 
UF’s main inside presence, forward Zada Williams, fin-
ished the game with just four points, on three shots in 20 
minutes of action.
It seemed that Florida tried to participate in the shoot-
out with the Razorbacks, attempting one more three than 
they did with 21. However, the Gators only made half of 
what Arkansas did, as Florida shot 4 of 21 from beyond the 
arc to the Razorbacks' 8 of 20.
Florida also turned the ball over too often to avoid a 
track meet with speedy Arkansas. UF gave it up 16 times 
to Arkansas’ 14, but the Razorbacks are built for that type 
of turnover-heavy game. Arkansas converted the Gators’ 
turnovers into 22 points while Florida only converted its 
opportunities to six. 
A Gators team that started the season 4-0 is now on a 
four-game losing streak, all in the SEC. 
“It’s been a tough stretch for us where we are in our 
schedule, and we just have to keep fighting,” Newbauer 
said. “We just have to believe, keep fighting and keep go-
ing.” 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgFlorida handled by No. 21 Arkansas, drop fourth straight
MEN'S BASKETBALL MEN'S TENNIS
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Florida’s loss to No. 1 Baylor on 
Saturday shouldn't have surprised 
most people. UF was an unranked 
team coming off of a loss, while the 
Bears came into Gainesville touting a 
15-game winning streak.
After a double-digit defeat, it was 
clear that UF coach Mike White was 
disappointed in his team’s perfor-
mance while praising Baylor’s talent.
It was a sullen and frank post-
game press conference when White 
took the stage, and he had some eye-
opening comments on his team’s 
performance.
 
“They got to be in the argument to 
be the best defense in the country.”
 
That’s certainly up for debate. 
Baylor put on a clinic Saturday night 
on the defensive side of the ball and 
limited Florida to just 61 points, 
the lowest its scored since a game 
against UConn on Nov. 17 (59).
The Bears’ defensive dominance 
was led by forwards Mark Vital and 
Freddie Gillespie, who combined for 
17 rebounds, 11 of which were on the offensive glass, two blocks and 
two steals.
 
“Vital and Gillespie, to me, they’re 
both really strong and both have 
tremendous motors. They just go, 
go, go, go, go.”
 
White praised Baylor’s frontcourt 
earlier in the week, saying they had 
an argument to be the best in the 
country.
The fifth-year UF coach would 
eventually move on from praise and 
began to question his team in more 
ways than one.
Florida started off the season 
struggling on the offensive side of 
the ball, but its defense was its call-
ing card and carried them to a re-
spectable record.
UF only reached 80 points once 
in its first 10 games and has reached 
that mark five times in its last 10 
contests.
In those first 10 games, Florida 
only allowed opponents to score 70 
points twice and have allowed teams 
to reach that clip four times in its last 
10 games.By Zachary Huber 
Sports Writer
Florida’s Andy Andrade was on 
the verge of clinching match point 
for Florida after winning a nail-bit-
ing tiebreaker.
He was up 5-1 in the second set 
against USF’s Antonio Muniz. It was 
Muniz’s turn to serve. He threw 
the ball up in the air, jumped and 
swung his racket to put the ball in 
play.
Andrade handled Muniz’s serve 
without issue. The ball bounced to 
Muniz, and he hit the ball back to 
Andrade’s half.
Muniz’s shot was long, and An-
drade’s teammates swarmed him to 
celebrate.
His win on Court 4 sealed the 4-0 
win over the USF Bulls and cement-
ed UF’s fourth-straight trip to the 
Intercollegiate Tennis Association 
National Team Indoor Champion-
ship in Madison, Wisconsin.
Before Sunday’s win, No. 2 Flor-
ida (6-1) went against Temple (0-2). 
Florida continued its success in 
doubles to start the match. It made 
quick work of the Owls, taking wins 
on Courts 1 and 2.Johannes Ingildsen and Will 
Grant blanked Temple’s Paolo Cu-
calo and Louis Gorregues on Court 
2, 6-0. Then, junior, No. 14, Oliver 
Crawford and sophomore, No. 4, 
Sam Riffice stayed flawless on the 
season by winning over Juan Araoz 
and Enzo Brida on Court 1.
In singles play, coach Bryan 
Shelton made the decision to sit one 
of his best players, Crawford (2-1), 
who is ranked No. 31 by the ITA in 
singles.
However, in the second set, three 
Gators fell behind. But it didn’t mat-
ter because Ingildsen, No. 71 Lukas 
Greif and junior Josh Goodger fin-
ished their matches in straight sets 
to seal UF’s place in the champion-
ship match (4-0).
The coaches of both teams de-
cided to leave other matches un-
finished because of the contested 
matches to be played Sunday.
On championship Sunday, the 
doubles point would not come as 
easily to the Gators.
The team got off to a rough start 
and fell behind early.
Crawford and Riffice on Court 
1 and Duarte Vale and Goodger on 
Court 3 found themselves in a 2-1 deficit early.
But both duos would storm back 
and win the match to give UF the 
doubles point (6-4, 6-3).
Shelton said he was pleased with 
the way his doubles duos fought 
back after falling behind early.
“I think today was certainly a 
tough test because I thought South 
Florida came out and played great 
doubles,” he said. “We have put a 
lot of time into the doubles. I think it 
started back in the beginning of the 
fall season.”
During the fall season, Shelton 
said he made doubles a priority and 
credited the team for buying in.
Riffice would win over Jakub 
Wojcik on Court 2, 6-0, 6-3 to put 
UF up 2-0 overall.
On Court 3, No. 17 junior Vale 
defeated Pierre Luquet 6-2, 6-1.
Andrade finished off the Bulls 
when he beat Muniz 7-6, 6-1.
Next weekend, Florida will re-
turn to action on Saturday to take 
on FSU in Lake Nona, Florida, at 5 
p.m.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.org'Immaturity' costing UF Gators win ITA Kick-Off Weekend at home
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 12MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11  
I was a fierce competitor in sports, even (and espe-
cially) before there was any talent there to back it up. 
I was this way because I modeled my game, my man-
nerisms, my heart after Kobe’s. But I learned to love 
the work because Kobe did, and if it paid off for him 
then why not me?
I think that’s the most humanizing thing about 
Kobe. He was a gifted athlete, sure. But he broke down 
just how he got to be better than everyone else in in-
terview after interview. He knew other players would 
be stronger, taller, quicker, but no one would outwork 
him. That’s a noble, sobering realization from one of 
the greatest to ever lace them up. He didn’t pretend to 
be born a basketball deity. He just worked his a** off 
to become one, and once he earned that distinction, 
he let you know it.
I never had the honor of seeing Kobe in person. 
Twice I went to see the Lakers play in Miami in his 
two final years and twice I was the one wearing a No. 
24 Bryant jersey while Kobe sat in street clothes on 
the bench.
On the way to the American Airlines Arena with my 
dad in 2015, I heard on the radio that he wasn’t going 
to play, and I was briefly crushed. This was months 
after he had penned his future-award-winning “Dear 
Basketball” retirement announcement, so I knew this 
was it.
My parents couldn’t believe he wasn’t playing, but 
I understood. He had banged up his body enough and wanted to end the season and his career on his own 
terms. He couldn’t afford to play certain games and 
one of those happened to be my last chance to see 
him live. He knew his limits, even though to a casual 
observer it appeared he was bound by none.
But his “did not play” status did not stop me from 
waiting out by the Lakers bus with a horde of LA fans 
and basketball admirers alike. It took quite some time 
for Kobe to come out, but when he did, he was greeted 
by chants like I’ve never heard before. I joined in.
“Two more years! Two more years! MVP! MVP!”
The feeling in that crowd that night was different. 
The polarizing figure that Kobe was still brought fans 
together.
Kobe was just different. That’s the easiest way to 
encapsulate a man who moved on from living legend 
status to simply being a legend on Sunday. But it’s not 
enough.
Vanessa Bryant lost her husband and a daughter. 
Kobe’s daughters lost their dad. And we all lost a role 
model, someone we felt like we knew through inter-
views, photos, videos and countless hours of game 
footage. And Kobe was robbed of the opportunity to 
continue his post-basketball life.
His less popular nickname, shadowed by Mamba, 
was Vino, the Italian word for wine, because Kobe, 
like wine, got better with age. Bryant will grow no 
older, but the memory of his 41 years on Earth will be 
immortalized by the millions of lives he touched.
Thanks for touching mine, Kobe.KOBE BRYANT,  from pg. 1Remembering the Mamba: Kobe
AP  Photo // Susan Sterner, File
Kobe Bryant, 17, jokes with the media as he holds his Los Angeles 
Lakers jersey during a news conference at The Great Western 
Forum in Inglewood, California.
TRACK
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
Florida’s throwers continued 
its strong start to its indoor cam-
paign as Amara Wiggan and Con-
nor Bandel took first place at the 
Hokie Invitational in the wom-
en’s weight throw and the men’s 
shot put, respectively. 
Wiggan was the only Gator 
competing on the first day in 
Blacksburg, Virginia, and she 
dominated the competition. Com-ing off a similar performance at 
the Clemson Orange and Purple 
Elite Invitational two weeks ear-
lier, her 20.06 meter mark this 
weekend bested all other throw-
ers by more than a meter and a 
half. 
Any one of the senior’s five 
eligible throws would have 
clinched the event. That 20.06m 
score now serves as her personal 
record in the weight throw. Wig-
gan will look to position herself 
among Gator greats going for-
ward, nearing a top-10 ranking among all-time Florida weight 
throwers. She now stands just 
0.1m away from Merlyn Brown’s 
tenth place record. 
Bandel had a career day in 
Blacksburg as well, winning his 
second consecutive meet with a 
19.45m throw. Following a nar-
row victory at Clemson, he won 
decisively at the Hokie Invitation-
al, defeating Virginia Tech’s Tyus 
Jones by nearly a meter. 
Saturday’s event also in-
creased his personal record by 
another 16 centimeters and estab-lished himself among the nation’s 
elite shot putters. The redshirt ju-
nior has risen to 10th among ac-
tive Division 1 shot putters along 
with being ranked third all-time 
at UF.
Lastly, Thea Jensen had a 
strong weekend in the women’s 
shot put despite coming in third 
among attached throwers. The 
freshman demonstrated her in-
experience, having four out of 
her six throws deemed ineligible. 
But her 15.22m effort fell just 27 
centimeters short of the winning throw among attached partici-
pants, demonstrating the Dane’s 
potential.
The Gators travel to Arkansas 
next week to participate in the 
Razorback Invitational and look 
to build upon an impressive start 
to the season.
@dawalsh_UF
dwalsh@alligator.orgWiggan, Bandel take first place at Hokie InvitationalGYMNASTICS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The Florida gymnastics team 
has already been through a tu-
multuous stretch to begin the 
season.
So far, the Gators have beaten 
three SEC opponents: Arkan-
sas, Missouri and LSU. All three 
teams are currently ranked in the 
Road to Nationals Top 25, with 
Arkansas at No. 19, Missouri No. 
20 and LSU No. 8.
Besides some hiccups early 
on in Missouri, No. 2 Florida has 
handled those opponents with 
ease. Against Arkansas, it won by 
its largest margin since 2017 and 
finished with the highest score 
ever (197.35) in a season-opener 
in program history. Against LSU, 
it ended with the highest score 
(198.375) of any team in the 
country so far this season. It was 
also the highest score of coach 
Jenny Rowland’s career.
There are numerous reasons for UF’s topflight performance 
thus far. First, there’s sophomore 
Trinity Thomas’ remarkable play, 
capped off by the 10 she scored 
on uneven bars Friday against 
LSU. It’s also hard to ignore the 
surprise emergence of freshman 
Payton Richards, who, in just her 
third career meet, started in all 
four rotations.
But one could argue the big-
gest explanation for the Gators’ 
superb performance has been 
their depth.
Even before the season began, 
Rowland knew the deep roster 
would be an asset.
“I can’t say we’ve had this 
much depth since I’ve been 
here,” Rowland said before the 
meet against the Razorbacks. 
“It’s a great problem to have and 
a conversation we’ve continu-
ously had.”
Since that meet against the 
Hogs, Rowland has adjusted the 
lineups quite a bit.
She has rolled out a differ-ent vault lineup each meet this 
season. Junior Alyssa Baumann 
started on the vault against Ar-
kansas, but she scored a 9.175, 
so, against Mizzou, she was 
benched in favor of junior Me-
gan Skaggs. In place of Baumann, 
Skaggs ended up scoring a 9.80, 
the second-highest score for UF in 
the vault that week.
However, she was replaced 
for LSU by Baumann once again, 
who rebounded and scored a 
9.85.
Prior to the LSU meet, Bau-
mann said the depth is a moti-
vating factor for herself and her 
teammates.
“I think it has really pushed 
our team,” she said. “We are 
competing for lineup spots each 
week, and it’s just making every-
one a little bit better.”
The depth also allows Row-
land to make easy changes when 
gymnasts aren’t available. Sopho-
more Leah Clapper had started 
the first two meets on the beam, but missed the meet versus the 
Tigers. Sophomore Sydney John-
son-Scharpf filled in for her and 
scored a 9.925, helping Florida 
finish with its best beam score 
(49.675) in program history.
Following the LSU meet, Row-
land admitted she’s gotten some 
enjoyment out of the depth.
“I’m having just a little fun 
with these lineups,” Rowland 
said with a laugh. “I told Sydney 
after her beam routine that she 
did a great job and you go to trust 
the process sometimes.”
The squad’s deepness will 
have to continue to be an asset 
for UF the rest of the way. The 
next six meets for the Gators 
will be against teams ranked in 
the Top 25, led by home meets 
against No. 4 Denver on Feb. 7 
and No. 5 Alabama on Feb. 21.
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgDepth has been the key for Florida so far this season
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Trinity Thomas notched her 
first career 10 Friday night againstLSU.
12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2020
Now, Florida’s main strength and pri-
mary weakness has become inverted and 
White articulated his frustration.
“There’s something to that for sure and 
I’ve always preached that, as long as 
I’ve really been in coaching, that there’s 
a tendency…we’re all human, when 
a ball is going in for us at a high level 
in basketball there’s a tendency to take 
a deep breath and relax and have the 
feeling that it’s all good. We’re in a good 
place.”
Baylor was not known for its offen-
sive prowess, but for the Bears to shoot 9 
for 19 from behind the arc is becoming a 
trend for Florida’s opponents.
On Jan. 11, Mizzou made 12 of its 19 three-point attempts and if that loss is in-
cluded, Florida has allowed 69.8 points 
per game while its offense has improved 
to 71.6 points per contest in its last ﬁ  ve 
games.
“Early in the season…our defensive 
numbers were a lot better than they are 
now. Our offensive numbers are much 
better right now than they were a month 
ago, we all know that. We’ve gotten a lot 
better offensively.”
White didn’t harp too long on his 
team’s scoring improvements or any posi-
tives for that matter.
He didn’t hold back when he began to 
criticize his team’s overall mentality up to 
this point in the season.
“We’re an immature team right now 
and from a mental toughness standpoint we’re nowhere near what it takes to be a 
championship-level team.”
Again, this came on the heels of an un-
ranked team losing by 11 points to the top 
team in the nation. White’s assessment of 
the team is harsh but fair given the ex-
pectation of this team, a team that held 
Baylor to shoot 29.6 percent in the second 
half and still lost.
“I hope everyone in our locker room is 
dissatisfied where we are.”
The Gators now ﬁ  nd themselves with a 
12-7 record after losing their second home 
game of the season. The team that was 
ranked No. 6 in the preseason still has 
more questions than answers right now.
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL , from pg. 10UF was outrebounded 37 -26
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White reamed his team's performance 
after Saturday night's loss to No. 1 Baylor.
WOMEN'S TENNIS
By Myles Herbert
Sports Writer
The No. 21-ranked Gators wom-
en’s tennis team traveled to Raleigh, 
North Carolina, this weekend as part 
of the ITA Kickoff Weekend. They 
are headed home 1-1, beating Okla-
homa 4-3 on Saturday and losing to 
NC State 4-0 on Sunday.
The Intercollegiate Tennis Associ-
ation hosts an annual tournament at the beginning of the year to start the 
college tennis season and it can often 
be used as a spark to begin a cam-
paign. This year’s tournament was 
the 12th rendition, with 26 events 
taking place around the country 
serving as a preliminary round be-
fore the ﬁ  nals in Chicago Feb. 7-10. 
UF coach Roland Thornqvist and 
his team concluded their ﬁ  rst match 
Saturday with an impressive 4-3 
comeback victory against Oklahoma in the opening round to show exactly 
why they are ranked in the Top 25.
Thornqvist was very satisﬁ  ed 
with how his team performed in the 
ﬁ  rst match and was especially ex-
cited to see how sophomore Marlee 
Zein, who secured the win for UF, 
was able to handle the pressure with 
conﬁ  dence at such a high level.
“After a little disappointment 
in doubles, we looked really deter-
mined to bounce back in singles," Thornqvist said. “It was great for 
our entire team to watch her navi-
gate the pressure of the third set and 
played fantastic tennis to win.”
This win against the Sooners set 
up Florida against No. 8 NC State; 
the host of the matches, who de-
feated their preliminary opponent, 
Rice, 4-2.
Sunday didn’t produce the same 
results for UF, however, not being able to secure a single point on the 
second day, falling to the Wolfpack 
4-0, with the closest game almost be-
ing won by senior Tsveta Dimitrova 
who ultimately fell in back to back 
sets 4-6.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/sports.
@myles_herbert
mherbert@alligator.orgFlorida splits a pair of ITA Kickoﬀ   Weekend matches in North Carolina