We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Kyle Chambers
Alligator Contributing Writer
Last semester, hundreds of 
students protested for UF to add 
emergency blue light phones to 
Fraternity Drive for weeks. 
They won in the end — four 
blue lights will be installed, 
which will make every area of 
campus ofﬁ  cially dotted with the emergency phones. But data 
from University Police suggests 
that blue lights aren’t utilized 
for emergency situations as of-
ten as they may seem. 
A total of 508 blue light 
activations were recorded on 
campus from Jan. 1, 2017 to 
Jan. 1, 2019, according to pub-
lic records. Only 14 blue light 
activations resulted in a police report — around 2.7 percent of 
all activations since 2017.
Blue light phones were ini-
tially installed on campus to act 
as a university-wide 24-hour 
security system. At the press of 
a button, students are instantly 
connected to UPD in an emer-
gency. More than 330 blue light 
phones are currently active on 
campus, and each cost about $15,000-$20,000 to install. 
According to UPD spokes-
man Brad Barber, not all of 
these 14 police reports were 
emergency reports, which are 
created for situations that re-
quire emergency services to be 
dispatched. 
Barber did not comment on 
New poet? You know it. 
Gainesville named its ﬁ  rst city poet , pg. 5
Knight and day
An annual medieval festival added an extra weekend, pg. 7SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperFlorida eager to bounce back in 2020
The Gators baseball season begins Feb. 14 at 
home against Marshall, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 53
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
1. Credit approval required and initial $50 opening deposit required. Offer is for new checking accounts only. Offer subject to change without notice. Member must elect to receive eDocuments within the first 90 days, deposit over $200 per month for the first 3 months, and use their debit card 
6 times within the first 3 months. If the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT. 2. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. 
Member must elect to receive eDocuments. 3. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required. Federally insured by the NCUA.
Carly Blum // Contributing Photographer
Thieves Guilde actors Sierra Barnier, 18, and Kevin Otero, 24, perform a choreographed sword ﬁ  ght during a chess game. PARTY’S FACEBOOK PAGE 
WAS TAKEN DOWN
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Candidates running for Student Body 
vice president and treasurer for a new UF 
Student Government party all resigned 
within hours of each other after an audio 
clip some deemed as transphobic was 
leaked on Facebook.
The 38-minute audio –– posted on 
the Facebook page of the Young Demo-
cratic Socialists of America at UF –– is 
a conversation between Alfredo Ortiz, 
Progressive Party’s Student Body presi-
dential candidate and Nikolas Bindi, Pro-
gressive Party’s former vice-presidential 
candidate. In the recording, Ortiz said 
that “gender dysphoria is a psychologi-
cal illness, and therefore it is bad.”
In the recording, Ortiz continued, 
“There is a difference between wanting 
to appear to be a woman for aesthetic 
purposes versus believing you are a 
woman when you’re not. That is my 
only right-wing position.”  
Both Ortiz and Bindi admitted to The 
Alligator that they were in the record-
ing, said that it was taken out of context 
and said it was recorded without their 
knowledge. Ortiz told The Alligator in a 
phone interview Thursday evening that 
he intends to announce his resignation 
in the future as a “peaceful transition of 
power.” 
“Even if this is completely out of 
context, it is 100 percent illegal...it’s 
still comments that hurt individuals, 
and there probably should be an apol-
ogy from him [Ortiz], due to those com-
ments,” Bindi said in a phone interview 
to The Alligator Thursday evening. “It 
might not make the situation right, but it 
will be the ﬁ  rst step.”Progressive Party 
candidates resign 
SEE SG, PAGE 6SEE BLUE LIGHTS,  PAGE 6Campus blue lights not used for emergencies often
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
HEAR YE, HEAR YE!
Calls resulted in 14 police reports in
the past two yearsT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  72° LOW  53°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.FRIDAY
The Forum Single Release Show 
Where: The High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave.
When: 8 p.m.
What: Gainesville band The 
Forum will put on a single re-
lease show at High Dive with 
special guests Glass House 
Point and Causa. The Forum 
are a synth-based alt-rock and 
indie-pop band that came to-
gether through a Craigslist ad in 
2016. Since then, the band has 
played numerous shows around 
Gainesville and released two 
EPs. Tickets are $8 presale and 
$10 at the door. The show is 18 
or older unless accompanied by 
a parent or guardian. There will 
be a $3 fee charged for anyone 
21 and under.
SATURDAY
TEDxUFSalon: Our Digital 
Conscience 
Where: Flow Space, located at 
117 NW 16th Ave
When: 8:30 a.m.-2 p.m.
What: The final event of the 
2020 TEDxUFSalon series fo-
cuses on technology and the 
humanity behind it. Admission 
is free.
Super Sealant Saturday at the 
UF College of Dentistry 
Where: College of Dentistry, lo-
cated at 1395 Center Drive 
When: 2-5 p.m.
What: The UF College of 
Dentistry's sixth annual Super 
Sealant Saturday offers free pre-
ventive dental care for kids ages 
six to 17. Activities at the event 
include a free dental exam and 
sealants, a free goodie bag and 
fun activities. Raffles and prizes 
will also feature in the event. 
Walk-ins are welcome, but it is 
recommended participants sign 
up for an appointment at http://
bit.do/UFSuperSealant or call at 
(352) 273-6811The Original Gainesville Food 
Truck Rally
Where: High Dive, located at 
210 SW 2nd Ave. 
When: 5-11 p.m.
What: The seventh anniversary 
of the Original Gainesville Food 
Truck Rally will feature live 
music inside High Dive from 
artists such as The Medicine 
Show, Twin Suns, Cory Bowlin 
and more. Participating vendors 
include Arepa Burger, Charlie’s 
Snow Shack, Lulu’s Gelato, Off 
the Griddle and many more. 
The event will raise money for 
the UF Mobile Outreach Clinic. 
Vegan and vegetarian options 
will be available. The event is 
free. Some vendors accept card, 
but some only take cash.
P.K Yonge Boys Basketball 
Alumni Day
When: 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Where: P.K Yonge Developmental 
Research School, located at 1080 
SW 11th St.
What: P.K Yonge's Boys 
Basketball Alumni Day will fea-
ture a basketball game, lunch 
and special dedication in honor 
of P.K Yonge alumni. Tip-off is 
at 11 a.m. 
SNCBA Florida Cannabis 
Symposium 
Where: UF Levin College of Law, 
located at 309 Village Drive
When: 12-4 p.m.
What: The Student National 
Cannabis Bar Association at UF 
Law hosts their inaugural Florida 
Cannabis Symposium, where 
SNCBA will teach attendants 
about cannabis laws and attorney 
life as well as connect cannabis 
businesses and attorneys through 
networking opportunities. Florida 
Director of Cannabis Holly Bell 
will speak at the event. The event 
will offer up to 6 CLE credits for 
paying attendees. Lunch will be 
provided. Tickets are $35. Vietnam Veteran Tribute
Where: Veteran’s Memorial 
Park, located at 7400 SW 41 
Place
When: 11 a.m.-3 p.m.
What: Alachua County Veteran 
Services and the North Florida/
South Georgia Veterans Health 
System partner up to honor 
Vietnam Veterans. The event 
will include a tribute ride 
from the VA Medical Center 
on Archer Road to Kanapaha 
Veterans Memorial Park. The 
Memorial Park will feature mili-
tary displays, Vietnam Veteran 
exhibits and a brief formal 
program, among other things. 
Admission is free. Volunteers 
are needed. If you would like to 
volunteer, contact Kim Davis at 
KDavis@alachuacounty.us or 
call (352)-264-6740.
February Art Pop
Where: 4989 NW 40th Place
When: 11 a.m.-3 p.m.
What: One Love Cafe will host 
its monthly art pop-up festival 
with live music, food, drinks, 
a farmer’s market, flowers, arts 
and crafts. Richy Stano will 
perform live music. The cafe is 
asking interested participants to 
bring lawn chairs, towels and 
blankets. 
Men’s Basketball Watch Party
Where: Gator's Dockside, lo-
cated at 3842 W Newberry Road
When: 8:30-11:30 p.m.
What: Gator's Dockside hosts 
a watch party for the UF men’s 
basketball game against the 
Vanderbilt Commodores. Watch 
the game on Dockside’s many 
TVs and order from their menu 
while you’re there. The event is 
presented by UFAA Titletown 
Gator Club. Registration is free 
of charge.
TUESDAY
RTS Appreciation Day
When: 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Where: Turlington Plaza
What: The Hispanic Student 
Association, the Asian American 
Student Union, the Women’s 
Student Association and Islam 
on Campus will host a day to 
express appreciation for RTS 
bus drivers. Participants can 
write an appreciation note to 
gift drivers. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 53
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Emily LaneMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Lily StricklandEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoSHE SUFFERED SEVERE SPINE 
AND BRAIN INJURIES
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student has died after being struck by a 
vehicle in East Gainesville Monday evening and 
spending almost two days in critical condition. 
Denise Grifﬁ  ths, a 21-year-old UF English lan-
guage and literature senior, was walking onto a 
crosswalk on 2500 E University Ave. when she 
was hit by a vehicle at 8:16 p.m., said Sgt. Mi-
chael West of the Gainesville Police Department.
Grifﬁ  ths was transported to UF Health Shands 
Hospital in critical condition after the incident. 
According to a Facebook post from Gatorship, 
a social justice education program in UF’s Mul-
ticultural and Diversity Affairs department, she 
suffered “severe injuries to her spine and brain.”
A GoFundMe page was created to help pro-
vide ﬁ  nancial assistance to her family, according 
to the page’s description. As of Thursday eve-
ning, the organizer has raised more than $19,000 
of a $15,000 goal. 
Grifﬁ  ths was on her way home from school when she was hit, according to the fundraiser 
page.
Nearly two years ago, UF student Karan Khul-
lar was killed at 22 after being hit by a drunk driv-
er in front of Campus Club Apartments. In 2016, 
another student, Abigail Dougherty, was struck 
and killed by a garbage truck while crossing West 
University Avenue on her bike. She died just six 
days before her 21st birthday. 
Grifﬁ  ths was membership co-director of the 
UF chapter of community service organization 
SISTUHS Inc, an assistant director of Gatorship, 
a avid member of UF’s Black Student Union, for-
mer President of Jamaican American Student As-
sociation and a UF resident assistant, according 
to the page. 
Gatorship posted the following on its Face-
book page Wednesday evening:
“It is with heavy hearts that we announce 
that Denise Grifﬁ  ths has passed away,” the post 
read. “As a cherished member of this team and 
the wider UF and Gainesville community, we are 
incredibly heartbroken by this news.”
Brittany Bridges remembers Grifﬁ  ths as some-
one who made sure she did everything with love. 
Bridges, a 21-year-old Gatorship director and 
UF psychology and anthropology senior, met Grifﬁ  ths about a year ago during the Gatorship 
application process. She recalls being drawn to 
her energetic personality as soon as they met. 
 “She always had an infectious laugh,” Bridg-
es said, “So it was pretty fun to be around her 
from day one.”
Through Gatorship, Grifﬁ  ths was able to 
share her passion of helping marginalized com-
munities, speciﬁ  cally the black community. Her 
position within the program specialized in race, 
Bridges said. 
She said Grifﬁ  ths loved her family deeply and 
always talked about them, especially her mother 
and grandmother.
“Love for her was a verb,” Bridges said.
As of Tuesday night, West couldn’t conﬁ  rm 
if the crosswalk signal for pedestrian crossing 
was on when Grifﬁ  ths was struck. He believes 
Grifﬁ  ths was alone while crossing the street Mon-
day.
He was unable to provide any information 
about the driver involved in the incident or the 
type of vehicle that struck Grifﬁ  ths. 
An ongoing investigation of the incident is be-
ing conducted by Sgt. Summer Kerkau, a GPD 
trafﬁ  c homicide investigator, West said.
“One thing I think people should know about Denise is how much love she had for everyone 
she met,” Bridges said. “She just had so much 
love for everyone, even people she just met.”
@SLagmis
slagmis@alligator.org  FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
FREE Relationship Workshop s
Come join our FREE, FUN relationship -strengthening 
workshop swhere University of Florida train ed instructor s
will share effective and proven skills to increase positive 
communication, manage stress, set financial goals, deal 
with differences, and maintain a happy and healthy 
friendship bond. Workshops will be held once a week for 
5 weeks on the following dates: 
Option 1 : Mon., Feb. 10, 17, 24, Mar. 2, 9 ; 6:00-8:30 pm
Option 2 : Tue., Feb. 11, 18, 25, Mar. 3, 10 ; 6:00-8:30 pm
Option 3: Wed ., Feb. 12, 19, 26, Mar. 4, 11 ; 6:15 -8:45 pm
Option 4: Thur .,Feb 13, 20, 27, Mar. 5, 12 ; 6:00-8:30 pm
Option 5: Sat.,Feb 15, 22, 29, Mar . 7, 14; 10 am-12:30 pm
AFREE light MEAL will be served at each class and y ou 
may a lso be eligible for GIFT CARDS. PARKING is FREE.
PRE-REGISTRATION is REQUIRED. TO REGISTER go to 
https://smartcouples.ifas.ufl.edu/classes/alachua or 
contact Christina at 352 -273-3507 or ccollingwood@ufl.edu.
Funding for this project is provided by the United States Department Health and Human 
Services, Administration for Children and Families, Grant: #90 FM0079 . These services are 
available to all eligible Persons, regardless of race, gender, age, disability or religion.FREE Relationship Workshop s
Come join our FREE, FUN relationship -strengthening 
workshop swhere University of Florida train ed instructor s
will teach effective and proven skills to increase positive 
communication, manage stress, set financial goals, deal 
with differences, and maintain a happy and healthy 
friendship bond. Workshops will be held once a week for 
5 weeks on the following dates: 
Option 1 : Mon., Feb. 10, 17, 24, Mar. 2, 9 ; 6:00-8:30 pm
Option 2 : Tue., Feb. 11, 18, 25, Mar. 3, 10 ; 6:00-8:30 pm
Option 3: Wed ., Feb. 12, 19, 26, Mar. 4, 11 ; 6:15 -8:45 pm
Option 4: Thur .,Feb 13, 20, 27, Mar. 5, 12 ; 6:00-8:30 pm
Option 5: Sat.,Feb 15, 22, 29, Mar . 7, 14; 10 am -12:30 pm
AFREE light MEAL will be served at each class and y ou 
may a lso be eligible for GIFT CARDS. PARKING is FREE.
PRE-REGISTRATION is REQUIRED. TO REGISTER go to 
https://smartcouples.ifas.ufl.edu/classes/alachua or 
contact Christina at 352 -273-3507 or ccollingwood@ufl.edu.
Funding for this project is provided by the United States Department Health and Human 
Services, Administration for Children and Families, Grant: #90 FM0079 . These services are 
available to all eligible Persons, regardless of race, gender, age, disability or religion.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Denise Grifﬁ  ths, a UF student, died 
Monday after she was struck by a vehicle 
in East Gainesville.
UF student dies days after being struck by vehicle 
BRITTANY WISE WILL 
HELP UF IN ITS QUEST FOR 
TOP-FIVE STATUS
By Christopher S. Cann
Alligator Staff Writer
The new UF director of commu-
nications is Brittany Wise, a former 
College of Journalism and Commu-
nications alumna.
Starting Feb. 21, she will be 
working to advance UF’s strategic 
plan with regard to communica-
tions and enhancing its national 
reputation, UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando said.
He said the job plays an integral role in manag-
ing the ﬂ  ow of 
communication 
inside and out of 
the university.
Orlando has 
known Wise 
since she was 
a writer at The 
Alligator and 
vouched for her ability. 
“I am very happy to have Brit-
tany,” he said. “She has always 
been easy to work with, reliable 
and she will make a great addition 
to the staff.” 
Orlando said while her job does 
not directly affect students, she 
may have an indirect effect, which can manifest in wider recognition 
that might make UF diplomas more 
valuable. 
The expected salary for the di-
rector of communications position 
is between $90,000 and $103,000, 
according to the position’s Linke-
dIn job description.
UF has been without a full-time 
director of communications since 
April 2019, when former director 
Margot Winick resigned. Orlando 
has been serving as the interim di-
rector and said he is delighted to 
have someone taking up the posi-
tion full-time again.
Wise received a bachelor’s in 
journalism from UF in 2007 and 
then a master’s in international communications in 2010. 
Previously, she reported for 
the Tampa Bay Times and Miami 
Herald covering Tallahassee poli-
tics. She started a bureau in South 
Florida for Health News Florida; re-
ported on the European Union for 
Europolitics, a bilingual business 
newspaper located in Brussels; and 
worked at the State University Sys-
tem of Florida Board of Directors as 
its communications director.
Wise is happy to be back at the 
University where everything start-
ed. 
“My parents both attended UF, 
so I’ve been a Gator my entire life,” 
she said, “It will deﬁ  nitely be a 
homecoming.” She says there is a lot about UF 
that makes it an asset to the state, 
country and globe, and her job will 
be focused on telling that story.
Wise and Orlando both stated 
top-ﬁ  ve status as a major goal for 
UF, and Wise is tasked with help-
ing achieve this goal. 
“Now is an exciting time to be 
joining UF because of the universi-
ty’s momentum in pushing toward 
that top-ﬁ  ve status,” Wise said. 
“I’m thrilled for this opportunity to 
play a role in helping us get there.”
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgCJC alumna is new UF director of communications
Wise
4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020
Jewish
UF Hillel 
All are welcome!
Reform & Conservative Friday 
Evening Services: 6pm
Free Shabbat Dinner: 7 pm
Join us for services, 
dinner, or both
2020 W. University Ave.
ufhillel.org
@UFHillel
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Presbyterian
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship: 8:30 & 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after 
Sunday worship
College Fellowship: Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, Bible 
study and recreation.
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.org
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482
THIS IS THE SECOND YEAR 
OF THE 
17-DAY CELEBRATION 
By Maria Forero
Alligator Contributing Writer
As the second anniversary of a 
shooting at Marjory Stoneman Doug-
las High School approaches on Feb. 
14, a UF student and MSD alumna 
has come up with more ways to re-
member those who were killed.
Elizabeth Stout, a 20-year-old UF 
political science sophomore, is con-
tinuing her social media campaign 
called the 17-Day Celebration this 
year. The campaign honors each of 
those who died by asking people to take part in an activity that the per-
son loved — and Stout, who was 
the former March For Our Lives 
Gainesville president, has reintro-
duced the concept by making a new 
list of activities for 2020.
On Tuesday, participants did 
outdoor activities to honor Alyssa 
Alhadeff, who played soccer. On 
Wednesday, they jogged for Scott 
Beigel, a teacher and cross country 
coach who provided shelter for stu-
dents during the shooting.
On Thursday they watched space 
movies for Martin Duque Anguiano, 
a “Star Wars” fan, and on Friday, 
they will eat Oreos for Nicholas 
“Nick” Dworet.
The activities continue until Feb. 
14, when participants are told to 
spend the day with loved ones, Stout said. 
She said she thinks about Carmen 
Schentrup, a victim of the shooting, 
every day. Stout was in a psychol-
ogy classroom with Schentrup when 
the shooter entered. 
“I hope for people to get out of 
this movement that even in the 
darkest of times and a lot of times 
where people feel hopeless, you can 
make something positive out of a 
negative situation,” she said. 
The campaign post currently has 
more than 300 likes on Instagram 
and more than 1,000 shares on Face-
book. 
Stout created the celebration in 
2019 as the ﬁ  rst anniversary of the 
shooting in Parkland approached 
after her therapist suggested making 
something positive out of the situa-tion, she said. 
“I decided that every single day, 
one person should be honored by 
remembering them for who they 
were and what they liked to do,” 
she added.
Stout was editor-in-chief of the 
Aerie yearbook at the high school 
in 2018, so she used the records to 
identify special activities the victims 
enjoyed. She also searched the in-
ternet for their likes, asked family 
members about their habits and re-
membered conversations she heard 
at funerals, she said. 
Araceli Pillaca-Gutierrez, a 
22-year-old UF graduate and MSD 
alumna, went on an hour-long run 
with her dogs Messi and Princesa to 
honor Alhadeff on Tuesday. She’s 
encouraging others around her to participate as well, she said. 
“We can’t forget them — and 
by doing their favorite things for 17 
days, we’re honoring and remem-
bering them since they no longer 
can do those things themselves,” 
she said. 
But Stout honors and remembers 
the victims for more than just the 17 
days. She carries them around her 
neck in a necklace with the words 
“ﬂ  y high” etched onto the surface. It 
represents her high school mascot, 
an eagle.
Some MSD survivors struggle 
to open up to their peers, as oth-
ers do not understand the trauma 
they endured, Stout said. Her advice 
to MSD students at UF is to talk to 
people who can relate to them and 
to stay in touch with one another.UF student continues campaign to honor MSD shooting victims
By Maria Cheng and 
Jamey Keaten
Associated Press
GENEVA (AP) — The World Health Organi-
zation declared the outbreak sparked by a new 
virus in China that has spread to more than a 
dozen countries as a global emergency Thurs-
day after the number of cases spiked more than 
tenfold in a week. 
The U.N. health agency deﬁ  nes an interna-
tional emergency as an “extraordinary event” 
that constitutes a risk to other countries and 
requires a coordinated international response. 
China ﬁ  rst informed WHO about cases of 
the new virus in late December. To date, China 
has reported more than 7,800 cases, including 
170 deaths. Eighteen other countries have since 
reported cases, as scientists race to understand 
how exactly the virus is spreading and how se-
vere it is. 
Experts say there is signiﬁ  cant evidence 
the virus is spreading among people in China 
and have noted with concern instances in 
other countries — including the United States, 
France, Japan, Germany, Canada, South Korea 
and Vietnam — where there have also been iso-
lated cases of human-to-human transmission. Speaking to reporters in Geneva, WHO di-
rector-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus 
noted the worrisome spread of the virus be-
tween people outside China. 
“The main reason for this declaration is not 
because of what is happening in China but be-
cause of what is happening in other countries,” 
he said. “Our greatest concern is the potential 
for this virus to spread to countries with weaker 
health systems which are ill-prepared to deal 
with it.”
“This declaration is not a vote of non-con-
ﬁ  dence in China,” he said. “On the contrary, 
WHO continues to have the conﬁ  dence in Chi-
na’s capacity to control the outbreak.”
A declaration of a global emergency typi-
cally brings greater money and resources, but 
may also prompt nervous governments to re-
strict travel and trade to affected countries. The 
announcement also imposes more disease re-
porting requirements on countries. 
In the wake of numerous airlines cancel 
ing ﬂ  ights to China and businesses including 
Starbucks and McDonald’s temporarily closing 
hundreds of shops, Tedros said WHO was not 
recommending limiting travel or trade to China.
“There is no reason for measures that un-
necessarily interfere with international travel 
and trade,” he said. He added that Chinese President Xi Jinping had committed to help 
stop the spread of the virus beyond its borders.
“During my discussion with the president 
and other ofﬁ  cials, they’re willing to support 
countries with weaker health systems with 
whatever is possible,” Tedros said. 
On Thursday, France conﬁ  rmed that a doc-
tor who was in contact with a patient with the 
new virus later became infected himself. The 
doctor is now being treated in an isolated room 
at a Paris hospital. Outbreak specialists worry 
that the spread of new viruses from patients to 
health workers can signal the virus is becoming 
adapted to human transmission.
China raised the death toll to 170 on Thurs-
day and more countries reported infections, 
including some spread locally, as foreign evac-
uees from China’s worst-hit region returned 
home to medical tests and even isolation.
Russia announced it was closing its 2,600-
mile border with China, joining Mongolia and 
North Korea in barring crossings to guard 
against a new viral outbreak. It had been de 
facto closed because of the Lunar New Year 
holiday, but Russian authorities said the clo-
sure would be extended until March 1.
Meanwhile, the United States and South Ko-
rea conﬁ  rmed their ﬁ  rst cases of person-to-per-
son spread of the virus. The man in the U.S. is married to a 60-year-old Chicago woman who 
got sick from the virus after she returned from 
a trip to Wuhan, the Chinese city that is the 
epicenter of the outbreak. 
The case in South Korea was a 56-year-old 
man who had contact with a patient who was 
diagnosed with the new virus earlier. 
Although scientists expect to see limited 
transmission of the virus between people with 
close contact, like within families, the instances 
of spread to people who may have had less ex-
posure to the virus in Japan and Germany is 
worrying. 
In Japan, a man in his 60s caught the vi-
rus after working as a bus driver for two tour 
groups from Wuhan. In Germany, a man in 
his 30s was sickened after a Chinese colleague 
from Shanghai, whose parents had recently vis-
ited from Wuhan, came to his ofﬁ  ce for a busi-
ness meeting. Four other workers later became 
infected. The woman had shown no symptoms 
of the virus until her ﬂ  ight back to China.
“That’s the kind of transmission chain that 
we don’t want to see,” said Marion Koopmans, 
an infectious diseases specialist at Erasmus Uni-
versity Medical Center in the Netherlands and a 
member of WHO’s emergency committee. UN agency declares global emergency over virus from ChinaFRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
When Jordan Grana heard about 
the recent changes in U.S. immigra-
tion policy, he immediately worried 
about his cousins. 
The 27-year-old UF ﬁ  rst-year law 
student’s cousins entered the U.S. 
from Cuba roughly two years ago 
on work visas. But because of their 
reliance on welfare to afford food 
and rent, their path to citizenship 
could be more difﬁ  cult than it has been in the past.
On Monday, the U.S. Supreme 
Court approved the Trump admin-
istration’s plan to increasingly deny 
permanent resident status to immi-
grants who would depend on public 
assistance. The rule only applied 
to immigrants who required mon-
etary assistance but has now been 
expanded to immigrants who need 
non-cash beneﬁ  ts such as Medicare.
“These changes will directly hurt 
them [my cousins] and probably 
make the already very difﬁ  cult and very stringent process to get a green 
card hard for them,” Grana said.
Grana, the son of Cuban immi-
grants, said he wouldn’t be in the 
U.S. if it wasn’t for the relatively 
easy path to citizenship granted to 
Cubans during Fidel Castro’s dicta-
torship.
“I just don’t understand what 
kind of logical basis there could be 
for enforcing this kind of rule,” he 
said.
Philip Smith, on the other hand, 
views the regulation as beneﬁ  cial to the American people.  
The 22-year-old UF agricultural 
operations management senior said 
he believes the U.S. should invite 
high-skilled immigrants to ﬁ  ll open 
positions so employees and busi-
nesses can proﬁ  t.
“It’s important to make sure that 
people who are coming into this 
country aren’t going to just fall back 
on our programs to sustain them,” 
Smith said.
Valentina Franco, a 23-year-old 
UF second-year law student and 
president of the UF Immigration 
Law Association, believes the rule 
will shut out refugees from Ven-
ezuela and Central America while 
instilling fear in immigrants already 
in the country.“The most serious implication 
of this is that it misinforms people, 
and people are not going to seek the 
help they are entitled to,” she said.
Franco, who immigrated with 
her family from Colombia when she 
was young, said she found great 
pride in becoming a naturalized citi-
zen.
She said only wanting “the best 
and the brightest” is not the pur-
pose of immigration.
“It goes directly against the en-
tire institution of giving people asy-
lum and giving people an American 
dream,” Franco said.
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgTHE TERM LASTS
 FOR TWO YEARS
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
After a ﬁ  ve-month search, 
Gainesville now has an ofﬁ  cial 
live-in poet.
The Gainesville City Com-
mission selected 58-year-old E. 
Stanley Richardson as the city’s 
ﬁ  rst poet laureate, a position 
meant to teach the commu-
nity about writing and address 
social issues, during a meeting 
Jan. 14. Richardson’s term lasts 
for two years, and he is given 
an annual $2,000 honorarium, 
according to the commission. 
Richardson specializes in 
topics like nature, farming, jazz 
and blues and social justice, he 
said. 
“I’m still a little bit shocked,” 
he said. “It hasn’t really set in 
yet. I am just happy the county 
is recognizing the literary arts in 
making an addition this way.”
Commissioner Robert 
Hutchinson, who has served 
with the county for three terms, originally pitched the idea of 
Gainesville having a poet lau-
reate. He said the process of 
choosing who it would be was 
one of the toughest choices the 
commission has ever made.
“We do a lot for the perform-
ing arts and digital arts, but the 
written arts tend not to have too 
much attention in government 
operations,” Hutchinson said. 
“I hoped for somebody just like 
Mr. Richardson who would be 
willing to confront the most 
difﬁ  cult questions that we deal 
with as a society.”
One of Richardson’s ﬁ  rst 
assignments as poet laureate 
is to craft a poem for a memo-
rial service on Feb. 7 dedicated 
to lynching victims in Alachua 
County. More than 40 people 
were lynched from 1867 to 
1926, according to the Alachua 
County Historical Commission.  
Richardson has also in-
volved himself in many proj-
ects to enhance youth poetry, 
particularly ARTSPEAKS, an 
organization he founded. 
ARTSPEAKS has hosted an 
annual poetry event, “Coura-geous Young 
Voices”, for 
the past six 
years as a 
way for the 
youth to 
speak out 
through their 
writing, he 
said. In the past, students have 
written about climate change, 
gun rights and other social 
movements. The free event is 
open to the public and will be 
held March 8 at The Historic 
Thomas Center.  
Hutchinson said he hopes 
Richardson will encourage oth-
ers to write poetry and discuss 
topics that need to be spoken 
about. 
“We’re in difﬁ  cult times 
right now in general,” he said. 
“So I think he’s the right poet 
for our time because he will 
speak truth to power and he 
will say what needs to be said.”
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgIT WILL ALSO APPL Y TO 
RENAME A ROAD AFTER 
JACKSON SASSER AND HIS 
WIFE, LAYNE
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College’s president retires on 
Friday, but his name isn’t leaving campus 
anytime soon. 
The Santa Fe Board of Trustees renamed 
the ﬁ  ne arts hall to the Jackson N. Sasser 
Fine Arts Hall on Jan. 21 to honor the retir-
ing president. The college will also apply 
with the county to rename Center Road to 
Sasser Layne after his wife and last name, 
and an artist will erect a life-size sculpture 
of Sasser in front of the ﬁ  ne arts hall next 
year, said Blake Fletcher, the Board of 
Trustees Chairman.
Fletcher said the board couldn’t think of 
a more symbolic place on campus to name 
after Sasser, who majored in music at Jack-
sonville State University in 1972. 
“Dr. Sasser has touched hundreds of 
thousands of lives and made them better 
across our community,” he said. “A place 
like the ﬁ  ne arts hall would bear his name 
because it’s a place where people from all 
walks of life come together and meet for a 
wide range of events.” The Santa Fe Fine Arts Department 
Chair Alora Haynes said she knew she was 
going to like Sasser from the day she met 
him due to his musical background. Sasser 
was quick to tell her how much he appreci-
ated the arts, she said. 
“He believed in our efforts and he be-
lieved that we could produce a very high 
level of integrity and programming,” 
Haynes said. 
The original ﬁ  ne arts building was not 
up to par with the talent that Haynes be-
lieved the students could excel to. When 
she said she told Sasser about the lack of 
space the building provided, he helped 
raise $17.5 million for a new theater for the 
college in the mid-2010s.
“He put a lot of effort into exposing that 
there were people here that were working 
above and beyond what’s normal for a two-
year college, and we’re all very grateful for 
that,” she said.
All four past presidents of Santa Fe now 
have buildings named after them — includ-
ing the Lawrence Tyree Library, Alan Rob-
ertson Administration Building, and the 
Joseph Fordyce Financial Aid and Student 
Services Building.
Santa Fe’s new president, Paul Broadie 
II, will assume his role starting Saturday.
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.org
UF students react to Trump’s wealth test for immigrants  City selects ﬁ  rst poet laureate SFC renames hall after president
Richardson
Changes will deny green cards for 
immigrants using public assistance6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020
“The misinformation is that I’m transphobic,” Ortiz said. 
“Because I’m not transphobic...I’m saying that there is trans-
phobic language in the audio and the transcript, but there is a 
reason for it. What I was doing at that time was role-playing, 
playing Devil’s advocate, so that we could come up with bet-
ter arguments against people who would be using transpho-
bic language against our campaign.”
Progressive released their platform Jan. 24, advocating 
for the LGBTQ+ and multicultural organizations. Some of 
the party’s platform points included establishing training for 
university health care professionals to ensure they are well-
versed in LGBTQ+ issues; combating class, race and gender 
inequality; and adding unisex bathrooms with menstrual hy-
giene products and contraceptives. 
About 20 students were supposed to have run with Pro-
gressive as senators representing the university’s colleges in 
the Spring election, scheduled to take place Feb. 18 and 19. 
Along with the executive candidates, almost all of the Senate 
candidates decided to withdraw, said Branden Reis, who was supposed to run as a Progressive candidate for the UF College 
of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
Ortiz announced his intention to start Progressive –– the 
third party vying for a win in these Spring elections –– in a 
December SG Senate meeting. The campaign season officially 
started Jan. 21.
Ortiz was a leader in advocating for blue lights on UF’s 
Fraternity Drive. Bindi is the former deputy minority party 
leader for Inspire Party. 
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orghow many were emergency reports. How-
ever, only incidents brought to the atten-
tion of the department that require police 
investigation will lead to a police report, 
he added. 
Requests for directions and information 
are common, Barber said. False or acci-
dental blue light calls account for a small 
percentage of activations.
“Many blue light activations do not 
meet criteria for a police report,” Barber 
said. “However, the blue light phone sys-
tem can be used by community members 
who have law enforcement related ques-
tions or would like to report suspicious 
activity.”
UPD does not believe that the blue light 
phones to be installed on Fraternity Drive 
will lead to an increased number of police 
reports, Barber said. The number of police 
reports made from blue light activations 
has remained stable for the last few years.
Blue light calls for emergency situations 
are rare at other universities, too The Alligator requested blue light call 
logs for several other Florida universities 
through public records, which show simi-
lar percentages of emergencies and police 
reports.
From 2017 to 2019, the University of 
South Florida reported zero emergencies 
and that all calls through the system were 
hang-ups. One percent of blue light acti-
vations at the University of West Florida 
resulted in a police report during the same 
period. 
The University of Central Florida re-
ported that only around six percent of its 
blue light calls resulted in police assis-
tance from 2015 to 2019 — vehicle assis-
tance was the most common request. Flor-
ida State University does not keep a record 
of its blue light calls. Florida International 
University did not respond to a request for 
blue light activation records filed on Nov. 
18.
Some universities such as the Univer-
sity of Colorado Boulder have decided to 
get rid of their blue lights and move com-
pletely to mobile safety apps, said Melissa 
Zak, former University of Colorado Police 
Chief. 
The University of Georgia also removed 
its blue lights because students were not 
using the phones for emergencies, accord-
ing to the UGA Police Department.
But despite the numbers, UF isn’t keen 
on getting rid of its blue lights soon. 
Some believe blue lights are necessary 
even in an age of cell phones 
UPD believes that blue lights still play a 
key role in a comprehensive campus safety 
plan, Barber said. 
Blue light phones can work together 
with other tools like UF’s GATORSAFE app 
and provide students with another way to 
contact law enforcement in an emergency, 
he said. GATORSAFE currently allows stu-
dents to text, send videos and call UPD 
from their smartphone.
“The Blue Light Phone System is a vital 
part of our overall safety plan and there 
are no plans to remove them,” Barber 
wrote. “We have continued to require that 
the BLPS is included with new buildings 
being constructed on campus and see no 
need to change that mandate at this time.”“Fourteen police reports is still signifi-
cant,” Mark Merwitzer, co-organizer of the 
Sept. 17 protest to bring blue lights to Fra-
ternity Drive, said. “What is missing from 
the numbers are the deterrence aspects of 
the lights.”
Although the primary purpose of blue 
light phones is to help the public reach 
UPD’s dispatch center in an emergency, 
UPD agrees that they have a deterrence 
effect, Barber said. Offenders may be less 
likely to commit crimes if they believe that 
an activated blue light will lead to an im-
mediate police response
“I’d be shocked if UPD invested money 
in putting this up and supported the pro-
test if they didn’t believe that blue lights 
on campus would do some good,” Merwit-
zer added. 
However, some students don’t believe 
blue lights belong on campus anymore. 
Christopher Duncan, a 19-year-old UF 
biology sophomore, said that the lights are outdated because most people can contact 
emergency services much faster through 
their cell phones. 
“It seemed to me that most of the pro-
testers wanted to lash out against the 
school and against the frats rather than 
care about the presence or absence of blue 
lights,” he said.
SG,  from pg. 1BLUE LIGHTS,  from pg. 1
Many resigned in hours2.7 percent resulted in police report
Courtesy to the Alligator
There are more than 330 blue light phones that are active on campus. Each phone 
costs $15,000-$20,000. 
Statistics about blue lights 
at UF 
between 2017 and 2019:
• More than 330 blue lights on UF 
Campus
• Between Jan. 1 2017 and Jan. 1 
2019 there were 508 blue light 
activations
• 14 out of 508 activations 
resulted in a police report
• Statistics about blue lights at 
different universities:
• The University of South Florida 
reported zero emergencies 
• The University of Central Florida 
reported that only 6 percent of 
its blue light calls resulted in 
police assistance from 2015 to 
2019Resources for sexual assault 
victims in Alachua County:
Alachua County Victim Services 
and Rape Crisis Center
24 Hour Sexual Assault 
Helpline: 352-264-6760
Main Office at 218 SE 24th St.
 Resources for transgender students:
• The Trevor Project: TrevorLifeline - 1-866-488-
7386. Students can also chat online or text 
START to 678678.
• U Matter We Care: 352-294-CARE (2273), 
umatter@ufl.edu
• Lambda Legal: A 501 (c)(3) nonprofit can be 
reached at lambdalegal.org Courtesy to The Alligator
Alfredo Ortiz, a founder of the Progressive Party. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
BOTH ARE PART OF THE 
BUILDING’S $28 MILLION 
RENOVATIONS 
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
A food market and Starbucks 
are opening up Monday in UF’s 
Norman Hall as part of the 
building’s ongoing renovations.
No food service was previ-
ously available in Norman Hall 
before the construction of Star-
bucks and The Market, which is 
very similar to a P.O.D Market, 
said Tom Dana, UF’s College 
of Education Senior Associate 
Dean of Academic Affairs.
The Market and Starbucks 
are the newest additions in a 
set of renovations taking place 
at Norman Hall and the Educa-tion Library, Dana said. The to-
tal renovations, which started in 
May 2018 and are expected to 
be completed in April, cost $28 
million. 
“The spaces were outdated 
and inadequate for students 
and faculty,” Dana wrote in 
an email. “Not much was up-
dated since 1959 leaving spaces 
less than ideal for teaching and 
learning by college students.”
Previous renovations in the 
last two years include new air 
conditioning, plumbing, bath-
rooms and comfortable study 
areas, Dana wrote. There are 
also plans to renovate research 
labs in Norman Hall within the 
next year. 
But there are limitations on 
how much can change. Norman 
Hall, which was built in the ear-ly 1930s, is listed on the Nation-
al Register of Historic Places. 
This designation protects iconic 
features like brickwork and ar-
chitectural embellishments from 
being destroyed, Dana said. 
Around 2,500 students walk 
through Norman Hall a day, 
Dana said. Courtney Spillman, a 
23-year-old first-year UF gradu-
ate student in science education, 
is one of those students. She has 
two classes that take place in 
Norman Hall and said she great-
ly appreciates the upgrades.
“I think it’s really nice for the 
education students to not have 
to cross the street to be able to 
get food and coffee,” Spillman 
said. “It’s really convenient.”
ainzinna@alligator.orgNew food market and Starbucks to open in Norman Hall Monday 
THE FAIR HAS BEEN RUNNING 
ANNUALL Y FOR 34 YEARS 
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
Ellen Kostewicz is a realtor and mother of 
two. But at Gainesville’s Hoggetowne Medi-
eval Faire, she’s Lady Eleanor — a Victorian-
era vampire in a hoop dress made of black 
silk and intricate lace. 
Kostewicz, 53, said she and her family 
have attended the fair for 11 years, but she 
did not dress up until recently. Last year she 
was a jester. Next year she wants to be a 
healing witch. 
“I used to dress my children and my hus-
band every year, and I’d make their cos-
tumes,” she said. “They were like, ‘Mommy, 
why don’t you dress up too?’ And I’m like, 
‘You know, why not?’” 
Kostewicz was one of thousands of peo-
ple who were dressed up like kings, queens, 
elves, orcs and magicians at the seven-day 
Hoggetowne Medieval Faire, which runs from 
Jan. 18 to Feb. 2 on weekends and one Fri-
day. 
This year is the event’s 34th anniversary 
and the first year Gainesville’s Parks, Recre-
ation and Cultural Affairs Department added 
a third weekend to help with overcrowding. 
Over 6,000 people attend per day, and about 
40,000 will likely attend before the fair is 
over, event coordinator Sunshine Andrei said.
All of it cost $400,000, which comes from 
Hoggetowne ticket sales and participant fees, 
Andrei added. 
Guests roamed around a clearing in the 
woods near the Gainesville Regional Airport 
to visit the tents of more than 160 merchants 
and craftsmen selling everything from glass 
figures to swords and pop-up shops offering 
fried pickles, mini doughnuts and other fair 
staples. 
Other events were set up near the tents, 
including horseback jousting and “battle 
chess,” a life-sized game of chess where peo-
ple act as the pieces and play-fight to claim 
spots. 
Entertainers wandered the streets of 
Hoggetowne, some on stilts and others on 
foot. George O’Brien walked around in boots and draping pants as he controlled a fluffy 
brown marionette puppet with a long neck, 
two feet, and an oval head.  
The marionette was named Treeleg, a 
950-year-old dog from Venus, O’Brien, 51, 
explained. Its lower jaw was made of a coco-
nut shell, its golden eyes were harvested from 
a teddy bear and its circular feet were carved 
out of cypress wood to create a clopping ef-
fect, he said.  
O’Brien co-founded Dragonbox Theatre, a 
Gainesville company that teaches people the 
art of puppetry, two years ago. This was his 
sixth year entertaining at Hoggetowne, a gig 
he enjoys because it teaches children how to 
use their imaginations, he said. 
“You get to see a lot of crafts, ancient 
crafts like puppetry,” he said. “People are so 
used to seeing computer-animated CGI, they 
forget that there was an ancient craft. This is 
thousands and thousands of years old.” 
Puppetry wasn’t the only ancient craft pre-
sented at the fair. Pieces of wood carved into 
detailed forest nymph faces sat in another 
tent, where T.J. Kleens, 44, sat behind the till 
and sketched a mountain on a piece of paper.
This was Kleens’ first time selling his 
products at Hoggetowne, but he’s been whit-
tling at wood with electric carving tools for 
seven years, he said. 
Some of Kleens’ carvings take years to 
complete — he once let crape myrtle wood 
age outside for a year and a half and brought 
it inside to dry for six months before starting 
to carve it, he said. 
“Put yourself on the clock and all you do 
is rush,” he said. “So don’t rush. Take your 
time with it. You have to enjoy the process.”
Gainesville resident Samantha Styma, 17, 
just wanted to see a medieval fair before she 
leaves for college. But she found herself ad-
miring clothing from different eras and cul-
tures that the eventgoers and entertainers 
wore and said she wants to come back. 
“I feel like this is something everyone 
should check out at least once,” Styma said. 
“It’s just a cool kind of thing to experience. 
Maybe you’ll find something you didn’t know 
you would enjoy.” 
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgGainesville medieval fair adds extra weekend due to overcrowding
Carly Blum // Courtesy to The Alligator
A fair participant dressed as a dragon wanders through the merchant tents. Carly Blum // Courtesy to The Alligator
Cody Ward, a 29-year-old actor with volunteer acting troupe Thieves Guilde, 
brandishes a sword to play-fight an opponent at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire.
Alligator Screenshot
The new additions will be located at Norman Hall, 1221 SW Fifth A ve.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
CHURCH FURNITURE-FACTORY DIRECT! 
Custom Built, pews and pulpit furniture and 
cushions for hard pews. Factory direct to 
you. Call for a quote. 1-800-231-8360. www.
pews1.com       1-31-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.
org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver-
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14
Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
Tutor-needed to help perform high energy cal-
culations for the universe. Energy of Inflation, 
Energy of Big Bang, black hole energy with a 
caveat. Grad or Dr. student with open mind. 
Contact Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-5-
20-7-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 60 y.o. MALE
Spinal Cord Injury with Quadriplegia 
Safe Central Gainesville Location 
6 AM to 10:30 AM - 12 to 16 hours weekly 
$17 to $20 hour - CNA or Equivalent
Details Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net    
2-3-20-5-141For Rent
furnished 8 Electronics 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2bd/2bth fully furnished townhouse, SW 
Gainesville, stone's throw from Haile Town 
Center, front garden, back porch face woods, 
high ceiling, utilities & wifi included, $350/
wk. No pets. Email: vchow331@yahoo.com    
2-10-20-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
answers on page 9
By David Poole
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/31/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/31/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, January 31, 2020
ACROSS
1 Really big show
6 Sharp bark
10 Software product 
with a cup-and-
saucer logo
14 Addresses
15 Maintain
16 Australian __
17 __ Marbles: 
historic sculptures
18 Serious warnings
20 Narrow range
21 Cornerstone 
phrase
22 Plunders
24 Upper-class San 
Francisco area
29 In a humiliating 
way
30 -
31 Old JFK lander
33 Takes pieces 
from?
38 Beast hunted in 
Hercules’ fourth 
labor
39 Can. sign letters
40 Hotel room 
amenity ... 
or one of the 
configurations 
that resolve four 
puzzle answers
42 Fr. title
43 Arizona city
45 Horn of Africa 
native
46 W. alliance since 
1948
47 Resident at 
Ottawa’s 24 
Sussex Drive
49 -
51 Added numbers
54 Unwitting tool
57 Little versions
59 Smoothie seed
60 “Cosmos” 
presenter
64 Baker’s tool
65 Mayberry moppet
66 1920s chief 
justice
67 Binary pronoun
68 2001 Microsoft 
debut
69 Span. titles
70 Financial guru 
Suze
DOWN
1 Cook, as bao 
buns2 Smallest 
European Union 
nation
3 Like search 
engine ranking 
systems
4 Winter luggage 
item
5 QVC sister 
station
6 Tall tales
7 Tied
8 Deceived
9 Museum with 
Goyas
10 10-Across
11 Boston Marathon 
mo.
12 Boxer’s fixer
13 “Jeopardy!” 
ques., actually
19 Timber wolf
21 Dreamboat
23 One for the 
money?
25 Center
26 Type of 
mathematical 
equivalence
27 Parent of a cria
28 Minstrel strings
31 FaceTime 
alternative
32 Disdainfully reject34 “I’ll take that  
as __”
35 Canyon edge
36 Wharton deg.
37 Latin dances
41 “Norma Rae” 
director
44 Latin trio word
48 Jazz and  
Swing
50 Artist known for 
optical illusions
52 Les __-Unis53 10-Down 
sweetener
54 Euro fractions
55 Tyler of “Criminal 
Minds”
56 Rouse
58 Tennis nickname
60 Crew chief
61 PD heads-up
62 Kia subcompact
63 Latin law
64 Dr. Seuss’  
Cindy-Lou, e.g.
By Dan Margolis
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/30/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/30/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, January 30, 2020
ACROSS
1 Healthful berry
5 Sommelier’s 
concern
9 San Antonio 
cagers
14 Bananas
15 “... the __ 
blackness of the 
floors”: Poe
16 “The Fox and 
the Grapes” 
storyteller
17 Dutch cheese
18 Way to go
19 Queen’s milieu
20 “That’s fine”
23 Get going
25 “Knives Out” 
Golden Globe 
nominee de 
Armas
26 Lansing-to-Flint 
dir.
27 “That’s all folks”
32 1960s chess 
champ Mikhail
33 Mustard family 
member
34 They’re tapped
37 Bundle
39 On the money
42 Kentucky coach 
with 876 victories
44 Foolhardy
46 __ avis
48 Mex. title
49 “That’s not the 
point”
53 Withdrawal site
56 Carnival city
57 Words before  
“so sue me”
58 “That’s rich”
63 Polynesian 
language
64 Sitar music
65 Yemen’s Gulf 
of __
68 Conclude with
69 Indicator
70 Feet-first race
71 Video chat 
choice
72 “What __ is 
new?”
73 MP3 player
DOWN
1 Cream __
2 Fish that’s salted 
and dried to 
make bacalao
3 Like Pentatonix 
numbers4 Flying insect 
with prominent 
eyespots
5 Bookish type
6 Wind up on 
stage?
7 Fly like an eagle
8 Win over
9 Hapless sort
10 Ucayali River 
country
11 Grammarian’s 
concern
12 Type type
13 Just-in-case item
21 “The Caine 
Mutiny” novelist
22 Paternity 
identifier
23 Web address 
letters
24 Atheist activist 
Madalyn
28 Deface
29 “When We Were 
Kings” boxer
30 Pola of the 
silents
31 Poetic 
contraction
35 Dressed to the 
nines
36 Wild period
38 Uncommon 
sense40 Actor Holbrook
41 Amount past 
due?
43 Ranch bud
45 Wonder Woman, 
for one
47 Plot-driving song, 
perhaps
50 Zilch
51 Rough around 
the edges
52 High-pH 
compound
53 Summits54 “__ goodness”
55 Temperamental
59 Edit for size, as a 
photo
60 Follow
61 Confident 
juggler’s props
62 Candy __
66 It may need a 
boost
67 Flanders who 
inspired the  
band Okilly 
Dokilly
01/29/20FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Watch TV, Share It, Get Paid.  Easy
Check Out This New Streaming TV Service
www.freedomtimemoney.com
2-3-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the 
classifieds to find trip arrangements or show 
off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Small country church near Gainesville is 
seeking part time worship/song leader 
for Sunday morning services. Contact D. 
Cousino 352-389-4081; email:
 dcousino1987@gmail.com.        2-3-20-5-14
Looking for students to help advocate Axe 
Payments Zero Fee Credit Card Processing 
Program
$250 per Approved Merchant
• Go to businesses of your choice, at your 
convenience
• Training provided
• Talk to business owners about our program
• Paid weekly
• Unlimited earning $$$
Sign up today to guarantee your spot at our 
upcoming orientation
Register at - www.getaxepay.com/getstarted
February 6th / Holiday Inn ballroom / 1250 
West University Avenue       2-10-20-5-14
HIRING
Housekeepers & Front Desk
for La Quinta. $10.00/hr must be reliable. 
Please call 352-204-4960    2-10-20-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.20 Events/Notices 14 Help Wanted
ScrabbleGrams  solution Hitori solution1. Name The Who guitarist who is known 
for smashing his guitars during perfor -
mances. How did that get started?
2. Why did Bob Dylan stop touring be -
tween 1966 and 1973?
3. What was Wicked Lester?
4. The Polka Tulk Blues Band ended up 
as what band?
5. Name the television show that used 
these lyrics in the theme song: "Just sit 
right back and you'll hear a tale, A tale 
of a fateful trip."1. Peter Townsend. He accidentally broke the head off a 
guitar during a show and afterward continued breaking guitars 
(albeit cheaper ones).
2. He was seriously injured in a motorcycle accident, crashing his 
Triumph Tiger 100SS. Later, however, he was quoted as saying 
he'd wanted to get out of the rat race.
3. The original name of Kiss, with a short period (1970-1971) be -
ing called Rainbow. Look for a 1972 bootleg album called "The 
Original Wicked Lester Sessions."
4. Black Sabbath.
5. "Gilligan's Island," which aired for three seasons from 1964-
67, a total of 98 episodes. The first season was in black and white. 
The storyline tells of castaways who ran aground on an island 
during a storm while on the charter boat SS Minnow.FlashBack  answers
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
1. Name The Who guitarist who 
is known for smashing his guitars 
during performances. How did that 
get started?
2. Why did Bob Dylan stop touring 
between 1966 and 1973?
3. What was Wicked Lester?
4. The Polka Tulk Blues Band ended 
up as what band?
5. Name the television show that 
used these lyrics in the theme song: 
“Just sit right back and you’ll hear a 
tale, A tale of a fateful trip.”
Answers
1. Peter Townsend. He accidentally 
broke the head off a guitar during a 
show and afterward continued break-
ing guitars (albeit cheaper ones).
2. He was seriously injured in a 
motorcycle accident, crashing his Tri-
umph Tiger 100SS. Later, however, he 
was quoted as saying he’d wanted to 
get out of the rat race.
3. The original name of Kiss, with a 
short period (1970-1971) being called 
Rainbow. Look for a 1972 bootleg 
album called “The Original Wicked 
Lester Sessions.”
4. Black Sabbath.
5. “Gilligan’s Island,” which aired 
for three seasons from 1964-67, a 
total of 98 episodes. The first season 
was in black and white. The storyline 
tells of castaways who ran aground on 
an island during a storm while on the 
charter boat SS Minnow.
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
January 27, 2020
answers below answers below
1.  Author
1.  Squirm5.  Orange ____
2.  Worship6.  Perfect
3.  Aspect7.  Bother
4.  MarinerIERRTW
IWLGEGRVEGO
IADLE
LEZIOID
ENTMEELEPERST
OAISLRANSWERS: 1A-Writer  5A-Grove  6A-Ideal  7A-Pester
1D-Wiggle  2D-Idolize  3D-Element  4D-Sailor  B-Ringo Starr1-31-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was born in Liverpool, 
England on July 7, 1940. BONUS
TWICE > TWINE > SWINE > SWING > STING > STUNGStickelers  answer
Wednesday
solution belowFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Senior 1B/C Kendyl Lindaman 
was named to the USA Softball 
T op 50 "Watch List" on 
Wednesday. She hit .350 last 
season with 15 home runs.Former Gator Callaway headed to injured reserve
Receiver Antonio Callaway of the XFL T ampa Bay Vipers will be placed 
on the injured reserved list with a lower leg injury, the team announced 
Thursday. He was at Florida from 2015-17 before a brief stint with the 
Cleveland Browns.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida’s women’s basket-
ball team had not played on 
its home court for 14 days be-
fore Thursday night’s confer-
ence showdown with LSU. 
Because the Gators held a 
7-4 record in the friendly con-
ﬁ  nes of the O’Connell Center 
compared to a 4-4 one away 
from it, the matchup had le-
gitimate upset potential for 
UF.
Though unranked, the Ti-
gers received two votes in the 
latest edition of the AP Top 25 
Poll, which meant UF had an 
opportunity to break its habit 
of succumbing to teams that 
— on paper — are better. 
Playing at home, how-
ever, did not put Florida over 
the top, as LSU defeated the 
Gators 77-68. UF has now lost ﬁ  ve consecutive games after 
11-5.
“We played well at home, 
for the most part, until the 
last quarter,” coach Cam 
Newbauer said. “We have to 
keep ﬁ  ghting and trying to get 
better. I thought we grew to-
night in some areas, but SEC 
basketball is an all-the-time 
thing.”
UF and LSU’s three-point 
shooting was the difference 
in Thursday’s contest.
The Gators went just ﬁ  ve 
of 16 from behind the arc, 
while the Tigers made eight 
of their 10 shots from down-
town. 
LSU (15-5, 5-3 SEC) had 
averaged only two three-
pointers per game, so UF fo-
cused more on protecting the 
paint. With Florida (11-10, 
2-6 SEC) clogging the lane to 
prevent easy layups, LSU’s sharpshooters camped out 
near the perimeter with pro-
ductive results. 
Tigers guard Jaelyn Rich-
ard-Harris exploited UF’s 
defensive game plan for 14 
points on 5-of-7 shooting 
from the ﬂ  oor, including a 
perfect 4 of 4 from the three-
point line. And guard Khayla 
Pointer led the way with 24 
points thanks to an 8-of-16 ef-
fort from the ﬁ  eld.
Richard-Harris’ stellar 
showing from deep came as a 
surprise to the Gators, given 
the fact that she had made 
only ﬁ  ve treys combined this 
season in the 19 games prior. 
“She did something spe-
cial tonight,” Newbauer said. 
“Anytime you bank a three, 
you’re going to feel pretty 
good.”
Guard Lavender Briggs 
posted 16 points and six re-bounds for the Gators, both 
of which were team-highs. 
Her backcourt partner, Kiara 
Smith, was close behind with 
14 points.
Smith was on the court for 
every second of the contest 
for the third time this year, 
adding four rebounds and a 
game-high six assists. 
Next on the schedule for 
the reeling Gators is a re-
match with No. 13 Kentucky, 
a team they lost to by double 
digits on Jan. 12.
“It’s been a really tough 
stretch for us,” Newbauer 
said. “We’ve played all the 
top teams in our league out-
side of No. 1 South Carolina, 
and it doesn’t get any easier.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFlorida succumbs to LSU, loses 5th-straight game
Samantha Harrison  // Alligator Staff
Guard Kiara Smith was second on the team in 
scoring Thursday night with 14 points and played 
all 40 minutes in the loss.
SWIMMING & DIVING
By Ainslie Lee
Sports Writer 
Florida’s men’s and wom-
en’s swimming and diving 
teams brought in a steady 
stream of hardware in their 
wins over the Auburn Tigers 
last Saturday. 
While the No. 8-ranked 
women (11-0, 3-0 SEC) took 
home a 161-137 win over 
the Tigers to remain unde-
feated on the season, the No. 
9-ranked men’s team (7-1, 
2-1 SEC) sunk Auburn 204-
96. 
And as the Gators prepare 
to make the trip to Knoxville, 
Tennessee, on Saturday to 
face off against the Volun-
teers, they do so with even 
more honors under their belt. 
This week, Florida’s Ki-
eran Smith took home his 
third SEC Men’s Swimmer of 
the Week honor after his per-
formance against Auburn. In 
his grapple with the Tigers, 
Smith hauled in three golds 
and posted a new best in the 
100 free with a 43.50. 
Two of Florida’s women also welcomed recognition 
this week as diver Brooke 
Madden was recognized as 
the SEC Women’s Diver of 
the Week for the ﬁ  rst time in 
her career after her sweeps 
in the 1-meter and 3-meter 
dives.
UF senior Sherridon Dres-
sel was recognized as the 
SEC Women’s Swimmer of 
the Week after picking up 
three gold medals in her per-
formance against Auburn on 
Senior Day. 
With momentum and con-
ﬁ  dence on their side as they 
head into Knoxville on Satur-
day, both of Florida’s squads 
will have to be sure that their 
complacency is in check as 
they prepare to battle two 
ranked Tennessee teams. 
Florida’s men’s team has 
a three-spot advantage over 
the No. 12-ranked Volunteers 
heading into this weekend. 
Tennessee is coming off of 
a loss to Georgia where the 
Vols’ Matthew Garcia swam 
well and picked up two gold 
medals — one as a part of the 
200 medley relay (1:27.76) and the other coming from a 
win in the 100 back (47.98).
For the women, on paper, 
Tennessee poses the biggest 
threat to Florida this season. 
The No. 4-ranked Vol-
unteers will be the highest-
ranked team the Gators have 
faced in their undefeated 
start to the 2019-20 cam-
paign. 
Tennessee senior Er-
icka Brown saw her storied 
season continue to roll as 
she picked up gold medals 
in three events against the 
Georgia Bulldogs. 
Brown’s wins came in the 
200 free (1:45.18), the 100 
free (48.86) and the 100 ﬂ  y 
(52.22).
The tussle between the 
Gators and the Volunteers 
gets underway at 10 a.m. 
on Saturday from the Allan 
Jones Aquatic Center at the 
University of Tennessee.
@AinsliesTwoBits
alee@alligator.orgUF clashes with ranked UT teams
Like most of you liv-
ing in Gainesville 
with a Twitter ac-
count, Tuesday night 
was a return to every 
household Gator fan’s fa-
vorite pastime: the blame 
game.
After an uninspired per-
formance by the UF men’s 
basketball team, the Gator 
Twitterverse exploded yet again, as 
accounts with no proﬁ  le picture and 
no more than 27 followers called for 
coach Mike White’s job.
The childish outbreaks became 
especially tantrum-like when White 
spoke to the media after the 78-71 
home loss to Mississippi State.
“We don’t play extremely hard 
right now,” White said after the game.
Naturally, fans would strongly 
agree after UF dropped its third game 
in a row, falling to a 12-8 record.
White would go on to place some of 
the onus on himself and demonstrated 
some accountability.
“I’ve done a poor job with this team 
defensively, to say the least,” he said.
White was perplexed when reﬂ  ect-
ing on this team’s inability to consis-
tently defend, and the Florida faithless 
let him have it on social media.
The problem that I ﬁ  nd with this narrative is that there’s 
not just one reason for 
UF’s struggles. It’s not 
like the 42-year-old father 
of ﬁ  ve is air-balling open 
three-pointers, although a 
starting lineup of his kids 
might perform better than 
this team has lately if giv-
en meaningful minutes.
There’s plenty of blame 
to go around on this team.
In its last three losses, UF has given 
up at least 70 points and quite frankly 
has been devoid of any leadership on 
either end of the court.
It’s easy to look at this roster and 
blame a coach for losses as is often the 
case when teams with high expecta-
tions fall short of them.
White acknowledged that he could 
do a better job with this squad, but ul-
timately the players need to show up.
Guard Andrew Nembhard, who 
had a strong freshman campaign last 
season, was pegged to have a break-
out year, and his upside was a major 
factor in the team’s preseason No. 6 
ranking.
The sophomore just hasn’t made 
the jump. He’s averaging 11.2 points 
per game and a respectable six assists.The blame game and its playersCup of Joe
Joseph Salvador
twitter: Jsalvadorsports
jsalvador@alligator.org
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11  
GYMNASTICS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The official state song of Kentucky is “My 
Old Kentucky Home.”
The song is played each year before the Ken-
tucky Derby and is synonymous with the Blue-
grass State.
Florida’s gymnastics team has felt that hospi-
tality over the years.
The Gators have only lost one meet ever in 
Lexington, Kentucky, and have won 10 straight.
On Friday night, they’ll try to make it 11 in 
a row as they travel to Lexington to take on the 
Wildcats. The meet will commence at 7 p.m. 
from Memorial Coliseum. It can be seen live on 
SEC Network+.
UK is coming into this meet confident that it 
can end the long losing streak. This is because it 
is off to one of its best starts in program history.
The ‘Cats are ranked No. 12 and are unde-
feated to start SEC play. Florida is the only other 
undefeated team in SEC play this season. UK’s 
only loss was in their first meet of the season to 
then-No. 5 Utah on the road.
“Competing in the SEC is the best experience for these student-athletes,” coach Jenny Row-
land said. “You never have a down weekend, 
you’ve always got to be on your toes, and it pre-
pares you a lot for the postseason.”
The Wildcats’ two SEC wins are over teams 
that UF already beat – Missouri and Arkansas.
The star of Kentucky’s squad is senior Mol-
lie Korth. Her all-around score of 39.625 against 
the Razorbacks and Tigers are season-high’s for 
UK. She also won the SEC Gymnast of the Week 
in Week 1.
However, the Wildcats will have to deal with 
a Florida team that is already in mid-season 
form. The No. 2 Gators are off to a 3-0 start, with 
all wins coming against teams ranked in Road 
to Nationals Top 25 – No. 14 Arkansas, No. 20 
Missouri and No. 6 LSU.
UF’s win over the Bayou Bengals was argu-
ably one of its biggest in recent school history. 
Sophomore Trinity Thomas was the star of the 
night for the orange and blue. She scored her 
first ever perfect score on the uneven bars and 
finished with a 9.975 on the floor. Because of 
her performance, she won the SEC Gymnast of 
the week, her fifth career win.
Thomas’ teammates also excelled last week as three other athletes scored a 9.975 – Alyssa 
Baumann (beam), Rachel Gowey (beam) and 
Savannah Schoenherr (bars). Sophomore Syd-
ney Johnson-Scharpf’s score of 9.925 on the 
beam was the highest for a Gator making her 
beam debut.
“I was very happy about (being in the beam 
lineup),” Johnson-Scharpf said. “I kept every-
thing normal coming from training in the gym 
and taking it on the floor and leaving it all out 
there.”
Those scores helped contribute to Florida 
setting numerous records. Its score (198.375) 
was the third-highest in program history, and 
its beam score of 49.675 tied the program’s top 
mark. Finally, the Gators scored at least a 49.65 
in three rotations, becoming the third school to 
do so.
“I’ve never been so excited to travel to Ken-
tucky,” Rowland said. “I’m really excited to see 
this team perform and carry over what this team 
has learned and see it transfer over this week-
end.”
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida looks to continue dominance at UK
Alligator File Photo
Junior Alyssa Baumann recorded a 
9.975 on the beam against LSU.
BASEBALL
By Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team didn’t 
live up to expectations last season.
It struggled to find its footing on 
the mound, and that cost the team 
some big games at key moments 
during the year. UF failed to make it 
past the NCAA Regionals for the first 
time since 2014.
Junior pitcher Jack Leftwich wants 
to rid himself of anything associated 
with the 2019 season.
“I think everyone’s kind of pissed 
off about last year on the pitching end, 
because the hitters did really good, 
but it was kind of on our shoulders,” 
he said.
The Gators finished with a 
cumulative 5.37 ERA last season, 
which finished second-to-last in the 
SEC.In Leftwich’s 13 starts last year, he 
went 6-5 with a 5.31 ERA.
Leftwich understands that’s not 
good enough if Florida is to win the 
College World Series for the first 
time since 2017. He and the rest of 
the team put in extra work in the 
offseason to prepare for this season’s 
challenges.
Fellow junior pitcher Tommy 
Mace had a nearly identical 5.32 ERA 
with an 8-5 record in a team-high 16 
starts.
The hurler matched Leftwich’s 
work ethic this past offseason, hitting 
the weight room and preparing for a 
season with a slew of new catchers 
on the team.
He said he’s pitched to all four 
of Florida’s catchers in-game or in 
bullpen sessions.
In the batter’s box, UF looks to 
continue its strong offensive presence from last season.
As a team, the Gators hit at a .284 
clip with a .370 OBP, 77 home runs 
and 364 RBIs.
By comparison, even with their 
shaky pitching last year, the Gators 
surrendered a .270 batting average 
with a .353 OBP, 65 home runs and 
324 RBIs.
Sophomore center fielder Jud 
Fabian is excited to see how much 
the Gators can emulate last season’s 
performance at the plate. He believes 
team confidence will play a major role 
in that, calling it the most important 
thing in baseball.
One player Fabian and the rest of 
the team have the utmost confidence 
in is redshirt junior Garrett Milchin.
Milchin, a member of the Gators 
2017 CWS championship team, 
hasn’t played in two years due to two 
separate Tommy John surgeries.The 6-foot-5 right-hander has 
finally finished rehabbing his injuries 
and is ready to put toe to rubber in 
2020.
“It’s been tough just pretty much 
living in the training room and with 
physical therapists,” Milchin said. 
“But you’ve got to make the best of 
what you’re dealt.”
Milchin and the Gators have a long 
way to go to push themselves toward 
another trip to Omaha. For now, he’s 
keeping everything in perspective 
and is looking to enjoy the ride.
“You really never know when 
you’re going to be done for the last 
time,” he said.
Florida’s season begins Feb. 14 at 
home against Marshall at 6:30 p.m.
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgGators poised to rebound after falling of expectations last season
Alligator File Photo
Junior Jack Leftwich went 6-5 
and struck out 62 batters in 2019.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s basketball team has reached a fork in the 
road.
On Jan. 18, it looked like the Gators were starting to live up 
to their lofty preseason expectations. UF thrashed then-No. 4 
Auburn to earn a marquee win that capped off a 5-1 record dur-
ing that six-game period.
Then, this rollercoaster ride of a season took another drastic 
dip.
The Gators’ heartbreaking defeat in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 
spiraled into back-to-back home losses to No. 1 Baylor and Mis-
sissippi State.
Now, as the SEC schedule nears its halfway point, how Flor-
ida performs during the upcoming five-game trek will play a big 
role in determining where this team ends up when postseason 
play nears.
According to KenPom, the only team Florida faces that’s cur-
rently ranked in the top 100 over the next five games is Georgia 
at 98. Ole Miss (116), Texas A&M (154) and Vanderbilt (180) 
are the weakest opponents left on Florida’s schedule. Will UF 
take advantage? We’ll find out on Saturday when the Gators 
(12-8, 4-3 SEC) begin their pivotal stretch against Vanderbilt 
(8-12, 0-7 SEC) in Nashville, Tennessee.It’s time for UF’s defense to step up
Since coach Mike White took over in 2015, it’s been clear 
which side of the ball he focuses more of his attention toward.
According to KenPom, Florida has been ranked 14th, fifth, 
24th and 16th in adjusted defensive efficiency during White’s 
first four seasons.
This year though, the defense hasn’t performed at that same 
level.
Currently, UF ranks 71st in adjusted defensive efficiency. 
There’s time for the defense to get back to that top-tier level, but 
at this point, White’s still searching for more from his squad.
“Our level of pride, defensively, is different than any other 
team I’ve had,” White said after Tuesday’s game. “Our num-
bers are not very pretty, and they’re getting uglier everyday...
We made common mistakes today that don’t allow for success 
against high-level teams.”
Against Vanderbilt, Florida will need to hone in on the three-
point line. The Commodores are fourth in the SEC in three-point 
percentage at 32.9 percent, averaging a little over eight three-
pointers per contest.
On the perimeter, the Gators will try to slow down Vandy 
guards Saban Lee and Scotty Pippen Jr., who average 16.2 and 
11.1 points per game, respectively.
Although Vanderbilt has some dangerous guard play, that 
hasn’t translated onto the scoreboard over the last few weeks.In its last six games, the Commodores have only averaged 
56.3 points per contest.
UF has a huge opportunity to gain some much-needed confi-
dence on the defensive side of the ball on Saturday.
Can Mann and Lewis add some consistency to their 
game?
Tuesday night’s game showcased what can happen if fresh-
men guards Tre Mann and Scottie Lewis play well.
In the first half, the two combined for 19 points on 7-of-9 
shooting. That performance helped the Gators mount a 16-point 
lead against Mississippi State.
Florida looked like a well-oiled machine on offense, and the 
team in transition looked the best it had arguably all season.
Then, the second half brought a completely different vibe. 
UF shot just 29.6 percent from the field in the second half of the 
game and the freshmen tandem suffered along with the rest of 
the team. Lewis and Mann shot 1 of 6 and had four points total 
after a promising start to the game.
“Mental lapses and lapses in focus, that’s something that we 
can fix,” Lewis said, referring to the second-half performance 
against Mississippi State. “Because when we’re 100 percent fo-
cused at all points of the game, we are pretty dangerous.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgUF in must-win mode in the midst of a three-game skid12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
NIGHT  9 pm-12 am
$2 Double Wells
$2 Rolling Rock Cans
$2 Pink Whitney Shots
LIVE DJ
(DOWNSTAIRS)
FRIDAYS
on theROOFNEW!
MEN'S TENNIS
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Florida is set to take on a ranked 
opponent for the second time this 
season. 
It fell to No. 1 Texas on Jan. 15 in 
what was supposed to be an opportu-
nity to avenge its crushing Final Four 
loss from a season ago.
In their second ranked matchup, 
the No. 2 Gators (6-1) will travel 
to Lake Nona, Florida, to face off 
against No. 21 FSU (6-1) on Saturday 
at 5 p.m. 
Both teams will play at the United 
States Tennis Association National 
Campus as part of the annual College 
MatchDay. 
The Gators come into this week-
end after they advanced to the Inter-
collegiate Tennis Association Team 
Indoor Championship and beat USF 
4-0 last weekend. 
Last year, UF defeated FSU 4-1 de-
spite the rain delay halfway through 
that moved the match indoors.
The Gators and Seminoles share 
the same loss coming into Saturday. FSU fell to Texas on the road 4-0 last 
Sunday, while the Gators lost 5-2 ear-
lier this month. 
UF has rebounded well, winning 
its last four matches since the loss.  
Florida has only given up one 
point during this stretch. It has de-
feated UCF 6-1, Stetson 7-0, Temple 
4-0 and USF 4-0.
“I think we learned a lot from that 
match (Texas),” coach Bryan Shelton 
said following the match Sunday. “It 
kind of was a great early test, and we 
realized that we weren’t quite where 
we needed to be as far as competing 
against one of the best teams in the 
country, and they were a little bit bet-
ter than us on that day.
“I think we got off to a good start 
in that match, but we weren’t able to 
ﬁ  nish some of the things we started 
like some sets where we had leads 
and things like that.” 
Florida currently has ﬁ  ve singles 
players ranked in the top 75 of the 
ITA rankings, and one doubles pair 
ranked in the top 15 while FSU only 
has one in the top 100 with Rana-
Roop Singh Bhular at No. 92.For the Seminoles, their matchup 
with UF will be the third time they've 
played a ranked foe. They won 
against then-No. 21 Mississippi State 
on Jan. 19 after losing to Texas.
One luxury Shelton has had this 
season is roster depth. For example, 
against Temple and USF, he was able 
to experiment with new lineups dur-
ing singles.
He rested No. 31 Oliver Crawford 
on Saturday to build depth. Then, 
after a strong performance the day 
prior, Shelton decided to give fresh-
man No. 118 Blaise Bicknell the start 
instead of sophomore No. 71 Lukas 
Greif on Court 6 Sunday. 
“I just have a lot of conﬁ  dence in 
all of our guys,” Shelton said. “It’s 
great as you go through the season 
you never know when you are going 
to need someone to step up, so we 
try to keep them all ready to go and 
the only way to keep them ready is 
to give them some opportunities to 
play.”
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgFlorida prepared to take on No. 21 FSU 
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Junior Oliver Crawford is 16-8 on Court 1 this season in 
dual singles play.
Respectable isn’t going to cut it in March, and I don’t 
see this team elevating its stock if Nembhard doesn’t be-
come the 6-foot-5 playmaker that I think he can be.
UF’s leading scorer, forward Kerry Blackshear Jr., has been the one constant for the team offensively but has 
fallen short in this recent stretch of losses when it comes 
to corralling rebounds.
He has only grabbed 16 boards in this string of losses 
as UF has been consistently out-hustled on the glass. The 
team’s rebounding margin is 106-80 in its last three games.
Not to mention Florida's recent struggles from behind 
the arc, especially seen in its starting backcourt.
Guard Noah Locke, who is shooting an impressive 40 
percent from three-point range this season, is just 2 for 9 in his last two games. While Nembhard is 0 for 7 in his 
last two contests and is an atrocious 2 for 19 in his last six 
games behind the arc.
While an APB is out for UF’s jump shot, this team as a 
whole needs to look in the mirror and be accountable for 
its recent performance.
On Saturday, the Gators will travel to face an 8-12 
Vanderbilt team, and if Florida ﬁ  nds a way to drop its 
fourth in a row, the blame game’s latest iteration will be 
the worst yet.COLUMN,  from pg. 10UF has lost 3 in a row