We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperIn all kinds of weather
A UF alumna lost her degree and her wedding dress in a tornado, 
but someone on Facebook found it, pg. 4
President Fuchs responds to COVID-19 concerns
All through the lens of a response to an email from a concerned 
student, pg. 5Nothing can take away from the fact 
that he was No. 34
Read Christopher Sutherland’s journey to earn that 
jersey and play for the Gators at the highest level, pg. 8
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 71
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
THREE OF THE LATEST 
CASES ARE 
YOUNGER THAN 55
Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
The total conﬁ  rmed coronavirus 
cases in Alachua County has now 
climbed into the double digits, 
according to the Florida Department 
of Health. 
There are now 11 conﬁ  rmed cases 
in the county, a daily report from the 
department shows. The four new cases 
are all Florida residents: a 27-year-old 
female with unknown travel history, a 
51-year-old male who traveled to the 
Bahamas, a 39-year-old female who 
traveled to Georgia and a 42-year-old 
female who traveled to the Dominican 
Republic. 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said the university has no information 
indicating that any of the cases in 
the county are UF faculty members. 
“That’s not a guarantee they’re not, 
but we haven’t been informed that 
they are,” he wrote in a text message.
However, it’s unclear if the actual 
number of total cases is 10 or 11. A 64-year-old female who recently 
traveled to New York was incorrectly 
attributed as a case in Alachua 
county which actually belongs to 
Broward County, said Paul Myers, 
the administrator for the county 
department of health. 
As of Thursday morning, the state’s 
daily report still has the case listed 
under Alachua County.
There are now more than 400 cases. 
Of this total more than 350 cases are 
Florida residents and more than 30 are 
non-residents, according to the Florida 
Department of Health. 
The Courtyards, a student living 
complex located on Southwest Third 
Avenue, sent an email to residents 
Wednesday informing them about 
exposure to COVID-19 within the 
apartment community. 
As a result, the apartment’s 
leasing ofﬁ  ce closed Thursday, with 
all common areas being cleaned and 
sanitized by an “outside professional 
company who is following all CDC 
guidelines.”
The email doesn’t state where 
in the apartment community the 
exposure was.
@AlexLDeLuca
adeluca@alligator.org11 Alachua County 
COVID-19 cases
GRADUATION ANNOUNCED FOR 
JUL Y 31 TO AUG. 2
Staff Report
With at least four UF students have 
tested positive for COVID-19, the university 
continues to implement more changes for the 
university community. 
UF has gone fully online, major events 
such as graduation were postponed and students have petitioned for a pass or fail 
option for classes.
Here are the latest COVID-19 updates for 
the university community:
Postponed graduation date announced
Although UF’s May graduation ceremony 
was canceled in May, UF offered a postponed 
date for the Spring commencement ceremony.
UF sent an email linking to a survey 
Thursday afternoon to gauge interest from 
graduating students on the new ceremonial dates, which will be from July 31 to Aug. 2.
The survey is meant to see if students 
can go to the make-up ceremonial weekend. 
Tickets will not be required.
UF considers pass or fail option for 
Spring courses
UF is exploring ways for students to 
complete courses for pass or fail credit 
following the creation of an online petition.
UF made the initial announcement 
Wednesday and revised it soon after. Administration and faculty are “working on a 
process” by which UF undergraduate courses 
can be considered pass or fail, the updated 
statement reads. It includes no speciﬁ  c details 
about the process, but does say UF will notify 
students about it. 
The announcement comes soon after UF 
students created an online petition for the 
option to make courses pass or fail. The 
petition had collected more than 18,000 UF closes libraries, considers pass or fail for classes
Staff Report
Gainesville is taking precautions to ensure the health of 
its residents during the COVID-19 pandemic. But that comes 
at a cost to the lifestyles of residents and the success of local 
businesses.
Here are the latest updates from the city of Gainesville:
Testing for coronavirus: what it’s like 
A UF student was exposed to COVID-19 while at a journalism 
conference earlier this month. Now, she’s awaiting her test results.
On Tuesday, Taylor Johnson was tested for the virus in 
Gainesville after attending the National Institute for Computer-
Assisted Reporting conference in New Orleans in early March. 
On the morning of March 8, Johnson, a 21-year-old UF 
journalism senior, said she woke up with a scratchy throat. 
Two days later, she learned that someone at the conference had 
tested positive for coronavirus.
By Monday, it was difﬁ  cult to breathe, so she called the 
COVID-19 hotline and the Florida Department of Health for help. 
She went to SIMEDHealth, located at 4343 W Newberry Road, and was told her COVID-19 results would be available in 
three to four days.
Johnson is self-quarantining in Gainesville until she receives 
her results. She said she is unsure if she will return home to 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
Fireﬁ  ghters and law enforcement take extra precautions
Local ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters and police ofﬁ  cers are modifying their 
procedures to protect themselves and the public from 
coronavirus. 
And the changes start when you call 911. 
Callers are being screened over the phone for potential COVID-19 outbreak aﬀ  ects local residents, businesses 
PICTURE PERFECT
Lily Strickland // Alligator Staff
Natalia Piferrer, a 25-year-old photographer, takes senior pictures of Layan Hanouch, 23, 
and her boyfriend Hunter Ramsay, 22, Thursday evening. Both Hanouch and Ramsay are UF 
biomedical engineering seniors. UF’s graduation was postponed due to COVID-19 concerns.
SEE COVID-19 UNIVERSITY,  PAGE 3
SEE COVID-19 METRO,  PAGE 311 cases are conirmed in Alachua CountyT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  48°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.THURSDAY’S TOP AP HEADLINES
Italian death toll overtakes 
China’s as COVID-19 virus 
spreads
Italy has reported at least 3,405 
deaths from COVID-19, which 
is around 150 more deaths than 
in China. Italy has the world’s 
second-oldest population, and 
87 percent of its deaths from the 
virus so far are from people over 
the age of 70. 
U.S. warns Americans against all 
overseas travel
The Trump administration 
warned Americans against any 
international travel amid the 
COVID-19 pandemic. It also 
recommended that anyone 
overseas should attempt to 
come home as soon as they can, 
but the recommendation is not 
mandatory, especially as options 
for international travel become 
more limited. As of now, the only 
way to prevent Americans from 
traveling would be to void their 
passports, which is currently only 
in place for travel to North Korea.
Wall Street regains ground in a 
less rocky day
After volatile days on the stock 
market this week, Thursday’s 
market swings proved far 
less rocky than recently. The 
markets have been so volatile 
because investors are weighing 
the increasing likelihood of a 
recession on one hand against 
huge emergency efforts to prop 
up the economy on the other. 
Ultimately, investors said they 
need to see the number of new 
infections stop accelerating for 
the markets to ease. But in just 
13 days, the number of cases in 
the U.S. has increased from 500 
to at least 14,000 as of Thursday 
evening.
Tulsi Gabbard ends long-shot 
2020 bid, throws support to 
Biden
Hawaii U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard 
ended her 2020 presidential 
bid on Thursday and endorsed 
former Vice President Joe Biden, 
remarking in a Twitter video 
on Thursday that it was “clear 
that the Democratic voters have chosen” him. Gabbard 
lost popularity with Democratic 
voters during the election as she 
appeared on Fox News and voted 
“present” at the impeachment 
hearing for President Donald 
Trump, rather than definitively 
voting whether or not to impeach 
the president. Gabbard was the 
last woman and person of color 
in the race, and her website 
described her as “the first Hindu 
to run for president and first 
practicing Hindu in Congress.”
Virus-shocked Hollywood gets 
break with streaming services 
Streaming services are seeing an 
increase in traffic after theaters 
have shut down across the 
nation. Dan Ives, an analyst with 
Wedbush Securities, predicted 
there will be an up to 20 percent 
increase in the amount of time 
subscribers spend watching 
streamed content, and millions of 
new customers will hop aboard 
worldwide. The Walt Disney Co. 
put the box-office hit “Frozen 
2” on its Disney Plus streaming 
service three months earlier than 
planned.
Judge declines to release 
immigration detainees
A federal judge declines to release 
immigrant detainees who may be 
especially vulnerable to the new 
coronavirus because they are 
old or have underlying health 
conditions. The American Civil 
Liberties Union of Washington 
and the Northwest Immigrant 
Rights Project sought the 
release of nine detainees at 
U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement’s Northwest 
detention center in Tacoma, 
Washington. U.S. District Judge 
James L. Robart said he was 
aware of the gravity and rapidly 
evolving nature of the COVID-19 
crisis, but that there is no evidence 
of an outbreak at the privately 
run jail or that the agency’s 
precautions are inadequate.
Trump focuses attention 
on possible coronavirus 
treatments
President Donald Trump cited the 
potential use of a drug used to fight malaria and other methods 
on Thursday at a White House 
news conference. The malaria 
drug is called chloroquine, and 
the experimental drug remdesivir 
was also cited by Food and Drug 
Administration Commissioner Dr. 
Stephen Hahn. Already approved 
drugs are tempting for doctors to 
use off label, but formal studies 
are needed to see if they truly 
work for a new purpose or 
disease, said Dr. Ross McKinney 
Jr., chief scientific officer for the 
Association of American Medical 
Colleges, which represents about 
400 major teaching hospitals 
across the country. Currently, no 
drug is specifically approved for 
treating COVID-19.
Monaco’s head of state Prince 
Albert II contracts coronavirus
The palace of Monaco announced 
that Prince Albert II, Monaco’s 
head of state, contracted 
coronavirus but remains in good 
health. Albert II, who is 62 years 
old, is believed to be the first head 
of state to contract COVID-19. 
In a statement Thursday, the 
palace said he is being treated by 
doctors from the Princess Grace 
Hospital, named after his U.S. 
actress mother. It said Albert 
is continuing to work from his 
home office in the palace and is 
in constant contact with members 
of his government. The monarch 
urged citizens of Monaco to 
practice social distancing in the 
statement.
Europeans sing nightly praises 
for health care workers from 
windows
European citizens in Rome, 
Madrid, Paris, Athens, Amsterdam 
and more have taken to balconies 
of their apartment buildings to 
sing, cheer and applaud health 
care workers helping to fight 
COVID-19. In Brussels and other 
cities, the intended audience for 
the nightly chorus of thanks was 
expanded to everyone working to 
keep essential services running 
in Belgium, such as firefighters, 
supermarket workers and trash 
collectors. Some European 
countries have also taken to 
officially recognize the work that 
health workers are doing. “We’re 
clapping tonight out of respect and 
to say thank you to all the health 
care workers in the Netherlands 
who are protecting us against 
this horrible coronavirus,” King 
Willem-Alexander said Tuesday 
night, while with his family at 
Palace Huis ten Bosch in The 
Hague. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 71
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorCopy Desk Chiefs
Katelynn Joyner, kjoyner@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Diane Hernandez, 
Lonnie NumaEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Jewish
UF Hillel 
All are welcome!
Reform & Conservative Friday 
Evening Services: 6pm
Free Shabbat Dinner: 7 pm
Join us for services, 
dinner, or both
2020 W. University Ave.
ufhillel.org
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.org
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482    |    advertising @alligator.org
signatures as of Thursday evening.
“S/U” is the acronym for the satisfactory or unsatisfactory 
grading policy, known as the “pass, fail” grading option. 
Though it’s typically only an option for electives, the new 
announcement stated it will be available with “traditional 
course eligibility restrictions lifted.”
An S grade is equivalent to a C or better, and a U grade is 
equivalent to a D or lower, according to a UF webpage.
These grades do not impact grade point averages but are 
reﬂ  ected on students’ transcripts. 
“Other academic institutions and agencies may interpret a 
grade of U as a failing grade,” the webpage cautioned.
Some things remain unclear, like the number of classes 
that may be taken for pass or fail credit and who is eligible 
for the change. 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando referred The Alligator to the announcement and offered no additional comment. Days 
before, he said UF had no plans to make courses pass or fail 
this semester.
UF libraries closed Thursday 
George A. Smathers Libraries closed all library spaces at 6 
p.m. Thursday until further notice. 
A statement from the dean of university libraries, Judith 
C. Russell, stated that the virtual library is still open, and the 
majority of services will still be provided remotely. 
The statement asks that UF-owned materials and media 
be renewed and that students who have left campus but still 
have items checked out can return them when they get back. 
Overdue fees will be waived. 
Eduroam available across Florida 
UF students can access eduroam, the free internet used 
on campus, across the country and at 97 sites in Florida, 
according to an email from the University Provost Joe Glover 
and Chief Information Ofﬁ  cer Elias Eldayrie. 
“We know that there are areas of the nation where access 
to broadband can be difﬁ  cult,” they wrote. “We want to make sure that you know that a University of Florida student can 
access the national eduroam system at no charge.”
A map of eduroam sites across Florida is available online. 
Some cities included are Jacksonville, Orlando and Miami. 
However, many of these locations are at Florida universities 
or at UF extensions, many of which are offering their courses 
online. Many of these campuses remain fully operational, but 
that may change as the situation evolves and COVID-19 cases 
begin to pop up in university and college communities. 
The email added that in many of these sites, students 
don’t need to go into a building to be able to access the WiFi. 
Students can pick up the signal on most public spaces on 
campus, which is true for many of the other eduroam sites. 
Students who have already set up eduroam should 
connect to the service automatically, according to the email. 
Otherwise, students can select the eduroam network on their 
devices and log in with their Gatorlink information.
Hannah Phillips, Stephany Matat, Joseph Salvador, Kaelyn 
Cassidy and Chasity Maynard contributed to this report. COVID-19 UNIVERSITY,  from pg. 1UF libraries closed
infection by dispatchers from the Alachua 
County Combined Communications Center 
based on guidelines from the U.S. Centers for 
Disease Control, said Capt. Joey Malphurs, the 
infection control ofﬁ  cer for Alachua County 
Fire-Rescue. 
When helping people exhibiting ﬂ  u-like 
symptoms, ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters wear extra protective 
equipment, including a paper gown, goggles 
and masks, Malphurs said. 
On Saturday, Malphurs said that all 
ambulances were disinfected. Vehicles are also 
being disinfected after transporting patients 
who are suspected to be ill.
Deputies are also wearing gloves, 
maintaining a distance of 3 to 6 feet away from 
others and wearing N-95 masks on certain 
calls, said Ofﬁ  cer Frank Kinsey, a spokesperson 
for the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce.
To avoid contact and minimize the number 
of people in jail, the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce is trying to 
make fewer physical arrests, Kinsey said.
Gainesville Police is also following CDC 
guidance on interaction with the public, the 
department’s spokesperson Sgt. Lisa Scott wrote in an email.
City facilities closed until further notice
City Manager Lee Feldman ordered the 
closure of most city facilities to the public as 
of Wednesday. However, the lobby of the 
Gainesville Police Department and Gainesville 
Regional Utilities will remain open, in addition 
to certain parks.
Fire, rescue and police services will continue 
to operate on their usual schedule, according to 
a city press release. 
The press release also said some city 
employees are working remotely, while others 
are still reporting to work. 
RTS suspends some routes
More changes are being made to the city’s 
public transportation system starting on 
Monday, a press release showed.
In addition to buses already running at 50 
percent capacity with a limit of 25 riders per 
bus, Gainesville’s Regional Transportation 
System also suspended services for Routes 39, 
76 and 800 — all of which service Santa Fe 
College. 
In the release, the city also asked that people who are immunocompromised, feel ill, are 65 
or older with underlying health conditions or 
are in contact with a known or suspected case 
of COVID-19 refrain from riding the bus.
Bus cleaning procedures were not addressed 
in the press release.
Big businesses change hours and 
regulations
Some big businesses are remaining open but 
limiting their everyday practices while people 
buckle down in their homes to practice social 
distancing. 
Walmart reduced its shopping hours from 7 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and will restock and clean the 
store when closed. 
Starting Tuesday, Walmart will have special 
shopping hours for shoppers ages 60 and older 
one hour before the store opens every Tuesday. 
Publix is designating 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. on 
Tuesday and Wednesday mornings as senior 
shopping hours for customers 65 and older. 
This change will also begin Tuesday. Stores are 
also closing earlier at 8 p.m.
The Oaks Mall is currently operating from 
noon to 7 p.m. and has not announced that it 
will close, according to a mall representative. 
Local businesses struggle to make 
money
Local businesses are getting creative to curb drops in sales brought on by COVID-19.
Since all of Volta Coffee, Tea & Chocolate’s 
services became to-go, co-owner Anthony Rue 
said the cafe has noticed a 20 to 25 percent 
decline in sales. 
Rue said he lost almost his entire staff 
because of an emergency act forbidding any 
food service employee who has attended an 
event of more than 50 people to serve unless 
they wait 14 days.
On Thursday morning, Volta shut down to 
reorganize and will reopen Friday morning to 
sell coffee, chocolate and gift cards. 
In the meantime, Rue said Volta will support 
its employees by offering jobs like remodeling, 
wall painting and developing new recipes.
Erik Zika, owner of White Buffalo and The 
Range, said both bars are closed for the next 30 
days due to a state mandate, leaving employees 
out of work.
At Original American Kitchen, which Zika 
also owns, fewer people are showing up to eat. 
At the restaurant, 10 people are limited to a 
table and everyone must sit 6 feet apart.
“We’re just trying to be creative and 
innovative in any way we can,” he said.
Stephany Matat, Samia Lagmis, Alex De 
Luca, Kaelyn Cassidy, Grethel Aguila, Anna 
Wilder and AJ Bafer contributed to this report.COVID-19 METRO,  from pg. 1Publix ofers hours for elderly4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020
VALUE CHECKING account
visa®  platinum reward credit cardWe have better ways to help 
you manage your money!
Member owned. Community proud.™ Since 1954Take advantage of no monthly fee  and 
no minimum balance requirement  in a checking 
account backed by friendly local service since 1954!
With an introductory rate of 0% APR* for 15 mos.** 
for balance transfers and new purchases , 
get more purchasing power!
*APR = Annual Percentage Rate. **0% offer for Visa Reward, Visa Wave and Visa Rate 
card. Fresh Start, Business and HELOC not eligible for promotion. 0.00% Introductory APR 
for 15 monthly billing cycles following the issuance of the account. After that, your rate will 
be 12.90%-17.90%. This APR will vary with the market based on the Prime Rate. Promotion 
for new cards only, transfers and/or existing FCU cards or loans are not eligible. Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) on purchases and balance transfers will be fully indexed APRs, 
which are currently the APRs set forth in the agreement here. Offer expires May 31, 2020.
Federally insured by NCUA FCUMKVS0069-0320flcu.org | (352) 377-4141
Calvin Martin, MD
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation 
and treatment for:
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• Abrasions & Lacerations
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Monday - Friday 7:00am - 6:00pm
SIMEDHealth.com
Download the FREE
TapRide App 
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
Na#onal	Alliance	on	Mental	Illness	
Support	Groups	
Training	Courses	
Advocacy	&	Support	
www.namigainesville.org
352	320-0457	
352.373.6760
625 E. Univ ersity A ve.sweetwa terinn.com
•Lodg ing •Events •Catering
Join us for W ine & Cheese Hour
Wine and Cheese? Y es Plea se!
(reser vations onl y)
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Staff Writer
A tornado took nearly everything 
from Lauren Hampton Farmer — but 
it couldn’t take her UF diploma.
Farmer, 31, and her husband, 
Kory Farmer built their home in 
Cookeville, Tennessee, from the 
ground up, she said. But it was 
completely destroyed earlier this 
month by two tornadoes.
More than a dozen people were 
killed in Cookeville in early March 
from the two tornadoes, which had 
winds that went up to 175 mph, The 
Washington Post reported. 
During the tornadoes, she said 
her mouth ﬁ  lled with dirt and debris 
that held back her screams as walls 
collapsed around her. She and her 
husband held onto their two German 
Shepherds, Xena and Shadow, and 
Shadow was ripped from her hands. 
Shadow was retrieved hours after.Farmer, her husband and their 
dogs are staying at a local cabin and 
are moving into a rental house next 
week.
Their home became an empty lot, 
and she said their personal items 
have since been found scattered 
more than 50 miles away. Her found 
belongings popped up in Facebook 
posts, including her wedding dress, 
but she said it was particularly 
special when someone found her UF 
diploma. 
“Our lives have been spread out 
all over the city,” she said.
Farmer graduated from UF in 
2010. She was in Alpha Chi Omega 
and said three of her friends from 
the sorority sent essentials like 
shoes and clothes and donated to 
her GoFundMe page. The page had a 
goal of $5,000 but has raised nearly 
$18,000 as of Thursday evening.
“It was so nice that I built those connections over 10 years ago, and 
they have lasted until this day,” she 
said.
John Gillooly, a 55-year-old UF 
alumnus who currently lives in 
Palm Harbor, Florida, said he knew 
Farmer from when they worked 
together in Gainesville and saw her 
post on Facebook that her house was 
leveled. He said he reached out to 
help, also contacting The Alligator 
and people he knew who might be 
interested in her story. 
Gillooly said it was touching to see 
Farmer’s posts about her diploma, 
her wedding dress and the emotional 
stories of her neighbors.
“The stories that she’s been 
putting out, it’s just absolutely 
amazing,” he said.
@ajbafer
abafer@alligator.orgUF alumna’s diploma survives Tennessee tornado
Courtesy to the Alligator
Lauren Hampton Farmer, 31, holds her wedding dress that 
was found after tornadoes in Cookeville, T ennessee destroyed 
her house and spread out her belongings in early March. Her 
husband, Kory Farmer, is wearing his wedding blazer that was 
also found in the aftermath. Her UF diploma was also found in 
the aftermath. She graduated from UF in 2010.
Her wedding dress was also foundFRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinions
Dear President Fuchs,
 My name is Meghan Rodriguez, and I’m currently a 
freshman studying mechanical engineering here at UF. In 
light of everything going on, I understand the difﬁ  culties 
you must be having trying to run this school in a safe and 
efﬁ  cient way while taking into account students’ health.
 I’m writing to you today to give you a personal account 
of how a student is handling all of this change and how 
much this is affecting the kids at your school. I’m so heavily 
a Gator fan, and I love this school endlessly.
 Being an engineering student taking 16 credit hours 
means I’m pretty busy, but it’s a schedule I can still usually 
handle. I am also in two clubs, UF Society of Women 
Engineers and Generational Relief in Prosthetics, along with 
playing for the women’s club soccer team here.
 As developments due to the coronavirus have been 
shared, my life has changed signiﬁ  cantly. My outlet from 
the stress of school has been taken away completely, as 
I can no longer play the sport I’ve loved since I was four, 
along with my clubs here. With school on my mind 100 
percent of the time, my time here became a little harder to 
enjoy.
 Then, classes transitioned to be 100 percent online, 
which was a major change to my academics. Learning 
online has always been such a weakness for me, which 
is why I never choose online classes to begin with. A 
few of my professors have also inadvertently made their 
courses harder with a larger workload to try and 
compensate for no lectures. With the already 
16-credit-hour course load, more work has been 
added on to my schedule from these teachers, not even taking into account my life outside of college.
 Outside of my life here at the university, I’ve grown 
up in Jacksonville, Florida, since I was 10 years old, and 
my parents have just recently moved. All of my hometown 
friends go here though, which I’m beyond blessed for. I don’t 
have any friends back home where I live, so college has 
always been where I consider my home to be, especially at 
UF. With such sudden developments, almost all my friends 
had so quickly left, forcing me to also go home seven weeks 
early to a home where I have no outlets or friends.
 My thoughts have now only been on how to do a 180 of 
everything in my life, and now I’m not really able to even 
focus on school. I have an exam in two days along with 
two next week and another one the following Monday that 
I now have to take at home in an environment not suitable 
for college-level focus.
 My last intention is to write an email to you complaining 
about the situation and how unfair it is because I know it 
is so much worse for other people out there. I wanted to 
give you insight into how much a student out there, who 
is still at school and mostly alone, is personally struggling 
and how much anxiety and stress this is adding to students.
 My point in all of this is that I hope there is a way 
you can allow students to be reassured in school somehow, 
whether that be reaching out to students or providing some 
sort of cushion. I’ve met you a couple of times, President 
Fuchs. I know I am simply one of dozens of thousands of 
kids you have met here, but know you made this school into 
a place that a student like me considers home.
Thank you,
Meghan Rodriguez
Dear Meghan,
Thank you for your thoughtful email and 
kind words.
I regret that you’re not able to play Women’s 
Club Soccer or to be a part of your academic clubs and that 
you’ve been separated from your best friends. Nothing I can 
say right now can replace those joys or those friends or bring 
you back to our campus and the classrooms you love.
 I know from other emails that you are among many 
students doing your best to cope with many unexpected 
hardships. Like you, most students are struggling to make a 
rapid switch to online classes, keep up with their studies and 
move back home, all at once. Thousands have learned that 
the Spring graduation they’d looked forward to for years has 
been postponed, and they may not be able to attend.
 We have students who have already lost jobs and others 
whose family members have been laid off due to the closures 
aimed at slowing the spread of COVID-19. Every student has 
reason to worry about their health and the health of their 
loved ones because the virus is now everywhere.
 These are unprecedented times. And without meaning 
to be discouraging, the days and weeks ahead are likely to 
be tougher — with more hardships.
 Just over 100 years ago, in the fall of 1918, UF was hit 
hard by the worst ﬂ  u pandemic in modern history. Then, 
as now, all athletic events were canceled, along with most 
university activities. A third of our students and some faculty 
got sick. Floyd Hall (today Grifﬁ  n-Floyd Hall) was turned 
into a makeshift hospital — but there were still not enough 
beds, doctors, nurses or drugs to give everyone adequate 
care.
 Several students and at least one faculty member died. 
Yet “classes continued throughout the crisis even if there 
was only a single student present,” according to the book 
“Gator History: A Pictorial History of the University of 
Florida,” by the late UF history professor Samuel Proctor and his late co-author, Wright Langley.
 Those who survived went on to ﬂ  ourish and 
helped create UF as we know it, including, in 
1924, the ﬁ  rst Homecoming.
 When I picture what it must have been like to 
ﬁ  ght the 1918 ﬂ  u pandemic at UF with few tools of modern 
medicine, in rudimentary facilities, in an impoverished era 
for UF, I take heart. With the help of our amazing UF doctors 
and nurses, and with so many working around the clock to 
ﬁ  nd a way to battle COVID-19, I know that we will win this 
ﬁ  ght, too.
 You write about the difﬁ  culty of switching to online 
classes while living in a new city where you don’t have any 
friends. It’s hard to focus on school when you are ﬁ  guring 
out “how to do a 180 of everything in my life,” as you write.
 Meghan, it’s clear to me that you and your fellow 
students are being tested. Indeed your generation — which 
came into the world with 9/11 and goes out into the world 
as adults in a global pandemic — seems to be being tested 
in a way that no generation globally has been tested in my 
lifetime.
 No doubt, this pandemic will change you. I believe it will 
make you more resilient just as it happened with those who 
survived and ﬂ  ourished at UF after the 1918 ﬂ  u pandemic.
 Meghan, again, I am deeply saddened that you and our 
other students are seeing your studies and lives upended. 
When this ends —  and it will end —  I pray that you and 
UF will ﬂ  ourish.
 I look forward to seeing you on campus again.
Warmest regards,
Kent
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. His column appears 
monthly.Coronavi-
rus has 
stripped 
life down 
to its bare 
bones, and pri-
orities have come 
into clearer focus.
You, much 
like the rest of 
your UF peers, 
are probably social distancing 
somewhere. You’re worried 
about the health of your fam-
ily, where your next paycheck 
will come from or if the Great 
Toilet Paper Shortage of 2020 
will come to a much-needed, 
screeching halt.
School is probably the least 
of many people’s concerns 
right now. However, students 
are being subjected to unre-
lenting course work, Zoom 
conferences and the pressure 
of a weighted GPA that seems 
to get more intense with each 
passing day.
Jared Machado, a 22-year-
old UF political science and 
history senior, said classes are 
the least of his worries.
“It’s not a priority right 
now, especially because it’s my 
last semester,” he said. That’s 
because Machado said he has 
family and friends to worry 
about and because it’s harder 
for him to focus on his classes 
now that they are all online.
Drowning in stress and at-
tempting to surface for air, 
more than 18,000 UF students 
penned a petition on Change.
org, pleading for a pass or fail 
option for courses. It’s a call for 
help during this time of great 
uncertainty.
The University of Florida’s 
response?
The No. 7 public university 
in the nation merely posted a 
murky response about possibly 
receiving a pass or fail option 
for certain classes and said that 
UF would notify students about 
when and how they could pe-
tition on its FAQ page. There 
was no ofﬁ  cial announcement 
on real aid for its Student Body. 
This minor tweak to UF’s 
FAQ site came right after UF 
told The Alligator it wouldn’t 
offer pass or fail at all. The 
language was then updated re-
cently to say that UF adminis-
tration and faculty were work-ing on a process 
for classes to be 
considered as pass 
or fail and that 
students would be 
notiﬁ  ed about it. 
Instead of send-
ing out a release 
announcing this 
option for students 
and advertising its 
beneﬁ  ts, UF quietly published 
the pass or fail information on-
line. It’s almost as if they didn’t 
want students to know about 
it.
All of UF, and especially its 
seniors, have been left in the 
dark on their future ever since 
this pandemic crept stateside. 
And Florida failing to listen to 
the cries of help from fellow 
Gators is the latest link in the 
chain of the school’s lack of 
empathy and incompetence 
while handling this crisis.
In a UF Public Affairs re-
lease on March 11, President 
Kent Fuchs said these are 
“extraordinary and uncertain 
times.”
So why won’t Florida take 
extraordinary action and an-
nounce an ofﬁ  cial plan to make 
pass or fail an option for all 
students struggling with this 
pandemic?
You want to be a top 5 
public school? Make top 5 de-
cisions. Don’t do what you’ve 
done since Spring Break and 
leave everyone out to dry.
All throughout this semes-
ter, UF waited for other univer-
sities such as the University of 
Washington, Standford Univer-
sity, the Univesity of California 
Berkeley and more to send its 
students home, shift to online 
classes and now respond to 
pleas to make classes pass or 
fail. 
The UF community was 
also kept in the dark on four 
positive coronavirus cases on 
campus until Florida Gov. Ron 
DeSantis revealed the informa-
tion in a press conference on 
Tuesday.
So, UF, you want to make 
some top 5 decisions? 
Stop following the example 
of others. Set it.
Dylan O’Shea is an 
Alligator sports writer. A student emailed. The president replied. Hey, UF. Listen to your students.Column Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Dylan O’Shea
doshea@alligator.orgEditor’s Note: President Kent Fuchs told The Alligator he received hundreds of emails from students since UF 
announced classes would move fully online through the end of the Spring semester. At his request, and with the 
permission of the email’s author, we are printing one of the emails on this page along with his reply.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-22-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Wanted to Buy or Trade
Freon Wanted: We pay CA$H for cylin-
ders and cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. 
Convenient. Certified Professionals. Call 
312-634-6652 or visit RefrigerantFinders.com     
3-20-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring Summer Camp, After-School, 
Gymnastics, Dance, Ninja Zone and more. 
Join our team. Apply now:
suncountrysports.com/jobs      3-20-20-9-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
LAW SCHOOL/ GOLF COURSE ADJACENT
5BR/3BA
Available August 1st. Rent $2100/mo
Call 904-862-1009    3-30-20-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Robin Stears
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/20/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/20/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, March 20, 2020
ACROSS
1 Incite
5 Modern 
“methinks”
9 Pink flowers in a 
van Gogh still life
14 Water-diverting 
feature
15 It’s not optional
16 Brigham Young 
University city
17 *Bargain on 
the last day of 
Oktoberfest?
19 Urdu for “palace”
20 Blunder
21 Barbarian in 
Dante’s Seventh 
Circle
23 Butterfield of 
“Ender’s Game”
24 Cartomancy deck
26 *Singer Damone, 
vis-à-vis actor 
Morrow?
29 Starfleet school
32 Record holder
33 Ship
34 Accessories for a 
Red Hat Society 
lunch
37 Bond and Bourne
38 *Snoopy’s 
specialist?
41 Scratching post 
material
44 Jai __
45 Its first version 
was egg-shaped
49 Spotted cat
51 Argentina’s “City 
of Diagonals”
53 *One who’ll talk 
your ear off about 
osso buco and 
saltimbocca?
56 Norse group that 
fought the Vanir
57 Hypotheticals
58 Part of AC/DC
61 Minn. neighbor
62 A-listers
65 Basic auto 
maintenance, 
and how each 
answer to a 
starred clue was 
created
67 “Who’s on First?” 
catcher
68 Composer 
Sibelius
69 While away
70 Note next to a red 
F, maybe71 __-Navy game
72 Downfall of many 
kings?
DOWN
1 Old Iberian  
coins
2 Grind
3 Exceeded, as a 
budget
4 Agnus __
5 MIT center?: 
Abbr.
6 Substantial 
content
7 Sun: Pref.
8 The “O” in 
football’s OBJ
9 Tach readout
10 60 minuti
11 “Me too”
12 Hard to follow
13 Says “There, 
there,” say
18 Silver of 
FiveThirtyEight
22 Spots
25 Eccentric
27 “What __ can I 
do?”
28 Snake, for one
30 MIT Sloan deg.
31 Class with mats
35 Entirely36 Authenticating 
symbol
39 North Carolina 
university
40 Through
41 Khrushchev and 
Gorbachev
42 Baffin Bay 
hazard
43 Coastal region
46 Like some lodges
47 Goose-pimply
48 Price-fixing 
groups50 “Chopped” host 
Allen
52 Way to go
54 Spanish red  
wine
55 Less rainy, as a 
climate
59 Oater actor  
Jack
60 Harlem sch.
63 Bagpiper’s hat
64 London __: Ferris 
wheel
66 Letters in an APB
By Morton J. Mendelson
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/19/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/19/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, March 19, 2020
ACROSS
1 Jazzes (up)
5 “Let’s open a 
window”
10 Musical riff
14 Louver part
15 Whistle blower
16 Retailer whose 
logo colors are 
the same as 
on its founder’s 
national flag
17 The con entered 
the bank under 
an __, ...
20 Sly critic
21 Became frothy
22 Fertility clinic 
supply
24 Prefix with content
25 Not agin
26 Amazon snake
27 ... told the banker 
a __, ...
31 Catching a break
32 Iditarod runner
33 “High School 
Musical” extra
34 Crouched behind 
a boulder
35 This and that, say
39 Jack of “The 
Great Dictator”
42 Colorado’s “Steel 
City”
44 ... opened an 
account with  
a __, ...
48 One in a tchr.’s 
key
49 Canadian whisky
50 Old call letters?
51 “The Hollow Men” 
poet’s monogram
52 Giggle
54 It merged with 
CBS in 2019
56 ... and cashed a 
check with a __
60 JFK part: Abbr.
61 Languid
62 Pic to click
63 Koppel and 
others
64 “Long time __!”
65 Like racehorses
DOWN
1 TV ad 
promoting water 
conservation, e.g.2 Golfer Ernie  
from South  
Africa
3 Good enough
4 Bowl over
5 Swell treatment?
6 Classic Ford
7 Word with net 
or ball
8 Anxious med. 
condition
9 American agents, 
familiarly
10 CV, briefly
11 With hands on 
hips
12 Night streaker
13 Bright spot in the 
workweek
18 Copycat
19 Language of 
Oslo, in Oslo
22 Make the  
most __
23 Barn topper
25 Clash of clans
28 Sentence that 
should be two or 
more sentences
29 Crook
30 Laid-back sort
34 New employee36 Over the top
37 Societal woes
38 What a hat may 
symbolize
40 Trapped, after 
“up”
41 Entered
42 Salsa option
43 New York college 
town
44 Tantrum
45 Pre-shoot-out 
score, perhaps46 Cyberhandle
47 Political  
fugitive
53 Driver’s lic. stats
54 Competes
55 Blues singer 
Redding
57 __-cone
58 Hundred Acre 
Wood denizen
59 Apt answer 
for this puzzle 
location
03/18/20
answers on page 7
FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
LEARN HOW
one guy went from $0 to $11,506/day in 
Affiliate marketing? Watch this free webinar 
https://www.clkmg.com/highnooner/1gcafs     
3-20-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
5-12-20-14
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Environment
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training provided
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501         3-20-
20-5-14
Calling Artists, Engineering, Construction, 
Education & Community Majors! Maker 
Summer Day Camp Now Hiring! Do you like 
making crazy things, Getting dirty, Playing 
with kids, with Lots of Laughs along the way? 
Come work with us this summer! F/T $12/hr 
More info at www.masterbuildercamp.com      
5-14-20-20-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low 
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person 
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-30-20-6-14
Social Media Specialist wanted to build and 
execute social media for a local campaign.
Requirements: Demonstrable social network-
ing experience and social analytics tools 
knowledge Call Kelly Suggs @ 352-240-2367   
3-25-20-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"14 Help Wanted 18 Personals
ScrabbleGrams  solutionGoFigure!  solution Stickelers  solution1. What music group appeared on the final episode 
of "The Ed Sullivan Show"?
2. Who sang the other half of the duet with Jennifer 
Warnes in the film "An Officer and a Gentleman"?
3. Name the group that got their start with the non-
memorable name Atomic Mass. (Hint: The drum -
mer only has one arm.)
4. "Hurts So Good" appeared on which John Cougar 
Mellencamp album?
5. Name the song that contains this lyric: "Since 
you've gone I been lost without a trace, I dream at 
night I can only see your face."
FlashBack  answers
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
1. Name The Who guitarist who 
is known for smashing his guitars 
during performances. How did that 
get started?
2. Why did Bob Dylan stop touring 
between 1966 and 1973?
3. What was Wicked Lester?
4. The Polka Tulk Blues Band ended 
up as what band?
5. Name the television show that 
used these lyrics in the theme song: 
“Just sit right back and you’ll hear a 
tale, A tale of a fateful trip.”
Answers
1. Peter Townsend. He accidentally 
broke the head off a guitar during a 
show and afterward continued break-
ing guitars (albeit cheaper ones).
2. He was seriously injured in a 
motorcycle accident, crashing his Tri-
umph Tiger 100SS. Later, however, he 
was quoted as saying he’d wanted to 
get out of the rat race.
3. The original name of Kiss, with a 
short period (1970-1971) being called 
Rainbow. Look for a 1972 bootleg 
album called “The Original Wicked 
Lester Sessions.”
4. Black Sabbath.
5. “Gilligan’s Island,” which aired 
for three seasons from 1964-67, a 
total of 98 episodes. The first season 
was in black and white. The storyline 
tells of castaways who ran aground on 
an island during a storm while on the 
charter boat SS Minnow.
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
January 27, 2020
answers below
1.  Means
1.  Harmony tune5.  Fibbing
2.  Not important 6.  ____ circle
3.  ____ compound7.  Established, situated
4.  ____ carHOMDET
EDMYLOGLINY
EINRN
IRAILTV
GNCIOARLEDCPA
DBYHIRANSWERS: 1A-Method  5A-Lying  6A-Inner  7A-Placed
1D-Melody  2D-Trivial  3D-Organic  4D-Hybrid  B-Death Valley3-20-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This was established as a national monument 
in 1933 and as a national park in 1994.
BONUS
solution below
answers below1. Gladys Knight and the Pips, in 1971. The variety 
show had been on the air for 23 years.
2. Joe Cocker. The song was "Up Where We Belong."
3. Def Leppard, although they did first consider 
Deaf Leopard. Drummer Rick Allen lost his left 
arm in a car accident in 1984, but with a custom -
ized drum kit he kept on playing.
4. "American Fool," in 1982.
5. "Every Breath You Take," by the Police, in 1983. 
Recently it was determined to be the most played 
radio song in history. Rather than being a gentle 
love song, Sting has said that it's a rather sinister 
song about jealousy.Baseball coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan’s team ﬁ  nished No. 1 
in the ﬁ  nal poll of the season. T en 
other SEC teams ﬁ  nished the 
shortened season in the top 25.NCAA launches #UnitedAsOne social media campaign
The campaign launched Thursday at 4:16 p.m. EST, a week after 
remaining winter and spring championships were canceled. It’s 
an effort by member schools to show unity during the COVID-19 
pandemic.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
www. alligator .org
FOR BREAKING NEWS
& DAILY UPDATES
follow us on social media:
Scan these QR codes using 
your smartphone
 @FloridaAlligator
 @TheAlligator
 @TheAlligator_
Scan these QR codes using 
Scan these QR codes using 
Scan these QR codes using 
Scan these QR codes using 
FEATURE
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Claudette Sutherland is in her Lehigh 
Acres, Florida, home sitting in her son’s 
vacant bedroom. 
Her eyes, ﬁ  lled with tears, scan the awards 
and newspaper clippings posted on his walls 
as she reﬂ  ects on the recent events in her 
youngest child’s life.
A basketball clipping from a 2015 News-
Press article reads “Dunbar Senior Chris 
Sutherland is All-State Second Team” 
and another that is a simple headshot of 
Sutherland as a high school senior, sporting 
a white Nike headband and dawning a medal 
around his neck, this clipping highlighting his 
District 2A-12 third-place ﬁ  nish in high jump.
The mother of three isn’t crying because 
her son was injured or lost in tragedy, she’s 
crying because her son made his dream come 
true.
“I’m just so proud of him,” Claudette said 
in a phone interview.
Claudette’s youngest son is Christopher 
Sutherland and at the time of this 
conversation, he was about 30 minutes away 
from taking the court in Knoxville, Tennessee, 
as a member of the University of Florida 
men’s basketball team.
The 6-foot-3 graduate student gained 
notoriety in Gainesville after a video of him 
went viral on Jan. 17.
The video featured Sutherland — a team manager at the time — standing in a circle 
at center court of the team’s practice facility 
with UF managers, players and coaches.
Coach Mike White had just ﬁ  nished 
speaking to the team and asked if there was 
anything else somebody wanted to talk about.
That’s when guard Noah Locke stepped 
forward with a UF basketball home jersey 
featuring the No. 34.
“I’m grateful for all the managers, (I’m) 
also grateful for a manager to be on the 
team now, Wavy,” Locke said, referencing 
Sutherland by his nickname.
The two embraced in a hug when Locke 
presented Sutherland with his new uniform 
— before being rushed by the rest of the team 
in celebration.
Sutherland knew he had gotten the roster 
spot since the fall, however, and restrained 
himself from telling any of his future 
teammates because he was afraid that, like 
so many times before, his dream would 
crumble beneath his feet. But this time, it was 
happening. 
“I thought he was joking (with) me at 
ﬁ  rst,” Sutherland said when recalling White 
asking him if he wanted to join the team. “It 
was a dream I kind of gave up on.”
The dream that manifested in that moment 
was only reached after sacriﬁ  ce and almost 
ﬁ  ve years of conviction — and not just from 
Sutherland.Sutherland is originally from Queens, New 
York, and relocated to Florida with his mother 
and two older siblings in 2008. Sutherland’s 
father, Devon C., couldn’t make the trip with 
his family down south during his formative 
years, however.
Devon, a control operator at Consolidated 
Edison, has been with the energy company in 
New York for the past 34 years. It’s how he 
has provided for the family up to this point, 
and the job prevented him from relocating.
Sutherland wanted his father around 
more, but he was aware that Devon was 
going through his own struggles being away 
from his family.
“My father’s work ethic is really what 
stuck with me — a man that was willing to 
sacriﬁ  ce, probably his own happiness really, 
to make sure his family is good,” Sutherland 
said.
While Devon was in New York, Claudette 
manned the home front in Florida and took 
care of their three children. She also holds 
jobs as both a real estate agent and caterer.
Sutherland recalled his parents’ work 
ethic as an integral part of his upbringing 
and ultimately drove his aspirations to play 
Division I basketball.
“I didn’t want their sacriﬁ  ce to go to 
waste,” he said.
He was a four-year varsity basketball 
player at Dunbar High School in Fort Myers, 
Florida, and averaged 15.7 points per game 
his senior year in 2015. Despite his key role 
in the Tigers’ run to the state semiﬁ  nals, 
Sutherland found himself without any 
Division I scholarship offers.Undeterred, he declined a D2 scholarship 
to Belmont Abbey College and opted to attend 
the University of Florida as a student, planning 
to walk on the men’s basketball team.
Read the rest online at alligator.org/sports 
@JosephSalvador_
jsalvador@alligator.orgWhat it took to be No. 34
Courtney Culbreath // UAA Communications
Christopher Sutherland making his ﬁ  rst 
appearance as a Florida basketball player 
against then-No. 4 Auburn.
•   •   •