We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperIs Adam Sandler Oscar worthy? 
A review of his recent movie “Uncut Gems” ﬁ  nds him charming 
in his role, pg. 7
A new food hub will open this weekend
Six local businesses will be permanent vendors, pg. UF STUDENTS WORRY 
FOR THEIR HOME AND 
FAMIL Y’S SAFETY
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Collapsed houses, crushed 
cars and rubble-ﬁ  lled streets clut-
ter southern Puerto Rico, leaving 
hundreds of people in the street 
as they struggle through after-
shocks.The largest of a series of earth-
quakes that began Dec. 28 struck 
Puerto Rico Tuesday morning, 
killing one and injuring eight. 
The 6.4-magnitude earthquake 
was followed by dozens of after-
shocks, according to The Associ-
ated Press.
The epicenter of the earth-
quake was about seven miles 
away from Guayanilla, the south-
ern part of the island, according 
to the U.S. Geological Survey. Areas most affected by the earth-
quake and aftershocks were in the 
southernmost part of the island.
Natalia Machicote, a 21-year-
old UF biology junior, is from 
Guaynabo in the northern part of 
Puerto Rico. Her family, including 
her grandmother, siblings, cous-
ins and uncles were on the island 
when the earthquake struck.
She said she visited her fam-
ily and friends in December. 
   “I left feeling fulﬁ  lled because I spent a lot of time with them, and 
now, here is this horrible news,” 
Machicote said.
She said she was grateful her 
family and friends live in the 
northern part of the island, but 
they still felt minor shakes.
Puerto Rico faced Category 
5 Hurricane Maria in Sept. 2017 
and still had power outages and 
uncleared landslides two years 
later. Now, these recent earth-
quakes have torn up streets and collapsed buildings as hundreds 
of people took to the streets, ac-
cording to The Associated Press.
U.S. Senators Marco Rubio 
and Rick Scott of Florida and U.S. 
Rep. Jenniffer González-Colón of 
Puerto Rico sent a letter to Presi-
dent Donald Trump Tuesday sup-
porting Puerto Rican Gov. Wanda 
Vázquez’s request that help be 
sent to Puerto Rico.
“The localities that are grap-SHE WAS CHOSEN FROM A POOL 
OF MORE THAN 100 APPLICANTS
By Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs department welcomed a new 
director of LGBTQ+ Affairs on Monday. 
Tiffany Richards is a UF alumna who 
has spent most of her career advocating 
for equality for the LGBTQ+ community, 
people of color and women. She was chosen from a pool of more than 100 
applicants to ﬁ  ll the position after it had 
been vacated by Billy Huff, who now works 
in the communications department at the 
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, 
said William Atkins, the associate dean of 
students and the senior director of MCDA. 
Atkins said Richards was selected for 
the position because of her phenomenal 
performance during the interview and her 
ability to effectively engage with students 
and faculty. “I look forward to her engaging with 
students, faculty, staff, alumni and really 
ﬁ  guring out what the needs in 2020 
are and being strategic around how to 
support student success in the LGBTQ+ 
community,” Atkins said. 
Aldrin Gaffud, a 21-year-old UF civil 
engineering and architecture senior, said 
he’s spent a lot of time in the Rainbow 
Room, the space for LGBTQ+ students 
inside the MCDA, when he held meetings 
there as president of the Queer Professional Organization.
He described the previous director as 
nice but difﬁ  cult to reach, and said he 
has high hopes for what the new director 
could do to provide a voice and advocate 
for students. 
“It’s very hard to feel supported on 
this campus,” he said. “A lot of what UF 
does isn’t as impactful or effective as we 
deserve as LGBTQ+students.”
Richards joins recent hires Bianca New LGBTQ+ affairs director was a UF graduate
Gators improve to 2-0 in SEC play
Andrew Nembhard led the way with 21 points and 
10 assists in the win at South Carolina, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news-WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 44
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news-
 FIRST DAY
IF PASSED, IT 
COULD BE A LAW 
BY JUL Y 1
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
Some students fear a 
proposed bill in the Flor-
ida Senate could make 
voting more difficult for 
young and low-income 
Florida voters.
Florida Sen. Jeff 
Brandes (Pinellas Coun-
ty, Republican) filed the 
bill last Friday, which 
would prohibit a voter 
from using their ID to 
confirm or challenge 
their address.
If the amendment 
passes, the bill could 
become a law on July 1, 
months before the 2020 
general election.
Mackintosh Joachim, a 20-year-old UF politi-
cal science and women’s 
studies junior and a 
former Student Govern-
ment senator, said he 
thinks the bill is a tactic 
to discourage college-
aged and low-income 
voters from voting in 
elections. 
Joachim believes 
that by filing this bill, 
Brandes is also trying 
to prevent young people 
from voting for progres-
sive candidates. 
“It’s just another way 
to suppress votes, like 
the grandfather clause 
or the poll tax,” Joachim 
said.
Things like the grand-
father clause and poll 
taxes disenfranchised 
black voters during the 
Jim Crow era. 
Sen. Brandes could not be reached for com-
ment as of Tuesday 
evening. The Alligator 
attempted to reach him 
via phone and email 
multiple times. 
The bill would likely 
affect the voting pro-
cess for people like Aren 
Saini, a 20-year-old UF 
biology junior.
Saini’s home address 
in Tampa is listed on his 
ID, but he registered to 
vote in Alachua County 
so he could conveniently 
vote at the Reitz Union. 
If the bill passes, 
Saini said he would have 
to change the address on 
his voter registration, 
travel home to vote or 
use mail-in absentee 
ballots.
“Florida is already 
very gerrymandered for Bill could make voting harder
SEE VOTER,  PAGE 3
Puerto Rican UF students aﬀ  ected, fearful of earthquake   SEE LGBTQ+,  PAGE 3
SEE EARTHQUAKE,  PAGE 3Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
Brooke Klinker, 19-year-old UF elementary education sophomore, and Tyler Heﬂ  in, 
20-year-old family, UF family, youth and community science junior, take a selﬁ  e with 
President Kent Fuchs on Turlington Plaza Tuesday afternoon. Klinker said she is excited 
to ﬁ  nish her prerequisites. Heﬂ  in said she is excited to learn more about psychology.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  66° LOW  42°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
WEDNESDAY
Improv Comedy Night
Where: Hippodrome State 
Theatre, located at 25 SE Second 
Place
When: 8 p.m.
What: First Improv Comedy 
Night of 2020 will feature comedy 
teams Sometimes Funny, Theater 
Strike Force and JAAN.
KRS-ONE
Where: The High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave.
When: 8:30 p.m.
What: Kris Lawrence Parker, 
better known by his stage name 
KRS-One, is an American emcee 
and producer known by sev-
eral pseudonyms including “Kris 
Parker,” “The Blastmaster,” “The 
Teacha” and “The Philosopher.” 
KRS-One was the recipient of the 
Lifetime Achievement Award 
At the 2008 BET Awards for his 
work and effort toward the Stop 
the Violence Movement as well 
as his influence on hip-hop music 
and culture.
Drinks and Design
Where: Arcade Bar, located at 6 
E University Ave.
When: 6-8 p.m.
What: AIGA Gainesville hosts the 
Drinks and Design event where 
you can meet fellow creatives 
and see what’s happening within 
the local design community at the 
Arcade Bar. The event offers the 
opportunity to network, socialize 
and meet with the local creative 
community. The event is free to 
attend and open to all.
THURSDAY
Campus Diplomats “Pathfinders” 
Spring Forum 2020
Where: UF Pugh Hall
When: 6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m.
What: The Campus Diplomats 
Spring forum will help people 
learn more about the organiza-
tion, offer opportunities to meet 
Campus Diplomats and explain 
how to apply during its upcom-ing recruiting season.
Florida Cicerones Spring Forum
Where: Emerson Alumni Hall, 
located at 1938 W University Ave.
When: 6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m.
What: The Florida Cicerones are 
the official student ambassadors 
of UF, and their Spring Forum 
serves to inform people of the or-
ganization's internal aspects and 
advice on the application and in-
terview process. Business casual 
is required for the event. 
FRIDAY
Hippvana Nights
Where: Hippodrome State Theatre
When: 9 p.m.
What: Salsa night at the 
Hippodrome with a class taught 
by salsa dancing professionals. At 
10 p.m., DJ Elio Piedra will bring 
live beats to dance to.
Full Moon Drum Circle
Where: Depot Park, located at 
874 SE Fourth St.
When: 7 p.m.
What: Drum circle where people 
from all backgrounds can play 
any instrument, sing and dance. 
The group will meet at the hill on 
the east side of the park.
SOL System - Signal 1.10
Where: 7 SW First St. 
When: 9 p.m.
What: SOL System is a musical 
jam collaboration between mem-
bers of Tamayo, The Broskis, 
and more members at large. The 
event will also feature sets by 
PYSLO and Free Mace. Must be 
18 years or older.
SATURDAY
Kids Day – Our Feathered Friends
Where: Dudley Farm Historic 
State Park in Newberry
When: 10 a.m.
What: Visit Dudley Farm and 
learn about birds and why their 
feathers are so important.
There will be educational demon-
strations and crafts for children.
Children and adults ages 5 to 65 
can participate. The event fea-tures hands-on demonstrations, 
crafts, old fashioned games and 
educational events about farming 
as a way of life.
GatorLAN 2020
Where: Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom/Rion Ballroom
When: 10 a.m.
What: GatorLAN is the larg-
est free gaming event in the 
Southeast. For the first time in 
history, GatorLAN Spring 2020 
will be a 2-day event, happening 
on January 11 and 12. All fight-
ing games will be occurring on 
Saturday in the Grand Ballroom 
while all other games will be hap-
pening on Sunday in the Rion 
Ballroom. GatorLAN features a 
main stage and spectator area, 
high definition production, spon-
sor booths and prizes and give-
aways. 
Winterfest 2020
Where: The High Dive
When: 9 p.m.
What: The first annual 
Winterfest features acts such as 
Juice + HighTec, Keem Isaiah, 
DQ4Equis, REM Music and Jonny 
$oul. Tickets are $10 in advance 
and $15 day of show. Must be 18 
years of age or older. Attendants 
under 21 must pay $3 at the door.
SUNDAY
4th Ave Food Park Grand Opening
Where: 409 SW 4th Ave.
When: 7 a.m.-11 p.m.
What: The 4th Ave Food Park's 
grand opening will have food, 
drinks, fun and music. Blankets 
and lawn chairs are permitted.
The  Florida Vintage Market
Where: Bo Didley Plaza, located 
at 111 E University Ave.
When: 12-5 p.m.
What: The Florida Vintage 
Market features vendors selling 
vintage garments, jewelry, hand-
made goods, art, food, and more. 
Vendor registration is limited. 
For more information, contact 
thefloridavintagemarket@gmail.
com.
CORRECTIONS
In an article titled “Possible can-
cer cures found” in Monday’s edi-
tion, the compound mentioned in 
the article, DT2216, is a potential 
treatment for some cancers. The 
Alligator reported differently and 
changed the headline and the 
first sentence of the story to re-
flect this. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 44
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Emily LaneMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Lily StricklandEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
THEY SAY PUBLIC 
OPINION THE OBSTACLE 
TO AN ACTIVE DRAFT
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
The likelihood of an active 
draft in the near future is slim, 
multiple UF professors said. 
Gaining the public support neces-
sary to reenact the draft would be 
politically impossible.  
In 1973, a draft ended to com-
bat public opposition to the Viet-
nam War. Since then, eligible 
people have continued to register 
for the theoretical future draft in 
the process of applying for feder-
al student aid and driver licenses. 
The Selective Service System would recruit people from that 
registry in the event the U.S. 
faced an immediate existential 
threat and the active draft was 
reinstated. 
The draft is still inactive, the 
selective service clariﬁ  ed in a 
tweet in response to renewed in-
terest following the U.S. airstrike 
on Gen. Qassem Soleimani. It 
would take congressional approv-
al for the draft to activate.
This is unlikely for a number 
of reasons, said Paul Ortiz, a 
UF history professor. Lawmak-
ers would ﬁ  rst need to conduct a 
successful campaign in favor of 
the active draft. Current public 
distrust of the government makes 
this difﬁ  cult.
Incidents like Watergate have seeded public distrust in the gov-
ernment, Ortiz said. Launching a 
campaign to enter a large-scale 
war – drastic enough to neces-
sitate the draft – would require 
faith and support from the public 
that does not currently exist. 
“It’s like the government say-
ing: Hey, trust me. Would I lie to 
you?” Ortiz said. “The answer is: 
Yeah. You lie to me a lot.” 
People don’t want another 
war, Ortiz said. He participated 
in an anti-war demonstration 
at the intersection of Northwest 
16th Boulevard and Northwest 
43rd Street Tuesday afternoon 
and said the support he saw 
there was greater than he’d ex-
perienced in previous demonstra-
tions. UF’s history with the military 
stands 11 stories tall on campus. 
Century Tower was erected in 
1957 as a memorial for alumni 
who died in World Wars I and II. 
Norman Goda, a UF history 
professor, wrote in an email that 
it’s harder to gain support for 
wars far away. Americans feel 
they have less at stake in areas 
like the Middle East, he said. 
President Donald Trump’s his-
tory with the draft serves as an-
other barrier, Goda said. Trump 
evaded the draft in 1968 on the 
grounds of a medical exemption 
for bone spurs in his heels. 
Goda said he can’t imagine a 
successful draft campaign from 
the administration of a president 
who side-stepped it. @haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.org
Gear Up for 
*See store for details.Rent. Learn. Return.
Year-Round Apple® Service Center
Educational Discount with Campus ID*Financial Aid Accepted
Online & In store* Save by renting your textbooks
UFloridaShop.com
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Republicans right now, 
so they just want to dis-
enfranchise more left-
wing voters, generally 
low-income college stu-
dents who don’t have 
addresses matching,” 
Saini said.
While changing 
one’s voter registration 
address is an option, another alternative 
would be to update the 
address on the ID. 
However, because 
some college students 
change their local ad-
dress every school 
year, the more than $30 
charge for the address 
change on a driver’s 
license could become 
costly, Joachim said.
On the other hand, 
Mark Merwitzer, a 19-year-old UF politi-
cal science sophomore, 
said he thinks it’s ex-
tremely unlikely that 
the bill would pass.
Merwitzer said that 
in order for a bill to “re-
ally be concerning,” it 
needs supportive lead-
ership, support of the 
Committee Chair and a 
House or Senate com-
panion. 
“While it is impor-tant to bring attention to 
things like this, I think 
that what we should be 
focusing our attention 
on are bills that are an 
actual threat and that 
actually have a chance 
of passing,” Merwitzer 
said. 
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgQuiñones, the director of 
Hispanic-Latinx Affairs who 
was hired last July and 
Associate Director Patricia 
Jordan, who is expected to start 
Monday. 
The Alligator attempted to 
speak with Richards but was 
told by Atkins that she wouldn’t 
be ready to speak to any media for about a month until she 
is done with her onboarding 
and established within the 
department.  
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.orgVOTER,  from pg. 1 LGBTQ,  from pg. 1It could become law July 1 There was a pool of 100
Professors weigh in: Chance of active draft is slimpling with the effects of the earth 
tremors are smaller municipali-
ties that do not have the neces-
sary resources to handle the situ-
ation alone,” the senators and 
representative wrote. “It will be of great relief to the people of 
Puerto Rico to have the disaster 
support of the White House.”
Machicote said that after Ma-
ria, her family took preparations 
for emergencies more seriously, 
including storing essentials and 
gas. 
“We’re still recovering from Maria,” Machicote said. “It’s all 
very sensitive still from that last 
hit.”
Alejandro Gonzalez, a 19-year-
old UF biology sophomore, is a li-
aison for UEPA, La Unión de Estu-
diantes Puertorriqueños Activos, 
which translates to the Union for 
Puerto Rican Students.
Gonzalez is from San Juan, in 
north Puerto Rico. His family and 
his life is all in Puerto Rico, he said.
“Psychologically, it’s scary,” 
he said. “I’m nervous that an-
other stronger one might appear 
tonight.”
UEPA still hasn’t met to dis-
cuss the earthquakes, but they 
will probably put together a food 
drive like they did for Hurricane 
Maria, Gonzalez said.
Both Machicote and Gonzalez 
want people to be aware of the tragedy and to help when pos-
sible.
“We do a really good job of 
coming together and truly fac-
ing whatever problem we’re con-
fronted with,” Machicote said. 
“Whatever happens, I know 
we’re going to come together and 
get out of the situation.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org EARTHQUAKE,  from pg. 18 people were injured
For the draft to activate:
- U.S. faces an imminent 
existential threat (like a large 
invading nation).
- Politicians conduct a 
successful campaign to reenact 
the draft.
- Congress drafts a bill to 
reenact the draft. 
- The President signs the bill 
into law. 4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE
WORLDORGANIC RAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its Northern 
end and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and sustainable 
wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.comElectric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!
HE ADMITTED TO THE RAPE TWO 
WEEKS AFTER IT HAPPENED
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
Content warning: this story describes a detailed 
account of an on-campus rape.
A UF student was arrested Monday for the 
rape of a woman on campus — almost ﬁ  ve 
months after it was reported to police. 
Elliot Whitney was charged with sexual bat-
tery, according to an arrest report from the Uni-
versity of Florida Police Department. He is a 
20-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, as 
ﬁ  rst reported by the Gainesville Sun. University 
Police said the victim was assaulted by Whitney 
in her dorm room in Jennings Hall Aug. 22. 
Before the rape took place, Whitney is ac-cused of asking the victim if she wanted oral sex, 
which she agreed to, according to the report. In-
stead, Whitney “rolled on top of the victim,” and 
caused her pain. 
When the victim began to cry and asked 
Whitney to stop, he didn’t listen, the report read. 
But approximately two weeks after the rape, 
Whitney admitted to the rape and apologized to 
the victim, according to the arrest report. He said 
this would “haunt him for the rest of his life.”
This is one of four reports of sexual battery to 
take place on UF campus in the last year. 
Last semester, a UF resident assistant was ar-
rested for sexual battery, a former UF football 
player was accused of rape, a UF student was 
raped in Rawlings Hall and another student was 
raped on her way to the UF Homecoming football 
game. 
In October, UF President Kent Fuchs ad-
dressed the alarming sexual assault and sexual misconduct rate at UF and 
other universities in a monthly 
column published in The Alli-
gator. He wrote that UF would 
identify its shortcomings and 
examine its approaches. 
Fuchs wrote that these sta-
tistics show that nearly one 
out of every four female un-
dergraduates — and 5 percent 
of undergraduate male respondents — reported 
experiencing non-consensual sexual contact by 
physical force, threats of physical force or inca-
pacitation since enrolling at their university.
Whitney was released Tuesday from the Ala-
chua County Jail. His bond was set at $100,000.
slagmis@alligator.org
OPUS COFFEE WILL 
SERVE CUSTOMERS IN 
A VINTAGE AIRSTREAM 
TRAILER
Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
A new outdoor dining hub 
is set to open just a few blocks 
from downtown Gainesville this 
weekend. 
4th Ave Food Park, located at 
409 SW Fourth Ave, will celebrate 
its grand opening Saturday at 7 
a.m. Local businesses such as 
Opus Coffee, Humble Wood Fire, 
Fehrenbacher’s Artisan Sausage, 
Sublime Tacos and BakerBaker 
will be permanent vendors at the 
recently finished park, which has 
been open for four years through 
construction. This is the first time customers will be able to 
enjoy the vendors in a completed 
space. 
Local artists and groups such 
as Ben Derrico Music, The Front 
Porch Backsteppers and Ricky 
Kendall will perform at the park 
throughout the day, said Sen 
Khiez, the owner of Sublime 
Tacos. 
One of the centerpieces of the 
food park is a vintage Airstream 
trailer where Opus Coffee will 
operate out of, said Tim Larson, 
who is a co-owner of both the 
food park and the coffee business 
with his brother Bret Larson. The 
trailer has traveled to Canada, 
Mexico, Panama and more. Its 
new location in the food park will 
feature a drink menu inspired by 
its past travels. 
Baked good from BakerBaker will also be sold from the coffee 
shop’s trailer, said the bakery’s 
owner Amanda Bowers. Those 
who attend the grand opening 
from 2-4 p.m. can decorate 
cookies shaped like the Airstream 
trailer. 
BakerBaker will also sell 
specialty and experimental 
pastries that can only be found 
at the Airstream. She wouldn’t 
say what they are. 
”I will let them be a surprise,” 
Bowers said.
Opus Coffee is one of Baylee 
Carroll’s favorite places to grab 
a cup of coffee in town. The 
22-year-old UF agricultural 
education and communication 
junior said she hopes she can 
attend the grand opening. 
 Carroll said she and her 
husband also go to Sublime Tacos often. It’s just a block 
away from their house. 
“Our go-to order is the beef 
burrito all the way with chips on 
the side,” Carroll said. 
The now completed food park 
has been a journey for nearly 
four years in the making. It’s 
almost unrecognizable, Tim 
Larson said. 
“We wanted something that 
was a destination spot,” Tim 
Larson said. 
@MandileSarah
smandile@alligator.orgUF student arrested months after raping woman in dorm
4th Ave Food Park to officially open Saturday morningWhitney
If you or anyone you 
know has been sexually 
abused or is experiencing 
suicidal thoughts, here are 
resources:
- Alachua County Victim 
Services & Rape Crisis 
Center: 352-264-6760
- 24-Hour Sexual Assault 
Helpline: 352-264-6760
- National Suicide 
Prevention Lifeline: 
1-800-273-8255
Here’s what’s 
moving into the 
new food park:
- BakerBaker
- Opus Coffee
- Humble Wood Fire
- Fehrenbacher’s 
Artisan Sausage
- Sublime T acosWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
Faculty Member from the 
UF College of Journalism and Communications
(unpaid member of the board of directors)
The application for this position is available at the 
Alligator ofﬁ  ce, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday 
through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until 
Tuesday, January 14th. Look for the Alligator sign located in 
the lobby. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Friday, January 17th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be 
held on Friday, January 24th at 1 p.m. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator . Applicants must be a faculty member from 
the UF College of Journalism and Communcations.The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position:
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
Kasey Rutledge, 11, looks through posters Tuesday afternoon while 
his older brother, Gage Sasenick, attends a class. Sasenick is a UF 
senior microbiology and cell sciences senior. 
Laura San Juan // Alligator Staff
Giovanna Genta, a 21-year-old UF English junior, ﬂ  ips through posters 
Tuesday afternoon. She said she likes the culture and music posters. 
“I’m an artist myself. I always try to ﬁ  nd artists I’m interested in. Even 
if I’m not looking for something in speciﬁ  c, I always like to look. ” 
Posters left and Reitz
Laura San Juan // Alligator Staff
Laura San Juan // Alligator Staff
Madeline Arlinghaus, 21-year-old UF psychology senior and Matthew Kramer, a 40-year-old 
seasonal traveling salesman, sell posters Tuesday afternoon. Kramer said he enjoys keeping up with 
the cultural trends of younger people. Arlinghaus also works at the Arts and Crafts Center and said 
she loves posters of National Parks.   At the start of each 
semester, UF holds a poster 
sale on the North Lawn of 
the Reitz Union. Students 
can purchase from a wide 
range of posters that depict 
classic movies, musicians 
or art pieces. 6   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
Margaret Dotson // Alligator Staff
The LGBTQ+ Welcome Assembly,  hosted by the Pride Student Union, was one of the 
first few things I shot for The Alligator as a photography intern during the fall 2019 
semester. I knew I wanted to get some sort of behind-the-scenes photo, but I also 
didn’t want to invade anyone’s privacy while they were changing costumes. Ivy Les 
Vixens, a local Burlesque dancer, let me come into her dressing room and said she 
was just finishing up her makeup if I wanted to take some pictures. So I did.
Sam Thomas // Alligator Staff
This was one of my first big photo assignments as the multimedia editor in the Fall 
semester. We were doing a feature story on the homeless residents of Dignity Village 
and the city’s plan to close down the encampment. One of the first people we spoke 
with was Amanda Smith, a soul with a sense of optimism that was easy to catch. I took 
this photo during a pause in our conversation with Smith, and it stood out to me as 
a truly candid moment. It’s sad but hopeful. Smith was the spark of life in this often 
bleak community.Emily Felts // Alligator Staff 
I took the photo of Natalie Fernandez and Alexander Lee while everyone was 
listening to the protest organizers speak. I remember looking up and seeing Natalie’s 
face while she jeered or cheered at whatever the speaker said. My instinct was to 
just take the picture and walk away. When I was in the back scrolling through the 
content I had, I realized how impactful her expression was and knew I had to find 
her and Alexander to ask for their names. T o me, this picture makes a person realize 
how deeply people care about who speaks at our school, what vision we portray as a 
whole and how powerful and impactful students can be. Sometimes, pictures paint an image words simply cannot. 2019 told hundreds 
of stories, and our photojournalists were able to capture those moments through 
the lens. From moving shots to action-filled stills, there was plenty to see in the 
Gainesville area. Photographers Chris Day, Emily Felts, Margaret Dotson and 
Sam Thomas chose their five favorite photos from 2019 and explained what the 
photos below mean to them.
Chris Day // Alligator Staff
I took this photo during a vigil on the one-year anniversary of the shooting at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School. The Alligator wanted to deliver images that would 
reflect the somber nature of the event and the palpable emotion in the air.  I saw this 
student, Lily Alperstein, sitting near the edge of the crowd. She had a particularly 
expressive face, and I could see the clear emotion she felt as the candlelight highlighted 
her teary eyes. I eventually came away with this image, which I felt encapsulated the 
emotion rippling throughout the crowd. 
Chris Day // Alligator Staff
I took this photo over the summer while working as the multimedia editor. A 
panhandler had been struck and killed in April. This photo was taken in May while 
ordinances were being discussed on where panhandling would be allowed in the city. 
T o put a face to this decision, I went in search of a homeless person who survives 
based on the money they collect while panhandling. This man, William Irmen, made 
for a striking sight standing shirtless with only a green bandana protecting him from 
the sweltering heat of a Florida summer. After introducing myself, he was welcoming 
and open to me taking photos of him. After first taking a few wide-angle shots 
showing the cars passing by, I noticed his tattered sign. Switching to my telephoto 
lens, I realized that a shot of his worn sign being held against his weathered and 
tanned hands could be visually representative of all panhandlers. 
2019 wrap-up: 5 photosWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
KRS-One to perform at High Dive tonight
The hip-hop legend will take the stage alongside lo-
cal artists at 8:30 p.m. Women’s basketball in search of back-to-back wins
Following a win against Vanderbilt, the Gators are traveling to 
Alabama to take on the Auburn Tigers. Pg. 11ADAM SANDLER IS 
OSCAR-WORTHY IN 
THE SAFDIE BROTHERS’ 
LATEST FILM
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
In “Uncut Gems,” Adam 
Sandler receives the spotlight in 
the role of a lifetime. He plays 
Howard Ratner, a degenerate 
gambler, unfaithful husband and 
owner of KMH Gems and Jewelry 
in Manhattan’s Diamond District. 
Brothers Benny and Josh 
Safdie are coming off of the suc-
cess of their 2017 film “Good 
Time,” a New York City crime 
film about a bank robber, played 
by Robert Pattinson, who at-
tempts to free his brother from 
prison. Both films are brutal 
tellings of crime and luxury set 
in New York. “Good Time” is a 
primer for the non-stop Category 
5 sex, money and celebrity-filled 
hurricane that is “Uncut Gems.”
The film is relentless�—
from the opening in an Ethio-
pian mine, the film snatches the 
viewer’s attention. Before you 
know it, you’re immersed deep 
in New York City’s all-cash-and-
handshake Diamond District. As 
you follow Howard, you see his 
downward spiral as his “plan” is 
repeatedly torn to shreds. Words 
like “vig” and “parlay” become 
second nature to the audience as they go along for the ride. He 
runs from here to there, yelling 
greetings, taking calls, making 
deals, always moving amid jump 
cuts, zooms and lurid close-ups. 
The superb cinematography is by 
Darius Khondji, shooting on a 
35-millimeter film. 
Sandler’s true self disappears 
during his role as Howard Rat-
ner, but he leaves enough of 
himself exposed to ensure the au-
dience still sees his charisma un-
derneath the Ferragamo belt and 
Cartier glasses. This makes him 
perfect to play Howard — some-
one with little to no redeeming 
qualities because Sandler’s pres-
ence is charming, even if unin-
tentional. Only an actor with the 
star power of Sandler tips this 
movie from a crime thriller to a 
dark comedy. 
Howard regularly cheats on 
his wife, neglects his children, 
extorts his friends and continues 
the irrational behavior all the 
way until the end — and yet the 
audience can’t help but side with 
him in the film’s final sequence. 
Howard, from the start of the 
film, is being followed, beaten 
and stripped naked for money 
he owes around the city. The 
small but ever-so-present Dia-
mond District, and more particu-
larly Ratner’s store KMH Gems 
and Jewelry, are characters in 
the film. Tracking shots where 
viewers follow him from block 
to block, store to store provide a clear layout of the small chunk 
of Manhattan. His store is two 
floors; at the top of the stairs 
there is a vestibule where the 
guest must look into the camera 
to be buzzed in. This seems like 
a small detail, but the layout of 
this store is the main component 
of many jokes and sequences 
that range from hilarious to pan-
ic-inducing. 
There have been a few mov-
ies in 2019 with items that seem 
to have mystical power: the light 
in “The Lighthouse,” the rock in 
“Parasite” and the love rune in 
“Midsommar.” In “Uncut Gems” 
the item is the black opal. A 
gem purchased by Howard from 
Ethiopia, the opal proves to have 
an ominous, near-magical and 
increasingly dangerous hold on 
everyone who comes in contact 
with it, such as NBA champion 
Kevin Garnett. Howard believes 
that the opal will save him — he 
plans to sell it at auction — but 
like good fortune, the precious 
lump keeps slipping from his 
grasp. For the most part, the 
Safdies seem to enjoy mucking 
up Howard’s plans, intensifying 
his rotten luck, bad choices, col-
lapsing home life and squabbles, 
pointless or otherwise. 
There are shots where the 
camera zooms into the opal and 
later Howard himself. These 
moments are evocative of the 
“2001: A Space Odyssey” mono-
lith sequence featuring beautiful shapes and colors and eventually 
the stars. The uncut black opal 
is taken out of the earth and uni-
verse — made by randomness 
and chaos, just like Howard. The 
opal is gorgeous yet barbaric, 
and equally represents the uni-
verse as well as capitalism at its 
most exploitative. 
The Safdies don’t judge How-
ard. Instead, they situate him 
in a specific historical moment. 
Like the black opal, the film 
manages to elude the viewer’s 
grasp. Every time one thinks 
they can breathe, the Safdie’s bring another sequence of loud, 
fast-cutting cinema that equals 
out to one of 2019’s best films. 
Bring your KMH Gems and Jew-
elry water because you’re going 
to need it after the final scene. 
Prerequisites: “Good Time” 
and “Punch Drunk Love” 
Score: 9/10
ccann@alligator.org
@chrstophercannRate and Review: “Uncut Gems”
MOVIES
Adam Sandler — Courtesy of A24
“Uncut Gems” scored biggest box ofﬁ  ce opening for distributor 
A24.
THE COMPETITION WAS HELD 
AT KANAPAHA BOTANICAL 
GARDENS
Cassandra Perez
Avenue Editor
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens was 
ablaze with ﬂ  owers in every shade of red, 
white and pink over the weekend as the 
Gainesville Camellia Society held its 44th 
annual two-day sale and show. 
Nearly 1,500 camellias were submitted 
for the panel’s consideration. Judged against 
the book of nomenclature for camellias as 
determined by the American Camellia Soci-
ety, everything from the ﬂ  owers’ color, size 
and shape were carefully scrutinized. Winners were divided along categories 
based on the type and size as well as details 
such as whether they were grown indoors 
or outdoors and if gibberellic acid was used 
to aid the growing process. 
According to 77-year-old Gainesville na-
tive and society member John Swanson, 
North Central Florida’s hospitable climate 
makes cultivating camellias fairly simple. 
“They’re pretty easy to care for — one or 
two years in the ground with a little supple-
mental irrigation,” Swanson said. “But after 
that, they’ll tolerate normal weather condi-
tions here.”
Once established, camellias can ﬂ  ourish 
for years with little maintenance. The ﬂ  ow-
er’s resilience and tendency to bloom in the 
winter has earned it the title “Queen of the 
Winter Garden.”“There’s a lot of work, but it’s fun,” 
Swanson said. “For growing camellias, fall 
and winter are the best times for planting.” 
Show Chairman Jerry Hogsette said 
many members of the society are retirees 
from diverse walks of life who have found 
a commonality in the camellia. A research 
entomologist himself, Hogsette ﬁ  nds this 
extremely valuable. 
“We have a lot of retirees that come 
from other parts of the world,” Hogsette 
said. “And they were gardeners where they 
were, and so we give them the advice and 
information to garden here, mainly with ca-
mellias.”
Hogsette, who has 500 camellias of his 
own, said the ﬂ  ower’s endless size and col-
or variations — over 5,000 in number — is 
what makes growing them so addicting. “Everytime you think you saw the last 
one, you see another one.” Hogsette said.
Hogsette suggests that those interested in 
learning more about the camellia attend a 
society meeting, which meets the third Sun-
day of every month from September through 
May at Kanapaha Botanical Gardens. These 
monthly meetings are devoted to discussing 
the technicalities of growing camellias, in-
cluding air layering, grafting and applying 
gibberellic acid for larger blooms.
More information about the Gainesville 
Camellia Society can be found on its web-
site. 
@cassandraperez0
cperez@alligator.orgGainesville Camellia Society hosts annual show and sale
MUSIC8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
SEX PODCAST 
NOMINATED FOR 
BEST ADVICE AND 
INSPIRATIONAL PODCAST 
STIRS CONVERSATION
Rachelle Westervelt
Contributing Avenue Writer
“Cheat or be cheated on that’s 
our mantra, b****es,” jokes podcast 
hosts Alexandra Cooper and Soﬁ  a 
Franklyn on their comedy sex pod-
cast, “Call Her Daddy.”
In November 2019, “Call Her 
Daddy” was nominated for best ad-
vice and inspirational podcast of the 
year by iHeartRadio. But should lis-
teners take advice from this podcast?
“Call Her Daddy’s” ﬁ  rst episode, 
“Sext Me So I Know It’s Real,” aired  
Oct. 3, 2018. Cooper and Franklyn, 
both women in their late 20s, met 
in New York City when looking for 
roommates. After living together for 
six months, the hosts said that it had 
been a wild ride, which gave them 
the idea to share their crazy stories 
on “Call Her Daddy.”
Every Wednesday, the hosts air 
a new episode, which typically in-
cludes embarrassing stories, social 
media trends, ideas for better sex and 
Q&As.
In Fall 2019, the podcast took off, 
reaching a ﬁ  ve-star rating on iTunes. 
While many college students ﬁ  nd the 
podcast entertaining, some students 
were concerned about the effects this podcast could have if people consid-
ered it to be good advice.
Madison Lange, 21-year-old UF 
telecommunication senior with a 
minor in women’s studies, said al-
though she thinks the podcast can 
be funny and empowering, the hosts 
promote an unhealthy culture in re-
lationships.
Lange said she disagreed with 
the hosts’ encouragement to remove 
emotions in sexual relationships and 
their warnings that every relationship 
is tumultuous.
“I don’t relate to them too much 
because I think it’s important to have 
human connection and deep relation-
ships,” Lange said. “But since I don’t 
relate to them, it makes them even 
more interesting because I don’t live 
a life like theirs.”
On the other hand, Wilmarie 
Vazquez, 22-year-old UF communi-
cation sciences and disorders alum-
na, said although she found the pod-
cast to be hilarious, she doesn’t relate 
to the hookup culture. However, 
she’s not naïve to it and understands 
why college students would relate to 
the podcast. 
Vazquez said even though she 
is Hispanic, she didn’t feel unrepre-
sented when listening to the “typical 
valley girl” hosts.
“Overall, it’s not about whether 
a certain ethnicity can relate or feel 
excluded, it’s about whether you 
choose this speciﬁ  c college lifestyle 
and expose yourself to that culture,” 
she said.
Jelani Glass, a 21-year-old UF marketing senior, appreciated the 
hosts’ willingness to talk about sex. 
“I do think that sex should be 
talked about more, especially grow-
ing up as a gay male,” Glass said. “If 
we talk about it more, I think our so-
ciety could progress more.”
Glass liked the idea of the sex 
podcast; however, he also found it to 
be unrepresentative because most of 
their advice was for “attractive peo-
ple.” Glass said the hosts tried to rep-
resent less attractive people, but their 
advice wasn’t always applicable.
In one episode, the hosts encour-
aged college girls that were not attrac-
tive, or “under a 7,” to sleep around. 
“The ramiﬁ  cations of sleeping 
around can be more harmful than 
the reputation they’re encouraging 
less attractive people to build,” Glass 
said. “The hosts could instead be 
more careful about educating people 
on how to have safe sex.”  
Although Glass found the pod-
cast to be entertaining, he said the 
hosts only scratch the surface and 
don’t dive into more taboo top-
ics or welcome guest speakers who 
have varied experiences and beliefs. 
Glass considers the podcast to be 
mainstream, compared to one of his 
favorite podcasts called, “Guys We 
F***ed.” He prefers this podcast be-
cause “you hear a huge rainbow of 
things,” Glass said.
Another student was unfamiliar 
with the podcast when she listened 
to the controversial episode  “College 
Life: Being Hot vs. Not.” Emily Lube,  
20-year-old UF botany junior, said she was “turned off” by the episode 
because the hosts, who she admitted 
to stereotyping as “pretty girls,” were 
being judgmental.
“Their goal probably isn’t to 
spread knowledge about women 
sexuality; they’re just trying to have 
fun,” she said, “But middle-school-
aged girls could totally listen to this 
and learn the wrong things.” 
While these students don’t believe 
people should view their content as 
advice, others view the podcast as 
inspirational, including iHeartRadio.
“I thought ‘Call Her Daddy’ was 
empowering because it’s an out-of-
the-norm thing, and the fact that the 
hosts can talk about their sex lives 
bluntly is empowering,” said Megan 
Ngo, an 18-year-old business admin-
istration freshman.
Ngo appreciated Cooper and 
Franklyn’s advice to be careful about 
sending nudes. The hosts also ex-
plained that on FaceTime, people can 
screen record and take screenshots 
without the other person knowing, 
which opened Ngo’s eyes to how un-
safe FaceTime sex can be. 
“It was weird in the beginning, 
but in the end, it was like watching 
your favorite YouTuber,” Ngo said. 
While some agree with iHeartRa-
dio and perceive the podcast to be 
inspirational, the hosts don’t seem to 
think this award is ﬁ  tting. Franklyn 
revealed she was shocked at being 
nominated for best advice and inspi-
rational podcast, saying, “Someone’s 
either playing a joke, or someone’s 
about to get ﬁ  red from their job.” Cooper agreed, “It doesn’t make 
sense guys.”
Although the hosts were able to 
criticize and make fun of their own 
podcast, Franklyn said it was offen-
sive to Oprah, another nominee of 
best advice and inspirational pod-
cast, whose goal is to give healthy 
advice.
“We’re not focused on inspiring 
or doing advice,” Cooper said.
“Call Her Daddy” is known to be 
crazy and hilarious -- that’s the goal 
of the podcast, not to give healthy 
advice.
Laurie Mintz, professor in the UF 
psychology department and author 
of “Becoming Cliterate” said she be-
lieves “equality should not only oc-
cur in the boardroom, but in the bed-
room as well.”
Mintz enjoyed the podcast overall 
but felt that it shouldn’t be taken as 
qualiﬁ  ed advice about sex and rela-
tionships.
Mintz said the hosts were mis-
leading men and women in their 
advertisements for Roman Swipes, 
which are wipes that are supposed 
to help men last longer, but put pres-
sure on men and are “not scientiﬁ  -
cally sex-accurate.” 
“People need to approach this for 
what it is – entertainment and per-
sonal individual stories about how 
people approach sex. People should 
not use this as a role model because 
it’s not sex education,” Mintz said.
@shellwestervelt“TIME WILL TELL ” OFFERS 
SOCIAL AND 
POLITICAL COMMENTARY
Samantha Scribano
Avenue Staff Writer
Leaning Trees, a local ambient and 
rock ‘n’ roll band covering genres such 
as Americana and art rock, challenges 
their listeners with their most recent 
album, “Time Will Tell.” The band re-
leased the album Jan. 2 and performed 
some of the songs for the ﬁ  rst time at 
The SL8 Gallery and Venue Jan. 3.
J.M. Weeks, guitarist, band manag-
er and songwriter, explains the goal of 
increasing awareness about the world 
both socially and politically through 
the songs in this 11-track album.
The fourth song, “Close Your Eyes,” 
is one example of the band commu-
nicating these messages.  Contrary to 
its title, the song actually encourages 
people to open their eyes about social 
and political issues, Weeks said.
His personal favorite from the al-
bum is “Sticks and Stones” because he 
is most satisﬁ  ed with the sound and 
the clarity of its message.
“In my writing, I never really want 
to go as far as telling people how to 
vote or who to vote for or anything like 
that,” he said. “It’s more just evaluat-
ing the environment we’re living in and thinking about the political atmosphere.”
He said there is a noticeable difference between 
the sound of “Time Will Tell” and the music they 
have produced in the past. For example, Weeks said 
their ﬁ  rst LP was more of a roots and rock record 
including various love songs. Weeks points out a 
contrasting nervous and anxious sound in the new 
songs.
“To me, it’s colder sounding in a lot of ways,” 
he said.
Along with a change in subject matter and the 
feeling these songs express, “Time Will Tell” has a 
different structure than their previous work.
Andy Sullivan, slide guitarist, describes the struc-
ture as more progressive, ambient and experimental. 
He said they explored more tonalities with greater 
intricacy throughout this album.
 “It’s still folk-based, but more experimental,” 
Sullivan said.
 Michael Gross, lead guitarist, also ﬁ  nds more 
depth in their new music. He said he has a hard 
time choosing a favorite because of the multiple lay-
ers each song has.
“All of the songs have parts that catch me,” Gross 
said.
While all listeners are welcome, Weeks antici-
pates people who are interested in poetry and visual 
arts will particularly enjoy this album.  
“Time Will Tell” is currently available on Ama-
zon Music Unlimited, NoiseTrade and Bandcamp 
and will soon be available on Spotify and iTunes.
@samscribano98
Call Her Daddy — Inspiration or Bar Talk?Local band releases thought-provoking album
 LIFESTYLE
MUSIC
Courtesy of Elise Weeks
 Leaning Trees’ latest LP is more  experimental than its predecessors.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-141For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Robin Stears
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/08/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/08/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, January 8, 2020
ACROSS
1 Clemson’s NCAA 
div.
4 Thom of shoes
8 Preposterous
14 Mexican Mrs.
15 “__ that the 
truth!”
16 Bullpen ace
17 “Killing Eve” star
19 Remote
20 Cockpit figure
21 Award-winning “A 
Raisin in the Sun” 
actress
22 Yin partner
23 It’s a long story
25 Legal 
postponement
26 Terrific bargain
28 West with 21 
Grammys
31 Sugar suffix
32 Open __ night
34 Bathtub buildup
35 Spot for pillow 
talk
36 “Full Frontal” host
39 23-campus West 
Coast ed. system
41 General Bradley
42 Ariz. neighbor
43 Part of MYOB 
and BYOB
44 Justice 
Sotomayor
46 Big name in 
whisky
50 Wine quality
52 Long-running 
Mark Harmon 
military drama
54 Congregation 
area
55 First chief justice
58 Made a 
comeback
60 Synchronicity
61 “Take Good Care 
of My Baby” 
singer
62 Fame
63 Luminous glow
64 KC-to-NYC dir.
65 English Channel 
swimmer
66 Walk of Fame 
figure
67 CD-__DOWN
1 Analyzes for 
purity
2 Decorative 
neckwear
3 Bloodhound, e.g.
4 Gas station store
5 They’re often 
exchanged in 
Venice
6 Hooded Arctic 
jacket
7 Unspecified 
degree
8 Org. with a 
“Speak Freely” 
blog
9 Gooey mass
10 Some HDTVs
11 Was
12 Turn loose
13 Unmoved
18 Portuguese 
explorer Vasco
21 Italian alternative
24 Stomach-related
27 Bridal party rides
29 Chinese currency
30 Insert into an 
email, as a video
33 Commando garb, 
for short36 Pleasant forecast 
word
37 Live-in helper, 
perhaps
38 In equal shares
39 Cast a spell, say
40 Passed out
45 Freshen 
by opening 
windows
47 Written 
relinquishing of 
rights48 “Skin Mind 
Balance” brand
49 Cash in
51 Former CNN 
journalist David
53 Hummus brand
56 Lower jaw
57 Pulitzer poet 
Sexton
59 Letter-shaped 
brace
61 English lit 
degrees
By David Poole
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/07/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/07/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, January 7, 2020
ACROSS
1 Indian music style
5 French “to be”
9 Goldman __: 
investment 
banking giant
14 Go with the __
15 Thieves’ hideout
16 Thief
17 Not be serious
19 Like the accent in 
passé
20 French monarch
21 Hockey score
23 Cold War mil. 
program
24 “Answer with the 
first thing that 
comes to mind” 
exercise
29 Golfer Michelle
30 “I’ve seen better”
31 Playground 
equipment
32 Quaint lodging
33 Passé
36 World’s largest 
lizards
42 “Peer Gynt Suite” 
dancer
43 “Mangia!”
45 Wine city north of 
Lisbon
48 CEO’s degree
51 Wallet single
52 ’70s Chilean 
president
56 Ed.’s backlog
57 Actress Russo
58 World Cup cheer
59 Funny Cheri
61 Nutty ice cream 
parlor order ... and 
a hint to each set 
of circled letters
66 Seasonal mall 
temp
67 “Omigosh!”
68 Loitering, say
69 German steel city
70 Some pipe joints
71 Utopia
DOWN
1 D.C. United’s 
former stadium
2 “Green Book” 
Oscar winner 
Mahershala
3 Neptune or Pluto
4 Palme d’Or, e.g.5 Kid-lit girl who 
lives on the 
“tippy-top floor” of 
the Plaza Hotel
6 Cross-shaped 
Greek letter
7 Second Beatle 
on the “Abbey 
Road” cover
8 Ambulance 
patient’s MD
9 Scoundrel
10 Fly ball’s path
11 “My __ Vinny”: 
1992 comedy
12 Show-off
13 Wound yarn units
18 Travel aimlessly
22 “Whose Line Is 
It Anyway?” host 
Tyler
24 1914-’18 conflict, 
briefly
25 Farm grunt
26 Nevada casino 
city
27 Photo session
28 Latin jazz great 
Puente
34 Pres. or P.M.
35 Pulitzer category
37 Sportscaster 
Albert38 Toronto native
39 LED component
40 Hard-to-miss sign
41 Beach pailful
44 Summer shirt
45 Be absorbed 
gradually
46 Farfalle and fusilli
47 Acting twins 
Mary-Kate and 
Ashley
49 Cambridge 
chaps50 Treaty partner
53 Sandwich shop 
specification
54 Lubricate again
55 Like “Stranger 
Things”
60 Numbered hwy.
62 Lowest-ranking 
NCO
63 Roulette bet
64 Brewpub pour
65 Thieves’  
hideout
01/06/20
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatest
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!  MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020, Non-Nazi 
Republican, Not divorced or bankrupt.
For TRUE TIME Standards &
MAKING AMERICA GOAT AGAIN!
Paid for by Mitchell Willliams, Republican for 
President P O Box 33 Palatka, FL 32178
1-15-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
WANT BETTER GRADES?
Simply improve your memory.
Call for free consultation.
Unique Hypnosis 516-996-2798    1-10-20-
3-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D15 Services 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
1. Kendrys Morales set a 
Toronto Blue Jays record in 
2018 by homering in seven 
consecutive games. Who 
had held the franchise 
mark?
2. How many consecutive 
seasons did Boston's Wade 
Boggs have 200 or more 
hits?
3. Who was the first offensive lineman to twice finish 
in the top 10 of H eisman Trophy balloting?
4. Name the first woman to coach a championship-
winning team in the WNBA.
5. Who was the oldest player to win the Conn 
Smythe Trophy as the NHL playoff MVP?
6. Jill Ellis set a record in 2019 for most games 
coached with the U.S. women's national soccer team 
(132). Who had held the mark?
7. From whom did boxer James J. Braddock win the 
heavyweight title from in 1935, and who beat him 
for it in 1937?1. Who was the last pitcher before 
Arizona’s Zack Greinke in 2018 to 
have a hit, an RBI and a stolen base in 
at least two games in a season?
2. Name either of the major-league 
pitchers who led his respective league 
in shutouts a record seven times.
3. When was the last time before 2018 
that Army’s football team was ranked in 
The Associated Press Top 25 poll?
4. Dwane Casey holds the record for 
most career regular-season victories 
(320) as coach of the Toronto Raptors. 
Who is second?
5. When was the last time the Boston 
Bruins won 50 or more games in con-
secutive NHL seasons?
6. The U.S. women’s soccer team 
set a Women’s World Cup group stage 
scoring record in 2019 with 18 goals 
in three games. What country had held 
the record with 17 goals?
7. How many fights did former 
heavyweight boxing champion Joe 
Frazier have after losing to Muham-
mad Ali in the Philippines in 1975?
Answers
1. Bob Gibson, in 1969.
2. Walter Johnson (A.L.) and Grover 
Cleveland Alexander (N.L.).
3. It was 1996. 
4. Sam Mitchell, with 156 victories 
(2004-09).
5. The Bruins did it from the 1970-71 
season through the 1973-74 season.
6. Norway (1995).
7. Two fights.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
November 25, 2019King Features Weekly Service
answers below
answers belowsolution below1. Jose Cruz Jr., with six consecutive games in 2001.
2. Seven consecutive years (1983-89).
3. Pittsburgh's Bill Fralic (1983 and '84).
4. Anne Donovan, with Seattle in 2004.
5. Boston goalie Tim Thomas was 37 when he won the 
award in 2011.
6. April Heinrichs, with 124 games coached.
7. He won the title from Max Baer and lost it to Joe Louis.Sports Quiz  answers Sudoku  answersScrabbleGrams solutionTo submit your classified ad for print and/or web 
editions thru our website
Just go to   www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONSFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Scottie Lewis was named 
SEC Freshman of the Week 
on Monday for his 15-point, 
10-rebound performance in the 
men's basketball team's 104-98 
win over Alabama.Cornerback Marco Wilson announces plans to return to UF
Wilson, who started opposite C.J. Henderson this year, will not declare for 
the NFL Draft this season, he announced on Twitter. "Our team still has a lot 
of goals that we are still working to accomplish and I would love to be a part 
of that experience, " he wrote. 
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The performance of Florida’s 
women’s basketball team mid-
way through the season has 
gradually turned some heads.
UF currently sits at 10-5, 
markedly better than the 8-23 
record it ﬁ  nished with last sea-
son.
Losing two consecutive 
games to then-No. 18 Indiana 
and then-No. 12 Florida State 
at the O’Connell Center in late 
November was not that surpris-
ing, especially considering the 
strength of the opponents and 
the fact that the defeats came 
less than a month into the cam-
paign.
The Gators responded by 
winning six out of their next 
nine contests. However, their 
three losses came away from 
home, including a 93-47 smack-ing against then-No. 15 Missis-
sippi State in the conference 
opener.
“Our ﬁ  rst SEC game was a 
learning experience,” redshirt 
junior guard Kiara Smith said. 
“After that, we came to practice 
and talked about exactly what 
we needed to do, how we need-
ed to work on the little things.”
After beating Vanderbilt in 
the O’Dome on Sunday, Florida 
has the chance to correct its 
problems Thursday night. The 
Gators travel to Alabama to take 
on Auburn, and with a victory, 
they will begin conference play 
2-1 for the ﬁ  rst time since the 
2015-16 season.
History is not on UF’s side, 
though.
Florida has dropped three 
straight meetings against the 
Tigers and hasn’t prevailed at Auburn Arena in ﬁ  ve years.
But AU has lost its last two 
games by double digits, includ-
ing a 22-point drubbing at the 
hands of the Commodores, who 
the Gators beat by eight on Sun-
day.
Coach Cam Newbauer has 
not been afraid to go with youth 
in his starting ﬁ  ve, and he has 
been rewarded for it.
In a team led by redshirt se-
nior forward Zada Williams and 
Smith, freshman guard Lav-
ender Briggs has not been shy 
about shooting the ball. 
Briggs leads the team in 
points (14.3 per game), ﬁ  eld 
goals made (81) and three-point 
percentage (34.9). And her 19 
points against Vandy marked 
her 13th-consecutive game with 
double-digit points (the longest 
streak by any Florida player By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Florida’s leading scorer and rebounder, forward Kerry 
Blackshear Jr., found himself on the bench for the majority 
of the night after some early foul trouble.
It was not ideal for a conference game on the road.
And yet, Florida has now won back-to-back SEC games 
and is on a three-game win streak after an 81-68 victory 
over South Carolina on Tuesday in Columbia, South Caro-
lina.
Blackshear, who’s averaging 14.9 points and nine re-
bounds a game, only played two minutes in the ﬁ  rst half. 
Coach Mike White had to ﬁ  nd some offense that wasn’t 
manufactured by his graduate transfer from Virginia Tech 
in order to get his 200th career win as a coach.
Forward Keyontae Johnson and guard Andrew Nemb-
hard carried the load with 10 and nine points, respectively, 
in the ﬁ  rst half of action to compensate for Blackshear’s 
foul trouble.
Both sophomores each played 18 minutes in the ﬁ  rst half 
of action, but perhaps the biggest contribution of the half 
came from forward Omar Payne who got his hands dirty 
with eight rebounds — four of them coming on the offen-
sive glass.
“He’s got elite length, his motor has improved, he’s com-
ing into his own a little as an offensive rebounder,” White 
said at halftime in an interview with ESPNU.
Freshman guard Scottie Lewis also had nine points in the 
ﬁ  rst half despite only averaging 8.7 points on the season.
The Gamecocks (8-6, 0-1) were coming off a devastating 
63-56 loss to Stetson — a team that was only 6-9 — before 
opening SEC play against Florida (10-4, 2-0), and it was 
expected that the Gamecocks would come out with a chip 
on its shoulder.All they found was 
inconsistent play and 
14 turnovers.
Defense was hard 
to come by for the 
Gamecocks at times, 
and Florida’s aggres-
sion in the paint and 
ball movement was 
more than enough to 
win.
Nembhard put on a 
masterful performance 
to close out the game 
—both scoring and 
passing — and ended 
with a 21-point and 
10-assist double-dou-
ble. The ﬂ  oor general 
also had three steals 
and a block in his 37 
minutes of action.
White has made 
a point to not let his 
players listen to out-
side noise or ﬁ  nd any 
reason to be overconﬁ  dent. He made sure that his players 
— especially his freshmen —knew what it was going to be 
like to play a South Carolina team after a loss like it had 
just suffered.
“Our freshmen have no idea what they’ll be walking 
into,” White said in a release before the game.
He was partially right.
It’s hard to have imagined freshmen Lewis and Payne 
would have such solid performances.Lewis contributed 15 points and nine rebounds while 
Payne’s ﬁ  rst half hustle kept multiple possessions alive.
Florida’s weapons go beyond its star player in Blacks-
hear, and its depth was on display on the road.
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S BASKETBALLNembhard comes up big after Blackshear foul trouble
UF in search of back-to-back wins
February 3, 2002, is a 
day that lives in NFL 
history.
On that day, in 
the Louisiana Super-
dome in New Orleans, a 
quarterback picked in the 
sixth-round and a written-
off head coach defeated the 
14-2 St. Louis Rams in Super 
Bowl XXXVI and began ar-
guably the greatest run of excellence 
in NFL history.
In the 6,548 days since that game, 
the New England Patriots have won 
six Super Bowls, nine conference 
championships and quarterback Tom 
Brady has won three NFL MVPs. How-
ever, Jan. 4, 2020, could also be a day 
remembered in pro football history. 
On that day, a young head coach 
and a dismissed quarterback went 
into Foxborough, Massachusetts, and 
shocked the Patriots.
On Saturday night, the Tennes-see Titans, led by coach 
Mike Vrabel and quarter-
back Ryan Tannehill, de-
feated New England 20-
13 at Gillette Stadium to 
move into the divisional 
round of the NFL play-
offs. A game-clinching 
pick six by Titans corner-
back Logan Ryan capped 
off a win in which Brady 
was shut down, and Titans running 
back Derrick Henry ran for nearly 
200 yards. It was the first time the 
Pats didn’t make it past the wild card 
round of the playoffs since 2009 and 
their first time not in the Super Bowl 
since 2016.
This loss has caused many to be-
lieve that the dynasty is over. Now, I 
don’t think that the Patriots are going 
to be terrible for the next few years. 
Despite that, the days of the Patri-The Pats dynasty may be overNoah ConstrictorSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Andrew Nembhard led the Gators with 21 points and 10 assists on the road at South 
Carolina. It was his second-straight game with more than 20 points.
Noah Ram
twitter: @Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.org
SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 12 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1212  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2020
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - close“PITCH”er Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
with Karaoke!since 2005).
The Provo, Utah, native has been active on de-
fense as well.
Briggs’ 17 steals are tied for a team-high with 
Smith, while her six blocks rank second -- some-
thing unexpected from a 6-foot-1 guard.
Freshman guard Nina Rickards has made an 
impact as of late, too.
She has started the last six games after coming 
off the bench for the ﬁ  rst nine. Newbauer inserted 
Rickards into the starting lineup following a dread-
ful two-point outing from sophomore guard Ariel 
Johnson in Florida’s 76-66 loss against Kansas on 
Dec. 8.
Rickards hasn’t found her shooting touch, 
though, accumulating just 12 points combined through those six games. But she has a knack for 
being in the right place at the right time on the 
glass, as Rickards has snagged four or more re-
bounds in half of her starts.
The 5-foot-9 guard has been a key contributor 
on the glass for Florida -- a team that holds a 9-1 
record when outrebounding opponents. So, Rick-
ards may need to put in another savvy shift in the 
rebounding department in order for the Gators to 
earn their second victory in conference play on 
Thursday.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgots consistently being serious Super 
Bowl contenders are numbered and 
the first reason has to do with that 
legendary quarterback.
Possibly the biggest issue fac-
ing the Patriots in 2020 is whether 
Brady will return. He’s going to be 
a free agent this offseason and will 
have the choice to sign anywhere. 
Normally, New England wouldn’t let 
arguably the greatest quarterback of 
all-time hit free agency. But he is 42 
years old and Patriots head coach Bill 
Belichick has been notorious in the 
past for removing emotion from deci-
sions. The only other quarterback on 
the roster, Jarrett Stidham, threw just 
four passes this season and one was 
an interception.
Now, let’s say that Brady does 
return to New England. If that hap-
pens, a large amount of talent up-
grades would be needed. First, at the 
skill positions. Top receiver Julian 
Edelman is 33 and has a long inju-
ry history. To make matters worse, 
no other receiver reached 400 yards 
through the air this year. 
On the ground, they ranked in 
the bottom half this season in rush-
ing yards. Major changes would be 
needed at both positions. The team 
also needs improvement at tight end 
as starting Tight End Ben Watson had 
just 173 yards receiving. 
Finally, on defense, New England 
will have numerous key players, such 
as cornerback Devin McCourtey, be-
come free agents. NE also entered 
this season with the oldest roster in 
the league. 
Even if we do see improvements, 
Brady could hamper the success. 
As mentioned before, he is 42 and 
ranked outside the top 10 in touch-downs and completion percentage 
in 2019. Watching the Patriots this 
season, it became clear that Brady 
cannot carry the team like he used 
to. Besides Brady, who won a Super 
Bowl last season at 41, the oldest 
quarterback to win the big game was 
Peyton Manning, who was 39, four 
years younger than Brady will be by 
next years’ Super Bowl. In fact, only 
five quarterbacks in NFL history have 
played until age 43.
Lastly, we could see the Patriots 
lose some of the brain trust that has 
helped maintain this dynasty. Of-
fensive coordinator Josh McDaniels 
has been the leader of the offense for 
three Super Bowl wins, but he has 
been linked to the Cleveland Browns 
head coach opening. There is even a 
possibility the 67-year-old Belichick 
retires. However, that seems unlike-
ly.
I am not saying that the Patriots 
have no chance of competing for a 
playoff spot in the next few years. 
Completely, writing off any team led 
by Brady and/or Belichick would be 
foolish.
However, don’t be surprised if we 
never see Brady or Belichick lifting 
the Lombardi Trophy as members of 
the Patriots again.
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgWOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 11COLUMN,  from pg. 11
Freshmen guards have stepped upBrady will be a free agent
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Guard Lavender Briggs' streak of 13 games with double-digit points is the longest by a  
Gator since 2005.
