We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Opinions are back in The Alligator
UF President Kent Fuchs addresses the student body in his 
monthly column, pg. 9
Protests march in Gainesville
Dan Mullen, UF athletes among protestors at Aug. 28 march, pg. 5No fans in stands
Sports fans are struggling psychologically with 
limited attendance at college sporting events 
due to COVID-19,  pg. 15
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY AUGUST 31, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 1
Lauren Witte, Samantha Harrison, Shannon Ahern & Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
SEVERAL UF STUDENTS AND PARENTS 
REPORTED OVERCROWDING, LAX SCREENING 
AND UNCLEANLINESS IN THE EMERGENCY 
WAITING ROOM SATURDAY
Thomas Weber
Alligator Staff Writer
Emily Weingarten checked into UF Health Shands 
Emergency waiting room Saturday at about 6 p.m. with 
nausea, fatigue, a high fever and fear of appendicitis.She didn’t leave until 4 a.m., and she never saw a 
doctor.
The 21-year-old said in the 10 hours she waited to 
be seen, she never saw anyone clean anything in the 
waiting room, despite the night-long revolving door of 
patients entering and leaving.
However, the UF business management senior said 
she did see people overcrowding, coughing near one 
another and tossing social distancing signs on the 
ground.MIDTOWN’S SOCIALLY-
DISTANCED BARS DROVE 
STUDENTS AWAY BY 10 P.M.
By Ariana Aspuru and 
Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writers
Midtown reopened to dozens 
of bar-hoppers at night on Aug. 
28, but socially-distanced dance 
floors, reduced-capacity bars and 
long waits frustrated students 
and drove many away.
Bars and restaurants in Mid -
town and downtown are usu -
ally packed with hundreds of 
students. On Aug. 28, though, 
downtown bars stayed closed 
and Midtown spaces opened 
their doors along with social dis -
tancing and mask requirements. 
After filling up the reduced-ca -
pacity bars, students left the lines 
by 10:30 p.m. and got into Ubers 
and Lyfts to search for a good 
time somewhere else.
As of July 2, Alachua County 
prohibited gatherings of more 
than 50 people in a space that 
does not allow for social distanc -
ing. Additionally, groups of any 
number of people not social dis -
tancing could be asked to dis -
perse by law enforcement.
In June, bars were allowed 
to reopen at 50% capacity with 
groups at least six feet apart.
Businesses like Fat Daddy’s 
and The Social required masks to 
enter the buildings. Patrons at Fat 
Daddy’s were not wearing masks 
when seated at their tables, 
which were spaced six feet apart.
There was no visible University 
Police or Gainesville Police pres -
ence on the scene.  
Midtown sits directly across 
from UF dorms and Library West. 
On-campus parties will not be 
tolerated in Fall, UF Vice President 
of Student Affairs D’Andra Mull 
wrote in an email to students. 
Almost 11,000 people have 
died from COVID-19 in Florida as 
of Sunday, according to the Flori -
da Department of Health. 
The lines outside of bars lasted 
from around 9 p.m. to 10 p.m and 
had little to no social distancing. 
Fat Daddy’s line had markers on the ground spaced six feet 
apart, but didn’t require individu -
al patrons to stand six feet apart. 
Instead groups of bar-goers were 
meant to socially distance using 
the markers.
Some bars had the option of 
taking their drinks and food to-
go.
The Social packaged its meals 
in to-go boxes and JJ’s Tavern 
sold to-go rum buckets.
Claudia Girard, a 20-year-old 
UF civil engineering junior, wait -
ed in the parking lot for her friend 
to pick up JJ’s to-go rum buckets.
“We don’t wanna be a part of 
all of that, no way, ” she said, re -
ferring to the crowd wanting to 
drink indoors. 
Roberto Koeneke, a 34-year-
old UF food and research eco -
nomics graduate student, moved 
to Gainesville about two weeks 
ago from Orlando and decided to 
go out at night on Aug. 28 before 
his classes started. 
It was his first time going to 
Midtown, and he hoped to meet 
a few people, even though he 
planned to keep his blue surgical 
face mask on the entire night.
Alisha Hoath, a 22-year-old 
summer FAU art alumna, moved 
to Gainesville with her boyfriend 
a few months ago. She said she 
only took her mask off to take a 
sip and hopes others out that 
night would do the same.
Not everyone at Midtown that 
night was searching for a way 
into the bars.
Destiny Valdez, a 20-year-old 
UF international studies senior, 
went to the bar block as part of 
a group of eight street preachers 
to talk to the bar patrons about 
Jesus. She said she’s been preach -
ing in Midtown for about a year.
“Before the pandemic, people 
were really in your face and all 
over you. Now it’s changed, ” she 
said. “There’s less people, there’s 
less people around, people are 
less open to talking. ”
Valdez didn’t wear her mask 
while talking with others, but said 
she would if they were uncom -
fortable. She also said preaching Complaints over lax COVID-19 protocols at ShandsMidtown reopens to 
smaller crowds
SEE COVID-19,  PAGE 4 SEE SHANDS,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW 72°
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Sunday's Top AP Headlines
Chadwick Boseman's death leaves 
saddening mark on rough 2020
Kobe Bryant. Rep. John Lewis. And 
now, Chadwick Boseman.
So far, 2020 has been marred with 
bad news and tragedy with the 
deaths of several popular Black 
icons including Bryant, Lewis and 
recently Boseman, who died Friday. 
All three were viewed as leaders in 
their respective fields of sports, 
politics and film — places where 
people, particularly in the Black 
community, have often looked for 
inspiration during a year of racial 
tension and protests against the 
police brutality of unarmed Black 
people.
But for many, the loss of another 
major figure such as Boseman is 
taking a toll. The actor, who starred 
in the blockbuster superhero 
Marvel film “Black Panther, ” shock -
ingly died at the age of 43 in his 
home in Los Angeles after he pri -
vately battled colon cancer for four 
years.
“These are pillars in our communi -
ty, ” Rev. Al Sharpton said. “In times 
of instability, you depend on pil -
lars. It’s bad enough when there’s 
a storm outside and you hear the 
lightning and thunder. It gets 
worse when the pillars that you’re 
building and standing on (are) 
shaking. It’s like they’re chipping 
away at our foundation. The very 
building is shaking down, because 
the things that undergird and pro -
tect us from the storms are being 
removed.”
Sharpton called Boseman an im -
portant pillar that humanized sev -
eral Black historical trailblazers in his 
roles — including color-line break -
ing baseball star Jackie Robinson, 
legendary singer James Brown 
and the first African American U.S. 
Supreme Court Justice Thurgood 
Marshall. Boseman's family said he 
endured “countless surgeries and 
chemotherapy” while portraying 
King T’Challa of Wakanda in the 
Oscar-nominated “Black Panther, ” a 
film that proved a person of color 
could lead in a successful super -
hero film.
“For him to pass at this time when 
we are disproportionately affected by COVID and have all of these at -
tacks by law enforcement, and him 
being the symbol bringing us to 
Wakanda, it’s just a blow, ” Sharpton 
said. “To hear that our superhero 
who projected a positive light was 
now gone, it was a gut blow. ”
Voting groups scramble to reach 
college students in pandemic
Chase Gaines wishes he could 
get more young people in North 
Carolina to answer their front doors 
and take his GOP flyer.
Rick Hart longs for the days where 
he would wake up at 6 a.m. to prep 
for a day of campaigning in the 
streets of Atlanta to persuade his 
classmates to elect Democrats.
The two college students are on 
opposite ends of the political uni -
verse but facing the same chal -
lenge: reaching young voters when 
campuses are empty and students 
are scattered across the country.
“The pandemic really did hit us 
significantly," said Hart, an unpaid 
student volunteer at Morehouse 
College who was working in 
Georgia on behalf of Democratic 
presidential nominee Joe Biden, 
but is now back at his parents' 
home in Laurel, Maryland. "The 
country kind of came to a shut 
down and we were like, ‘What do 
we do next?’”
Campaigns, advocacy groups and 
registration organizations say 
they're still struggling to answer 
that question — and looking for 
creative, largely digital, solutions.
The coronavirus has forced many 
colleges to adopt online-only 
classes, eliminating hopes of large 
in-person registration drives on 
campus. Outdoor festivals, sport -
ing events and other public gather -
ings are canceled, cutting off more 
easy access to college-age voters.
Groups dedicated to rallying young 
voters have worries that go beyond 
registrations. With campuses clos -
ing, college students are especially 
transient, causing confusion about 
whether they should register at 
their home or school address. The 
shift to mail voting raises other un -
expected hurdles for young voters, 
including a lack of familiarity with 
the U.S. Postal Service and even 
improper cursive penmanship that 
can lead to rejected votes.“Younger voters are behind the 
eight ball to begin with, and COVID 
is just going to make it worse, ” said 
Daniel Smith, a professor and chair 
of political science at the University 
of Florida, who has studied mail-in 
balloting.
Census, like Post Office, politicized 
in election year
The postal service isn’t the only 
staid federal agency to be drawn 
into a political battle in 2020.
Unlike the department charged 
with delivering mail, however, the 
U.S. Census Bureau has been here 
before. It has found itself targeted 
by politicians repeatedly since 
it conducted its first nationwide 
head count in 1790.
The reason is obvious: The census 
determines not only how much 
federal money each state gets but 
also how many congressional seats 
and Electoral College votes.
“The census was political from the 
very beginning and remains so, ” 
former Census Bureau director 
Kenneth Prewitt wrote in an essay 
almost two decades ago. “Although 
the science of measurement is 
used to complete the task as accu -
rately as possible, the central pur -
pose of the census remains: to shift 
power from one set of interests to 
another. ”
And yet some fear that this year — 
during a time of historic partisan 
and cultural divides — the scien -
tific task of measuring the country's 
population is more at risk than ever 
of being overtaken by politics.
Throughout this year’s census, law -
makers, civil rights groups, states 
and cities have been engaged in 
a battle with President Donald 
Trump's administration as it unsuc -
cessfully tried to add a citizenship 
question; filled three top positions 
with political appointees who have 
limited experience; and issued a 
directive to exclude residents living 
illegally in the country when draw -
ing congressional districts.
“What this administration has done 
is unprecedented in breadth and 
scope, ” said Thomas Saenz, who 
heads the Mexican American Legal 
Defense and Educational Fund. 
“Every decision made about the 
conduct of the census has been 
politically infected. ”
Political interference has real conse -
quences, said Terri Ann Lowenthal, 
a former congressional staffer who 
specializes in census issues.
“Any time political leaders of what -
ever stripe question data ... try to 
direct how data are collected, I 
think it undermines confidence 
in the agencies and the process, ” 
Lowenthal said. “People are less 
likely to participate and the qual -
ity of the data collected diminishes 
over time. ”VOLUME 115 ISSUE 1
2    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020 
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editors
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinion Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
GATOR CARE KIT
To support you in practicing healthy behaviors, 
UF is providing a drawstring backpack complete 
with masks, hand sanitizer, a ﬁrst-aid kit and more.PICK UP YOUR
Gator Care Kits will be available for in-person pick up on campus. 
A face covering and UF ID are required for pick up.
AUGUST 31 - OCTOBER 2
GatorWell in the Reitz Union
Newell Hall
Southwest Recreation CenterWHERE TO GET YOUR KIT
Learn more about how to pick up your Gator Care Kit
and about UF’s mask and physical distancing policies at
welcome.u/f_l.edu4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
A group of people wait in line at Midtown to enter “Fat Daddy’s,” a bar in Gainesville., on August 28, 2020. This 
was the bar’s first night reopening for the fall semester.
and connecting with the party-goers can be more difficult 
with a mask on.
“We have smiles, we have facial expressions and we want 
to show that, ” she said.
Brandon McKay, a 20-year-old biotechnology junior, 
closed up the Relish Burger location in Midtown just as his 
peers were trying to get their nights started. Relish Burger 
and Pita Pit were both closed by 10 p.m.
McKay said that the restaurant had gotten little business 
over the summer, but attracted many on Aug. 28. The four 
employees working that night split almost $300 in tips.
Although Relish Burgers requires everyone to wear a 
mask in the restaurant, McKay said he fears Midtown bars 
could be a source of COVID-19 infections.
“I think there’s going to be another outbreak in three 
weeks and the campus is going to shut down again, ” he said.
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.org COVID-19,  from pg. 1Open for businessEARLY VOTING IS A COVID-19 
SAFETY PRECAUTION 
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government elections will have early 
voting for the first time in modern history, but the 
details of the process remain unclear.
Early voting will be in September with students 
physically dropping paper ballots in secure boxes, 
said Supervisor of Elections Hayley Price during the 
Sunday Election Commission meeting. The location 
and time of early voting are still to be determined.
“Regarding safety measures, I will be using sug -
gested practices and guidelines from the University to make final plans, ” she wrote in an email to The Al -
ligator.
The Election Commission, a non-partisan divi -
sion of SG that oversees elections, unanimously 
approved special rules proposed by Price. The rules 
passed without questions or comments from the 
six commission members.
The regular election is scheduled for Sept. 29-
30.
Instead of casting their vote at a physical polling 
station during regular voting, students can request 
an absentee ballot two weeks prior to the election 
and cast it through the mail, according to the Stu -
dent Body 700 Codes.
Price’s special rules were proposed to align 
UF’s voting with local and federal COVID-19 safety 
guidelines, according to the rules. She wrote she also made the early voting rule to match UF with 
local, state and federal voting practices.
“Those elections offer an early voting period, so 
I believe it will be a successful option for students to 
vote during unprecedented times, ” she wrote.
These special rules also made the drawing, 
tabulation and election results’ announcement 
virtually accessible and allowed candidates to elec -
tronically submit eligibility papers and sign their 
statements.
Online voting is still up in the air as a potential 
option. 
Mark Merwitzer, a 20-year-old UF political sci -
ence junior and former Progressive Party treasurer, 
said during public comment that he supports early 
voting, but is concerned Price’s early voting rule is 
too vague.The SG constitution outlines that elections 
must occur on Tuesday and Wednesday of the sixth 
week of the term, according to Article VI, Section 
2. But Merwitzer said he is also concerned that the 
early voting schedule may make the election un -
constitutional. 
Merwitzer submitted a case to the UF Supreme 
Court Sunday asking justices to review the early 
voting rule and determine if it was constitutional. 
“If a lot of people decide to vote early because of 
COVID I don’t want everyone’s ballot to be thrown 
away, ” he said. 
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.orgStudent Government announces early voting for elections
Of Alachua County’s 138,568 
COVID-19 tests, 5,193 people have 
tested positive according to the 
county’s dashboard. There were 25 
new cases on Aug. 29. 
In total, the county has seen 33 
deaths, according to the Florida De -
partment of Health’s dashboard.
Meanwhile, according to UF 
Health’s dashboard, there have 
been 28 positive tests among fac -
ulty and 49 positive tests among 
students through the university’s 
Return-to-Campus-Initiative with 
positivity rates of 0.23% and 0.44%, 
respectively. These tests only in -
cluded people without symptoms, 
according to the dashboard
There have been 196 students 
who have tested positive at the 
Student Health Care Center, result -
ing in a positivity rate of 18.5%. 
These tests included people with 
and without symptoms.
In July, students and faculty 
raised concern over an abnormally 
high positivity rate on UF Health’s 
dashboard, which implied 25% of 
UF’s 56,000 students tested posi -
tive. However, this number actually 
reflected the smaller population 
of symptomatic and asymptom -atic students tested at the Student 
Health Care Center. The dashboard 
has since been updated to reflect 
this.
“Of all places, I thought an emer -
gency room would be a safer place 
right now for some reason, ” Wein -
garten said. “I thought they’d be 
extra careful — but it just did not 
feel like that. ”
Ken Garcia, UF Health spokes -
person, released a statement re -
garding the complaints saying the 
hospital will work to address the 
concerns.
“When we become aware of a 
concern, we work promptly to ad -
dress it, ” Garcia said. “High-quality 
care and a positive patient experi -
ence are our highest priorities. ”
Some of UF Health’s safety proto -
cols include limiting adult patients 
to one visitor, screening visitors for 
symptoms and requiring the use 
of face masks. Food and flower de -
liveries have also been eliminated, 
and the environmental services 
staff is responsible for “constant 
thorough cleaning” throughout the 
hospitals and emergency rooms.
But Weingarten said she didn’t 
see anyone clean anything in the 
near half day she was there. She 
also didn’t see any hand-sanitizing 
stations. The Alligator confirmed mul -
tiple parents complained to UF 
Health about the waiting room’s 
state Saturday, including Weingar -
ten’s mother, Abby Weingarten. 
Her daughter tested negative, 
but she said she was ultimately 
more concerned that her child 
would get sick from the waiting 
room itself. 
“I was nervous as it is for her to 
go up to UF, ” Abby Weingarten said. 
“When she first started not to feel 
well, we were like ‘Oh, my God, she 
got it already. ’ I was a wreck. ”
When Emily Weingarten arrived 
that evening, the staff first tested 
her blood. Then, they tested her for 
COVID-19.
She was sent back out into the 
crowded waiting room to wait for 
the results. But she was uncomfort -
able with the idea of herself — or 
any other patient — being told to 
wait around others while any of 
them might have COVID-19.
“After I was tested, I went and sat 
back out normally, which I thought 
was weird, ” she said. “I didn’t think 
I had COVID-19, but if I did, then I 
just kind of sat back out there with 
everyone. ”
Emily Weingarten was accom -
panied by her friend, Mia Marks, a 
21-year-old UF journalism senior. 
Both said they were surprised by 
the lax screening and disregard 
for social distancing in the waiting 
room.Marks entered separately after 
dropping Emily Weingarten off at 
the entrance. They both said they 
had their temperatures checked 
with a forehead thermometer upon 
entry, but beyond that, the screen -
ing was minimal. 
Despite UF Health’s protocol 
requiring visitors be stopped and 
screened for symptoms, Marks said 
she was given a visitor’s sticker and 
directed to the ER after only having 
her temperature taken. 
At about 8:30 p.m., Marks left to 
get dinner. About an hour later, she 
returned to the waiting room but 
was surprised when none of the 
hospital workers acknowledged 
her entering.
“No one asked me who I was, no 
one stopped to see if I was a visitor 
or a patient or anything, ” she said. “I 
could just walk right on in and right 
on out, and that part kind of scared 
us a little bit. ”
A worker placed a coughing 
woman sitting in a wheelchair 
across from another patient be -
cause space was so limited, Em -
ily Weingarten said. This led to that 
patient complaining about being 
coughed on.
The woman sitting in the wheel -
chair had a mask on — as did most 
of the people in the waiting room, 
both Marks and Emily Weingarten 
said — but the other patient still 
felt uncomfortable being seated in 
front of her.Some seats in the waiting room 
had laminated pieces of paper on 
them marking spaces reserved for 
social distancing. The open spots 
appeared to be two seats apart, but 
Marks was unsure, because many 
patients disregarded signs loosely 
placed on the seats.
“People the entire night were 
picking them up, throwing them 
on the floor and putting them on 
the chair next to them and sitting 
wherever they wanted, ” she said. 
“So it was kind of like there was no 
point in it. ”
Marks left the waiting room Sun -
day around 3 a.m., and Weingarten 
followed soon after.
UF students continue to receive 
email after email detailing how 
they ought to remain confident 
in returning this Fall because of 
the extensive safety protocols and 
measures in place, Marks said. 
“But if this is the first indica -
tion of how things are going to go, 
it does not make me feel hopeful 
about the semester, ” Marks said.
Have a tip for a health story? Fill out a 
form here, or contact Thomas Weber 
at 813-545-9113. 
@thomasjohnweber
tweber@alligator.orgSHANDS,  from pg. 1Shands will address concernsMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
INDOOR GATHERINGS COULD BE REDUCED 
FROM 50 TO 10 PEOPLE
By Tristan Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Commission could decrease its indoor 
gathering limit to reduce the spread of COVID-19 as soon as 
Aug. 31.
County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson said he will re -
view an amendment to the county’s emergency order that will 
change its person limit on indoor gatherings, such as house 
parties, from 50 to 10 people Monday morning. 
He didn’t say whether he will approve the amendment or if 
there’s a deadline for him to make the decision.
The county attorney will meet with UF and Gainesville law -
yers in the afternoon on Aug. 31 to discuss adding text to the 
order to address enforcement of the occupancy limit, Hutchin -
son said.
Commissioners will focus on how to enforce the occupancy 
limit without infringing on residents’ 4th Amendment rights at 
the Monday meeting, Hutchinson said. The amendment pro -
tects people from unreasonable searches and seizures from 
the government and requires law enforcement obtain search 
warrants before searching property. 
They will discuss requiring permits for social gatherings, 
Hutchinson said. These permits would require residents to af -
firm they will keep gatherings at a 10 person maximum, he 
added. Hutchinson didn’t specify any details about the permit 
process.
While the attorneys may draft both amendments, Hutchin -
son will make the decision to accept them.
The county commission voted Aug. 26 to instruct the coun -
ty’s attorney to draft the amendment. Outdoor gatherings in 
enclosed backyards or areas where social distancing is difficult 
will remain limited to 50 people.  
The county’s current COVID-19 emergency order, which 
must be renewed each week, expanded the indoor gathering 
limit from 10 people to 50 on July 2. This occurred when Ala -
chua County transitioned into Phase 2 of the business reopen -
ing plan included in an executive order by Gov. Ron DeSantis. 
The changes to the order will not impact occupancy limits 
of businesses, which are currently set at 50% capacity, but can 
limit the amount of people per table at a restaurant, Hutchin -
son said. The changes also won’t impact UF’s campus or foot -
ball games because the university operates outside of the 
county’s jurisdiction.
@TristanDWood
twood@alligator.orgMEMBERS OF UF’S MEN 
AND WOMEN BASKETBALL, 
FOOTBALL AND GYMNASTICS 
TEAMS WERE IN ATTENDANCE
By Tristan Wood and Diane 
Hernandez
Alligator Staff Writers
Scottie Lewis, a member of the UF 
men’s basketball team, told more than 200 
protesters Friday evening about his fear of 
being a victim of police brutality as a Black 
man.
“I’m afraid one day my mom will receive 
a call that her son was killed or beaten 
for nothing he did wrong, but because 
of how society sees him,“ the 20-year-old 
telecommunication and political science 
sophomore said.
More than 200 masked people 
gathered Friday evening at the intersection 
of University Avenue and 13th Street 
and marched downtown to Bo Diddley 
Community Plaza to protest the shooting 
of 29-year-old Jacob Blake, a Black man shot 
by police while entering his car after he was 
tased. 
Gainesville demonstrators crowded into 
the corner under an archway and chanted 
as cars stopped at red lights and continued 
on. Some commuters raised a fist out of 
their windows, while others shouted at the 
protesters.
Scottie wasn’t the only student athlete 
at the protest. Members of UF’s men and 
women basketball, football and gymnastics 
teams were in attendance. Head Football 
Coach Dan Mullen also marched.
The demonstration also occurred on 
the 57th anniversary of the March on 
Washington, where thousands gathered 
to demand civil rights for Black Americans 
and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered 
his well-known “I Have a Dream” speech. 
The Gainesville protest was one of several 
nationally held on the anniversary, including 
a gathering of thousands of people in 
Washington D.C.
While 15 to 20 people usually attended summer protests organized by Gainesville 
for Social Justice, Friday evening’s 
demonstration was the first large one as UF 
students are returning to campus for the Fall, 
said Amanda Lewis, an administrator for the 
group that organized the event.
The local group, made up of more than 
1,000 members, organized more than 15 
protests this summer, said Amanda Lewis, 
a 27-year-old UF criminology, law and 
society doctoral student. Previous events 
ran alongside national ones after the death 
of George Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man 
murdered by a Minneapolis police officer on 
May 25.
The protest was the most recent in a 
string of weekly local Black Lives Matter 
demonstrations focused on police brutality 
against people of color.
During Friday’s protest, Scottie Lewis said 
the goals set forth in King’s speech haven’t 
yet been achieved.
“The fact we are still trying to fight for that 
dream to become a reality is crazy, ” he said.
The protest began at around 6:15 p.m. 
Protesters carried cardboard signs with 
phrases like “Black Lives Matter, ” and “No 
Justice, No Peace” etched on the surfaces 
with sharpies or brushed on with paint. 
The Florida seal on the pavement outside 
Heavener Hall was decorated with candles 
and flowers.
Chants including “Say his name: Jacob 
Blake” engulfed University Avenue as 
protesters blocked the eastward right lane. 
Gainesville Police cars followed behind as 
some passing cars honked in support. Some 
onlookers hurled insults at the protesters, 
but they marched on, raising the volume of 
their chants to block out the heckles.
Blake was left paralyzed from the waist 
down after being shot in the back several 
times by police officer Rusten Sheskey in 
Kenosha, Wisconsin, Sunday.  Blake is alive 
but paralyzed from the waist down and still 
hospitalized, according to his father, Jacob 
Blake Sr.
Scottie led marchers during the protest. 
He told The Alligator he was there to raise 
awareness about systemic racism.
“There is a lot of people who don’t believe what is going on is actually happening, ” he 
said.
This protest wasn’t his first. Scottie Lewis 
said he organized protests this summer in 
areas around his hometown, Bronx, New 
York. To Scottie Lewis, attending and running 
protests allows him to be an advocate for the 
unheard.
Athletes should play a part in sparking 
political change because they have one of 
the strongest combined voices in the country 
because of their large social media presence, 
Scottie Lewis said. They can use this platform 
to speak out against injustice, he added.
“People forget we were people before we 
were players, ” he said. “We have experiences 
people think we didn’t have to go through 
because of who we are. ”
Alex Magee, an 18-year-old UF 
exploratory engineering freshman and 
gymnast, marched alongside other athletes 
who came out after receiving an email from 
UF’s Black Student Athlete Council.
She joined the protest because she, 
her younger brother, 16-year-old Macaire 
Magee, and her father, 56-year-old Michael 
Magee, could be victims of police brutality 
because they’re Black, she said.
“We shouldn’t have to be begging people 
to treat us fairly or equally, ” she said. 
When the crowd arrived at Bo Diddley 
Plaza, they held an eight-minute-and-46-
second long moment of silence in honor 
of George Floyd. Most protesters sat down, 
some bowed their heads. The only noise in 
the plaza was made by leaves rustling in the 
wind and cars passing by.
“We are asking to be seen as people, ” 
Scottie Lewis told the crowd after the 
moment of silence. The crowd then marched 
back to the intersection, and the chants 
slowly faded. 
@TristanDWood
twood@alligator.org
@dianehern19
dhernandez@alligator.orgCounty commission 
could reduce capacityUF athletes, others protest police brutality
HOW, WHEN AND WHERE 
TO WEAR FACE MASKS
By Aurora Martinez
Contributing Writer 
As of Sunday, more than 5,000 peo -
ple have tested positive for COVID-19 in 
Alachua County, according to the Flor -
ida Department of Health. So, here’s a 
guide to wearing a mask in the county 
and at UF to minimize the spread of the 
virus.
What is UF saying? 
All students, faculty, staff and visi -
tors are required to wear face masks 
everywhere on campus, according to 
UF guidelines. Exceptions include in 
private offices, private workspaces with 
adequate physical barriers, work areas 
away from others and in well-ventilated 
outdoor areas where people are at least 
six feet apart.
What if I live or eat on campus?
Students who live or dine on cam -
pus must wear face coverings at din -
ing facilities and at UF residence halls 
when in common areas, hallways and 
outside of rooms. At student recreation 
and fitness centers, gym-goers are also 
expected to wear face masks and main -
tain social distance.
Looking to meet up with your study group? The rules have changed. 
UF libraries require study buddies to 
wear face coverings during the entire 
duration of their stay and follow the al -
ready set social-distanced seatings and 
workstations. People are not allowed to 
eat or drink in the buildings except for 
bottled water and water fountains. 
UF libraries’ capacity is limited. Stu -
dents are encouraged to check the 
library’s occupancy status site before 
their arrival. Additionally, group study 
rooms in all the libraries will be closed 
throughout the Fall.
What about Alachua 
County regulations? 
People visiting supermarkets, res -
taurants, pharmacies and other loca -
tions where social distancing is not pos -
sible should wear face masks that cover 
their mouth and nose orifices, accord -
ing to the Alachua County COVID-19 
Community Resource Portal.
What about restaurants? 
At all bars and restaurants, staff  
must wear facial coverings during all 
in-person interactions with the public. 
They are allowed to operate at 50% 
occupancy  and social distancing is still 
required. 
All customers must wear facial cov -
erings, including when visiting the re -
stroom. The only exception is while ac -
tively consuming food and beverages.  Are there any exceptions?
Alachua County exempts children 
under 6-years-old from wearing face 
masks.
People who have trouble breathing 
due to a chronic pre-existing condi -
tion or individuals with a documented 
or demonstrable medical problem are 
also exempt from wearing a mask or 
face covering indoors.
Can I visit Alachua 
County libraries?
Libraries only have curbside service 
available from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mon -
day through Saturday at all locations. 
Classes, programs and any other kind 
of events have been suspended.
One-hour computer appointments 
and 15-minute copier appointments 
are available Monday through Saturday 
at all Alachua County libraries. Visitors 
must schedule an appointment, com -
plete a health screening at their arrival, 
wear a face covering and practice social 
distancing.
How are buses running?
The Alligator previously reported 
that RTS buses will be carrying a maxi -
mum of 20 passengers instead of 60 
passengers. Bus drivers, maintenance 
workers and passengers are required to 
wear a mask while on board UF public 
transport vehicles, including RTS buses 
and SNAP vans, according to Scott Fox, 
the senior director of UF Transportation and Parking Services.
What happens if I don’t 
wear a mask? 
With the GATORSAFE app, anyone 
in the Gainesville community can re -
port people on campus not wearing 
masks or not social distancing. People 
can do it anonymously or provide their 
name and UF will go to the violators 
and educate them on the matter.
If students continue failing to follow 
UF COVID-19 guidance, their violations 
can result in loss of privileges, expulsion 
or suspension. UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando told The Alligator UF will han -
dle violations on a case-by-case basis.
At Alachua County and UF libraries, 
people who choose not to follow the 
guidelines will be asked to leave. 
Alachua County can fine residents 
anywhere from $125 to $500 for vio -
lating the order to wear face masks, 
depending on if the person is a repeat 
offender.
Where can I get a face mask?
Alachua County says there is no 
need to buy face masks. The COVID-19 
Community Resource Portal says there 
are YouTube videos on how to make 
them from materials that can be found 
at home such as scarves, bandanas or 
T-shirts. 
UF is providing “Gator Care Kits” to 
all students, which include two wash -
able and reusable UF face masks. Stu -dents can pick up their kits at different 
locations on campus, including Gator -
Well at the Reitz Union, Newell Hall and 
Southwest Recreation Center. Kits are 
available until Oct. 2.
Disposable masks are also sold for 
$1.50 each in more than 50 vending 
machines located across campus. Stu -
dents who use their Gator 1 Card to 
purchase will receive a $0.50 discount.
Francesca DeVito, a UF biomedical 
engineering senior, designed and cre -
ated “gator mouth” face masks. Masks 
can be purchased on RedBubble for 
$12 each and all profits will be donated 
to Generational Relief in Prosthetics 
(GRiP), a UF student organization that 
designs 3-D assistive devices and adap -
tive technology for people with upper-
limb differences, DeVito said.
How do I put on, remove and clean 
face masks?
According to the CDC, you should 
wash your hands before putting a mask 
on. To remove, wash your hands before 
and after touching the used mask. Re -
place the mask with a new one as soon 
as it is damp and do not reuse single-
use masks. Reusable/washable masks 
should be washed as regular laundry 
after each use.  
@AuroraCeciliaM
amartinez@alligator.orgA guide to masking up in Gainesville: Rules, consequences, how to SEE PHOTOS OF  BLM,  PAGE 106   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020
LESS THAN HALF OF THE 
USUAL NUMBER OF STUDENTS 
WILL RETURN TO IN-PERSON 
LEARNING
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students are heading back to school Aug. 
31 — whether in classrooms, live Zoom ses -
sions or a flexible online program. 
 The changes brought out by a pandem -
ic-ridden world have left parents, students 
and teachers with questions about what 
school days will look like. Some health ex -
perts warned against opening schools un -
less the COVID-19 infection rate is under 5 
%. Alachua County reached a 14-day posi -
tive rate under 5 % on Aug. 25.  
 Alachua County Public Schools will offer 
in-person learning, a Digital Academy with 
live instruction and Alachua eSchool with 
self-paced online learning.
 
Brick-and-mortar classrooms
 In classrooms, schools are expecting 46 
% of students, or about 12,500, to return in 
person, said Jackie Johnson, ACPS spokes -
person. This drop is largely due to COVID-19.
 For Lua Lepianka, a 45-year-old mother 
of two elementary-school-aged children, 
her choice to avoid classrooms was to priori -
tize safety. While she understands in-person 
classes help children socialize, she said she 
chose Alachua eSchool because the class -
room is different now.
 “My kids definitely miss their friends, ”  
she said. “But, I just don’t think it’s safe to be 
with large groups of children. ”
 Despite an Aug. 24 ruling from a Leon 
County Circuit Court judge saying that 
schools aren’t required to open, Johnson 
said ACPS is retaining its plans. About 40 % 
of ACPS teachers aren’t comfortable with in-
class learning.
 Some teachers worry they risk their lives 
in the classroom and others fear what being 
forced to go back to work means for immu -
nocompromised family members.  Families and staff will receive same-day 
notifications of positive cases, she said. The 
county will release an ACPS COVID-19 dash -
board listing active cases by school Monday.
 ACPS ordered about 600,000 disposable 
and washable masks for children and adults, 
Johnson said. Teachers were given packages 
with masks, gloves, face shields and a no-
touch thermometer, Johnson said. Students 
who develop COVID-19 symptoms will be 
kept in isolation until they can be picked up. 
 Joe Waddell, a 10th grade Gainesville 
High School biology teacher, said he fears 
the care package won’t last beyond the first 
week. 
 Waddell is teaching four in-person class -
es and one Alachua Digital Academy biology 
class. He’s also offering an elective where he 
will have students online and in the class -
room simultaneously. 
 As a biology teacher, Waddell said he’s 
uncomfortable skirting guidelines from the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
that recommend social distancing at least 
six feet, which he can’t do with the size of 
his room and the number of his students. 
 “I feel like a hypocrite, ” he said. “I’m trying 
to teach kids that we need to use evidence 
and critical thinking, and yet, here we are 
just flat out ignoring it. ”
 Every morning, parents and ACPS staff 
members will screen for COVID-19 symp -
toms at home, Johnson said. Parents can’t 
come into schools. 
 Students and staff must wear masks that 
cover their mouth and nose except when on 
an outdoor mask break, eating or drinking, 
she said. Desk dividers and school plans for 
traffic flow during lunch time will enforce 
social distancing. Classes may be held out -
doors.
 To disinfect schools properly, ACPS 
trained custodians and purchased special -
ized equipment and supplies, like electro -
static sprayers that sanitize wide areas with 
droplets of cleaner, Johnson said. Schools 
will also have their own cleaning checklists 
for high touch areas.
 ACPS worked with the county health 
department and the COVID-19 Science and 
Medical Advisory Committee, a local group of UF health experts, to develop protocols 
for an outbreak. The school district also has 
rapid tests with a 24-hour turnaround time. 
 
Alachua Digital Academy 
 About 42 % of students will learn through 
the Alachua Digital Academy with synchro -
nous learning, Johnson said. This means 
students follow the usual school day and 
attend classes live. Students’ zoned schools 
have been distributing laptops and books.
 There are worries about the possibility of 
technical issues, like when Zoom went down 
last week, Johnson said.
 “That happens when you’re using tech -
nology and when you’re relying so heavily 
on technology, ” she said. “So we’re just going 
to have to be flexible and deal with those 
situations as they come. ”  
 Students in the Digital Academy will be 
able to pick up meals through the National 
School Lunch Program, Johnson said. There 
are 17 sites around the district for distribut -
ing meals. Students in the virtual academy can 
participate in clubs and sports or use the 
mental health and specialized services avail -
able through their zoned schools, she said. 
Services like therapies will also be provided 
online.
 
Alachua eSchool
 Alachua eSchool has existed for about 
eight years and will operate the same as it 
has in the past with no specific COVID-19 
changes, Johnson said. About 12 % of stu -
dents will learn through this platform.
 Students in Alachua eSchool aren’t eli -
gible for the National Free School Lunch 
program but can go to zoned schools for a 
laptop, she said. They will lose their spot in a 
magnet program.
Students don’t have to follow a school 
day schedule and can take classes at their 
own time and location, as noted on the web -
site. Tutorials and technology assistance will 
be available. 
 
 @feinberg_sophie
sfeinberg@alligator.orgWhat school will look like for ACPS students
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
UF STUDENTS RETURN 
TO CAMPUS WITH NEW 
MOVE-IN GUIDELINES 
DUE TO COVID-19
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer
UF opened its doors to 5,800 stu -
dents living in on-campus housing as 
other universities closed their doors in 
response to COVID-19 spikes. 
Students who began filing into UF 
on-campus dorms on Aug. 21 were 
met with reminders of COVID-19 pre -
cautions. Flyers promoting face masks 
covered every entranceway and bot -
tles of hand-sanitizer were stocked in 
every stairwell.
This semester, dorms campus-wide 
will be at 73 % occupancy, as opposed 
to past semesters with full occupancy, 
wrote Sara Tanner, UF Student Af -
fairs marketing and communications 
director, in an email. This comes less 
than a month after UF’s plan to hold 
35 % of Fall classes in-person was an -
nounced.
The move-in window spanned 12 
days, from Aug. 18 to 30, compared to the usual four days. Students signed 
up for a two-hour move-in appoint -
ment during which a luggage cart, 
sanitized after every use, could be 
checked out at the area desk. 
Two guests were allowed to aid 
the student during the move-in, per 
UF Housing guidelines. If a student 
brought more than two guests, UF 
housing asked they wait in the car. 
This, coupled with the fact that 
fewer students are living on campus 
this semester, would allow students to 
better practice social distancing, Tan -
ner wrote. 
On campus, students and move-in 
guests alike appeared to be following 
these precautions. 
Caleb Pate, an 18-year-old UF 
physics freshman, recently moved 
into Beaty Towers, a double-occupan -
cy dorm, each more than 10 stories 
tall. Beaty Towers is one of the oldest 
housing complexes on campus made 
up of two buildings housing approxi -
mately 750 beds. 
Tanner wrote that limiting triple 
rooms, not double occupancy rooms 
was the priority. This means Pate and 
other occupants of Beaty Towers have three other suitemates, the same as 
past semesters. 
Beaty Towers are currently about 
75 % occupied, leaving some va -
cancies, Tanner wrote. She did not 
confirm whether students would be 
spread out among the remaining 
rooms available.
Pate lives with three other stu -
dents, including his floor’s residence 
assistant, who he shares a bathroom 
and kitchen with. 
“Thankfully, the people I room with 
are pretty compliant with precautions, 
although that may not be the case for 
everyone, ” Pate wrote in an email. 
Every student and parent Pate saw 
wore their masks inside, he said. When 
they were outside, though, it seemed 
about half and half.
Directly across from him, in Beaty 
West, PJ Foreman, an 18-year-old UF 
aerospace engineering freshman, also 
found comfort in his peers abiding 
by the mask mandate. He estimated 
that five out of the seven rooms in his 
hall were occupied, and that he feels 
comfortable with his ability to social 
distance in the common areas. 
“Everyone had a mask and every -one was pretty far apart, they spaced 
everything really nicely, which made 
it feel safe for me and my family to 
move in and up the elevators and ev -
erything, ” Foreman said. 
Foreman said he was surprised by 
how well moving into his 13th-floor 
room went with use of the elevator.
Not everyone moving into Beaty 
this past week was as lucky.
Dayanna Peek, an 18-year-old UF 
international studies freshman, found 
herself in the elevator alone for 45 
minutes waiting for the Gainesville 
Fire Rescue to arrive. 
“It was terrible, ” Peek said. “I read 
about it online, but didn’t actually 
think it would happen to me. ” 
Besides getting trapped in the el -
evator, Peek, who moved in with the 
help of her mother, 42, and great-
grandfather, 84, felt comfortable with 
the move-in process. She said RAs 
patrolled to make sure everyone had 
their mask on. 
Checking out a cart was easy and 
the time allotted to move-in was 
enough, she said. Students could 
push their items in the luggage cart 
but were required to follow a rule that limited elevator passengers to one 
party of three or fewer at a time. 
Kendra Westmoreland, a 19-year-
old UF psychology and English soph -
omore, doesn’t remember seeing 
anyone without a mask during her 
move-in experience at Lakeside Resi -
dential Complex. 
“There are multiple stairwells in 
one building, and not everyone has to 
take the elevator, ” Westmoreland said. 
“So it feels like it’s definitely a larger 
space that has more area to social dis -
tance. ” 
UF mask mandates were extended 
to cover the move-in period and will 
continue to be in place throughout 
the Fall semester.
On-campus housing staff is count -
ing on compliance with this among 
many other new rules this Fall semes -
ter in keeping the campus safe, Tanner 
wrote.
“Our entire community is respon -
sible for helping to enforce rules, ” 
Sara Tanner wrote. “We encourage 
students to say something to their 
peers if they see behaviors not being 
upheld. ”
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.orgMasked, distant move-in week ends for UF HousingMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020
HOW THE LOCAL CRAFT 
BEER INDUSTRY IS TRYING 
TO ADAPT TO A 
CHANGING WORLD
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
Before the COVID-19 pandemic 
hit, Kyle Cargill said the craft beer 
industry was going “up and up. ”  
Now, many local breweries may not 
survive.
Cargill, 24, is the co-owner of the 
Gainesville Beer Society, a commu -
nity group dedicated to supporting 
local breweries. Usually, the society 
promoted the local craft beer scene 
through social media and beer-
sampling events.
Now, its members spend their 
time trying to save local breweries 
from going out of business.Falling in a gray area between 
restaurants, bars and manufactur -
ing companies, Cargill said brewer -
ies have taken a lot of heat this year. 
Like restaurants and bars, local 
breweries were allowed to re-open 
for on-site consumption in early 
June as part of the second phase 
of Florida’s reopening plan amid 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Yet, after 
a state uptick in positive coronavi -
rus cases, bars, and therefore most 
breweries, were forced to close 
again after just a couple of weeks.
But breweries aren’t really bars, 
explained Anna Heineman, who 
is one of four owners of Cypress & 
Grove Brewing Company located at 
1001 NW Fourth St. in Gainesville. 
Breweries are first and foremost 
manufacturing plants, Heineman 
said. Taproom sales simply give 
breweries an income to fuel the 
plants. Without taproom sales, there isn’t enough money to manu -
facture.
Cargill said before COVID-19, it 
made more sense for breweries to 
classify themselves as bars rather 
than manufacturers, because they 
allowed customers to drink their 
product on the premises. 
Now that restaurants are al -
lowed to open in some capacity for 
on-site consumption, breweries are 
suffering even more as people pre -
fer to leave their houses and drink 
at a restaurant over staying in and 
drinking local beer, Cargill said.
Consequently, many breweries 
are fighting to change their classi -
fication from bar to restaurant. This 
requires obtaining a food license 
from the Florida Department of 
Business and Professional Regula -
tion.
Cargill said before the pandem -
ic, the only brewery in town with a 
food license was Big Top Brewing. 
Since then, numerous Gainesville 
breweries have obtained a food li -
cense.
Heineman said Cypress & Grove 
obtained its license early August 
and has already felt the impact of 
reopening.
“The food license has been so 
helpful because we could have 
people back in our space again, ”  
Heineman said. 
While getting the license has 
improved business since the start 
of the pandemic, Heineman said 
the brewery is still suffering. Large 
events, which were previously a 
major source of revenue, can no 
longer be held.
Although applying for the li -
cense is expensive and time con -
suming, Heineman said the brew -ery doesn’t actually have to sell any 
food to get approved, although he 
does anyway. She said the brewery 
just had to have a designated area 
which meets the Florida Depart -
ment of Business and Professional 
Regulation’s guidelines for a suit -
able kitchen. 
“The DBPR said ‘If you want 
to open, apply for a food license, 
and we’ll approve it, ’” Cargill said. 
“Which again, doesn’t make much 
sense, because if that’s all you need 
to do, then why do you have to do 
it in the first place?”
Contrary to this, Patrick Far -
gason, deputy communications 
director at the Florida Department 
of Business and Professional Regu -
lation wrote in an email to The Al -
ligator that “serving food is a fun -
damental prerequisite for a food 
service license. ” The department’s 
website says that to file for a license 
a company must submit a com -
pleted application, a scale drawing 
of the floor plan with all equipment 
labeled and a sample menu. 
Regardless of the license’s le -
gitimacy, Cargill said it’s imperative 
small breweries get a food license 
and start selling beer for on-site 
consumption. 
It is the only way they can sur -
vive the pandemic, he added.
While the future seems bleak 
for small breweries without a food 
license, more established brewer -
ies who have greater resources and 
often sell their product in grocery 
stores, like First Magnitude Brewing 
Company, are doing well without 
opening for on-site consumption. 
Simon McClung, First Magni -
tude’s chief brand officer, wrote in 
an email to The Alligator that since 
the shut-down, First Magnitude 
has been operating as a drive-thru. 
Guests are able to drive through 
the building and look at how the beer is made. 
“It’s a really fun setup many have 
seemed to enjoy, ” McClung wrote. 
Another issue breweries are fac -
ing is the struggle to obtain neces -
sary supplies from distributors.
“There have been ebbs and 
flows from various suppliers, ” Mc -
Clung wrote. 
They struggled to obtain rub -
bing alcohol, gloves, and more re -
cently, blank beer cans. This is be -
cause the COVID-19 pandemic has 
caused a dramatic increase in the 
demand for canned beverages, Car -
gill said.
Amid all the struggles local 
breweries are facing, groups like 
the Gainesville Beer Society and its 
counterpart, the Tallahassee Beer 
Society, have continued to help 
support the industry.
One such effort is what Cargill 
calls “beer runs. ” People elsewhere 
in the state place orders from 
Gainesville breweries and then Car -
gill will deliver the beer to them. He 
said that during the last beer run 
he delivered around $1,300 worth 
of beer to people in the Tampa Bay 
area.
While Cargill said that college 
students returning to UF’s campus 
won’t save the local industry as 
undergraduate students generally 
lack interest in craft beer, both Car -
gill and Heineman recognize that 
local breweries are best supported 
by people in the community. 
“You can start by purchasing lo -
cal beer, first and foremost, ” Heine -
man said. “If you don’t support the 
breweries that are in your commu -
nity right now, when we need it 
most, they may not be there when 
this is all over. ”
@noroneill
noneill@alligator.orgInside a changing industry: Breweries
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
UF SORORITIES HOSTED IN-
PERSON EVENTS THURSDAY TO 
WELCOME NEW MEMBERS
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
Pop music and UF students filled Sorority 
Row Thursday. Although masks appeared to 
be on nearly every student, social distancing 
was rare during the outdoor events.
Hundreds of UF students visited Sorority 
Row from noon until 8:40 p.m. in staggered 
groups throughout Thursday to celebrate 
Bid Day, the end of Panhellenic sororities’  
recruitment. Potential new members were 
offered “bids” to join one of the 18 sororities 
the UF Panhellenic Council oversees. Almost 
all Panhellenic sororities held celebrations 
for their new members.
The Panhellenic Council hosted a fully 
virtual rush week, when potential new 
members chose their sororities, this Fall. So -
rorities could host in-person events on Bid 
Day, as long as they followed UF, state and 
federal guidelines, according to their recruit -
ment plans.
All in-person Bid Day events had an op -
tion for students to participate virtually, ac -
cording to the Panhellenic Council’s plans.
New and old members wearing masks 
huddled together for photos, hugged and 
chatted in circles without six feet between them. Small groups of women took their 
masks off to eat catered food outdoors with -
in six feet of each other. 
Six UPD officers patrolled the area 
throughout the day, but did not enforce 
UF’s social distancing policies at the events 
because members of Sorority and Fraternity 
Affairs were present to do so, said UPD Of -
ficer Kenneth Motes.
The officers were there to “provide secu -
rity for the event should anything arise that 
needed law enforcement, ” Motes said.
Alpha Chi Omega’s DJ, who was seen to 
not be wearing a mask, blasted pop music 
and remixes to the street from the front 
steps of the chapter’s house. 
Brigitt Palomino, an 18-year-old UF fi -
nance freshman, joined Alpha Chi Omega 
Thursday and attended her sorority’s cel -
ebration.
“I’m not worried so much about social 
distancing, ” she said. “I feel like if everyone is 
wearing a mask, it’s safe. ”
Experts disagree with Palomino.
The Center for Disease Control web -
site states that COVID-19 spreads between 
people in close proximity to each other for 
prolonged periods. Masks do help limit the 
spread of the virus, especially when people 
are not social distancing.
The highest risk events are large gath -
erings where it is difficult for individuals to 
remain spaced out, according to the CDC’s 
gathering and event guidelines.Vice President of Student Affairs D’Andra 
Mull wrote in an email to UF students Aug. 
21 that parities on campus could result in 
consequences like loss of privileges for stu -
dents or student organizations, expulsion or 
suspension.
In an Aug. 28 email to students, Mull 
wrote that off-campus, indoor gatherings of 
11 or more people who don’t live together is 
unacceptable.
Motes said members came in staggered 
groups of 25 to their sorority houses every 
30 minutes to allow for social distancing.
UPD officers were stationed on Sorority 
Row from noon to 8 p.m. along with three 
staff members from UF Transportation and 
Parking at the request of UF’s Sorority and 
Fraternity Affairs, Motes said. Sorority Row, 
SW 9th Avenue, was blocked off for the 
events.
UF allows on-campus gatherings with 
new COVID-19 safety precautions, according 
to a July 1 policy. Social distancing of six feet 
must be at outdoor and indoor events, ac -
cording to the policy. UF limits attendance 
for on-campus indoors events to 50 people.
A food truck and tent serving gelati, a 
mixture of ice cream and Italian ice, catered 
to Alpha Chi Omega and Sigma Kappa sis -
ters. BZ Gelati’s owner, Brandon Grabhorn, 
said the truck and tent served more than 300 
women from the two sororities throughout 
the day. He said all of the employees wore 
masks and gloves.Grabhorn said he discussed safety mea -
sures with Alpha Chi Omega and Sigma Kap -
pa before agreeing to cater their event. He 
said that students approached the truck and 
ate their gelati in groups of 10 and observed 
social distancing in line.
Outside the food truck, small groups of 
students ate gelati with their masks off less 
than six feet apart.
After rushing over Zoom, Palomino met 
her new sisters in person for the first time 
Thursday.
Palomino said Alpha Chi Omega did not 
host all of the new members at once, but 
had four shifts of new members staggered 
throughout the day. She was part of the last 
shift from 8 p.m. to 8:40 p.m, she said. 
During her shift, Palomino said there 
were about 35 students inside the chapter 
house at once, including new and old mem -
bers.
Palomino met her new sisters and toured 
her chapter’s house during her shift. She said 
everyone wore masks and tables and chairs 
in the house were spread out for social dis -
tancing. Small friend groups sometimes 
stood together within six feet of each other. 
“I had a blast, ” she said. “I felt like I was at 
home with all of them. ”
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.org Sororities celebrate Bid Day with masks on but not socially distanced EditorialMONDAY AUGUST 31, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinions
Snitches go to heaven, 
partiers go to hell
ColumnColumn
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to fact-check 
and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? 
Call 352-376-4458.Any UF student will be able to tell you what six times six is: 36, 
the score they got on the ACT — but how come no one at UF 
seems to be able to figure out what six feet for social distanc -
ing looks like?
Because UF pushed back the start of its school year by a 
week, we have been able to witness a multitude of cautionary tales 
provided by other universities who were (1) foolish enough to reopen 
and (2) unable to get their students to mask up and social distance.
From what we have seen from our time back on campus and 
around Gainesville, we have little reason for optimism that UF will turn 
out any differently from its peers.
There has been no shortage of photos on Instagram and other so -
cial media platforms of sorority sisters standing shoulder to shoulder 
and cheek to cheek, violating social distancing requirements.
A Gainesville Sun photographer captured an eyebrow-raising pho -
to of a group of eight sorority sisters meeting in the Reitz Union who 
dragged together chairs that were originally separated to promote 
social distancing.
If UF’s fraternities are anything like their counterparts at other uni -
versities, we’re in trouble. UF’s Interfraternity Council (IFC) is planning 
a “limited in-person recruitment process” that involves “lunches and 
nightly events. ”  What could possibly go wrong?
Notably, IFC has a cap of 50 men in a house or recruitment location 
at one time, which is actually less strict than Alachua County’s emer -
gency order, which limits occupancy of non-essential places to “fifty in -
dividuals or 50% of permitted occupancy load, whichever is less. ” IFC’s 
safety standards for recruitment could be seen as more lax than what 
is actually legal off-campus — certainly so if the Alachua County Com -
mission decreases the indoor gathering limit to 10 people on Monday. 
Anyhow, given the overt failure of fraternity risk managers in prevent -
ing sexual misconduct, what makes any of us think they’ll be any bit 
talented at enforcing crowd sizes and social distancing in their houses?
Are our administrators any better at this social distancing thing? No.
Our Vice President for Student Affairs, who has justly threatened 
us with expulsion for failing to follow behavioral expectations, can be 
seen standing almost shoulder to shoulder with other prominent uni -
versity administrators in not one, not two but three separate Instagram 
posts. `Rona doesn’t look the other way when people crowd together 
for a photo. 
Even UF’s main website displays a photo in which you can clearly 
see multiple people sitting at the same table, not practicing social dis -
tancing. 
The irony is not lost on us that it was UF researchers who success -
fully isolated live viruses from aerosols collected at a distance of seven 
to 16 feet from COVID-19 patients, yet somehow neither students nor 
administrators can figure out what social distancing six feet apart from 
one another looks like?
There is little preventing us from meeting a fate similar to our peer 
institutions. In fact, we are likely worse off than other state institutions 
such as UCF and FSU; they are testing students who are moving back 
on campus in addition to other groups such as all students and staff 
residing in on-campus Greek housing. And us? Well, let’s just say we 
agree with the memes that hint at how lackadaisical UF’s screening 
process is.
In case you haven’t noticed, people — including young kids with 
no preexisting conditions — are dying. If you don’t like that, we are 
pleased to inform you that there are additional ways to save a life be -
yond giving blood and joining a bone marrow registry.
We, the Editorial Board of The Independent Florida Alligator, are not 
optimistic enough to believe that anything we write would get a Chad 
to put the beer keg down or make a Karen mask up. Thus, we can rec -
ommend only one action to our readers: Report any and all violations 
of behavioral expectations to UF and Alachua County. 
You may be familiar with the saying that “snitches get stitches” but 
keep your mouth shut, and people are going to be ending up on ven -
tilators.
We don’t think people are taking behavioral expectations seriously, 
and we need you to report those people to UF so UF can publicly pun -
ish them to dissuade future behavior.
The form to report violations of UF’s behavioral expectations can be 
found online, or you can use the GATORSAFE app. The form to report 
an emergency order violation can be found online, or you can call 311.
Sing like a canary in a COVID coal mine. If you don’t, we may all be 
having some breathing difficulties very soon.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.April Rubin
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORRosmery Izaguirre
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORZachariah Chou
OPINIONS 
EDITORDana Cassidy
NEWS 
MANAGING
EDITORKyle Wood
EDITOR IN 
CHIEFWelcome, students!
Whether you’re returning to UF, re -
cently graduated from high school, at -
tended college elsewhere or have arrived 
from another country, I am so pleased 
you are at UF.
This is a historic academic year.
It is the first year in over a century when we have 
begun classes during a pandemic. It is the first year 
when so many classes are online. It is an abnormally 
active hurricane year and a presidential election year. 
It is a year when we’re all asking, “What could be next?”
I have two goals for this historic academic year.
My first goal is that we live and learn successfully amid CO -
VID-19. My second goal is that we experience joy, have fun and 
share a great year together.
I know that my two goals may sound unreasonable to stu -
dents who face many pressures. Not just academic pressures, 
but also pandemic pressures.
I know that students face the constant need to take precau -
tions against COVID-19 — from wearing masks that are often 
hot and uncomfortable to avoiding the large gatherings that are 
so much a part of college life. Not only that, but students also 
face the pressure of being blamed if the pandemic spreads.
However, having been at UF for nearly six years, I’ve seen stu -
dents do amazing things.
I’ve watched students repeatedly bounce back from closures 
and hardships due to hurricanes. I saw students leave campus 
and rapidly transition to online classes in the Spring. I’ve met 
many, many individual students and alumni who overcame 
major life challenges to come to UF and thrive here. Because of 
those experiences, I know we can and will live and learn with 
great success this academic year.
And the joy and fun part?
I know that being intentionally joyful, smiling and laughing 
is important to my personal well-being. I believe we will be most 
successful in living and learning in the midst of the deadly seri -
ous COVID virus if we all practice intentional joy.
So I accepted the challenge when, earlier this month, UF Stu -
dent Government President Trevor Pope suggested I dye my hair orange and blue if students signed the COVID safety 
pledge, #IPledgeFlorida.
I announced that if 95% of the student body 
signed the pledge, I would shave my head AND dye 
the left side orange and the right side blue.
As of Friday, more than 10,000 students had 
signed the pledge – which is an amazing number, 
but not 95%. However, in honor of those who signed, 
and just for fun, I will dye my hair orange and blue 
this week.
And now the students of FSU and UF have agreed 
on a new challenge.
We won’t play FSU in football this year, unless we meet in a 
bowl game. However, we are going to compete to see which uni -
versity can get the most new student signatures on their COVID 
pledges — UF’s #IPledgeFlorida versus FSU’s #PledgeTLH.
The president of the losing school will have to wear the rival 
school’s colors, say “Go Noles” or “Go Gators, ” and sing the rival 
school’s alma mater.
FSU President John Thrasher is a good friend and I think the 
world of him. But with no malice in my heart, I would love to see 
President Thrasher dressed in Gator gear, shout “Go Gators!” and 
sing…
‘Neath the Orange and Blue victorious
our love shall never fail
There’s no other name so glorious
All hail, Florida, hail.
The competition ends at 11:59 p.m. EDT Sept.13. The winner 
will be the school that gets the most new student signers be -
tween today’s launch and the end of the competition, since both 
UF and FSU already had signatures before the launch.
If you haven’t signed the UF pledge for COVID safety already, 
please do so by Sept. 13. I will be devastated if I have to say “Go 
Noles” or sing anything about Garnet and Gold.
We can live and learn with great success and we can have fun 
doing it. This is a historic year, and I look forward to making his -
tory with you. Go Gators!
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. You can find his monthly 
column in The Alligator.As some of you may have noticed, The Al -
ligator has not had a very active opinions 
section these past couple of months as edi -
tors worked to reformulate how the space 
could best serve the community we serve. 
Hello world! My name is Zachariah Chou and I am 
thrilled to be serving as The Independent Florida Al -
ligator’s Opinions Editor this Fall.
After taking into account feedback from our 
readers, we will be actively working to fill our section 
more with perspectives from community members 
as opposed to regular columnists. We hope that by 
doing so, we will be able to share perspectives not often heard 
and amplify the voices of those actively working to improve our 
community.This coming semester is going to be a tough 
one. While there are countless uncertainties at play, 
I am certain that The Alligator’s opinions section will 
be here for you. The Alligator’s Editorial Board will 
also be weighing in from time to time on important 
issues affecting UF students and the Gainesville 
community at large in what’s bound to be a historic 
semester.
Looking to submit guest columns or letters to 
the editor? Here is what you need to know.
For columns:
Columns are typically 500 to 750 words
Columns typically have a strong stance, direction and/or call 
to action
For letters to the editor (LTEs):
LTEs are typically 150 to 250 words
LTEs are typically in response to published Alligator articles
Interested in writing a column? Want to send in a letter? Email 
zchou@alligator.org and I’ll get back to you within 24 hours.
Zachariah Chou is a political science and journalism 
senior. He serves as The Independent Florida 
Alligator’s Opinions Editor.
A historic (and fun) academic yearOpinions are back! Here’s why
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
zchou@alligator.org
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020
VALUE CHECKING account
visa®  platinum reward credit cardWe have better ways to help 
you manage your money!
Member owned. Community proud.™ Since 1954Take advantage of no monthly fee  and 
no minimum balance requirement  in a checking 
account backed by friendly local service since 1954!
With an introductory rate of 0% APR* for 15 mos.** 
for balance transfers and new purchases , 
get more purchasing power!
*APR = Annual Percentage Rate. **0% offer for Visa Reward, Visa Wave and Visa Rate 
card. Fresh Start, Business and HELOC not eligible for promotion. 0.00% Introductory APR 
for 15 monthly billing cycles following the issuance of the account. After that, your rate will 
be 12.90%-17.90%. This APR will vary with the market based on the Prime Rate. Promotion 
for new cards only, transfers and/or existing FCU cards or loans are not eligible. Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) on purchases and balance transfers will be fully indexed APRs, which 
are currently the APRs set forth in the agreement here. Offer expires November 30, 2020.
Federally insured by NCUA FCUMKVS0100-0820flcu.org | (352) 377-4141
Download the FREE 
TapRide App 
to Get a Ride!
or call 
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime 
Auxiliary Patrol
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
A man takes a knee in remembrance of George Floyd during the eight minutes of 
silence held at Bo Diddley Plaza on August 28, 2020, in Gainesville.Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Scottie Lewis (left), 20, the shooting guard for the UF men’s basketball team 
and Amol Jethwani, a volunteer for Democratic Politics, lead the march towards 
Bo Diddley Plaza during the Black Lives Matter protest on August 28, 2020, in 
Gainesville.
BLM,  from pg. 5MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11 
grifolsplasma.comNew Plasma Donors EARN $300 for 4 donations!*
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!004IA
New donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.
 Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!*
* when applicable
*fees subject to change without notice. We DO NOT pay by WEIGHT!
004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 7/16/20   12:27 PM7/16/20   12:27 PM
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
PAUL BROADIE II BLENDS 
ONLINE AND ON-SITE IN 
HIS FIRST FALL SEMESTER
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College President Paul 
Broadie has faced the same chal -
lenges as any new leader — plus a 
global pandemic.
Almost immediately after the 
52 year-old’s start at Santa Fe in 
February, he had to balance an in -
troduction to the Santa Fe com -
munity while also keeping it safe. 
Six months in, he’s added an extra 
challenge: re-opening a school of 
22,000 students under the threat of 
COVID-19.
“Business doesn’t stop, ” Broadie 
said. “We can’t stop as an institution 
due to the pandemic. ”
The college reopened on Aug. 
24 in “Level 3” of its reopening plan, 
which includes remote learning for 
75% of Fall courses, social distancing 
in place for on-campus instruction 
and mandatory masking. 
For in-person courses, the col -
lege reconfigured large spaces, such 
as its 606-seat Fine Arts Hall, into make-shift classrooms, spreading 
out students to account for a 6-foot 
distance, per the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention guidelines.
“We wanted to be very intention -
al about the quality of the instruc -
tion that the students are going to 
receive, ” Edward Bonahue, Santa Fe’s 
provost and a finalist in the presi -
dential search, said. “If God forbid 
there’s another emergency, we’d be 
better prepared for it. ”
Those accomodations benefit 
students who cannot readily ac -
cess online courses, a “digital divide” 
Broadie said he witnessed as the col -
lege transitioned to remote learning 
last Spring.
To help them, Santa Fe awarded 
students more than $1.2 million in 
CARES Act funding, federal stimu -
lus legislation passed in March, with 
$14 billion dedicated to higher edu -
cation, according to the college. The 
remainder of its $3.9 million grant 
will be distributed over the award 
year. UF was allocated $31 million 
in funding through the CARES Act, 
$15.5 million of which it distributes 
through the Office of Student Finan -
cial Affairs.
Santa Fe also established a lap -top loaner program to provide ac -
cess to technology, with 300 laptops 
available to students who are cur -
rently enrolled.
“We stepped up to help our stu -
dents, to help them continue their 
studies and continue to be success -
ful, ” Broadie said. 
Broadie also worked on a pro -
fessional development initiative for 
faculty to become more educated 
with learning platforms like Canvas 
and Zoom.
COVID-19 training has been add -
ed as a requirement for a student’s 
online enrollment, Broadie said, 
with the training informing students 
about the virus and how to keep 
themselves safe.
For Broadie, integrating himself 
into the Santa Fe and Gainesville 
communities, which were new to 
him in February, has been key.
Broadie said he partnered with 
the Florida Department of Health 
in Alachua County to provide test -
ing to a total of 343 faculty and stu -
dents, but administration stopped 
short of mandating it, preferring 
to give students the choice. He has 
also focused on business dealings 
with the Gainesville Chamber of Commerce, including building a re -
lationship with GCOC president Eric 
Godet. 
“He wasn’t able to meet the com -
munity the way he would like to 
when you come in as a college presi -
dent, ” Godet said. “The goal is really 
to create a stronger region and bet -
ter life together. Santa Fe plays such 
a critical role in making sure we have 
the talent in place. ”
During Broadie’s time as presi -
dent of both Housatonic Communi -
ty College and Gateway Community 
College in Connecticut for the last 
five years, he said he partnered with 
state universities like Southern Con -
necticut State University to develop 
associate-to-bachelor’s programs. 
This allowed undergraduates to take 
Southern Connecticut courses while 
still attending Gateway Community 
College.
Joe Bertolino, SCSU’s president, 
thinks Broadie’s experience in his prior roles makes him well-equipped 
for the difficulties the pandemic 
presents.
“You’re not going to go wrong 
with Paul, ” Bertolino said. “He’s the 
leader you want right now. ”
Senior Joudi Ayroud, 22, the pres -
ident of Santa Fe’s Student Govern -
ment, found that leader in Broadie. 
In their roles of shared governance, 
she holds biweekly phone calls with 
him, who has consulted with her on 
the reopening plan.
“I don’t doubt his efforts, ” Ayroud 
said. “Even with the challenges 
he’s facing, he’s still looking out for 
what’s best for everyone. ”
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.orgSix months in, Santa Fe College’s president balances school with safety
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
Christopher Raye, a psychology professor at Santa Fe College in Gainesville, teaches a socially-distanced in-
person class on August 27, 2020. Raye said everyone’s obliged to wearing masks in class.Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
Paul Broadie, the president of Santa Fe College, is seen on campus 
August 27, 2020 during the school’s first week of fall classes.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-31-48-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-31-48-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
8-31-48-12
We Buy Junk Cars 
For Cash up to $500  
for complete vehicles. 
Free pick up. 352-771-6191             8-31-48-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-31-20-48-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-31-20-48-14
Caregiver needed for gentle autistic adult 
in Hawthorne, $15/hr, more if you do yard 
work with him, 20+ hrs/wk. Training pro-
vided. Need transportation and clean back-
ground check. Immediate opening. Call 
(352) 301-4707.                         8-31-20-3-14
Help wanted for food truck.
Need server & short order cook.
PT, weekends.
Perfect for student or vet.
Call 352-470-4821                         8-31-20-4-14
Full or Part time  
Warehouse Shipping Tech
Located off I-75 and NW 95th Blvd. 
Days. Candidate will assemble, pack, 
shrink wrap and ship to fulfill customer 
orders. Maintain warehouse and 
supplies inventory, run errands and 
miscellaneous other duties as needed. 
Must be able to do lifting, have good 
driving record and current drivers 
license, good customer service skills 
and strong attention to detail. Day shift. 
Please call 352-224-1303 or send a 
resume to hr@gleim.com.   
8-31-1-14
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-31-20-45-15
Friends don’t let friends 
catch COVID-19.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-31-48-1
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-31-20-45-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 1BR in a 4BR & 1 & 2BR 
units. Rent includes utilities & wi-fi. Shared 
W/D on-site. Call Brenda 352-672-8657 
8-31-20-4-2
Great house in great location. 4BR/3BA,  
Available Mid-August.  1/2 block N of 
O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big, nice, modern 
home w/many amenities. K&M Properties 
352-372-1509                              9-8-20-4-2
GREAT LOCATION
2BR/1BA Apts. 1/2 block from UF. $700 to-
tal rent. Call K&M Properties 352-372-1509   
9-8-20-4-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-31-20-48-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-31-20-48-10
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Jerome Gunderson
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/31/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/31/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, August 31, 2020
ACROSS
1 Asks for a treat, 
as a boxer
5 Site of a boxer’s 
attack
9 Chocolate syrup 
brand since 1928
14 Circus prefix with 
bat
15 Diva’s delivery
16 “This __ 
much!”: “I’m 
overwhelmed!”
17 Rental vehicles 
for self-moving
19 “Pleasantly” 
chubby
20 President after 
Madison
21 Mother-of-pearl 
sources
23 Has title to
25 __ standstill
26 Tea biscuit
29 Designed for 
comfort and 
efficiency
35 Guffaw syllable
36 Pirate in “Hook”
38 U.S. state with 
the lowest 
average annual 
rainfall
39 Horse known for 
its endurance
41 Wed
43 Not fer
44 Wisdom teeth, 
e.g.
46 Fabled loch
48 Stooge Howard
49 Rainy day 
protectors
51 Casual 
conversations
53 Contend (for)
54 Bro of van Gogh
56 Dedicatee of 
an annual MLB 
tribute game
61 Snare
65 Lion’s warnings
66 Lost-one’s-place 
words often 
preceded by the 
two-letter start 
of 17-, 29- and 
49-Across
68 Lake craft
69 Bubbly-textured 
Nestlé chocolate 
bar
70 Muscle pain71 Change for the 
better
72 Tall tale
73 Classic Jaguars
DOWN
1 Wicked Witch of 
the West creator
2 Reverberate
3 Mom’s mom
4 Become 
disenchanted 
with
5 Poe’s “ebony 
bird”
6 Nest egg letters
7 Columbus ship
8 Chatterbox
9 Double-winged 
WWI aircraft
10 Norway’s capital
11 Leave slack-
jawed
12 Arrive
13 “Sorry, my 
mistake”
18 The Home Depot 
competitor
22 Shows contrition
24 Noticed
26 Former 
SeaWorld star
27 Off-the-cushion 
billiards shot28 Dental care brand
30 Spanish queen
31 Caesar’s eggs
32 Molten rock
33 Meathead
34 Curved-top 
candy shapes
37 Mosque visitor
40 Saloon
42 Exam
45 Made changes in
47 Play division
50 Wiggle room52 Hair-removal 
substance
55 White wader
56 26-Down, for one
57 Rich soil
58 “Great” dog breed
59 Suffix with Jumbo
60 Flightless bird
62 __ of lamb
63 Tennis great 
Arthur
64 Crusty desserts
67 Goof up
By Gary Larson
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/25/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/25/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, August 25, 2020
ACROSS
1 Massage 
reactions
4 Hungarian stew
11 Watch chain
14 Watch
15 Entertainer
16 Make fun of
17 Crowdfunding 
website
19 Medicinal bath 
site
20 Starts a poker pot
21 Fabled loser
22 Sporty Pontiacs
23 “__ here”: “The 
place is empty”
25 Recliner part
27 Surly mutt
28 Squalid
31 Stand for an oil, 
say
32 Superman’s 
symbol
33 Notable period
34 Sinclair Lewis 
preacher  
Elmer __
35 Civilian activity 
site during 
wartime ... and 
what the end of 
17-, 25-, 49- and 
59-Across can be
38 Sultans’ groups 
of wives
41 Non-neutral atom
42 Covert missions
45 Deck out
46 Can’t stomach
48 Zodiac critter with 
horns
49 Sprint rival
51 Wander from the 
talking point
53 Virtual video 
game people
54 Food for horses
57 Magician’s cry
58 “Mork & Mindy” 
planet
59 “The Silence 
of the Lambs” 
Oscar-winning 
actress
61 Service charge
62 Like many 
bazaars
63 Had a bite
64 Cook in oil
65 Oppressive rule
66 What Dr. Leary 
tripped onDOWN
1 Suspicious way 
to look
2 Shockingly evil
3 Circle parts, in 
geometry
4 Hydrogen and 
oxygen
5 Uneaten morsel
6 Nevada neighbor
7 Old Roman 
money
8 Off the mark
9 Navigate
10 Sailor’s pronoun
11 First to the finish
12 One against
13 Really awful, as 
weather
18 Barbie’s beau
22 President with 
fitting initials
24 “It’s not how it __”
26 Intend
29 “__ you joking?”
30 Underworld 
society
34 One who’s done 
for
35 Kitchen rack 
lineup
36 ’70s-’80s Dodge 
model
37 Nonsense38 “Let’s tip our 
caps (to) ... ”
39 Fan who might 
be secret
40 Item a hotel 
guest might 
forget to return 
on leaving
42 Relating to a 
planetary path
43 Portable 
warehouse 
platforms44 Ruined the 
reputation of
46 Aptly named 
soccer shot
47 Like umami’s 
taste
50 Eccentric
52 Yr.’s 12
55 Singer Turner
56 Penn name
59 Write quickly
60 Half a  
sawbuck
08/25/2020
answer on page 7
10 For Sale
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   13
solution below answers below
1. U.S. STATES: Which state has the only 
flag that isn't rectangular?
2. GOVERNMENT: What is the subject of the 
eighth amendment to the U.S. Constitution?
3. TELEVISION: What was the name of Jed Clam -
pett's bloodhound on "The Beverly Hillbillies"?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Which country is home to a 
giant formation known as Ayers Rock (Uluru)? 
5. ADVERTISING: Which company's adver -
tising mascot was a camel named Caleb?
6. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which 20th-
century novelist wrote, "And all the lives we 
ever lived and all the lives to be are full of 
trees and changing leaves"?
7. MEASUREMENTS: How many table -
spoons are in a half cup?
8. LITERATURE: What was the name of the 
tiger in "The Jungle Book"?
9. SCIENCE: When did the first space shuttle 
launch?
10. MOVIES: Which 1980s movie had the 
tagline, "He may be dead but he's the life 
of the party"?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  answerSports Quiz  answers1. Ohio
2. Prohibits cruel or unusual punishment
3. Duke
4. Australia
5. GEICO6. Virginia Woolf
7. Eight
8. Shere Khan
9. 1981
10. "Weekend at Bernie's"www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
21 Entertainment
The Florida Gators basketball 
team will be one of nine playable 
college basketball teams in NBA 
2K21’s “MyCareer” mode. The 
game will release worldwide on 
Sept. 4.Opting out from the high-risk perspective
Sports Editor Payton Titus talks about the realities 
of being a high-risk individual during the COVID-19 
pandemic online at alligator.org/sportsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
 MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020   15
FOOTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
“When the football team’s doing well, the en -
tire town just kind of explodes, ” Chandler Small, 
a Gainesville resident, said on The Ringer’s Cam 
Chronicles podcast in July.
Small is a fifth-generation Gator and manager 
of a memorabilia store in Gainesville. During his 
time in the college town, he came to realize just 
how much sports affect everyday life down here.
“If your high school or your college is doing 
well, in sports, then you’re likely to see the roads 
by your house fixed, ” Small said on the podcast. 
“Everyone’s just a little bit more polite. They let 
people merge into lanes. The entire energy of 
Gainesville is based on sports. ”
While these variables aren’t entirely quantifi -
able, Small did have a point: Gators sports isal -
most a religion in Gainesville. 
But for the last five months, UF has participat -
ed in zero games, meets or matches due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
 What does that do to the psyche of such a 
fervent fanbase? What kind of psychological toll 
have all of these cancellations, impending post -
ponements and the uncertainty surrounding fall 
sports right now taken on the Gator Nation?
In 2014, Marci Cottingham, an assitant profes -
sor of sociology at the University of Amsterdam, 
published an essay on a case study of the Pitts -
burgh Steelers fanbase. In her essay, Cottingham 
explained how symbols like the Terrible Towel 
transcended the sports world and found addi -
tional significance in major life events like birth -
days, weddings and funerals. Between this and 
the in-person, physical closeness that attending 
games provides, fans are able to establish a cohe -
sive identity linked to their favorite sports team. 
COVID-19, of course, has derailed this aspect 
of sports spectator culture.
“To have physical co-presence really be dis -
rupted right now, is kind of a problem, ” Cotting -
ham said. “I think there has been disruption to 
sports fandom as an identity. ”
When it comes to college towns like Gainesville, Cottingham suggested that a change 
in community cohesion may be in the cards 
should this sports hiatus continue.
While there’s not exactly a treasure trove of 
scholarly research on how pandemics impact 
fans, Cottingham did say that the overarching na -
ture of COVID-19 could bring these communities 
together in the long run.
“It’s disruptive and it’s bigger than the sport it -
self, ” Cottingham said. “For example, I think it was 
in the early or late ‘90s when there was a baseball 
strike. I think that because that was players speak -
ing, it really disrupted people’s ability to identify 
with and glorify the players. And that’s a big part 
of being a fan. To really look up to and lift up the 
people in the sport as the sport heroes. ”
Unlike when MLB players went on strike in 
1994, COVID-19 is not an ethics issue. It’s a global 
health issue, and its national effects are beyond 
athletes’ control. Therefore, Cottingham said, 
the pandemic is something sports fans are go -
ing through together, rather than another moral 
wedge inserted between players and spectators 
that makes idealization of the former nearly im -
possible.
“When players strike, it might disrupt fan iden -
tity, ” Cottingham said. “But when we have the dif -
ferent measures in place with COVID-19, we can 
see that being this bigger issue that might solidify 
fan identity rather than disrupt it. ”
And nothing strengthens bonds like shared 
trauma. However, when it comes to the short-
term effects of not having sports, Cottingham 
feels that they’ll be more degenerative than pos -
sibly regenerative in the long run.
“I would definitely imagine that there’s going 
to be increased levels of stress, levels of anxiety, ” 
she said. “Especially if someone has an identity 
rooted in fandom, and they’re not able to have 
those connections with loved ones or friends for 
bonding over sports. And, that’s definitely going 
to be a problem. ”
But even now, with mask mandates becom -
ing more prevalent nationwide and the continu -
ous delay of live college sports, people are imple -
menting this idea of identity through fandom and transcendent game day symbols. 
All of this is not to say that a Gators football 
season won’t come to pass this fall. As of now, 
Florida’s season opener remains scheduled for 
Sept. 26 in Oxford, Mississippi, against Ole Miss. 
However, while UF has yet to announce any offi -
cial stadium capacity figures for home games this 
year, Ole Miss told CBS Sports that it was capping 
attendance at 25 percent capacity, which equates 
to just over 16,000 people.
That may seem like a lot of people to have 
congregated in one place during a pandemic, but 
it’s nothing compared to the typical capacity of 
64,000 in Vaught Hemingway Stadium.
Gators fans like Amy Lyn are holding out hope. 
Lyn grew up in a Florida fan household and 
started at UF as a sophomore after spending her 
first year of college at the University of Alabama. 
Her husband also went to UF and her daughter 
will be attending virtually this fall.
“We’re just a big Florida fan family, ” Lyn said.
From 2005 to 2010, the Lyns were boosters 
for the football team. She said they went to just about every game during that five-year window. 
This season, they decided to pick that back up.
“Now that my youngest daughter is going 
to be a freshman there, we just bought booster 
tickets again before all this happened, ” Lyn said. 
“We’re hoping to be back in the stands and make 
friends with the boosters around us and enjoy it 
on the weekends. ”
When asked about her daughter’s unique 
freshman year experience, Lyn expressed how 
distraught she was over sending her child off to 
Gainesville without any in-person classes and, 
possibly, no game-day fun for students.
“I think not having football definitely hurts. It 
takes away from the college experience, ” Lyn said. 
“The atmosphere around sports at the University 
of Florida just defines the culture so much. And to 
miss out on that, it’s heartbreaking. ”
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgSilent Saturdays: a town without football
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Kyle Trask drops back in front of a packed crowd against Tennessee last 
season. This year, most SEC schools will cap their stadium capacities at about 20 to 
25 percent.”
This was supposed to be a breezy editorial leaning on the camaraderie of Gators across 
Alachua County doing  their part to suppress the spread for the sake of sports. Instead, it’s 
a desperate call to action from a sports writer that wants to survive this Fall semester. 
We want that Saturday tradition to remain entrenched in our lives. But let’s be honest, 
sports aren’t the epicenter of the universe. 
Right now, as thousands of people make their seasonal return to Gainesville, we need to re -
mind ourselves of the fact that COVID-19 didn’t disappear into oblivion. In the last week, there 
were 209 confirmed positive cases, and don’t think Gainesville will be immune to the same atmo -
spheric leaps seen in other college towns nationwide.
This past summer was frustrating. Countless students lost their internships, study abroad trips 
and other plans that were unavoidably canceled; more were unable to fully enjoy the three-month break between semesters due to social distancing guidelines. 
But hundreds of thousands of Floridians continued to get sick, and 
thousands have lost their lives fighting this virus. And, no amount of 
stress and cabin fever justifies ignoring the social distancing guidelines 
that remained the standard for nearly half a year. 
There’s no denying that times are tough and the stress is unparalleled, 
but that’s no excuse to be reckless. 
We all have to do our part to suppress the spread of the virus, whether 
the motivation is to preserve sports or the communal desire to not in -
fect others through nothing more than sheer utilitarian motivation. What 
matters is an overwhelming attempt by the masses to work together 
rather than preserve the college experience that only increased the odds 
of the virus’ spread. 
Why? Because nobody is invincible, no matter the age. Currently, individuals aged 15 through 
34 comprise an overwhelming proportion of positive cases in Alachua County with 2,437 to 5,129. 
Of the 5,129 cases, 309 were hospitalized and 33 died. And though some may tout the low 
death rate — as if that’s an excuse to take a risk — we’re still unsure of the lasting effects to the 
body there may be. But, there’s sufficient evidence to suggest that patients who recover from CO -
VID-19 may develop myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) or at least that’s what the 
National Center for Biotechnology Information said. Then, there’s the risk of developing scar tissue 
in the lungs, limiting the body’s ability to absorb oxygen as the damaged tissue can no longer 
function effectively. 
But before anyone jumps to arguments for natural herd immunity, know that there is evidence 
that individuals who recover are still at risk of reinfection, including one 25-year-old in Nevada, ac -
cording to STAT news. And for those hoping for an Aaron Rogers-like Hail Mary heave in the form 
of a vaccine, only a handful are in the third phase of testing, and most won’t be available to the 
public until 2021. Why take the risk? Why cling on to the myth of the college experience? This isn’t 
the sniffles. 
Like a rock thrown in a pond, each action has a ripple effect. While it’s dangerous to take the risk 
with thoughts of invincibility clouding any logical judgement, understand that countless essential 
workers are put at risk as well.  
COVID-19 is bigger than sports. It’s a dangerous disease that can be suppressed through a com -
munal effort. So, please do your part this semester. It’s really not hard. Does this really have to be said?Ortega Genesis
Christian Ortega
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.org
Florida Department of Health
16    MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2020
