INSIDE
Sheriff candidates talk police reform and #BlackLivesMatter, pg. 5
ONLINE
Visit alligator.org  to learn more about each candidate in the upcoming 
primary election 
 ELECTION  EDITIONELECTION EDITION
Editor-in-Chief Christian Ortega   Cover Illustration Shannon Ahern
Monday, August 10, 2020
By Ellen Bausback
Alligator Staff Writer
What’s going on?
Alachua County’s primary election will take place on Aug. 18, 2020. 
The polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Election Day. In the 
primary election, people vote to narrow down the field of candidates 
before the general election (which will take place on Nov. 3). This is 
not the same as the presidential primary election, which occurred this 
past March 17. In order to vote in Alachua County’s primary election, 
citizens must have registered to vote in the county by July 20.
On Election Day Aug. 18, voters must cast their ballots at their as -
signed precinct, which is listed on their voter information card. Voters 
must bring a form of identification. 
More information on voter registration status, precinct locations 
and acceptable forms of identification can be found at votealachua.
com, or by calling the Supervisor of Elections office at 352-374-5252.
What’s on the ballot?
Sample ballots can be found on the Vote Alachua website. Candi -
dates for Alachua County School Board (District 2 and 4) will be on all 
Alachua County ballots.
Florida is a closed primary state, meaning people can only vote for 
candidates from the political party they are registered with in certain 
primary races. 
Registered Independent voters can vote for non-party affiliated po -
sitions, such as school board.
On the ballot for registered Democrats will be Representative in 
Congress (District 3), County Commissioner (District 1 and 3), County 
Sheriff and Property Appraiser, in addition to other Precinct Commit -
tee candidates. 
On the ballot for registered Republicans will be Representative in 
Congress (District 3) and State Committeeman. 
Voters who live within the city limits of the City of Archer, City of 
Hawthorne or City of Newberry will have other municipal contests on 
their ballots.
Other ways to vote:
Early voting : Early voting in the county started Aug. 3 and will con -
tinue until Aug. 15. All early voting locations will be open from 9 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. on those days. During early voting, citizens can cast their bal -
lots at any of the following locations:
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections Office 
Located at 515 N. Main St., Suite 100, Gainesville
Tower Road Branch Library 
Located at 3020 SW 75th St., Gainesville
Millhopper Branch Library 
Located at 3145 NW 43rd St., Gainesville
Legacy Park Multipurpose Center
Located at 15400 Peggy Road, Alachua
Orange Heights Baptist Church 
Located at 16700 NE SR 26, Hawthorne
J. Wayne Reitz Union 
Located at 655 Reitz Union Drive, UF Campus, Gainesville
Vote-by-Mail:  The last day to request a Vote-by-Mail ballot was 5 
p.m. on Aug. 8. Registered voters who requested one will be mailed a 
ballot, a pre-addressed return envelope and a secrecy sleeve that has 
instructions printed on it. Voters must fill out their ballot, place it in the 
secrecy sleeve and/or return envelope and sign the voter’s certificate 
on the back of the envelope. 
The ballot must be returned to the Supervisor of Elections Office by 
7 p.m. on Aug. 18. Voters can do so by physically returning the ballot to 
the Supervisor of Elections office, dropping their ballot off at a secure 
drop-box at any early voting site or mailing the ballot back to the office 
before the specified time.
To read more about the Aug. 18 primary election and see more Al -
ligator election coverage, visit alligator.org . 
@ellen_bausback
ebausback@alligator.orgALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 10, 2020   ELECTION EDITION
RESIDENTS WILL VOTE 
AUG.18 FOR A CANDIDATE 
WHO WILL HAVE THE 
OPPORTUNITY TO REMEDY 
THE HOUSING SITUATION
By Micayla Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
Low-income residents struggle to 
find affordable housing in Gainesville, 
and rent costs have continued to rise, 
according to the UF Shimberg Center 
for Housing Studies, which is a center 
that researches housing policy and 
planning, including housing afford -
ability for Florida residents.
The Alachua County primary elec -
tion is taking place Aug. 18. The Al -
ligator asked Alachua County Com -
mission candidates how they would 
address the affordable housing issue 
in Gainesville if chosen for office.
Mike Byerly, 56, a Democratic can -
didate for the 1st District Alachua 
County Commission election, did not 
respond to multiple attempts for a 
comment before publication.
Democrats
Jason Stanford, 44, a Democratic 
candidate for the 3rd District Alachua 
County Commission election, said he 
is disappointed to see the housing 
conversation revolving around luxury 
student housing in Gainesville.
 He believes the housing crisis 
goes beyond the student condos be -
ing built on University Avenue, or sur -
rounding the UF campus. 
“The reality of the situation is that 
housing is a nationwide crisis, and it is 
not unique to Alachua County, ” Stan -
ford said. 
“I believe it is okay to have expen -
sive, luxury apartments that are close 
to the university, ” Stanford said. “The 
other option is to build out, and we 
know that’s a terrible idea. ”
 Instead, Stanford said that 10 per -
cent of new buildings, like the ones 
on University Avenue, need to be set 
aside for people with low incomes. 
“There is not a shortage of hous -
ing in Gainesville, or in Alachua Coun -
ty, I think there is a shortage of afford -
able housing, ” Stanford said. 
Anna Prizzia, 43, a Democratic 
candidate for the 3rd District Alachua 
County Commission election, said 
she agrees there is a lack of affordable 
housing. 
“In particular, I mean housing that 
is not just affordable in terms of be -
ing only a little bit less expensive than 
the status quo, but housing that is for 
low-income families that are strug -
gling to make ends meet, ” Prizzia said. 
She said there has been a rap -
id redevelopment of historically 
Black neighborhoods throughout 
Gainesville, and they are not afford -
able for historical residents. 
Gainesville activists marched from 
City Hall to Seminary Lane on June 
18 to protest against a student apart -
ment complex being built on North -
west Fifth Avenue and 12th Street, a 
historically Black neighborhood. “We need to be ensuring we have 
affordable housing while protecting 
the historic character, the neighbor -
hoods and the communities who 
have lived here for generations, ” Priz -
zia said. 
Climate change also needs to be a 
core part of the commission’s thought 
process and decision-making in fu -
ture development plans, she added. 
Prizzia said she plans to repair Ala -
chua County’s roads and infrastruc -
ture to be able to respond to larger 
storms, more water and higher wind 
speeds in preparation for climate dis -
ruption.
Kevin Thorpe, 46, a Democratic 
candidate for the 3rd District Alachua 
County Commission election, said he 
believes the issue of affordable hous -
ing can be broken down into two 
parts: providing housing assistance 
for families that have been displaced 
and making certain that there is an 
inventory for the prices of homes that 
match people’s income levels.
Thorpe said that both of these ar -
eas need to be addressed in Alachua 
County. 
The influx of new student hous -
ing, he said, has created a vacuum in 
the community, and the commission 
should change their way of looking at 
local employees who live outside of 
Alachua County. 
“More than 50 percent of the 
county’s workforce does not reside 
anywhere in the county, and are com -
muting in, ” Thorpe said. 
Thorpe said the influx of non-
residents driving to work in Alachua 
County is also an environmental 
concern, considering the number of 
hours and trips this creates for com -
muters.
Mary Alford, 59, a Democratic 
candidate for the 1st District Alachua 
County Commission election, said 
there are already too many people 
without a home in the county, and 
she does not want to make that prob -
lem any worse. 
She said property values of com -
plexes near campus have risen, so 
the dirt the apartments sit on has be -
come more valuable than the actual 
buildings. 
“We want people to be able to 
maximize the value of their property, 
because when they can do that, they 
are more likely to hang onto it, and 
not sell it to an investor, ” Alford said. 
She believes there are two pos -
sible solutions to solving the current 
housing crisis in Gainesville. 
“We can let investors continue to 
buy properties, and they can build 
high rise buildings, and we can re -
quire them to have a certain percent -
age of that be available for affordable 
housing, ” Alford said.
Having affordable housing units 
available would allow UF to have em -
ployees that can maintain a higher 
standard of living, Alford explained. 
Other universities have estab -
lished housing initiatives to ensure 
employees have housing close by, 
she said, and UF has not done this. 
“The second solution would be to 
maintain the fabric of our neighbor -hoods, by allowing people to maxi -
mize the value of their own property, ” 
Alford said. 
On a county level, Alford would 
like to look at the capacity levels of 
apartments close to the UF campus.
“If we had a way to penalize peo -
ple for not keeping their apartments 
at some level of occupancy, it would 
put downward pressure on rent, ” Al -
ford said. 
Republicans
Raemi Eagle-Glenn, 40, the un -
contested Republican candidate for 
the 1st District Alachua County Com -
mission election, said that the hous -
ing issue stems from the lack of living-
wage jobs for the Alachua County 
community. 
“And the reason why we don’t 
have living-wage jobs is because 
of the anti-growth policies of the 
current county commission, ” Eagle-
Glenn said. 
Rather than stopping urban de -
velopment projects, Eagle-Glenn 
plans to build farther out from UF and 
downtown. 
“The current county commission 
would call that sprawl, but I would 
call that opportunity, ” Eagle-Glenn 
said. 
She believes that outward de -
velopment will allow for affordable 
housing for the people belonging to 
historically black communities in Ala -
chua County. 
Eagle-Glenn explained that the 
current Gainesville policy, which is 
to build on top of centers with high 
activity, or existing urban centers, 
causes gentrification, which is the 
transformation of an area from low 
to high value, and pushes out the his -
toric population. 
 “The Black community has been 
vocal about this because affordable 
housing has been torn down, ” Eagle-
Glenn said. “Instead of affordable 
housing going back into these ar -
eas, it is becoming high-end student 
housing. ”
 Joy Glanzer, 64, the uncontested 
Republican candidate for 3rd District 
Alachua County Commission, said 
she hated seeing the “student ghetto, ” 
or area around UF, be torn down.
Glanzer explained that there are 
a number of students who need to 
have affordable housing, but the 
construction of new, luxury student 
housing precludes these students 
from getting something closer to 
campus.
Glanzer is a real estate broker, 
and she struggles to meet client’s re -
quests of housing in the $800 range.
 “There must be some mechanism 
that the county can require some 
percentage of new construction 
apartments or single-family homes to 
be affordable, ” she said. “People just 
don’t have anywhere to live —  there 
are no options. ”
@micaylaafaith 
mrichardson@alligator.orgCandidates for Alachua County Commission 
address the affordable housing crisisWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperDEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES ARE 
VYING FOR THE DISTRICT 1 AND 
DISTRICT 3 ALACHUA COUNTY 
COMMISSION SEATS
By Tristan Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s Note: The Alligator didn’t cover the 
candidacy of Raemi Eagle-Glenn for District 
1 and Joy Glanzer for District 3 because the 
positions are uncontested for the Republican 
party. The candidacy of Democrat Charles S. 
Chestnut IV for District 5 is also uncontested. 
These races will not appear on the Aug. 18 
ballot.
District 1: Democratic Candidates
Mary Alford, 59 
Environmental Engineer 
 
Who is Mary Alford? 
Former president of local chapter of U.S. Green 
Building Council
Born and raised in Alachua County
Served on the Alachua County Environmental 
Protection Advisory Committee
Bachelor’s degree in environmental engineering 
from UF, Master’s degree in engineering from UF
What are some ideas Alford has, if elected?
If elected, Alford said she would focus on equi -
table environmental sustainability. While she said 
she recognized the county’s previous environ -
mental decisions were beneficial, she told The 
Alligator she doesn’t believe some of them were 
equitable.
She pointed to the 2019 expansion of a landfill in 
southeast Gainesville. She said the commission 
didn’t discuss the effect of the landfill’s expan -
sion on the prices of property in a predominantly 
minority community. 
Alford said she would advocate against the devel -
opment of a new county administration complex 
to instead use the money to fund road repairs in 
the county. The county budgeted $3 million this 
year to design the building, Alford said.
Mike Byerly, 56
Current Alachua County Commissioner
Who is Mike Byerly? 
Moved to Alachua County during high school
First elected to the Alachua County Commission 
in 2000
Bachelor’s degree in zoology from Clemson 
University, Bachelor’s degree in journalism from 
University of Georgia
What are some ideas Byerly has, if reelected?
If reelected, Byerly said his primary focus would 
be dealing with the aftermath of the COVID-19 
pandemic. He told The Alligator that the commis -
sion will operate on a reduced budget because of 
decreased tax revenue. 
To Byerly, the commission needs to prepare for 
another disaster that can pose a greater threat 
than the pandemic: climate change. Byerly said 
climate change can’t be ignored, even if it may 
not seem as severe as COVID-19.Byerly said he worked on climate change-related 
initiatives, such as the wetland protection code. 
He said the commission needs to do more to 
reduce the effect of climate change in the county.
District 3: Democratic Candidates
Anna Prizzia, 43 
Director of UF Field and Fork Program
 
Who is Anna Prizzia? 
From Northern Virginia
Founder of Working Food
Bachelor’s degree in marine biology from UNC 
Wilmington, Master’s degree in wildlife ecology 
and conservation from UF
Served in Vanuatu through the Peace Corps
What are some ideas Prizzia has, if elected?
If elected, Prizzia said she would encourage the 
county to create a unified intake center that 
would provide an alternative to jail for residents 
who are struggling with substance abuse or 
mental health issues, Prizzia said. She added that 
the center should be staffed with social workers, 
therapists and support services.
Prizzia also said the county should start a com -
munity development finance institution, adding 
that it would operate as a bank that could provide 
financing to community members who don’t 
usually qualify for credit. She said the institution 
could provide funding for affordable housing programs that developers haven’t invested in 
because they offer smaller profit than building 
luxury student housing.
Jason Stanford, 44
Teacher at Alachua County Public Schools
 
Who is Jason Stanford? 
Born and raised in Alachua County
Worked in program and project management 
for the Centers for Disease Control and Preven -
tion and U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services
Teaches at Hawthorne Middle/High School
Bachelor’s degree in sociology from UF, Master’s 
degree in public administration from Georgia 
State University
Former president of the Stonewall Democrats of 
Alachua County
What are some ideas Stanford has, if elected?
If elected, Stanford said he would use his public 
health experience to develop a long-term plan 
to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. He said 
he hasn’t seen the county develop any similar 
proposals so far. 
The plan would target at-risk communities and 
outbreak hot spots, work out the distribution 
plan for a potential vaccine and outline what 
funding and supplies to request from the federal 
government, he said. To Stanford, a long-term 
plan would build community trust, which helps in the fight against COVID-19.
Kevin Thorpe, 46
Senior Pastor of Faith Missionary Baptist Church
 
Who is Kevin Thorpe? 
Born and raised in Jacksonville
Alachua County resident since 2001
Pastor in Gainesville since 1998
Owns and operates The Captain’s Closet, a 
custom clothing company that sells suits, blouses 
and dress shirts
Bachelor’s degree in pastoral ministries from Con -
servative Theological Seminary, Master’s degree 
in pastoral ministries from Conservative Theologi -
cal University
What are some ideas Thorpe has, if elected?
If elected, Thorpe said he would work to improve 
the county’s workforce. Some commuters drive 
45 minutes to an hour every day, Thorpe said. 
These commutes wear down county roads, con -
gest traffic and hurt the environment, he added. 
Thorpe said he would focus on hiring residents 
locally to decrease the stress on county infrastruc -
ture as well as unemployment. He also said he 
would focus on developing affordable housing, 
especially so that residents have access to afford -
able rent and home ownership.
twood@alligator.org
@TristanDWood
What it’s like to be a campaign videographer
UF students behind the camera, pg. 6
Congressional candidates on police brutality
Weighing in on reform,  pg. 7Meet District 3 Democrats
Candidates for Congress,  pg. 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY AUGUST 10, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 89
Photos courtesy to The Alligator / / Graphic by Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
Top from left to right: Kevin Thorpe, Mary Alford, Jason Stanford; (Bottom left to right): Anna Prizzia, Mike Byerly.
Meet the Alachua County Commission CandidatesT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW 72°4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY AUGUST 10, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Find full election 
coverage  online 
at alligator.org/VOLUME 114 ISSUE 89
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
El Caimán Editors
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chief
Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgMarianna Colon, mcolon@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.org
Noah Ram,  nram@alligator.org
Gabriella Guez,  gguez@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.org
MONDAY AUGUST 10, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
INCUMBENT SADIE DARNELL AND OPPONENT CLOVIS WATSON JR. SHARED THEIR 
THOUGHTS ON COMMUNITY RELATIONS, MISCONDUCT AND REFORM 
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
The temperature is heating up, and so is the race for Alachua County Sheriff. 
Current Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell and Florida State Rep. Clovis Watson Jr. are both vying to be the county’s 
sheriff in the upcoming Aug. 18 primary election. These are Darnell’s and Watson’s thoughts about community relations, 
police misconduct and criminal justice reform from a June 16 online forum.
Community relations
Darnell said $3 million of ACSO’s budget goes to community programs, and the budget hasn’t increased in the last 10-15 
years. She said she doesn’t want the budget to decrease. 
Law enforcement needs to do more for the Alachua County community, Watson said. He spoke of a young boy who died 
after being electrocuted on city property. 
While addressing the situation, he said he 
often met with the boy’s family and their 
spiritual leaders. 
More funding needs to go to mental 
health and counseling to improve com -
munity relations, Watson said. Watson 
also believes racial and cultural sensitivity 
training should be required. 
Police misconduct
Florida has police misconduct laws 
in place, but not every law enforcement 
agency follows them, Darnell said. Un -
der her supervision, Darnell said Alachua 
County is proactive in reporting miscon -
duct. The record of an officer accused of 
wrongdoing will follow them, she said. 
In excessive use of force cases, Dar -
nell said she would immediately start an 
administrative and criminal investigation. 
She said she followed this procedure when a correctional officer battered an inmate at the Alachua County Jail in April.
Watson said he would follow the same protocol in excessive use of force situations. In the case of George Floyd, he said he 
would have moved more swiftly as the evidence against the officers who murdered Floyd was overwhelming, Watson said. Of -
ficers also need to hold other officers accountable. 
To Watson, law enforcement’s responsibility is to enforce laws, not to punish or judge.
Criminal justice reforms
Darnell said she is open to reform but added that changes need to come from the Florida Sheriffs Association. She said the 
association hired a researcher to suggest which reforms are necessary. She also mentioned revisiting individual cases, adding 
that crime victims should also be represented in the process. 
Watson said this issue of reform is dear to him, because he’s met people who struggle to succeed in society because of previ -
ous mistakes. He spoke about a 72-year-old who was denied a job as a city bus driver for a felony that dated back more than 50 
years. He added that all mandatory minimum prison sentences need reform.
To Watson, reform isn’t about who you can put in jail, but who you can keep out, he said.
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgSheriff candidates’ visions for ACSO
Reporting by Avery Lotz / / Graphic by Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
Photos courtesy to the Alligator / / Graphic by Carley Noll / / Alligator StaffReporting by Avery Lotz / / Graphic by Kate McNamara / / Alligator StaffOperation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Get to know your candidates
Who would you grab a beer with? Scan the QR code 
and read more at alligator.org/Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY AUGUST 10, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
ELECTION
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Sports polls are not the only kind of ballot stu -
dent-athletes find important.
The 2020 elections are quickly approaching, and 
many UF athletes are eager to vote for the first time.
Rising seniors Jordan Matthews and Tommy 
Mace play for the UF softball and baseball teams 
and look forward to sporting an “I Voted” sticker on 
Election Day.
Mace said, “I think that it’s really important, not 
only the presidential, but all the local (positions) that 
you’re allowed to vote for in this election. ”
He believes local elections have more of an im -
pact on a person’s day-to-day lives than national 
ones, adding that if an American doesn’t agree with 
how their city or state is being run, that should be 
enough motivation to get them to vote.
Mace added that, if an American doesn’t agree 
with how their city or state is being run, that should 
be enough motivation to get them to vote.
It was very difficult for many people of color 
like Matthews to vote before the Voting Rights Act 
of 1965 was passed. Because of this, she is eager to 
vote to create change and make society equal for 
everyone.
The United States trails most developed coun -
tries in voter turnout, according to the Pew Research 
Center.
Matthews said she thinks voting is a choice and 
shouldn’t be mandated. But, she hopes voters who 
had chosen not to vote in the past will be persuaded 
by what has happened so far in 2020.
“I would tell them to look at what our country 
is today, ” she said. “Right now, we’re going through 
two of the biggest pandemics ever to hit the United 
States. That is COVID-19 and racism, and passing on 
voting led to a man who is not only responsible but 
uncaring of what is going on. ”
Mace believes that a citizen’s choice to vote or 
not is what makes America so great. “It’s a right, not a duty in America to vote, ” he said. 
“I don’t think that people should be forced to do 
something that they don’t feel comfortable doing. 
I hope that when you vote in elections or local elec -
tions that you have enough knowledge to make a 
vote that you truly believe in, and that’s all that mat -
ters. ”
`Politically, Matthews is a progressive and like 
many progressives, what she really wants is equality.
When looking at voter turnout by age group, 
young adults are the group who turn out the least. 
The 18-to-29 age bracket had the lowest voter turn -
out of any age bracket in the 2018 midterm elec -
tions, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, and just 
43 percent voted in the 2016 presidential election, 
according to Duke Today. However, Matthews thinks 
that is changing. 
“Historically, people my age haven’t shown up to 
vote, ” she said. “But I feel like this year has been so dif -
ferent with everything that has happened, like the 
Black Lives Matter movement. I think that it’s already 
changing. ”
A common excuse for why some people don’t 
vote is because they think their vote is one of mil -
lions and it doesn’t really count. Matthews’ counter 
to that reasoning is that voters should change their 
mindset.
She said if every individual believes their vote 
matters, that will convince others to vote as well.
There are other ways to make an impact in one’s 
community besides voting. For example, Matthews 
uses social media to inform followers about issues 
going on in the U.S. that they may not be aware of.
Read the rest online at alligator.org/sports
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgGators speak about importance of voting
IT TAKES TWO TO VISUALIZE 
SEVERAL PRIMARY ELECTION 
CAMPAIGNS FOR 
GAINESVILLE VOTERS
By Manny Rea
Avenue Staff Writer
With just a microphone and a camera, 
two UF telecommunication students are re -
sponsible for the visual filmmaking of several 
Gainesville’s politicians and voters.
Landon Jones, a 21-year-old UF telecom -
munication senior, and George El-Salawy, a 
21-year-old UF telecommunication junior, 
serve as the visual and digital front of Gaines -
ville’s political advertising. From the city com -
missioner race in March to the upcoming 
Aug. 18 Florida primaries for the November 
general election, their videography, which is 
done through their company Digital Peak Pro -
ductions, is essential to a candidate’s message 
and to ensure outreach to Gainesville voters, 
Jones said.
Gainesville-born and raised, Jones’ affec -
tion for creating videos started with a camera 
at age 16. It began simply enough with him 
filming shenanigans, skateboarding and other 
outdoor ventures, Jones said. Realizing career 
potential, Jones decided to start his company 
Digital Peak. His first jobs included producing 
multimedia of The Standard student apart -
ments and documenting weddings.
Digital Peak Productions works to ad -
vertise various Gainesville and in-state busi -
nesses. Now, a recent foray into political 
campaigning has stemmed from connections 
made by local clothing company Always True 
in late 2019.
District 3 City Commissioner David Arreola reached out to Digital Peak to produce reelec -
tion content for a second term after seeing 
videos made for Always True clothing. The 
clothing line’s owners helped patch Jones 
and El-Salawy through to team with the in -
cumbent candidate.
After their initial recordings for Arreola in 
early December, Jones said he believed this 
content to be more straightforward to the 
politician’s values than what they had created 
before with other businesses. They placed 
emphasis on clean editing and point-driven 
film direction.
“From there we connected to David’s cam -
paign manager after doing all his videos and 
then ended up with seven or eight candidates 
that we’ve been producing content for, ” Jones 
said about their cumulative political experi -
ence.
Campaign consultant Katy Burnett, and 
Digital Peak’s script supervisor for her candi -
dates, moved Jones’ and El-Salawy’s talents 
to work with other then-City Commissioner 
candidates Harvey Ward (District 2) and Reina 
Saco (At-Large Seat). After their successful 
elections, she relegated more filming to the 
duo for the upcoming primary elections.
Burnett is responsible for managing 
several Democrat candidates for this elec -
tion: Mary Alford for Alachua County District 
1 Commissioner, Anna Prizzia for Alachua 
County District 3 Commissioner, Ayesha Solo -
mon for Alachua County Property Appraiser, 
Clovis Watson Jr. for Alachua County Sheriff  
and Yvonne Hayes Hinson for Florida House 
of Representatives District 20 Representative.
Read the rest online at alligator.org/avenue
mrea@alligator.orgWhat it’s like to be a campaign videographer
MOVIES & TVMOVIES & TV
MONDAY AUGUST 10, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
CANDIDATES FOR CONGRESS 
SHARE THOUGHTS ABOUT POLICE 
BRUTALITY AMID COVID-19
Aurora Martinez
Alligator Staff Writer 
The death of George Floyd sparked a na -
tional conversation about police brutality and 
reform, which culminated into a movement to 
defund the police. As local and national elec -
tions draw nearer, polls show that candidates’ 
stances on police reform is becoming a key is -
sue for voters.
This year, Ted Yoho, who has represented 
Florida’s 3rd District in the House since 2013, is 
not running for reelection. Voters must choose 
between 10 Republican and three Democrat 
candidates vying for the seat in the Aug. 18 pri -
mary election.
With less than a month remaining, candi -
dates running for Yoho’s district, which includes 
the counties of Alachua, Clay, Putnam, Brad -
ford, Union and parts of Marion County, shared 
their thoughts about police brutality with The 
Alligator.
Despite having attempted to contact them 
multiple times, the Republican candidates 
James St. George, Judson Sapp, Amy Pope 
Wells, Ryan Chamberlin and David Theus did 
not reply in time for publication. 
The Republicans 
Kat Cammack, 32, is the former campaign 
manager and deputy chief of staff for congress -
man Ted Yoho. 
Cammack wrote in an email to The Alliga -
tor that “we are currently at a point in history 
where individuals seek to divide our country 
rather than bring us together. ” 
Cammack said that work needs to be done 
to address racial issues in the U.S. following the 
death of George Floyd. She did not specify what 
this work entails. The candidate added that she 
stands with law enforcement and the support it 
gives to the communities every day. 
“While I support anyone’s right to peacefully 
protest, the looting and destroying of private 
property is unacceptable, illegal and must be 
dealt with immediately, ” Cammack said.
Todd Chase, 53, served for six years as a 
Gainesville City commissioner. 
Chase wrote in an email to The Alligator that 
“George Floyd’s death was an unmitigated trag -
edy, but it’s not a license for lawlessness. ”
Chase said that like any profession, law 
enforcement isn’t immune to bad actors. He 
added that “it’s unfair and unproductive to ap -proach the discussion in a manner that assumes 
all police officers and entire police departments 
are part of the problem. ”
Chase said he thinks defunding the police is 
a scary concept.
He said that law and order is important in 
the U.S. Police officers can’t be attacked and 
disrespected the way they are now, he added. 
He mentioned that Portland’s situation, where 
declared riots and protests have taken place, is 
“outrageous. ”
“If it was happening in Gainesville, if we had 
city blocks of Gainesville shut down, and local 
businesses being burned and looted, and peo -
ple’s livelihoods being destroyed, I think a lot of 
these people that are able to go out there and 
have these little protests they’re doing would 
feel a lot differently, ” Chase said. 
Chase said that he appreciates peaceful 
protests and activists, but that as a member of 
Congress, he will fully support the police offi -
cers and their departments. 
“When you call 911, you need help. You 
want help to come. Period, ” Chase said. “And 
we have to maintain that understanding, that 
basic function of government and public law 
enforcement protection. ”
Gavin Rollins, 34, is currently in his second 
term as a Clay County commissioner and is run -
ning for Congress for the first time. 
Rollins said that similar to bad doctors 
or nurses, police officers who act incorrectly 
should be prosecuted and held accountable, 
but that he does not think that an entire profes -
sion should be vilified based on the actions of 
one person.
“In the case of George Floyd, I think most 
Americans I would say — everyone I know 
agrees — that this is a horrific example of police 
brutality and police over action, ” Rollins said.
Still, Rollins said that there are millions of 
police officers and law enforcement who want 
the best for their community. 
“I think it’s important that we don’t continue 
to further divide police versus the community 
because the police are all among us, ” Rollins 
said. “Any discussion about improving the po -
lice department should be focused on specific 
actions, not general statements. ”
To Rollins, specific action includes provid -
ing grants to law enforcement to ensure proper 
training, he said. 
Bill Engelbrecht, 54, is running for Congress 
for the first time. 
Though Engelbrecht said he considers 
Floyd’s death a tragedy, he does not believe in 
defunding the police. 
The candidate said he thinks that more 
transparency from police departments is nec -essary in understanding exactly how a situation 
escalates. Police officers’ body cameras, he said, 
are important to have a better understanding 
of events. 
Engelbrecht said that Black Lives Matter 
needs to have elected leadership in order to 
make legitimate change in congress.
Engelbrecht said he believes in and encour -
ages the right to protest. But, he added, it must 
be peaceful. Violent protests overshadow and 
undercut people’s demands for change, he said. 
“Just because we have a different opinion 
does not mean it gives you the right to beat 
someone up, ” he said.
Joe Dallas Millado, 37, former legislative 
aide for Florida’s 6th District Rep. Cliff Stearns, is 
running for Congress for the first time. 
Millado said he thinks nobody should sup -
port police brutality and that racism, sexism 
and other ‘isms’ stem from fear. 
“Fear of something you don’t know; fear of 
color; fear of new ideas; fear of change; fear of 
something uncertain, ” he said.
The problem of racism can’t be solved with 
a bill, but can be with time and a decision to 
implement change, Millado added. 
That change includes proper education, he 
said.
“I am totally opposed for taking down stat -
ues of any kind, ” Millado said. “If there are blem -
ishes in our history, leave them up there. We 
don’t solve anything by pretending like it didn’t 
happen. ”
The Democrats
Philip Dodds, 46, is running for election 
again after running as an Independent in the 
2012 general election. 
Dodds said that many U.S. institutions, in -
cluding the police, need improvement. 
“Every organization, every team, every 
university should be working constantly to 
improve, ” Dodds said. “And I would call on the 
police departments around the country to ex -
amine themselves and to examine when they 
use violence. ”
Dodds said he would like to work on police 
reform so that the institution can live up to the 
people’s ideal of protection and community 
service rather than to use violence against pro -
testers. He did not specify how he intends to 
work on police reform.
Adam Christensen, 26, is the youngest can -
didate running for Florida’s 3rd Congressional 
District and the only one to endorse defunding 
the police. 
Christensen said he thinks it is necessary to 
fundamentally reshape the way people think 
about policing used as punishment.Christensen said that police should be de -
funded in order to better fund other social ser -
vices like affordable housing, public education 
and healthcare services. He also said money 
should be used for properly training officers.
“I see a lot of cities that just want to paint a 
mural and call it a day, or they want to change 
the name of a street and call it a day. And that 
doesn’t fix a thing, ” Christensen said.
The candidate recounted a time when he 
was arrested while coaching a high school soc -
cer game in Polk county. Two police officers ar -
rested him after a man called to report that he 
was trespassing on the soccer field, according 
to the police report. The report also said Chris -
tensen resisted arrest without instigating vio -
lence and refused to leave the field.
Christensen said that he was on the prop -
erty legally. On their way out, he said, officers 
threw him against a chain link fence, punched 
him in the groin and threw him to the ground. 
The report said Christensen grabbed the fence 
and had to be redirected to the ground for ar -
rest.
Christensen said he could not sue the offi -
cers due to qualified immunity, which is a doc -
trine that protects officials from lawsuits charg -
ing the official with violating the rights of the 
person bringing the case forward. 
“They did that to me in front of 200 people. 
I cannot imagine what they are doing to other 
people when there are no witnesses, ” Chris -
tensen said. 
 Tom Wells, 69, is running for a seat in Con -
gress for the third time since 2016. The first 
time, he ran as an Independent. 
Paraphrasing Martin Luther King Jr., Wells 
said that we will learn to live together as broth -
ers or we will die together as fools. For Wells, 
people should live and work together to build a 
solid foundation of social, economic and racial 
justice.
“The Black Lives Matter movement is a mi -
crocosm of all the problems we have, ” Wells 
said.
Wells said that any police-involved injury, 
assault or death should be a federal crime. 
By doing so and having a responsible fed -
eral government, justice will be achieved in all 
the states, he added. 
“It would be much desirable for the states to 
do that themselves, but I’m not inclined to wait 
for 25 states to remove genuine Stand-Your-
Ground laws, ” Wells said. “I hope they will come 
around to the point that we can again trust 
them to value human life. ”
@AuroraCeciliaM
amartinez@alligator.orgFlorida’s District 3 candidates on police brutality
GF-SPAD0721153806 (100%)
ADVERTISER:WENDYSAPPPOLITICAL PROOFCREATEDAT:7/22/20202:14:21PM
SALESPERSON:GFG032 NEXTRUNDATE:07/28/20
SIZE:3X3 PROOFDUE:07/29/2013:59:55
PUBLICATION:SPECPROOFO.K.BY:___________________________ O.K.WITHCORRECTIONS BY:________________________
PLEASEREADCAREFULLY•SUBMITCORRECTIONS ONLINE
Ensureallpropertyownersaretreatedequally
andfairly.
Savetaxpayermoneywithbettertechnologyand
improvedefficiencies.
Leadwithdiversityasapriorityintheworkplace
andcommunity.
www.WendySapp.comForAlachuaCounty
PropertyAppraiser
Experiencethat
Matters!
WENDY
SAPPElect
PAIDBYWENDYSAPP,DEMOCRAT,FORALACHUACOUNTYPROPERTYAPPRAISER
Download the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 10, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-31-48-10
Real-time Online Auction
By Order of the Bank
Design Scapes of Manasota, Inc.
Tues, August 18, 2020 at 10:00 A.M.
Live audio streaming auction event con-
sisting of Vehicles, Trucks, Trailers and 
Landscaping Equipment including 2015 
Ford F-750, 2014 Isuzu NPR HD Truck, Skid 
Steers and more! 
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com
Pick-up/removal: Tampa, FL.
Preview: 08/17 by appointment. Call for de-
tails (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     8-10-1-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-31-48-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
8-31-48-12
We Buy Junk Cars 
For Cash up to $500  
for complete vehicles. 
Free pick up. 352-771-6191             8-31-48-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-31-20-48-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-31-20-48-14
Caregiver needed for gentle autistic adult 
in Hawthorne, $15/hr, more if you do yard 
work with him, 20+ hrs/wk. Training pro-
vided. Need transportation and clean back-
ground check. Immediate opening. Call 
(352) 301-4707.                         8-31-20-3-14
Our small office is searching for for some-
one sharp, self-motivated and interested in 
the legal field. The successful applicant is 
detail-oriented, requires minimal supervision, 
multi-task capable and LOVES TO LEARN. 
Prior experience with Microsoft Office highly 
preferred. Healthy lifestyle a must. PT/FT 
$12.50/hour+. Resume with references to: 
contact@rothsteinforjustice.com. 
8-24-20-3-14
Help wanted for food truck.
Need server & short order cook.
PT, weekends.
Perfect for student or vet.
Call 352-470-4821                         8-31-20-4-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-31-20-45-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
MASKS SAVE LIVES!
Prevent the spread of COVID-19 by wearing a mask.1For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-31-48-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-31-20-45-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 1BR in a 4BR & 1 & 2BR 
units. Rent includes utilities & wi-fi. Shared 
W/D on-site. Call Brenda 352-672-8657 
8-31-20-4-2
Great house in great location. 4BR/3BA,  
Available Mid-August.  1/2 block N of 
O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big, nice, modern 
home w/many amenities. K&M Properties 
352-372-1509                              9-8-20-4-2
GREAT LOCATION
2BR/1BA Apts. 1/2 block from UF. $700 to-
tal rent. Call K&M Properties 352-372-1509   
9-8-20-4-2
4/2 ($1500)
Walk/Bike to Campus!
Downtown historic house!
Must see 352-226-3535
www.pmcoreusa.com              8-10-20-2-2
1 Bed/ 1 Bath ($795)
Walk/Bike to Campus!
Downtown historic house!
Must see 352-226-3535
www.pmcoreusa.com              8-10-20-2-2
1 Bed Studio ($575) +$50 utility package
Walk/Bike to Campus!
Downtown historic house!
Must see 352-226-3535
www.pmcoreusa.com              8-10-20-2-2
3 Bed HOUSE! ($1350)
Walk to Campus! Downtown 
life right down the street!
Must see 352-226-3535
www.pmcoreusa.com              8-10-20-2-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-31-20-48-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-31-20-48-10BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 10, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Rob Gonsalves and Jennifer Lim
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/10/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/10/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, August 10, 2020
ACROSS
1 Eyes, to a poet
5 Got together for 
lunch, say
10 Animal pouches
14 “Check this out!”
15 Big Apple 
restaurateur
16 Come again?
17 *Often-digital 
commentary for a 
museum tour
19 Tiny bit of matter
20 Italian scooter
21 Upper bod 
muscle
22 Fairway warning
23 *List of incoming 
and outgoing 
calls
27 “Indochine” 
Oscar nominee 
Catherine
30 __-mo replay
31 Country in a 
Beatles song
32 Wheel shaft
35 Second or sixth 
president
39 __ Bo: exercise 
method
40 *Sunday liquor-
buying ban, e.g.
42 “I’m unimpressed”
43 State flower of 
New Mexico
45 Nostradamus, 
e.g.
46 Nevada slots 
spot
47 Add-__: extras
49 Fruit with milk
51 *Experience 
section in a 
résumé
55 Classic clown
56 Rainbow  
shape
57 “Holy smokes!”
61 Victor’s cry
62 Reserve twice 
in error, as an 
airline seat ... or 
a hint to the two-
part answers to 
starred clues
65 Cat lives count, 
so they say
66 Occur as a  
result
67 Liking a lot
68 Bug spray 
ingredient
69 Flopping at a 
comedy club
70 SwerveDOWN
1 Norse royal 
name
2 Rakish sort
3 Physiques, briefly
4 Ship’s captain
5 Flavor-enhancing 
abbr.
6 Water in the 
Seine
7 Balderdash
8 Organ with milk
9 Jigsaw puzzle 
parts
10 “Surf” served with 
“turf”
11 Kristen Bell or 
Kristen Stewart
12 A major, for one
13 Vague amount
18 Waikiki’s island
24 Egg-shaped
25 Focal point
26 Lobster’s 
weapon
27 Responsibility
28 Jacob’s biblical 
twin
29 Tiny part of a 
min.
33 __ Scoresby, 
Lin-Manuel 
Miranda’s “His 
Dark Materials” 
role34 Choose by ballot
36 Prayer ending
37 File, Edit or Help
38 Jigger at the bar
40 Place for deposits
41 Suffix with buck
44 Small crown
46 Colorful 
mnemonic
48 Like a picnic area 
under a tree
50 Canadian native
51 Surprised cry
52 Endangered layer53 O. Henry 
hallmark
54 “Pardon me,” in 
Parma
55 Tie tightly
58 Top-of-the-line
59 Shower attention 
(on)
60 Hershey toffee 
bar
63 Hamburger 
holder
64 Relay race 
segment
By Gary Larson
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/04/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/04/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, August 4, 2020
ACROSS
1 Delicate, like 
curtain fabric
5 “Divine” 
nickname for 
singer Bette
10 Muslim prayer 
leader
14 Farmland 
measure
15 “Star Wars” droid
16 Flexible mineral 
sheet
17 Pairs
18 Rings like church 
bells
19 Actor Baldwin
20 UFO crew, it’s 
said
21 Cap’n’s mate
22 Measure of a 
celeb’s popularity
24 Arnaz-Ball studio
26 Bikini specs
28 Lit __
29 Field of 
knowledge
30 Use a shovel
33 “Suzanne” 
songwriter 
Leonard
35 Vein contents
36 New York 
governor Andrew
38 Set right
39 Rx writers
40 Chopin 
composition
41 Tried to outrun
42 Away from the 
bow
43 Crockett’s  
“Miami Vice” 
partner
44 Noah’s project
45 Top of the line
47 “The __ From 
Ipanema”
48 Skylit courts
49 “My turn”
52 Den music 
system
55 Went like the 
dickens
57 Narc’s org.
58 Difficult
59 Everest or 
Rushmore
61 Rhine city
62 Jason’s ship
63 View from the 
moon
64 Furry Endor 
creature
65 Othello, for one66 Sandwiches for 
dessert
67 Raggedy dolls
DOWN
1 Put on, as cargo
2 Less than right, 
angle-wise
3 *Verify using 
multiple sources
4 “Absolutely”
5 Plan, as a route
6 Infuriates
7 *Gadget function 
typical of most 
similar gadgets
8 Note after fa
9 Muslim temple
10 All-in-one Apples
11 Venus de __
12 Asian laptop 
brand
13 Riot squad spray
21 *Many a Match.
com get-together
23 *Four-
dimensional 
mathematical 
system
25 Goddess of peace
27 Top of a wave
30 Blackjack bet ...  
and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues31 Website with film 
info
32 “And So It __”: 
Billy Joel
33 Siena 
sweetheart
34 Minnesota 
congresswoman 
Ilhan __
35 Yemeni neighbor
37 Reversal
46 Words from 
Juliet
47 Saddle bands48 Zeal
50 Gas from the 
Greek for 
“strange”
51 Wartime  
vehicles
52 Fake
53 Poi root
54 Start of a 
conclusion
56 Aware of
60 Blade in the 
water
61 Actress Arthur
08/03/2020
answer on page 7
10 For Sale
NOTICE OF VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a virtual public meeting 
via communications media technology to 
which all interested persons are invited.
DATE AND TIME:  August 24, 2020 at 5:00 p.m.
PLACE: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, 
Facebook and the Alachua County Video 
on Demand Website [link below]
https://alachuacounty.us/Pages/
AlachuaCounty.aspx
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when 
prompted use code 670 965 3024
Live Broadcast Public Comment Call-In - Call 
929.205.6099, Access Code - 273-174-8038
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained 
by visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.
org (click Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning) or may be seen posted at 2009 
NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida one 
week prior to the meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a virtual meet -
ing via communications media technology   
The meeting is a virtual public meeting, as 
permitted by Florida Governor’s Executive 
Order No. 2020-69.   The public may submit 
comments to the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area through email (escalante@
ncfrpc.org)  or by calling into the public com -
ment message line when prompted to call dur -
ing the meeting.  Public comment will be tak -
en by telephone for all non-ministerial items 
on which the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area votes.   Once public com -
ment is opened for an item under discussion, 
please call the public comment telephone 
number and follow the instructions to leave 
your recorded message for the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area.   Callers 
should leave their name and limit comments 
to two minutes.  In addition, the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization will 
open telephone lines for one 30 minute pub -
lic comment session for the public to discuss 
items not on the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area agenda.  Public comment 
during the public comment session will be 
limited to two minutes per each caller.  The 
public is encouraged to submit any written or 
photographic documents prior to the meet -
ing to escalante@ncfrpc.org.  Any questions 
regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area Office at 352.955.2200., extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser -
vices (free of charge) should contact Michael 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.20 Events/noticesMONDAY, AUGUST 10, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9
solution  below answers  below
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which country is the only 
one whose name ends with the letter "Q"?
2. COMICS: What was the name of Dennis 
the Menace's dog?
3. GOVERNMENT: Which Cabinet depart -
ment oversees the National Park Service?
4. ANATOMY: What is a common name for 
metacarpophalangeal joint?
5. SCIENCE: What is absolute zero?
6. MUSIC: Which famous musician's nick -
name was Bocephus?
7. MOVIES: What was the setting for Alfred 
Hitchcock's film "The Birds"?
8. ASTRONOMY: Which moon is the largest 
in our solar system?
9. LANGUAGE: What does the Latin word 
"veritas" mean?
10. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the only 
U.S. president who also served later as 
chief justice of the Supreme Court? 
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution  below
Stickelers  answerTrivia Test  answers1. Iraq
2. Ruff
3. Interior
4. Knuckle
5. The lowest temperature theoreti -
cally possible. -273.15 Centigrade or 
-459.67 Fahrenheit6. Hank Williams Jr.
7. Bodega Bay, California
8. Jupiter's Ganymede
9. Truth
10. William Howard Taftwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
found something? found something? 
alligatoralligator
classifiedsclassifieds
Visit Visit alligatoralligator .org/classifieds.org/classifieds   
and submit your ad to one of and submit your ad to one of 
the following categories today!the following categories today!
1:   For Rent (furnished)1:   For Rent (furnished)
2:   For Rent (unfurnished)2:   For Rent (unfurnished)
3:   Sublease3:   Sublease
4:   Roommates4:   Roommates
5:   Real Estate5:   Real Estate
6:   Furnishings6:   Furnishings
7:   Computers7:   Computers
8:   Electronics8:   Electronics
9:   Bicycles9:   Bicycles
10: For Sale10: For Sale
11: Motorcycles/Mopeds11: Motorcycles/Mopeds
12: Autos12: Autos
13: Wanted13: Wanted
14: Help Wanted14: Help Wanted
15: Services15: Services
16: Health Services16: Health Services
17: Typing17: Typing
18: Personals18: Personals
19: Connections19: Connections
20: Events/Notices20: Events/Notices
21: Entertainment21: Entertainment
22: Tickets22: Tickets
23: Rides23: Rides
24: Pets24: Pets
25: Lost & Found25: Lost & Found
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  (c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY AUGUST 10, 2020
Photos courtesy to The Alligator / / Graphic by Carley Noll / / Alligator Staff
From left to right: Phil Dodds, Adam Christensen, Tom Wells.
GET TO KNOW THE DEMOCRATIC 
CANDIDATES FOR CONGRESS
By Aurora Martinez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Philip Dodds
Age: 46
Who is Dodds?
Former Independent candidate for Congress in 2016 general 
election
Grew up in South Florida and has lived in Alachua County 
since 1996
Builds software systems for doctors
Bachelor’s in mathematics
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $59,124.81
Total expenditures: $21,163.36
Why is Dodds running for office?
“I’m running for office because I think we need good 
candidates to run, ” Dodds said. “And I’m interested in being a 
part of the blue wave for Florida. ”  
Dodds said he is running because he wants to support all 
aspects of the Democratic platform in Congress. He also said 
he wants to run to help Joe Biden, the Democrat presidential 
candidate, get more votes and win in Florida. That would 
make it harder for President Donald Trump to win reelection, 
he added.
“I’m interested in equal rights and equal application of the 
law in government. I’m interested in building an economy 
that works for all people, not just the wealthy people. I’m 
interested in building an ethical government that respects 
the rule of law and respects democracy, ” Dodds said. What does Dodds hope to accomplish in office?
Lower the price of health care
Reestablish environmental protections
Promote equal justice under the law
Adam Christensen
Age: 26
Who is Christensen?
Small business owner in Gainesville
Founder and CEO of Botanica Testing, Inc.
Born in Olathe, Kansas, and raised in Palm Harbor, Florida
Bachelor’s degree in biology from Hampden-Sydney College 
in Virginia
Campaign Finances as of June 30
Monetary contributions: $20,012.13
Total expenditures: $15,300.28
Why is Christensen running 
for office?
Christensen said he decided to run because he saw that 
there was not a Democratic candidate who would compete 
effectively against the Republicans in January.
“I didn’t see anyone who is going to be able to actually talk 
about the things that matter. I didn’t see anyone who is 
going to go in and actually dismantle the structures that 
have been wrong in our society for so long, ” Christensen 
said.
Christensen said that actual structural issues in government 
are continuously covered superficially, like with “Band-Aids, ”  
without fixing the underlying issues. 
“They never actually cleaned. They never actually stitched it 
up, ” he said.
What does Christensen hope to accomplish in office?
Get rid of the wealth gap
Make sure there are federal jobs for people after the pandemic
Pass universal child care
T om Wells
Age: 69
Who is T om Wells?
Third time running for Congress
Ph.D. in theoretical and mathematical physics from the 
University of Maryland
Campaign Finances as of June 30
Monetary contributions: $13,044.36
Total expenditures: $11,823.96
Why is Wells running for office?
Wells said he is running because he believes society is killing 
its children’s future for not acknowledging the challenges of 
climate change. 
People should understand where the problems come from in 
order to know how to fix them, Wells said. 
Wells said he is running for the same position again 
because he has always studied problems within the federal 
government, which makes him feel he has prepared for 
the position in congress. He said he has learned a lot about 
Florida’s 3rd District and how to communicate the things 
that must be done in congress to benefit the district.
“If you don’t have a strategy, it’s just pretty unlikely to 
happen all by itself. ” Wells said. “I can’t sleep at night if I’m 
not doing this. ”  
What does Wells hope to accomplish in office?
Reconnect people with Congress
Pass “Medicare for All”  
Support climate justice
@AuroraCeciliaM
amartinez@alligator.orgWho are Florida’s 3rd Congressional District Democratic candidates?GET TO KNOW THE REPUBLICAN 
CANDIDATES FOR CONGRESS
By Aurora Martinez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Kat Cammack 
Age: 32
Who is Cammack?
Former campaign manager and deputy chief of 
staff for Rep. Ted Yoho 
Co-founder of The Grit Foundation, a nonprofit 
organization designed to support local first 
responders
Master’s in strategic studies and national 
defense from the U.S. Naval War College
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $492,374.96
Total expenditures: $394,327.98
Why is Cammack running for office?
Cammack said she believes that as a 
conservative millennial woman, she has 
a unique opportunity to really bring a 
conservative movement into the 21st century.
“I would like to enhance the diversity of our 
party and show that the next generation is 
ready and willing to lead on issues that have 
been plaguing our country for the last 30 to 40 
years, ” she added.
What does Cammack hope to accomplish in 
office?
Control government spending
Reform immigration law
Promote diversity of thought and an individual’s 
right to their opinion
T odd Chase
Age: 53
Who is Chase?
Former Gainesville city commissioner for six 
years
26 years of service to the Navy
Master’s in business administration and 
management from Harvard
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $355,484.24
Total expenditures: $244,786.19
Why is Chase running for office?
“I’m running because I think it’s important that 
we have strong, experienced and principal 
leaders in Washington to help lead this country, 
probably at a time, more so, than we’ve ever 
needed it, ” Chase said.
Chase also said he is running for Congress 
because he is afraid society is running out of 
people like his mother, who taught him and his 
brother about faith, love, discipline, confidence 
and work ethic. 
What does Chase hope to accomplish in 
office?
Fix health care system
Make military spending a priority
Get people back to work
Gavin Rollins
Age: 34
Who is Rollins?
13 years of military service
Captain in the Florida National Guard
Current Clay County commissioner
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $179,907.20
Total expenditures: $131,998.74
Why is Rollins running for office?
Rollins said he decided to run for Congress 
because he believes that the U.S. needs 
energetic, engaged leadership that is 
conservative but also is willing to go to D.C. and 
fight for fresh new ideas to face crises such as 
attacks on freedoms of religion and expression.
What does Rollins hope to accomplish in 
office?
Keep the country safe
Simplify the government
Support agriculture workers and farmersBill Engelbrecht
Age: 54
Who is Engelbrecht?
Owner and president of a Florida First Care, a 
Medicare home health agency
Has been in the health care field for 32 years
FEC Campaign Finances as of June 30
Monetary contributions: $68,530
Total expenditures: $31,742.28
Why is Engelbrecht running for office?
Engelbrecht said he decided to run because he 
knows from firsthand experience that health 
care reform is needed. He added that he is also 
running because he has a family full of veterans 
whom he wishes to help get better access to 
health care.
“You need somebody like myself, who’s got the 
experience in health care, but also who can 
come in with a fresh idea, fresh minds, to think 
outside the box, ” he said. 
What does Engelbrecht hope to accomplish 
in office?
Lower price of prescription drugs
Joe Dallas Millado
Age: 37
Who is Millado?
Former legislative aide for Florida’s 6th District 
Rep. Cliff Stearns from 2007 to 2012
Small business owner
Bachelor’s in criminology at FSU
FEC Campaign Finances as of June 30
Monetary contributions: $15,967.25
Total expenditures: $19,808.29
Why is Millado running for office?
Millado said he is running to prove that you 
don’t need a million dollars to run for Congress. 
Millado said it doesn’t matter if people are 
Republican, Democrat or Independent. His 
campaign is designed to inspire the next era of 
generational leaders to rise up, he added.
“You’ve had politics. I want to bring policy, ” 
Millado said.What does Millado hope to accomplish in 
office?
Support veterans issues
Prioritize national security
The following candidates could not be reached 
for comment in time for publication. The 
information provided was gathered from each 
candidate’s campaign sites.
James St. George
Age: 63
Who is St. George?
Physician from Harvard Medical School
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $921,794.97
Total expenditures: $643,232.64
What does St. George hope to accomplish 
in office?
Reform health care
Support the implementation of border security
Get government spending under control
Judson Sapp
Age: 43
Who is Sapp?
CEO of W. J. Sapp Railroad Contractor
Ran for the same seat in 2018
Bachelor’s in philosophy from Florida State 
University
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $770,019.01
Total expenditures: $574,879.74
What does Sapp hope to accomplish in 
office?
Promote quality education
Reform health care system
Implement border security and eliminate 
federal funding of sanctuary cities
Amy Pope Wells
Age: 49
Who is Wells?
Lives in Green Cove Springs, Florida
Board member of the Clay County 
Development Authority in 2017 and co-chair of the Women’s Coalition in support of Gov. Ron 
DeSantis
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $217,085.90
Total expenditures: $87,968.54
What does Wells hope to accomplish in 
office?
Defend Second Amendment rights
Implement border security
Protect against an anti-capitalism agenda
Ryan Chamberlin
Age: 46
Who is Chamberlin?
Business consultant based in Marion County
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $166,083.40
Total expenditures: $124,579.42
What does Chamberlin hope to accomplish 
in office?
Support the implementation of border security
Endorse the national sales tax
Defend constitutional rights
David Theus
Age: 56
Who is Theus?
First time running for an elected office
Business consultant and PromoteClay founder, 
a networking platform for businesses
FEC Campaign Finances as of July 29
Monetary contributions: $16,322.11
Total expenditures: $16,043.43
What does Theus hope to accomplish in 
office?
Promote history in education
Protect monuments
Reform Veterans’ Affairs and national security 
@AuroraCeciliaM
amartinez@alligator.orgELECTION EDITION   MONDAY, AUGUST 10, 2020   ALLIGATOR
Photos courtesy to the Alligator / / Graphic by Carley Noll / / Alligator Staff
Top row from left to right: Bill Engelbrecht, Kat Cammack, Todd Chase; Middle row from left to right: Joe Millado, James St. 
George, Amy Pope Wells, Gavin Rollins; Bottom row from left to right: David Theus, Ryan Chamberlin, Judson Sapp.
Who are Florida’s 3rd Congressional District Republican candidates?12   ALLIGATOR    MONDA Y AUGUST 10, 2020
