We Inform. Y ou Decide. www.alligator.org
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
The case against the Spring semester
More than 200 professors signed a letter opposing UF’s HyFlex 
plan for the coming semester, pg. 10
UF doctors explain COVID-19 testing procedures
The university shifted from nasal swabs to saliva tests this 
semester and increased its testing capabilities,  pg. 4Batter up!
With baseball right around the corner, 
write rs Sara Kate Dyson and Ryan Haley 
evaluate the team and see how they stack 
up against last year’s 16-1 team , pg. 14
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news -MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 15
Shannon Ahern, Aubrey Bocalan & Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
PROFESSORS AND TECHNOLOGY 
PERSONNEL ARE HURRYING TO 
PREPARE THEMSELVES FOR A 
SPRING SEMESTER WITH MORE IN-
PERSON CLASSES 
By Rachel Slay
Alligator Staff Writer
Voices muffled by masks, micro -
phones out of range, professors’ divid -
ed attention. 
UF’s Spring semester will bring 
these challenges and more to its Hy -
Flex classes. 
Hybrid-Flexible classrooms, or Hy -
Flex, will be used throughout UF in the 
Spring. Teachers will simultaneously 
address in-person students and the rest 
of their students remotely, via Zoom. 
The switch will require professors to 
learn new technology, adjust course 
layouts and be flexible with their syl -
labi. 
A small portion of the class will be 
in front of the professor, masked and 
socially distanced due to capacity lim -
its for classrooms. The number of in-
person seats varies based on the class 
and classroom size. 
UF Information Technology is in -
stalling cameras, microphones and at 
least two monitors in every classroom 
in preparation for the Spring semes -
ter, wrote Mark McCallister, director 
of Academic Technology, in an email. 
They will update existing microphones 
to increase range and clarity, he wrote. 
McCallister couldn’t give an exact 
figure for how much UF is spending on 
this technology. 
“Costs depends on a variety of fac -
tors, including existing cabling and 
technologies already in a particular 
classroom space,” McCallister wrote. 
The monitors will allow the pro -
fessors to simultaneously share their 
screen on Zoom and in person so stu -
dents can watch the lecture in either 
format. The online class will also be 
displayed on a monitor so the instruc -
tor can interact with the remote stu -
dents. 
Professors will have to cater course 
content to the needs of both sets of stu -
dents. 
If more seats open up throughout 
the semester, students will be allowed 
to take the in-person section of the 
course, UF Provost Joseph Glover said at a Board of Trustees meeting Thurs -
day.
Gillian Lord, UF professor and chair 
of the department of Spanish and Por -
tuguese studies, has witnessed her two 
oldest daughters participate in HyFlex 
learning through Alachua County Pub -
lic Schools. She said it doesn’t work. 
She said teachers are either talking 
to the in-person students or talking to 
the online students and they rarely get 
the same treatment. 
“I already kind of am aware of 
things to really watch out for, like not 
prioritizing one population over the 
other,” Lord said. “But I don’t know 
how you don’t do that.”
Communicating in a foreign lan -
guage is hard enough, let alone through 
masks and from distanced desks, she 
said. Lord would prefer keeping for -
eign language classes 100% online. 
Her department voiced these concerns 
to Glover on Oct. 13. Though their re -
quest was not granted, clear masks are 
the compromise.
Lord sighed as she talked about the 
added challenge of teaching students 
who are not in the same room.
“I don’t know how to get three peo -
ple who are sitting 6 feet apart to have 
a conversation in a classroom without 
screaming,” Lord said.
Instructors will have to work twice 
as hard to make sure the classroom 
experience and assessment is fair for 
both sets of students, said Joseph Spill -
ane, associate dean of UF’s College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences. 
Spillane, a UF history professor, is 
rethinking aspects of his course like 
class discussion and group work, he 
said. He is considering brief written re -
sponses to supplement in-class discus -
sions every week, and group projects 
or assignments over traditional exams, 
he said. 
“But I’m hopeful that the technol -
ogy will be good enough, and that the 
training is good enough and the effort 
will be good enough so that students 
will find it to be a good learning expe -
rience,” Spillane said.
His department offered three ses -
sions in which faculty members who 
are comfortable with the HyFlex tech -
nology helped colleagues who are ner -
vous about it, he said. 
To prepare for Hyflex learning, UF What HyFlex learning will look 
like at in UF in the Spring
40% OF UNDERGRAD 
STUDENTS ARE 
ENROLLED IN FACE-TO-
FACE CLASSES
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer
With Spring just over one 
month away, UF hammered 
out plans for a return to cam -
pus and face-to-face classes. 
Not much will change.
Masks will be mandatory 
in UF public spaces, both in -doors and out. Cleaning crews 
will scrub high-touch points 
in dorms, libraries and class -
rooms. Dorms will stay at lim -
ited capacity, though visiting 
restrictions will be loosened. 
UF Health, Student Affairs and 
Housing directors appear con -
fident in the ability to contain 
COVID-19 cases and are opti -
mistic about vaccinations be -
ginning in the Spring.
During Spring registration, 
14,500 undergrad students 
enrolled in at least one face-
to-face course – about 40% of the 36,000 total undergrads. 
There are 4,908 face-to-face 
undergrad class sections open 
for Spring. This is only slightly 
fewer than the 5,030 sections 
in Spring 2020.
With more students return -
ing to campus and face-to-face 
classes, there will be new rules 
to remember as they grab a 
mask and head out the door. 
Housing
On-campus living will in -UF braces for impact before students 
return to in-person classes in Spring
SEE CAMPUS,  PAGE 5 SEE HYFLEX,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020
THE PLANS FOR MANDATORY COVID-19 
TESTING WAS UNVEILED BY UF HEALTH’S 
DR. MICHAEL LAUZARDO
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students can add a negative COVID-19 test re -
sult to their supply lists in the Spring as UF moves to 
mandatory testing for those taking in-person classes.
UF will require COVID-19 testing for students tak -
ing in-person classes, living on campus, part of a Greek 
organization or a member of UF’s Reserve Officer 
Training Corps. It will begin the week before classes 
start and continue for at least the first six weeks of the 
semester or until the positivity rate drops below 3%.
It’s unclear whether all tests will be completed by 
the Jan. 11 start date or how long mandatory testing 
will ultimately last.
Dr. Michael Lauzardo, the head of UF Health’s 
Screen, Test and Protect program, said he expects to 
conduct up to 25,000 tests every two weeks.
When students arrive on campus, they will be 
asked to complete the COVID-19 screening question -
naire on One.UF, he said. Those who have symptoms 
will be tested first, followed by those who fall in the 
student groups that are required to be tested.
This initial round of mandatory tests will be com -
pleted by the end of the first week of classes, Lauzardo said. Students are expected to attend the first week of 
classes even if they haven’t been tested, though he 
anticipates most students to have completed their tests 
by then.
After their first test, the two-week testing cycle will 
start, he said. Testing must be completed through UF 
Health, and students will have 48 hours to schedule 
their test once their two-week testing period ends.
Students taking only online classes will be exempt 
from mandatory testing, though they may still request 
a test, he said.
Students in the testing groups who have tested pos -
itive for COVID-19 within a 90-day period will also not 
have to test. Once that period expires, they will be re-
enrolled in mandatory testing through One.UF.
Students’ results, which they will receive within 24 
hours, will then be posted onto their One.UF account, 
Lauzardo said. They will be expected to show them to 
their professors, if asked.Faculty members will not be 
required to test in the Spring, he said.
As students go through routine testing, they won’t 
be expected to self-isolate unless they show symptoms 
or come into contact with someone who tested posi -
tive, Lauzardo said. If a student tests positive, they 
will quarantine and not be allowed on campus.
An in-person class won’t go online if a student tests 
positive, he said. Instead, UF will notify students in 
the class that someone tested positive and investigate 
where that student could have come into contact with 
someone with COVID-19.
Students who do not get tested or who come to 
class with a positive result will face consequences 
consistent with UF’s current behavioral expectations, 
Heather White, UF’s Dean of Students, wrote in an 
email. 
If an outbreak emerges — where multiple students 
in an in-person class test positive — UF will reevaluate 
whether that class should move online, he said. 
“We’re not doing a one-size-fits-all,” Lauzardo 
said. “We’re looking at each part individually just to 
do everything we can to see.”
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.org
What mandatory COVID-19 testing 
will look like for UF students
ISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 14
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinions Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett Mullenax
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Christopher Dawes, 20, a UF health science 
sophomore and Tri Gators member, leaves the 
Stephen C. O'Connell Center after getting tested 
for Covid-19 on Wednesday, Sept. 23, 2020.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
Congratulations to our 
Fall 2020 Gator Graduates!
Your hard work. Your dedication. Your vision. Your resilience.  
You’re what makes the Gator Nation great. 
Now  you’ll join more than 400,000 Gators around the globe who 
are doing their part to solve the world’s toughest challenges. 
As we celebrate how far you’ve come, we look forward to 
seeing how you will shape a greater tomorrow.
TOGETHER, UNSTOPPABLE.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020UF WILL CONTINUE PROVIDING 
THOUSANDS OF SALIVA TESTS IN THE 
SPRING AND SAYS ITS TESTS ARE 
THE BEST AVAILABLE
By Thomas Weber
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s COVID-19 testing capacity will be ac -
celerated in the Spring as it becomes mandatory 
for thousands of students. 
COVID-19 tests, which are varied in their 
techniques and levels of accuracy, have been 
scrutinized and fine-tuned since the beginning 
of the global pandemic. Now, the consensus is 
that non-rapid, molecular-based tests are the 
most accurate. 
With any COVID-19 test, there is still a small 
margin for error that must be navigated, includ -
ing potential for false negatives and positives. 
UF uses PCR, or molecular-based saliva tests, 
which Dr. Cindy Prins, UF College of Public 
Health and Health Professions’ assistant dean 
for educational affairs, said are more reliable than other types of COVID-19 tests.
“PCR tests are what we consider to be the 
gold standard for COVID-19 testing because 
they’re more accurate than rapid tests,” said 
Prins.
PCR, or polymerase chain reaction, is a pro -
cess that amplifies small samples of genetic 
material. PCR tests are non-rapid because the 
samples have to be processed in labs. If there is 
viral material in the saliva or nasal sample, mul -
tiplying it through PCR helps doctors detect it.
Rapid tests, or antigen tests, are another 
option. The tests detect a protein on the virus’ 
surface, Prins said. While these tests produce re -
sults in minutes, they’re less sensitive, meaning 
the results are less accurate.
“It’s a trade-off between getting a faster re -
sult versus getting a more accurate result,” said 
Prins, who is also a UF associate professor of 
epidemiology.
UF does not currently have plans to provide 
rapid tests, wrote UF Health Shands spokesper -
son Ken Garcia in an email. Students can still 
expect to receive results within 48 hours next 
semester.The accuracy of nasal swab and saliva tests 
seems similar, but because there’s variation in 
how a nasal swab test is performed, saliva test -
ing is a more consistent collection method, Prins 
said.
UF transitioned from nasal swabs to saliva 
tests in September, and lab processing capabili -
ties have since grown from 1,000 tests a day to 
about 2,000 tests a day, Garcia wrote.
UF also streamlined access to testing through 
students’ One.UF portals. Chad Wishner, a 
22-year-old UF computer science fifth-year, had 
difficulties scheduling a test at the beginning of 
the semester.
“They improved quite a bit on the testing 
process,” Wishner said.
He scheduled a saliva test in early November 
and said the process ran smoothly. He was hap -
py UF made testing opportunities more widely 
accessible for students.
Though uncommon, some students have 
run into trouble with false positive or negative 
COVID-19 results. 
“We run thousands of tests a week, and it 
is rare for false positives to occur due to a lab 
error,” wrote Sara Tanner, UF’s director of mar -
keting and communications, in an email. “In the 
event they do, those tests are redone to ensure 
the accuracy of the results.”
Tanner wrote she did not have an estimation 
for the number of students who received false 
positive tests this Fall, but it’s rare. 
Patrik Raguz, a 19-year-old UF computer sci -
ence freshman, was informed he tested positive 
for COVID-19 in late September. He moved to 
Lakeside — the dorm for COVID-19 positive stu -
dents — that evening.
After two days in Lakeside, Raguz received 
another email saying his test result was nega -
tive. Confused, he contacted university housing 
and was told his initial test was likely a false 
positive.
Inaccurate results are usually due to cross-
contamination of samples in the lab or human 
or software error, like misreading or mixing up 
results, Dr. Cindy Prins said.
She said lab technicians run negative and 
positive controls through their systems to detect 
whether some of these issues are happening.
Raguz said he was exposed to at least two 
other COVID-positive people for about three 
days while in the quarantine dorm.
He said UF Housing encouraged him to get 
tested again but also cleared him to go back to 
his dorm, Simpson Hall, despite his exposure. 
“When I came back, I knew that I should quarantine myself because there’s an actual 
possibility I have it now,” he said. 
Raguz and his Simpson Hall roommate wore 
masks and kept themselves distanced while he 
waited for the results of a new test, which ended 
up being negative. 
Once students are notified of their test being 
a false positive, they are allowed to leave on-
campus quarantine and return home, Tanner 
said. They’re encouraged to continue monitor -
ing their symptoms.
Cecily Wood-Barron, an 18-year-old UF 
dance freshman, came in contact with a COVID-
positive person in early October. She quaran -
tined in Riker Hall but soon developed symp -
toms, including a fever, cough and shortness of 
breath. 
Her symptoms worsened, and two days lat -
er, UF Health Screen, Test and Protect decided 
to transfer her to Lakeside — she still hadn’t 
been tested, but she followed the university’s 
instructions. She was told her symptoms were 
too strong to be sent to Trusler Hall, the dorm 
for symptomatic contacts.
“I was exposed to COVID, I started develop -
ing symptoms; it just made sense,” she said. 
“But it was not definitive.” 
Wood-Barron received her first COVID-19 
test after two days of living with a COVID-pos -
tive roommate in Lakeside. The next day, her 
result came back negative. 
She said UF Health Screen, Test and Protect 
told her the test was probably a false negative. 
She received a second test the day after another 
COVID-positive roommate moved in with her.
After another negative result, she asked UF 
Health Screen, Test and Protect whether she 
should get a flu test. She said she was told not 
to bother because it wasn’t flu season, and her 
fading symptoms would have made the test in -
conclusive. 
It’s possible to have the flu and COVID-19 
at the same time, according to the CDC. Some 
doctors say the two diseases combined can ex -
acerbate each others’ effects.
Wood-Baroon moved home, where she test -
ed negative for COVID-19 antibodies.
During phone calls with housing and UF 
Health Screen, Test and Protect, Wood-Barron 
questioned why she was put in COVID-positive 
housing without testing positive. She never re -
ceived an explanation.
@thomasjohnweber
tweber@alligator.org
IN AN INCREASINGLY DIGITAL 
WORLD, SOME STUDENTS 
STRUGGLE TO NAVIGATE 
LEARNING WITHOUT 
LAPTOPS AND 
INTERNET SERVICE
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
Eight months since Alachua 
County Public Schools went virtu -
al due to COVID-19, students con -
tinue to struggle with the change.
With many students still not 
physically back in schools, educa -
tion morphed to fit into an increas -
ingly virtual world through digital 
or hybrid learning. Even in brick-
and-mortar classrooms, digital ac -
cess is a necessity. 
Nationally, about one quarter 
of all school-aged children are es -
timated to lack internet or devices, 
according to the National Educa -
tion Association. More than 10% 
of households with a child in pub -
lic schools within Alachua County 
don’t have broadband internet 
subscription, according to 2014-
18 statistics from National Center 
for Education Statistics. On top 
of this, about 6% of those house -
holds lack a computer. 
ACPS distributed about 7,000 
laptops and iPads this school year 
to combat this technology gap, 
ACPS spokesperson Jackie John -son wrote in an email. This is an 
increase from 2,300 computers in 
September. Computers are lent out 
free of charge to families. 
Schools work with parents who 
need help, she wrote. After schools 
closed in the spring, ACPS used 
parked school buses with hotspots 
to provide internet access in high-
needs areas with students living in 
poverty. Buses visited places such 
as Porters Community Center and 
Faith Baptist Church. With schools 
back in session, there aren’t 
enough buses to park to provide 
hotspot access, she said. 
To further bridge the gap, the 
Education Foundation of Alachua 
County and the Community Foun -
dation of North Central Florida 
teamed up to create a Community 
Connectivity Fund, which will go 
to students and schools to address 
the technology gap. 
The fund launched Oct. 27 and 
helps with access to digital devices 
and internet connectivity by pro -
viding funding to purchase tech -
nology like laptops and hotspots. 
COVID-19 exacerbated access 
challenges, said Rachel Debigare, 
executive director of the Education 
Foundation of Alachua County, a 
Gainesville nonprofit that serves 
ACPS students.
Staff works with public school 
students and the district, she said. 
One element of the nonprofit is 
mentorship from professionals. 
When mentorships went digital, 
it was clear that not everyone has equal access to the internet and 
technology, she said.
With schools, libraries and 
other public places with free WiFi 
closed, it was hard to get in touch 
with some students, she said. 
“Are they able to connect with 
their teachers?” Debigare asked. 
“Are they able to download the 
content? Are they able to perform 
their homework? Which obviously 
in turn, it affects their achieve -
ment and their grades and their 
progress, and so it just definitely 
became something that we really 
started to tune into more.”
Now, Debigare said, the pro -
gram is working to solve imme -
diate problems and broaden the 
reach of whom it can help. 
The ultimate goal is to provide 
technology on a 1:1 ratio, Debi -
gare said. The purchases would 
likely be done through the school 
district, so they can be checked 
out, and families could continue to 
access technology support through 
schools. 
The COVID-19 pandemic has 
made the lack of access to online 
resources critical for a large por -
tion of the community population, 
said Barzella Papa, president and 
CEO of Community Foundation of 
North Central Florida. 
“The goal is to just make sure 
those who are underserved have 
the capacity to stay connected,” 
Papa said. 
Even before COVID-19, many 
teachers in schools expected stu -dents to work on a laptop while 
in the classroom, said Tedreyonce’  
Moore, a 17-year-old senior at 
Eastside High School and dual en -
rollment student at Santa Fe Col -
lege doing hybrid classes.
“I wasn’t really able to fulfill 
the things I had to do in class,” 
Moore said. 
Before receiving a laptop in Fall 
2019 through Take Stock in Chil -
dren, a mentorship program of 
the education foundation, Moore 
would have to wait until she got 
home to do her assignments on 
her family’s desktop computer. 
Now, Moore can join her peers 
doing work in class. She said she 
is able to complete assignments on 
time. On days when her brother 
had after-school basketball prac -
tice, she could bring her work 
with her. 
Technology is essential, Moore 
said. Without it at home, students 
are limited, she added.
While she said she doesn’t en -
joy online classes, she said she felt 
more equipped during the  transi -
tion to online learning with COV -
ID-19. Her brother uses the family 
computer and she uses her laptop. 
Gainesville High School senior 
and Santa Fe College dual enroll -
ment student Breonshea Speed-
Jackson, 17, had a family com -
puter, but it was slow and worn 
down.
Before getting a laptop, Speed-
Jackson would arrive at school 
early to do work in the computer lab and stay late to work in the 
library. Now that she received 
a laptop through the Education 
Foundation of Alachua County, 
she said she has more time. 
She said she remembers the 
day she received the computer: 
Oct. 28, 2019. Speed-Jackson was 
called down to the office and re -
members wondering if she was in 
trouble. Her parents were there, 
and she received her own laptop. 
“That was really cool,” she 
said. “I was shocked. I was like, 
‘Wait a minute, really?’”
With the independence of a 
laptop that goes wherever she 
goes, she said she can spend more 
time  doing work from home. 
“Internet access is very impor -
tant,” she said. “If we don’t have 
internet, we can’t complete our 
work.”
With COVID-19 pushing class -
rooms online, Speed-Jackson said 
it was a struggle at first to adjust 
to Google Classroom, six teachers 
and different assignments. How -
ever, she said it is more orderly 
now that students and teachers 
have caught on to the technology.  
Today, she said, life is good, 
and she’s looking forward to the 
next chapter: Going to college to 
study elementary education.
@feinberg_sophie
sfeinberg@alligator.orgUF navigates COVID-19 test accuracy
Public schools, nonprofits address digital divide in light of COVID-19 Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Students are seen waiting in line to be tested at the COVID-19 testing site outside of Murphree 
Hall on Sept. 24, 2020. Students who wish to get tested are required to fill out an online screening 
questionnaire prior to making an appointment and are asked to bring their Gator 1 ID card.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
SOCIALLY-DISTANCED SG ELECTIONS, VIRTUAL 
ACCENT EVENTS, NEW SENATE RULES IN FALL
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government had virtual events, in-person elec -
tions and sweeping UF Senate rule changes throughout the 
Fall.
SG passed rule changes that limited virtual meetings and 
legislation authoring under a Gator Party supermajority. Gator 
Party authored and passed the legislation with a supermajority 
of Senate seats. 
SG also held Senate elections in person with new precau -
tions and safety measures and spent nearly a quarter-million 
dollars virtually hosting famous guests for the digitally remote 
Accent Speakers Bureau.
These are the elections and events SG held over Fall:
  
SG polls during a pandemic
About 6,100 students voted for 50 UF Senate seats in the 
Fall elections Oct. 6 and 7, about  3,000 less than Fall 2019 SG 
elections.
UF Supervisor of Elections Hayley Price created a new early 
voting option and voting accommodations for students who 
couldn’t go to the polls in person. Absentee ballots were also used more than usual in Fall, though some students never 
received theirs. 
Gator Party dominated the elections, gaining a superma -
jority of 75 out of 100 Senate seats. The majority party won 
out against three new parties that were created during the 
Fall election cycle. All three losing parties, Progressive Party, 
Change Party and Union Party, said they would continue fight -
ing for seats in Spring.
The Supervisor of Elections did not respond to questions 
about if early voting, voting accommodations or online op -
tions for candidates would be available in Spring.
Online voting was a contested issue this election. It has 
been illegal in SG since 2006, when the UF Supreme Court 
ruled it unconstitutional. Candidates petitioned UFSC and UF 
Provost Joseph Glover to implement online voting this Fall. 
The attempts failed, but failed candidates and Inspire Sen. 
Zachery Utt said they would continue to fight for online vot -
ing.
In Spring, SG will vote for a new executive cabinet, the 
president, vice president and treasurer and 50 new senators. 
Senate rules got a makeover
Before closing out the Fall semester, the Senate renovated 
its rules and procedures.
The new rules banned non-SG students from writing or 
sponsoring SG legislation and required students to register for 
public comment 19 hours before the Senate begins. They also give the Senate president more power over ending debate and 
controlling Senate meetings.
The rules also require the Senate to meet virtually only in 
the case of a national, state or local state of emergency. Flori -
da’s state of emergency ends Jan. 2. 
These changes faced heavy opposition from the minority 
party, Inspire Party, but ended up passing with 52-13 votes. 
Inspire plans to continue its opposition of the changes by 
challenging the virtual Senate rule in the Supreme Court, Mi -
nority Leader Brianne Seaberg wrote in a text message.
Accent hosted big names on small screens
Over Fall, Accent Speakers Bureau hosted five virtual 
events over Zoom, including Anita Hill, Malala Yousafzai and 
Rob Riggle, and paid speakers a total of $230,000 in student 
fees for about five hours of screen time.
Accent hopes to move some events in person again and 
bring the speakers to campus in Spring, chair Steven Wolf an -
nounced during UF Senate Dec. 1.
Wolf did not answer questions about how these plans are 
being developed.
“We will not go forward with any of those plans without 
coordinating with the university and getting approval from 
health officials,” he said.
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.orgWhat happened in UF Student Government this Fall?
crease this Spring with 432 new dorm con -
tracts signed – an increase of 7% from UF’s 
Fall residents, UF Housing communications 
director Sara Tanner said.
Tanner said she does not expect any chal -
lenges in the Spring.
“We’re really optimistic,” Tanner said. “We 
want students to have a good experience in 
and out of COVID.” 
Riker Hall, Trusler Hall and Lakeside build -
ing 2 were reserved as quarantine dorms this 
Fall. With more students returning in Spring, 
East Hall will be closed to provide more quar -
antine beds.
After UF failed to secure quarantine trans -
portation for students in the Fall, the university 
made efforts to drive students who were not 
cleared for campus. Quarantine transportation 
will continue to be available this Spring. 
Students involved in Greek life and in on-
campus housing will receive mandatory CO -
VID-19 testing, which will occur every two 
weeks for the first six weeks of the Spring se -
mester.
Resident Assistants in dorms will be al -
lowed to host both socially-distanced and 
masked in-person events in addition to virtual 
ones in the Spring. In-person RA events were 
prohibited this Fall. 
In Spring, on-campus students will be able 
to visit residents who live in other on-campus 
residence halls. During Fall, only students on 
the same floor were considered guests and al -
lowed to visit other dorm rooms. A rule made 
in the Fall mandating that guests cannot stay overnight will stay in effect.
Off-campus guests will still not be allowed 
in dorms, apart from the two guests helping 
a student move in, Tanner said. In the Fall, 
move-in was extended from four to 12 days to 
allow for distancing. 
Tanner assured the increased cleaning pro -
tocols introduced in the Fall will continue. 
Shared bathrooms in dorm buildings will 
be cleaned weekly by housing staff and high 
touch points, like door handles and elevator 
buttons, will be disinfected regularly.
Libraries
The nine libraries across campus will re -
main at 25% capacity unless the university 
releases new recommendations, UF Libraries 
communications director Barbara Hood said. 
Capacity counters will stay in place in the 
Spring and high-touch areas like door handles 
will be frequently sanitized. Gator 1 IDs will 
still be required to access the libraries.
Group study rooms will stay closed. 
Libraries have not struggled with capacity 
limits this semester, and there have been no 
lines, she said. 
If students ask for longer hours on week -
ends the UF Libraries are able to make that 
happen, Hood said. 
“We won’t be open 24/7 anymore – for a 
while,” Hood said.
Dining
UF dining halls will function the same as 
the Fall. Pre-packaged meals will be available 
for take-out or students dining in. Seating at 
tables will be separated by 6 feet and masks 
must be worn when not eating.
 Hours of operation reflect demand in the 
Spring based on foot traffic, UF Issues, Man -
agement and Crisis Communications director 
Hessy Fernandez wrote in an email. In the Fall, dining halls were open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
Masks & Classes
UF facility services stocked every classroom 
with disinfectant wipes dispensers and hand 
sanitizer. 
This will allow students and faculty to sani -
tize their surfaces – desks and chairs – between 
classes, Fernandez wrote.
Clear plastic protective barriers were in -
stalled at help desks and welcome areas in the 
Fall. However, there are no planned install -
ments of additional protective barriers at this 
time, Fernandez wrote in an email.
UF facilities services worked with individu -
al colleges to set up additional spaces for face-
to-face instruction. 
Extra masks for students will be stored in 
the 350 classrooms available for classes.This Fall, 14,000 Gator Care kits, packages 
containing masks and hand sanitizer were 
distributed, Student Affairs Vice President 
D’Andra Mull said. In the Spring, more care 
packages will be available first to those that did 
not receive one this semester, then all students. 
UF Provost Joseph Glover said the maxi -
mum capacity in classrooms could increase if 
UF Health approves a change in social distanc -
ing guidelines.
“With the advent of vaccines, we expect 
that this coming fall, there will be no physical 
distancing requirements, and all classrooms 
will return to full capacity,” Glover said.
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.org
 faculty can schedule consulta -
tions with UFIT personnel, go to 
open classrooms for self-guided 
practice or attend weekly work -
shops until Dec. 23, according 
to UF’s Preparing for Spring 
website. The website includes 
a “Pedagogy and Activities” 
page outlining best practices for teaching and student engage -
ment. 
No training is mandatory be -
cause there are a variety of com -
fort levels with the technology, 
McCallister wrote. 
The switch to HyFlex class -
es comes after UF announced 
it would offer more in-person 
classes on Oct. 6. Fuchs ex -
plained in a public address video on Oct. 9 that the expansion of 
in-person learning is necessary 
to “retain full funding for our 
university, and thereby protect 
the jobs of our employees.”
Flexible scheduling and guest 
speakers are factors of distance 
learning worth keeping, said 
Scott Sager, education coordina -
tor and professor in UF’s School 
of Forest Resources and Conser -
vation. 
Sager teaches courses that 
require field experience – expe -
rience that was limited during 
the mostly online Fall semes -ter. He’s teaching an Integrated 
Natural Resource Management 
course in the Spring. He is us -
ing camera crews and recording 
studios to better facilitate the in-
person experiences of class, he 
said.
UF has not provided faculty 
with a formal directive regard -
ing in-person students having 
to quarantine if exposed to CO -
VID-19, Sager said. He believes 
that is the best possible ap -
proach to the situation because 
of how diverse the university is.
“I want them to give the in -structors the flexibility to fig -
ure out ‘What is the way that 
this makes sense given what 
I’m trying to accomplish in the 
course,’” Sager said. 
At a Faculty Senate town 
hall in October, Glover, UF’s 
provost, said faculty members 
who test positive for COVID-19 
would be no different than being 
sick from the flu.
@racheljslay
rslay@alligator.org
CAMPUS,  from pg. 1HYFLEX,  from pg. 1
Libraries at 25%In-person seats will vary
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
A mask is seen on the “Focused Attention” gator statue in Library West on Friday, 
Sept. 11, 2020.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020
STUDENTS HOPE TO TAKE 
IN-PERSON SPRING COURSES 
TO ESCAPE UNSAFE AND 
DESTRUCTIVE HOME 
SITUATIONS
By Kalia Richardson
krichardson@alligator.org
Editor’s note: This article 
contains references to abuse.
Shrieks of “Ow” and “She hit me” 
echoed through the halls and into 
UF biology sophomore Mya Dyson’s 
childhood bedroom as she tried to 
focus on her virtual classes.
Since moving home to Stafford, 
Virginia, for the Fall, the sounds of 
Dyson’s five younger cousins whin -
ing, crying and screaming have bro -
ken the 19-year-old’s concentration 
and put her in a state of panic.
Some students Zoomed from 
their home bedrooms to save on rent 
and reduce the spread of COVID-19. 
As family responsibilities collide 
with school obligations, some ex -
perienced plummeting grades and a 
decline in their mental health. 
More than 14,500 UF students 
have registered for at least one in-
person class this Spring. Some stu -
dents are staying in Gainesville to 
revive the interactive experience they’ve missed. Others have used 
the increased in-person courses as 
an opportunity to escape unsafe and 
destructive home situations.
Dyson stayed in her hometown 
to save money. She didn’t anticipate 
taking care of smaller children, who 
arrived after a family emergency. 
Dyson spends her days babysitting 
her cousins, ages 3, 4, 6, 8 and 12, 
who moved in weeks earlier. 
To complete her Zoom classes, 
she seals herself in her room as 
muffled screams, cries and laughter 
pound at her door. Dyson’s mom 
regularly walks into her room during 
exams and Zoom calls for help with 
chores. 
“My privacy is gone,” Dyson said.
After her Zoom classes, she helps 
her older cousins solve fractions 
and decimals and helps the younger 
cousins learn to read and write until 
dinner at 5 p.m. It’s not until 9 p.m. 
that she has time to finish her home -
work. 
Dyson said her Fall grades have 
suffered because of the distractions 
and has felt increasingly lazy and 
unmotivated. She registered for two 
in-person labs and one in-person 
class this Spring. The remainder of 
her classes are online.
When Dyson told her mother she 
was going to live in Murphree Hall, 
her mother cried. She said she’s not sure how her mother is going to han -
dle taking care of the kids but made 
this decision for her mental and aca -
demic health.
“There is a line between wanting 
to live my own life but feeling bad 
for leaving the other side of me be -
hind,” she said.
Maria De Andraca, a 20-year-old 
UF economics and sustainability se -
nior, decided to stay in Gainesville 
this Fall to eliminate similar inter -
ruptions from her 13- and 18-year-
old sisters. 
De Andraca said she doesn’t have 
a private space to study and feels 
disoriented in her Miami home. She 
prefers to study at coffee shops and 
libraries in Gainesville.
“When I’m back home I’m all 
over the place,” she said.
De Andraca registered for a mix 
of in-person, HyFlex and online 
courses for the Spring and is hop -
ing next semester feels more normal, 
like previous semesters.
“The whole pandemic has made 
me really unsure about everything,” 
De Andraca said.
De Andraca graduates in the 
Spring and hopes to live the full ex -
perience – or as much as COVID-19 
restrictions will allow. 
Vanessa Diaz, a 20-year-old UF 
psychology junior, stayed in an off-
campus apartment in Gainesville during the Fall and plans to stay dur -
ing the Spring. 
Diaz’s parents are divorced, and 
she still moves from house to house 
every week when she’s home. With 
her older brother, father and step 
mother homebound, she feels a lack 
of privacy and said it’s more conve -
nient to stay in Gainesville. 
“When you’re with your room -
mates or with other students, every -
body’s on the same routine,” Diaz 
said. “Everybody’s generally pretty 
quiet and everyone’s respectful of 
that, versus at home it’s more cha -
otic.”
She has registered for all in-per -
son courses for Spring.
More than 8,000 in-person classes 
will be offered this Spring, which is 
twice the number of courses offered 
this Fall. 
Faith Buckley, an 18-year-old UF 
journalism freshman, has no other 
choice but to stay in Gainesville this 
Spring.
Buckley had a verbal fight with 
her parents that turned physical in 
late July. What began as an argument 
on the Black Lives Matter movement 
and face masks led to physical abuse 
from her father. She was kicked out 
of her home in Tampa the same day.
“I didn’t really process it in the 
moment,” Buckley said. “But it spi -
raled as time went on into depressive symptoms.”
She went to live with her sister, 
Hope, 22, in her townhouse in Tam -
pa where she slept on the couch for 
a month until moving to Gainesville 
in late August. 
Her parents stopped supporting 
her financially, and she had to file 
as a runaway on her FAFSA. Her 
16-year-old brother also moved out 
of her parent’s home after the fight, 
and their sister is working to gain le -
gal custody of him.
Everything she owns, from year -
books to old T-shirts, is jammed in 
the backseat of her car and in the 
drawers of her dorm. 
Buckley said classes were on the 
backburner during the Fall, but she’s 
beginning to pick up the fallen pieces 
and improve her financial and men -
tal health. Her good and bad mo -
ments fluctuate, but she’s planning 
to take it day by day, hour by hour, 
she said. 
She has two in-person classes 
and hopes to join more clubs in the 
Spring. She said the in-person inter -
action will serve as a distraction. 
“I’m starting to see the possibility 
of a light at the end of the tunnel,” 
she said.
@kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.orgSOME STUDENTS CHOOSE TO HEAD 
HOME WHILE OTHERS ARE MOVING 
TO GAINESVILLE
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
In a continuously unpredictable environ -
ment, UF students remain conflicted as they 
determine where to live during the Spring.
COVID-19-related apartment vacancies, as 
well as excitement and uncertainty surround -
ing the increase of in-person classes this Spring, 
are forcing UF students and Gainesville apart -
ments alike to continue adjusting to housing needs during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Spring-only leases opened for on-campus 
housing for students planning on returning to 
Gainesville next semester. As of Sunday, there 
have been 432 new agreements, Sara Tanner, 
director of marketing and strategic communica -
tions for UF’s Division of Student Affairs, wrote 
in an email.
In a typical year, about 8,000 students live 
in residence halls, Tanner wrote. For the Fall, 
there were only 5,609 residence hall agree -
ments.
“We expect to return to normal occupancy 
in Fall 2021,” she wrote.
Sam Dillon, a 25-year-old UF physics and 
mathematics senior, said he stayed home in 
Destin, a city about halfway between Pensac -ola and Panama City, for Fall. All his classes 
were online, and he didn’t want to pay rent in 
Gainesville, he said.
“The search for housing has been very 
easy,” Dillon said. “Many people are trying to 
sublease their apartments, and landlords seem 
desperate to fill their units as well.”
Now that some of his classes are in person, 
Dillon said he is eager to return. He posted on a 
subleasing page that he needs a room and has 
received interest from other UF students.
The UF subleasing Facebook group current -
ly has about 19,600 members as of Sunday and 
shows new posts hourly from students search -
ing for people to fill their rooms.
One such student is Makenna Boose, a 
19-year-old UF applied physiology and kine -
siology sophomore. Boose is trying to move 
home to Miramar, a city in southern Broward 
County, for the Spring. She is trying to sublease 
her room for $845 in a two-bedroom and two-
bathroom unit at Campus Circle, 1742 SW 38th 
Terrace.
She had just one class on campus in Fall, 
and she is trying to avoid taking one in Spring.
“I just feel more comfortable at home,” 
Boose said.
She also worries about becoming infected 
with COVID-19 through classes, she said. 
Boose has been trying to find someone to 
sublease her room for about a month and a half 
by posting in Facebook groups. She said she 
has accrued no legitimate interest.
Despite the dozens of apartments already 
located near UF, at least six new luxury apart -
ments were built near campus this year. 
Since 2013, 4,695 apartments totaling 11,945 
bedrooms have been built or approved in 
Gainesville, according to the Gainesville Sun.
But many apartments aren’t full. According 
to their websites, new complexes Hub Third 
Ave., Hub University, Aero on 24th, Campus 
Circle and Midtown Apartments are still accept -
ing applications for this school year, some offer -
ing incentives to sign such as a month of free 
rent or a waived signing fee.
It’s hard to judge whether the money made 
from expensive rent is enough to outweigh the 
negative effects of this year’s low occupancy rates, Wayne R. Archer, executive director of 
UF’s Kelley A. Bergstrom Real Estate Center, 
said.
“They’re way higher than I expected,” Ar -
cher said of the vacancy rates.
But as COVID-19 cases rise, there is still 
uncertainty among students about whether 
classes will remain in-person next academic 
year. Meanwhile, students are urged to re-sign 
year-long leases by their apartment complexes.
Ursula Duran, a 19-year-old UF accounting 
sophomore, has lived at Hub Third Ave. since 
it opened this Fall. 
Duran said she’s received emails saying 
if she didn’t renew her lease in October, she 
could be moved into a different unit or have her 
rent increased.
“I don’t think it’s fair for apartments to ap -
ply pressure to re-sign early in unsure times,” 
Duran said. “For some people it would be a 
waste to live in Gainesville and not be going 
to classes.”
Richard Schackow is the landlord of an 
apartment complex off of Southwest 13th Street 
containing four separate three-bedroom and 
one-bathroom units. His building is in the pro -
cess of being sold, so he said he hasn’t been 
renting out his units during the pandemic.
Schackow, who has been a landlord for over 
40 years, said it’s important to him to commu -
nicate with tenants. He said he has worked 
with tenants to sublease their space or let them 
end their leases early in situations like graduat -
ing early or moving for work. 
Tenants and landlords must work together 
regarding the future, he said. This could include 
adding the option for residents to sublease their 
space in the event they need to move out of 
Gainesville. 
He also stresses the importance of rent -
ers looking into leasing agreements of mul -
tiple properties to understand the commitment 
they’re making. 
“It needs to work both ways,” Schackow 
said. “I like to treat tenants fair so they respect 
my property and I respect their interests.”
@noroneill 
noneill@alligator.org
UF students leave stressful home situations and look positively to the SpringWith more in-person classes inbound, students decide where to live
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
My first time as a reporter for The Alligator in Sum -
mer 2019, I was convinced it was a solo job. I 
went into the office to finalize my story, answer 
my editors’ questions, copy edit and I was on 
my way when they gave me the green light to 
go home.
The next year I had other commitments, trying my 
best to play catch up after switching majors at the end of 
my sophomore year, so I didn’t return to the newsroom. 
I really thought that would be the extent of my run at 
The Alligator.
I’m glad I was wrong.
I found myself back on staff a year later as a coder and data visualization 
specialist and moved on to digital managing editor the next semester — both 
roles done from behind a screen as we navigated remotely due to COVID-19.
Maybe it was the pandemic, maybe it was the people, but even though 
we were farther away from each other, we were more connected. I looked 
forward to logging into my meetings with editors, writers, photographers and 
designers.
We’d start by bouncing ideas from Zoom screen to Zoom screen as we talk -
ed about projects and goals, getting sidetracked along the way by someone’s 
wall art, a sibling walking in or, my personal favorite, a cat seeking attention. 
We’d talk about ourselves and ask about one another, getting to know the 
staff members we worked with every day to print a paper that week.
My managing team inspired me, taught me and gave me confidence in my -
self as a journalist. I’m grateful to have been part of a team that cared about 
elevating staff members, encouraging them to do their best work and under -
standing their circumstances when it inevitably got difficult.
Journalism isn’t a competition, it’s a collaboration.
A collaboration of skills, strengths and people. I’ve seen the amazing things 
that come out of The Alligator when it comes from a team that communicates 
and works together. And I hope it continues beyond my time here.
Rosmery was the digital managing editor of The Alligator.After a long battle with imposter syndrome, I finally mustered the courage 
to apply to The Alligator inside a hotel bathroom two hours before appli -
cations were due. Inside my head, I figured I was 
not nearly as qualified for the position, as I only 
had published three articles the semester before 
and never had stepped into a newspaper company before. 
But two weeks later, I got a call that officially started my role 
as a student journalist. 
As a general assignment reporter my spring semester 
of junior year, I often felt like I was running behind the 
rest of my co-workers trying to be half as good as them. 
Most nights I would get the dreadful text from my editor 
telling me to do better and, as the dramatic Cancer that 
I am, I would cry on my kitchen floor while eating some 
vegan Ben & Jerry’s ice cream. And I would be lying if I didn’t think about 
quitting every day. But as dramatic as I am, I’m equally as stubborn. Not only 
did I want to prove to my editor that I would be a better writer, I also had to 
prove it to myself because, at the end of the day, that’s why I applied to the 
position. 
The following summer semester I began writing for The Avenue – the best 
section, in my (completely biased) opinion. I instantly fell in love with the 
stories I had the chance to produce, and I got the opportunity to write my 
first feature story for the Pride special edition. My editors at the time, Nora 
O’Neill and Chloe Greenberg, helped me grow as a writer, and for that, I am 
so grateful. 
Fast forward to my final semester of senior year, I became digital editor for 
The Avenue, and I was able to catch a glimpse of the other side of the coin. 
As my knowledge grew, my feelings of imposter syndrome slowly diminished.
Now, after nearly a year of being at The Alligator, all the hiccups and mem -
ories were 100% worth it. So whether you’re a freshman or senior applying 
to be a part of a team of staff writers, don’t let those thoughts saying “you’re 
not good enough” get in the way. Apply anyway because “you miss 100% of 
the shots you don’t take” - Wayne Gretzky - Michael Scott - Valentina Botero.
  
Valentina Botero was the digital Avenue editor of The Alligator.
I changed my major to journalism 
and transferred to UF my junior 
year and was terrified. 
I didn’t know anyone at UF, and 
I barely knew about journalism. But 
I did know that I needed to work at The 
Independent Florida Alligator. I applied 
for Spring 2019 as a staff photographer 
and was a “finalist” but didn’t get the 
position.
When my application for Summer 
2019 was turned down, I asked the 
current photo editor how I could improve. The per -
son told me I needed more experience and that the 
word “photojournalism” in my portfolio was spelled 
wrong. I forgot the “u.” 
I was upset because how do you get experience 
when no one will take a chance on you? And how in 
the world did I not realize I was missing the “u” in 
photojournalism?
I didn’t apply for Fall 2019, because I thought I 
wouldn’t get the position. 
During that Fall, I had my first photo published 
by the Alligator.  It was a photo I took at the Trump 
Jr. protest at UF of a woman in a blue “Nasty Wom -
en” shirt, holding up a “Drain the Swamp of white 
supremacy. Go back to Russia” sign. 
When I saw that photo on the front page of the 
paper, I grabbed about four copies to give to my 
loved ones. The feeling of seeing my published photo 
was so rewarding to me. I finally made it. 
I was the sports photographer for Spring 2020, 
which was my first real experience with The Alliga -
tor. I barely had any sports experience, but I enjoyed 
the challenge. 
Sadly, my time was cut short because of COV -
ID-19, but I applied again to be a staff photographer 
this Fall to gain more experience during my last se -
mester here at UF. 
During my interview, I was asked to be the mul -
timedia editor, a role I absolutely love. Even though 
everything was held virtually, I’ve become so close 
to some of the reporters and especially the other edi -tors. We’ve had a crazy ride together. 
And my multimedia team... I’m so 
happy I had the privilege to work with 
such talented artists. My podcaster, 
Thomas3, did a phenomenal job, and 
I learned a lot about editing audio. My 
photographers are amazing, and I can’t 
wait to see the wonderful things that 
will come from Sammy and Lauren. My 
graphic designers, Aubrey and Shannon, 
went above and beyond my expectations 
and expanded the way I perceived mul -
timedia journalism. 
My wish came true. The experiences I gained this 
semester make me feel more confident about my fu -
ture career. Plus, my organizational skills are finally 
on point which needed to happen.  
With all of that being said, the multimedia editor 
position is something I did not apply for. I thought I 
didn’t have what it takes and that I’d be shut down. 
I was afraid I wouldn’t even get the photographer 
position.  
I know there are many photographers here at UF 
who think they are not good enough, so they might 
not apply. A word of advice I want to give and also 
need to take myself is to stop selling yourself short.
I am my own worst critic. Even after getting this 
position, I was scared I wouldn’t do a good job. In -
stead, this has been one of the best experiences I’ve 
had. Apply to everything you want and if you don’t 
get it the first time, that’s OK. Don’t let it cast doubt 
on how great you are. Instead, use it as motivation to 
better yourself and your work. 
It won’t always be easy, but I can guarantee it will 
always be worth it. 
Thank you, Kyle, April, Rosmery and Dana for 
seeing my potential when I didn’t see it myself. I’m 
sad my time with The Alligator was short, but I 
wouldn’t change it for the world.
Emily Felts was the multimedia editor of The 
Alligator.I promise I don’t believe everything happens 
for a reason.
Nearly three years ago, Ethan Bauer, a 
friend and former Alligator sports editor, picked 
me up from UF’s campus and drove me to The 
Alligator office.
I was a freshman at FSU at the time, and I was in 
Gainesville to visit some friends, consult an adviser 
in the journalism school that I was in the process 
of transferring to and, that afternoon, check out the 
newsroom I hoped to join.
What I saw in that empty, poorly lit room amazed 
me. The old papers, the quote bag, the memorabilia 
and hate mail and random items. This was it. Ethan 
opened the door for me — literally and figuratively 
— that day, but he wasn’t the first or the last person 
to do so.
After that, I transferred to UF and began my Al -
ligator career and, well, here I am.
For years I’ve told people that I transferred for 
the stellar journalism program and that’s not entirely 
true. It’s time to come clean – I transferred to UF for 
the opportunity to work at The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Five semesters later, I can say I did just that. But 
I wouldn’t have had the opportunity to cover the 
tennis team during my first semester on staff, be 
the editor-in-chief of one of the largest student-run 
newsrooms in the country or anything in between 
if it weren’t for the kindness, grace and support of 
dozens and dozens of people.
Reflecting on years of writing, editing and pull -
ing my hair out, you would think it would be the 
stories that jumped out at me. The end product of 
the blood, sweat and tears and a bunch of other fit -
ting cliches. But the people and experiences come 
to mind. 
It’s Ethan giving me his blessing to join the staff and Morgan McMullen, my 
first editor, taking his word 
and bringing me on to his 
staff. I think of the utter 
disdain in Meryl Kornfield’s 
face when I, a sports writer, 
contributed a story to news 
and dubbed myself a hy -
brid reporter. (I’m happy 
to say that the term stuck 
and spread throughout 
the sports section.) I recall 
talking with Bailey LeFever about how one day, if 
it were somehow possible, I wanted to be editor of 
The Alligator.
I think about a crazy college football season in 
2019, driving around the SEC with Tyler Nettuno, 
Sam Campisano and Dylan Rudolph. I remember 
Tyler and Mari Faiello trusting me to edit the sports 
section and after a pandemic-stricken semester, 
Christina Morales nudging me to take her place as 
editor-in-chief in the Fall.
I’ve met and grown close to some truly incredible 
people in my time here. They’re what make The Al -
ligator, and I’m beyond grateful for all of them. Food 
runs on print nights, trips around the SEC to Gators 
road games and Wednesday nights at The Social 
were just as much a part of my Alligator experience 
as editing flats and getting a call from the copy desk.
Nothing about this was easy. The past 15 weeks 
have been the hardest of my life. But I can say, con -
fidently, I did what I set out to do and that was give 
The Alligator, its readers and my staff my all. 
A lot of good, bad and otherwise has happened 
since I began chasing journalism five years ago. I’m 
not convinced that it all happened for a reason – I 
personally hate that trope. But with the people I’ve 
met and experiences I’ve had, it’s hard to believe 
none of this happened for a reason.
Kyle Wood was the editor-in-chief of The 
Alligator.
This one is for my teamDon’t let imposter syndrome stop you 
I didn’t know I was sentimental until I had to say goodbyeThat’s all, folks
ColumnColumn
ColumnKyle’s Files
Rosmery 
Izaguirre
@rgizaguirre
Valentina
Botero
@lvbotero_
Emily Felts
@EmilyFelts4
Kyle Wood
@kkylewood8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
Vivian Powell (left), 19, a UF environmental engineering freshman and Nick Cocoves, 19, a UF aerospace 
engineering sophomore, study at the Plaza of Americas on Wednesday, Dec. 2, 2020.Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
UF students enjoy the cooler weather while studying for finals at the 
Plaza of Americas on Wednesday, Dec. 2, 2020.
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
Chace Sibley (left), 21, a UF criminology and anthropology senior and Stamatina Copulos, 21, a UF telecommunication 
senior, study for finals at the Plaza of Americas on Dec. 2, 2020.Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
A biker rides past the Hub Food Court and towards Turlington 
on Wednesday, Dec. 2, 2020.
Campus LifeCampus LifeKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
PREPARING FOR THE GROUNDHOG DAY AND 
ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE SOON TO BE 
KNOWN AS 2021
By Lonnie Numa
Avenue Staff Writer
Well, here we are, at the end of a year that happened to play 
the biggest Uno reverse card in all of history. As this year comes 
to a climactic end, Jupiter, the planet of self-improvement and op -
timism finds itself in Capricorn, the certified cynic of the zodiac. 
It’s hard not to bitterly reminisce about the hopes I had for 
2020. Last New Year’s Eve, I was enjoying a bottle of Martinelli’s 
hard cider, dancing to Boogie Wonderland in my pajamas, hop -
ing the universe would be just a little kinder to us in the coming 
decade.
Apparently, I jinxed the entire human race, (except everyone 
living in the post-modern utopia that is New Zealand) consider -
ing the subsequent fallout. March felt like an eternity on its own, 
April ceased to exist, summer was a blur and the only definite 
moments in time I can recall past that point are Halloween and 
the Supernatural series finale — which introduced me to a new 
brand of living hell. 
But I’m not the only one in a metaphorical fist-fight with the 
concept of time passing — for Daniella Roque, a 19-year-old UF 
English senior, the moment Spring 2020 ended the days started 
to blur together, she said. 
“I didn’t know what day of the week it was,” Roque said. 
“Monday felt like a Thursday, Tuesday felt like a Sunday.” 
To-do lists and calendars on Canvas have helped Roque main -
tain a semblance of a normal schedule, but staying on top of things is a continuous struggle when the days feel too long, yet 
too short at the same time, she said. 
That seems to be the curse of 2020 — a year seemingly doomed 
from the start. A World War III hashtag trended on Twitter within 
the first few days of the year, Kobe Bryant and his daughter Gi -
anna amongst other innocents died in a helicopter crash, the U.S. 
Senate acquitted Trump on two articles of impeachment — and 
this was before COVID-19 crashed the “Party in the U.S.A.” 
“It’s funny because everyone said ‘2020 is going to be our 
year’,” Roque said. “It sounds like a ‘nice’ year — and then it was 
the opposite of nice.” 
But as we look towards next year, I struggle with the internal 
conflict of whether I should take each day as it is, or if I should 
have already begun preparations for my doomsday bunker. 
As a transfer student, Coralie Pettit, a 22-year-old UF English 
senior, only had one full “normal” semester at UF before the 
pandemic. Planning ahead at this point seems almost impossible 
since things could be upended at any moment, they said. 
“On Dec. 31, instead of going to 2021, it feels like we’re just 
going to Groundhog Day back to March,” Pettit said. 
A horrifying prospect indeed, but it would be in-character for 
this year! If we don’t get stuck in a time-loop of endless torment, 
Petit is looking forward to a possible vaccine — one that could 
allow them to leave their house, graduate and do other irrespon -
sible 20-something activities, they said. 
“But I also feel like there’s no way I’m anywhere near the top 
of the distribution list,” They said. “Healthcare workers, actually 
important people and people with health risks have got to be 
above a 22-year-old who’s going to get the vaccine and then go 
party.” 
I wouldn’t put it past 2021 to go full-on “28 Days Later”— but 
in the spirit of the holidays, I’m going to try to be a little more 
optimistic, even if I’m this close to perpetuating my own version 
of Ben Affleck depressedly smoking a cigarette on his balcony. Here’s to 2021 folks, may the odds be in our favor. Though 
if they aren’t, I’m sure there’ll be enough room in my doomsday 
bunker — for a small fee.
 
@lonaald
lnuma@alligator.orgTHE SWAMP, FELIPE’S 
TAQUERIA AND MORE 
ICONIC EATERIES CLOSED 
THEIR DOORS IN 2020
By Michelle Holder
Avenue Staff Writer
While Gainesville may be a 
city landlocked in the middle of 
Florida, its lively food scene still 
manages to foster a cult following 
and rivals its culinary competition 
around the state.  
Some restaurants may have 
shut their doors for good, such 
as Emiliano’s Cafe in 2019 and 
a slew of fan favorites this year, 
due to hardships brought on by 
the COVID-19 pandemic and 
other reasons. But Gainesville’s 
entrepreneurial environment 
has allowed the birth of many 
establishments, including Satch 
Squared at the 4th Avenue Food 
Park and a new food trailer for 
Halo Potato Donuts. 
As the year now approaches 
its end, Gainesville remembers 
the following restaurants it bid 
farewell to this year. 
The Swamp
Not to be confused with its namesake, Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium, the historic Gainesville 
restaurant known as The Swamp 
closed its doors June 30 and was 
torn down in July. What many 
agreed was a heart wrenching 
video of the building being 
demolished circulated on Twitter, 
gaining responses from the 
Gainesville community and UF 
alumni. 
After failed negotiations with 
the property’s landlord, the 
property, located at 1642 W. 
University Ave., was sold to a 
development company planning 
to build an apartment complex on 
the property.
With Gator fan memorabilia 
garnishing the entire building, 
The Swamp was truly a UF staple. 
Originally constructed in 1914 as 
a professor’s house, The Swamp 
opened for business in December 
1994 and has since offered a 
central spot for Gator game 
viewing and socializing.
Rocco Abiusi, a UF 19-year-
old mechanical engineering 
sophomore, said he was normally 
at The Swamp two to three times 
a week. When he heard it was 
closing, he was upset and reflected 
on his most memorable experience 
at The Swamp, watching the Conor McGregor fight against Donald 
Cerrone on Jan. 18. 
Not unlike the atmosphere the 
restaurant harbored during UF and 
other game days for years, he said 
it was “very loud.”
To Abiusi, The Swamp was a 
place to relax after stressful classes 
and enjoy food and drinks with his 
friends while watching the games. 
“I’ve personally never found 
another restaurant that’s got the 
same kind of feeling,” Abiusi said. 
While the traditional restaurant 
may be no more, The Swamp 
plans to reopen in the bottom of 
the planned apartment complex. 
Daybreak Pleasant Street
The quaint breakfast spot 
Daybreak Pleasant Street 
announced its indefinite closure 
in a Facebook post Sept. 18. The 
restaurant was a local hot spot 
known for its breakfast and lunch 
specialities and small-town eatery 
feel. 
Michael Sneed, co-owner of 
Daybreak Pleasant Street alongside 
his wife Patricia, said Daybreak’s 
last day open was back in March. 
“Patricia and I love Daybreak, 
it was a culmination of 20-plus 
years of cooking and love for food 
and community,” Sneed said. “It was heartbreaking to close.”
Sneed said that the pandemic 
has caused financial hardships for 
him and his wife, which also led 
to the decision to close. 
“We will reopen Daybreak one 
day, but it will be at a different 
location,” Sneed said. 
Larry’s Giant Subs
As a collegetown sandwich 
staple, Larry’s Giant Subs closed 
down in May. The owner, UF 
alumna Sarah Whitfield, said she 
has been planning on closing for 
some time. The pandemic was 
not the ultimate determinant, but 
because of issues with landlords 
and a decrease in student traffic, 
Whitfield said it was harder to do 
business. 
Larry’s Giant Subs was started 
by The Raikes brothers, Larry 
& Mitch, who built their first 
sandwich shop in Jacksonville, 
Florida, in 1982.
For now, Publix and Jimmy 
John’s sandwiches will have to 
satisfy Gators’ sandwich fixes. 
Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria 
Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria, a 
lively Mexican restaurant located 
at 1209 W. University Ave., closed 
its doors Nov. 1. Known for its 
burritos, tacos and bowls, this restaurant was a hit among UF 
students. 
Pike Howard, Felipe’s director 
of development and finance, said 
the main reason for shutting 
down is because the landlord was 
considering selling the property. 
Howard also mentioned a new 
location would be better for the 
franchise’s overall growth, and a 
new location in northern Naples is 
currently in the works.
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.org
Hello, Goodbye
Alligator writers Tyler Nettuno, Evan Lepak, Brendan Farrell and 
Graham Marsh say their goodbyes to The Alligator in the Fall’s 
last print issue, pg. 15-16 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Reminisce (or celebrate) 
the end of the semester 
with the Avenue’s top 
picks of the week.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Chloe Greenberg / / Alligator Staff
Through ups and downs, highs and lows, we 
went through a lot this year. Here is some of 
the Avenue’s favorite new music that helped us 
make it to the end of 2020.
For the Navigators: the end of an era ColumnBidding farewell to Gainesville restaurants lost this year
FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINKEditorialMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
With the most reported employee COVID-19 
cases in the country, UF is failing its faculty
We, the undersigned, are pro -
fessors at the University of 
Florida. We write with con -
cern about the risks and 
limitations of the univer -
sity’s plan for Spring 2021. Moving 
classes back to a face-to-face format 
will endanger lives, unnecessarily. 
Moreover, the reality is that our last-
minute, improvised plan for undergraduate 
education at the University of Florida next 
semester will not provide the best, or even 
a sufficient, learning and teaching environ -
ment.  
UF— wisely — closed campus in March. 
Now, we are very close to being able to re -
ceive vaccinations and return to normal. It 
makes no sense to throw away all the work 
we have done and the sacrifices we have 
made to safeguard lives at exactly the worst 
possible moment in this pandemic, when 
one more term — or even half of that — 
would see us return relatively to normal.
While a “HyFlex” learning environment 
can be done well, the plan for Spring does 
not allow for this. It is a last-minute, impro -
vised, doubling-up of two classes in one, 
which will create harder learning environ -
ments than a typical face-to-face class or a 
typical online class. 
Undergraduates who sign up for face-to-
face classes — the few who are able to get 
into them — will be sitting in class, in masks, 
far from classmates and distanced from their 
professor who will be teaching through a 
mask, maybe even behind plexiglass. 
The majority of students will still attend 
“online” versions of courses, but those stu -
dents won’t be getting the quality online learning experience possible from 
UF. Instead they will, in essence, be 
“lurking” to observe their own class, 
as the instructor engages the stu -
dents who are in the room. 
Spring will have UF undergrads ei -
ther masked and distanced in mostly 
deserted classrooms or peeking at 
their course via a screen. This im -
provised plan features the worst, rather than 
the best, of UF teaching practices by simul -
taneously doubling the class and splitting 
the instructors’ focus. It is rife with trouble-
shooting challenges, both technological and 
logistical. For example, how can all these 
classes start on time if we are advised to get 
to our classes 20 minutes early to thoroughly 
clean the area and then set up all the tech -
nology when the room will be occupied by 
another class until five minutes before our 
class begins? 
UF is better than this. UF is a state and na -
tional leader in face-to-face and online edu -
cation. When so many other top universities 
in the nation are continuing online teaching, 
why is UF not working from its nationally-
recognized strength in online education? At 
the very least, why does UF not embrace 
a “temp-flex” model, starting 100% online 
until it is safe to be back and then coming 
back 100% face-to-face, thereby creating the 
learning and teaching environments we have 
the resources and skills to implement well?  
We all want to be back on campus, teach -
ing and learning together. To get there we 
need a different plan.
Respectfully,Open letter from UF faculty against the Spring planColumn
When news broke that UF was ranked No. 
2 in the nation for reported cases of CO -
VID-19 by the New York Times, we kept a 
close eye on the numbers in case we rose 
to No. 1.
While that hasn’t happened quite yet, we did no -
tice something odd, though. While keeping tabs on 
each schools’ COVID-19 dashboards, we realized 
UF has had a lot more employee cases than any 
other school. A lot more.
In addition to 4,104 student positives, UF has 
reported 691 positives for its employees and an ad -
ditional 667 for employees of UF affiliate organiza -
tions for a total of 1,358 positives, as of Sunday 
afternoon. Clemson has reported 232 employee 
positives. Ohio State has reported 327 employee 
positives.
No other university comes close to UF’s embar -
rassingly high employee case count. 
Didn’t UF start tracking cases much earlier than 
other schools? Yes, but UF’s own data indicates 
that the vast majority of cases were recorded after 
the start of this school year.
Isn’t UF a much larger school than its peers? Yes, 
but Penn State enrolls 89,816 students, yet only has 
86 reported employee cases despite reporting over 
5,000 student cases.
We imagine a lot of the organizational affiliate 
cases stem from UF Health and its various loca -
tions around the state. However, there is still the 
matter of the high amount of reported non-affiliate 
employee cases.
The simplest explanation for all of this, or at least 
the most symbolic, is that UF has utterly failed to 
keep its employees safe from its own students.
We’ve seen with our own eyes our school ad -
ministrators failing to socially distance.
We’ve seen with our own eyes our school ad -
ministrators ignore our foreign language profes -
sors’ request to stay online. 
We’ve seen with our own eyes our school ad -
ministrators callously denying faculty proper ADA 
accommodations.
We’ve seen enough to know that UF’s actions do 
not line up with its words.
As the Spring approaches, we know all is not 
what it seems. Next to this editorial is a letter signed 
by over 200 instructors decrying UF’s Spring plan. 
These people are more than just professors, they 
are people too: people who will bear the cost of 
UF’s malfeasance with their lives, something UF 
seems to have forgotten. Our professors, alongside 
other staff and employees, have gotten sick at an 
alarming rate.
That’s why they have sounded the alarm bells. 
UF has failed them this semester. UF will fail us 
next semester.
The Spring semester is a lie. The Spring semester 
is a farce. The Spring semester is a circus — but 
nobody is laughing.
We’d ask UF to do better, but we know it isn’t 
listening.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to 
fact-check and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also 
welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
opinions@alligator.org
April Rubin
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORRosmery Izaguirre
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORZachariah Chou
OPINIONS 
EDITORDana Cassidy
NEWS 
MANAGING
EDITORKyle Wood
EDITOR IN 
CHIEFMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11 
The Sackler School of Medicine-New York State/ American Program offers an 
outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York 
and is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. 
One of these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one 
of the top 10 hospitals around the world.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,000 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org  provides extensive information about Sackler SOM. For further 
information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
Applications for the Class of 2025 will be available on our website  
on Tuesday, January 5, 2021
 grifolsplasma.comNew Plasma Donors EARN $300 for 4 donations!*
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!004IA
New donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.
 Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!*
* when applicable
*fees subject to change without notice. We DO NOT pay by WEIGHT!
004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 7/16/20   12:27 PM7/16/20   12:27 PM
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
STANDARD GARAGE 
BY UF NOW OPEN!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!As a person deep -
ly interested in 
public service, 
it is no wonder 
that I gravitated 
toward the fields of jour -
nalism and politics.
I spent many of my 
years fighting the good 
fight in UF Student Gov -
ernment, and it was both 
immensely rewarding and 
frustratingly Sisyphean.
For those unfamiliar with SG at UF, 
it is not exactly a wholesome place. 
It’s where wannabe politicos try to cut 
their teeth, and the frat boy with the 
best smile gets to be king. 
It was once thought you had to be 
involved in SG (and by extension Blue 
Key) to be involved in politics, but 
those sentiments are from a time when 
UF was the only good school in the 
state and thus had educated alumni to 
flood the statehouse with.
Over the decades, other schools in 
Florida got better and increased the size 
of their alumni caucuses while UF’s 
Gator Caucus shrank. The governor’s 
office is now held by an Ivy League 
alumnus while the previous three gov -
ernors aren’t even native Floridians. 
UF’s domination of state politics is not 
what it used to be. The benefits of be -
ing part of Blue Key are now on par 
with being enrolled in the Circle K Easy 
Rewards loyalty program.
As for federal politics, the only rele -
vant UF graduate from this millennium 
is Katie Miller, whose only claims to 
fame are (1) being someone who could 
love white nationalist Stephen Miller 
and (2) testing positive for COVID-19 
while working as Vice President Mike 
Pence’s spokesperson. Not a good look.
As you may guess, my opinion of 
most of the lackeys in SG is not high. 
A third of them don’t realize they are 
being tokenized for the sake of racial 
diversity. Another third are well-in -
tentioned but don’t know how to get 
things done. The last third are either 
evil, unintelligent or both.
The thought of working to make 
my community a better place kept me 
involved, despite my lackluster col -
leagues and even long after I lost the 
race for Student Body President in my junior year. However, as 
my final semester of col -
lege approached, I won -
dered if there was a more 
wholesome way to spend 
my time.
I was banished from 
the news-side of The Alli -
gator the moment I joined 
SG. However, the Opinions 
section was in need of an 
editor and I was more than 
happy to give public service through 
journalism a shot. 
As I sat through the Zoom interview 
for the position, I wondered how differ -
ent of a person I would have grown to 
be had I stuck with The Alligator for the 
last four years instead of SG.
These past few months, I have been 
surrounded by some of the brightest, 
most persistent minds I have ever en -
countered. Never have I seen a group 
of people so selflessly invested in the 
greater good of the community. Always 
doing the right things for the right rea -
sons and speaking truth to power, my 
colleagues at The Alligator couldn’t be 
any more different from my former col -
leagues in SG.
The people in The Alligator are ac -
tually people who you’d want to be 
friends with. With a culture of excel -
lence and staff of the highest caliber, 
our newsroom is filled with people 
who you would want to surround 
yourself with in order to become the 
best version of yourself.
I’m grateful for my experiences in 
SG and don’t regret joining. However, 
my biggest regret during my time at 
UF is not spending more time with The 
Independent Florida Alligator and the 
wonderful people on its staff.
To the Gainesville community: Sup -
port local journalism. The Alligator is 
truly a gift to Gainesville.
To my colleagues at The Alligator: 
I am happy and grateful to have been 
able to spend my last semester of col -
lege with such genuinely good people. 
Never change.
To my former colleagues in SG: 
Make sure to send me a postcard when 
you finally land in federal prison.
Zachariah Chou was the opinions 
editor of The Alligator.My biggest regret at UFColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgUF, like most universities, has time-and-again 
expressed concerns for the well-being of its com -
munity during this unprecedented pandemic. UF, 
unlike most universities, has also asked the same 
community to choose between dying and having a 
job come Spring 2021.
This next semester, UF is going to implement 
its much-touted Hybrid-Flexible, or HyFlex, tech -
nology for undergraduate classes. As you register 
for classes, it is important that you know what 
HyFlex is and how it works.
I recently attended one of UF’s HyFlex train -
ing workshops for faculty. By the trainer’s own 
admission, UF’s idea of HyFlex is considerably dif -
ferent from how this instructional technology was 
originally conceived. Originally, HyFlex was for 
instructors to record classes for students unable to 
attend in-person. UF, on the other hand, is mak -
ing us use HyFlex to teach online and in-person 
simultaneously.
This means that instructors will now do double 
the work to handle two separate modes of instruc -
tion at once, and to prepare two separate sets of 
class materials for in-person and remote delivery. 
It also means that your instructor will be so bur -
dened preparing for two classes while being paid 
for one, that the quality of instruction and atten -
tion to individual student work will inevitably suf -
fer.
Because UF’s mandate is to offer as many in-
person sections as Spring 2020, the Spring 2021 
reopening is merely adding classrooms to the ros -
ter without actually allowing all students to be in 
these classrooms.
A substantial number of HyFlex classes within 
my department will have just one student in the 
classroom while all other students will log in to 
class via Zoom. Based on chat questions in my 
HyFlex training session, which were ignored by 
the facilitators, this malpractice appears to extend 
across other departments as well. Hence, a lot of 
frustration from faculty for having to do so much 
to have one person, or a handful of students, in 
class.
All registrar-controlled classes will be HyFlex 
capable for the Spring, meaning they will have 
two monitors to control the class meeting, one 
touch panel for projector control, two kinds of mi -
crophones so we can be heard through our masks, 
a document camera, a Kaptivo camera for the 
white board, two large-screen monitors to check 
on what students Zooming in can see and a cam -era to film us. 
If you think it might be difficult handling so 
much tech while also delivering in-person instruc -
tion, UF has two extremely practical solutions: a) 
arrive early to your classroom, if possible, or, b) 
sneak in to your allotted classroom when unlocked 
and empty to practice like your job depends on it, 
because it kind of does. 
Now, you might ask, how would discussions 
take place in such an environment, particularly 
if you are the one student in the classroom? The 
answer: Log in to the Zoom meeting with your mi -
crophone on, so you can discuss with your class -
mates on Zoom. 
Just to be clear, the university is asking its fac -
ulty and in-person students to go to campus to do 
exactly what they have been doing from the safety 
of their homes for almost a year now — to hold 
classes on Zoom. 
Students on Zoom can also respond or ask ques -
tions by using the chat feature. But how will the 
instructor manage all the technology, lecture and 
facilitate discussion, both for the in-person stu -
dent and for those on Zoom, while also monitor -
ing the chat? According to UF, this is easy — just 
find a student assistant in class, if one is available! 
By implementing HyFlex, UF is undervaluing 
our labor by asking us to selflessly keep teaching 
without compensating us for the additional labor 
required to do so. This is not a surprise, but the 
fact UF expects us to ask the same from our stu -
dents — to ask them to do work for free as a good -
will gesture — is astounding.
Even as UF promises mandatory testing for all 
students in residence halls, Greek life and face-
to-face classes, its purported measures are insuf -
ficient for a campus its size. These measures do 
not account for undetected infections between the 
mandatory two-week testing intervals. The week -
ly questionnaires also depend completely on in -
dividuals to report exposure or infection. Though 
officially barred, infected students might still use 
facilities, like the libraries, because as it current -
ly stands, there don’t appear to be any checks 
in place to screen them from being in common 
spaces. 
A community does not show care by jeopardiz -
ing the safety of its members. UF is not reopening 
its campus to offer you the full college experience. 
It is bringing you back precisely because it does 
not care about your experience, or for that matter, 
your life.
The author is a graduate student who currently 
teaches at UF.The HyFlex farceColumnBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, DECEMBER 07, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         12-7-9-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, DECEMBER 07, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES - NOW 
HIRING bartenders and sandwich makers. 
Day and night shifts available. Friendly and 
Fast Paced. Reliable transportation required. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.   
12-7-20-2-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist.
BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info
12-7-20-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-141For Rent
furnished15 Services
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
2For Rent
unfurnished
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. Immed oc -
cupancy. ABSOLUTELY HUGE! Gorgeous 
Wood Floors, cent AC/HT, dishwasher, laun -
dry room, fenced, pets OK $1,795 per month. 
352-665-8166                               1-26-20-6-2
HOUSES FOR RENT NEXT AUGUST
Quality homes walk or bike to campus.
See homes at WWW.gainesvillequalityrental -
homes.com call or text 352-339-2342 for appt.  
1-11-20-4-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION ★★
2 bedroom houses & apartments 
all price ranges
pets arranged
text or call 352-359-2304
2-8-21-5-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-1012 Autos
readreadmeme
answers on pg 131. MOVIES: What was the theme song for the 
1997 movie "Titanic"?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is an 
espadrille?
3. FIRSTS: Which company was the first to use 
an assembly line to manufacture its products?
4. TELEVISION: What was Marge's maiden name 
on the animated comedy "The Simpsons"?
5. FOOD & DRINK: What are the main ingredi -
ents in a modern mince pie?
6. U.S. STATES: This city has two prominent 
nicknames, and one of them is The Crescent 
City. What is the city and state?
7. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a baby puffin 
called?
8. ADVERTISING MASCOTS: What product did 
Mr. Whipple represent for more than 20 years?
9. GEOGRAPHY: What is an old name for 
north China?
10. MATH: What Arabic number is the equiva -
lent of the Roman numerals MCMLX?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
By Matt McKinley
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/07/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/07/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, December 7, 2020
ACROSS
1 __-ran: loser
5 Hop-jump 
connection
9 Crossing the 
keel
14 Casual greetings
15 Give the job to
16 Full of sediment
17 *The City, to New 
Yorkers (1979)
19 Unisex designer 
fragrance
20 Fugitive
21 *Surprise hit 
(1973)
23 On __ way: sent
24 52-Acrosses, 
often
25 “Help me out, 
buddy”
29 Like paper clips
31 Wedding site
32 Roof edge
33 Bridal party’s 
platform
37 What the 
answers to 
starred clues 
are (their creator 
turned 85 this 
month)
40 Gloss targets
41 Los Angeles 
NFLers
42 Knight’s “shining” 
protection
43 Depend (on)
44 T-bones, e.g.
45 Mental sharpness
49 Speedometer 
abbr.
50 *Cream pie fruit 
(1971)
52 Local traveler’s 
aid
57 Come up
58 *Concerns of 
some decorators 
(1978)
60 One of two in 
“George”
61 Costa __
62 Spreadsheet 
contents
63 “Family Ties” 
mother
64 How many TV 
shows air
65 Editor’s “Leave 
it in”
DOWN
1 Sighed words
2 Pastures3 Match, as sound 
and video
4 Workplace 
standards org.
5 “Fiddler on the 
Roof” village
6 Windy day toys
7 Nest egg letters
8 Ink holders
9 Journey up the 
mountain
10 Workout 
equipment with 
pedals
11 Wed in Vegas, 
perhaps
12 Where many 
tennis winners 
are hit
13 Austin Powers 
portrayer Mike
18 Collection of 
beehives
22 Tablecloth 
material
25 Chastise, with 
“out”
26 “The Time 
Machine”  
post-humans
27 Perched on
28 Knee protectors
29 Mild, as weather
30 Days before 
holidays32 Airline with an all-
kosher menu
33 Desperate
34 __ mater
35 Assurance from 
one who’s not hurt
36 Old pol. divisions
38 Big sports venue
39 Sire
43 Go back (on)
44 Butter or jam
45 Put down nastily
46 Song sung 
house-to-house47 Bring  
together
48 Crow’s nest 
holders
49 Fire starter
51 Rival of Alexa?
53 Lends a hand
54 Castle trench
55 Works in un 
museo
56 10th-grader’s 
exam, for  
short
59 Diarist Anaïs
By Bruce Haight
(c)2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/01/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/01/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, December 1, 2020
ACROSS
1 Fountain orders
6 Embarrass
11 Zig counterpart
14 Full of energy
15 Ultra-masculine
16 Rage
17 Drain a 
basketball three-
pointer, say
19 Peter of 
Neverland
20 Like a medium 
steak that was 
ordered rare
21 “We’ll see”
23 __ Paulo
24 Richard’s running 
mate
26 “Understand?”
31 Beauty at a ball
33 Back forty’s forty
34 Road furrow
35 Brit’s “Goodness!”
36 Way up or down
37 Flutter by like a 
butterfly
38 Sibs, uncs, etc.
39 Treasure holder
40 One of Chekhov’s 
“Three Sisters”
41 Mess up a 
football hike
44 __-Turkish War, 
1911-12
45 Prefix with center 
or dermal
46 “Don’t wimp out, 
bro!”
48 Start of a partial 
concession
53 Bearskin floor 
covering, e.g.
54 Very close race, 
and what 17-, 26- 
and 41-Across 
have in common
57 Dot follower, on 
campuses
58 British noblemen
59 Juliet’s love
60 Super Bowl party 
bowlful
61 Harped (on)
62 Rodeo ride
DOWN
1 Hunting outfit, for 
short
2 Norse king
3 Facebook 
response
4 In opposition5 Fixed 
appointment
6 “You said it!”
7 Loyal political 
group
8 German gripe
9 HBO rival, briefly
10 They might 
capture 
embarrassing 
comments
11 “Shh!”
12 Spirited horse
13 Chromosome 
carrier
18 Partner of holler
22 Museum 
collection
24 Lemon-lime drink 
since 1961
25 Place to tie up
26 Making more 
alluring
27 Really would 
rather not
28 PayPal payment, 
e.g.
29 Spoil
30 James of blues
31 “Back to the 
Future” bully
32 Isaac’s eldest 
son
36 Author Silverstein37 “Sorry, no can do”
39 Turned (on) 
remotely, as the 
lights
40 How ark 
creatures 
boarded
42 Utility bill meas.
43 __-esteem
46 TV horse who 
“will never speak 
unless he has 
something to say”47 BMW rival
48 “__ cost you!”
49 Driving  
around in  
circles, maybe
50 Silent  
performer
51 “Gotcha”
52 Superhero  
with a  
hammer
55 Hem partner
56 Iron __
11/30/2020
solution on page 13
answers below1. Mosi Tatupu, a special-teams standout 
for the New England Patriots from 1978-90, 
played football for what college team?
2. A state park in Wyoming's Laramie 
and Albany counties is named after what 
sportscaster?
3. What Pittsburgh Pirates legend was named 
NL MVP and World Series MVP in 1979?
4. What basketball Hall of Famer is the 
NCAA Division I all-time leading scorer with 
3,667 points?
5. Name the silver medalist from Australia 
who stood on the podium with U.S. sprinters 
Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the 1968 
Summer Olympics.
6. Throughout the 1960s, Los Angeles Rams 
defensive linemen Rosy Grier, Lamar Lundy, 
Merlin Olsen and Deacon Jones were col -
lectively known by what nickname?
7. Parminder Nagra and Keira Knightley 
starred in what 2002 British sports romantic 
comedy film?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
11..    EEaasstt  IInnddiiaann  ssppiiccee  
11..    CCoommmmoonn,,  uussuuaall55..    PPiigg  ________
22..    TTyyppee  ooff  ffiisshhiinngg  vveesssseell66..    RReecclluussee
33..    LLiikkee  aa  TT--rreexx77..    SSppeeaakkeerr
44..    CClloosseerrMMGGNNTTUUEE
AALLOOMMRRNNSSTTOOAARR
OOLLEENNRR
AARREERRTTLLWW
XXCCTTTTEENNIIRRRROOOOAATT
AAEERREENNRRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--NNuuttmmeegg    55AA--RRooaasstt    66AA--LLoonneerr    77AA--OOrraattoorr
11DD--NNoorrmmaall    22DD--TTrraawwlleerr    33DD--EExxttiinncctt    44DD--NNeeaarreerr    BB--NNeeww  OOrrlleeaannss1122--77--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: AAccccoorrddiinngg  ttoo  tthhee  NNaattiioonnaall  RReeggiisstteerr,,  ________  ________  
hhaass  mmoorree  tthhaann  2200  ooffffiicciiaall  hhiissttoorriicc  ddiissttrriiccttss..
BONUS
Sports Quiz  answers1. The USC Trojans.
2. Curt Gowdy.
3. Willie Stargell.
4. Pete Maravich. 
5. Peter Norman.
6. The Fearsome Foursome.
7. "Bend It Like Beckham."Trivia Test  answers1. "My Heart Will Go On"
2. A rope-soled canvas shoe
3. Ford Motor Co.
4. Bouvier
5. Dried fruits and spices6. New Orleans, Louisiana. The 
other nickname is The Big Easy.
7. A puffling
8. Charmin bathroom tissue
9. Cathay
10. 1960: PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
 alligatoralligator
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
Mega Maze solution
MONDAY, DECEMBER 07, 2020   ALLIGATOR   13 
Gators guard Noah Locke scored 15 
points and shot 5 for 6 from the three-
point line in UF’s win against Stetson 
on Sunday. He was UF’s Second 
Leading scorer during the game behind 
Keyontae Johnson (19 points).Kyle Trask awarded Walter Camp National Offensive Player of the Week
After throwing for 433 yards and four touchdowns in UF’s win over 
Tennessee on Saturday, quarterback Kyle Trask earned the Walter Camp 
National Offensive Player of the Week award for the effort. Trask is first in 
the FBS in touchdown passes with 38.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020
www.alligator.org/section/sports
BASEBALL
By Ryan Haley & Sara Kate Dyson
Sports Writers
When Kirby McMullen launched a two-
run walkoff home run in the final Fall 
scrimmage of 2020, he didn’t just end the 
calendar year on a high note.
He put an exclamation point on a domi -
nant 12 months of on-and-off Florida base -
ball, which included a 16-1 record and a No. 
1 ranking before the cancelation of play, sig -
naling to the rest of the country that coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan’s squad has no intentions 
of 2021 being any different.
After attending almost every baseball 
scrimmage between the two of us this fall, 
here are our thoughts on what to expect 
from the first year at the new Florida Ball -
park.
Who’s going to dominate the mound 
for the Gators in 2021?
The pitching staff was one of the most 
notable and impressive aspects of the top-
ranked Gators last season, and it seems to 
have gotten even deeper. The team had 
eight pitchers on staff with a sub-two ERA  
and seven with a WHIP under one. Almost 
every single arm from last season will re -
turn to Florida for 2021. Tommy Mace, a 
top prospect who returned  to Gainesville 
after he was passed over in the abbreviated 
draft, is the presumptive ace. Fellow draft 
prospects Jack Leftwich, Hunter Barco, Jor -
dan Butler, and Nick Pogue also remain in 
the rotation. Tyler Nesbitt, who didn’t al -
low a run in 11.2 innings last year, could 
see a bigger role, as could Brandon Sproat. 
Franco Aleman, St. Johns River State Col -
lege transfer, got several starts in the fall 
and had some great performances. True 
freshmen Chase Centala and Timmy Man -
ning also got plenty of work in the fall
Sara Kate Dyson  - For me, the one to 
watch this season has to be Leftwich. 
Though he might stand in the background 
of Mace’s light, Leftwich shouldn’t be over -
looked. He started all four Saturday games 
in 2020, posting a 4.15 ERA over 21.2 in -
nings of work. Halfway through the fall, the 
veteran  gathered 17 strikeouts and posted a 
2.57 ERA through 14 innings. The team will 
only benefit from his return to the mound 
for his fourth season. 
Ryan Haley  - The favorite has to be Mace, 
and I don’t think there’s a case against him. 
But I’ve never been one to argue for favor -
ites, so I’ll make a case for Hunter Barco. As 
a freshman last year, he posted a 1.40 ERA 
in 19.1 innings, including a 5.1 inning, one-
run outing  against Miami two days after 
Mace’s gem against the Hurricanes. Barco 
tied Mace for the team lead in strikeouts 
(26) in seven less innings, and had the low -est opposing batting average (.162) of any 
starter. He looked good in the fall but so did 
every pitcher. This rotation is super deep, 
and there are few wrong answers.
Which position player is going to stand out?
Outfielder Jud Fabian looks like the 
preseason favorite for best player on the 
Florida roster. Ranked as the fourth best 
2021 draft prospect by MLB.com, Fabian 
was second on the team in hits (20) and 
led the Gators in doubles (6), home runs 
(5) and RBIs (13) in the 17-game season. 
Outfielder Jacob Young also returns after 
batting .450 a season ago, as does catcher/
infielder Nathan Hickey, who led Florida in 
OPS (1.061) and slugging (.622) as a fresh -
man. Longtime staple third-baseman Kirby 
McMullen will also get another season in 
Gainesville after his epic ending to 2020, as 
do returning starters shortstop Josh Rivera, 
outfielder/ first-baseman Kendrick Calilao 
and second-baseman Cory Acton.
Dyson  - Since last season, sophomore 
Kris Armstrong has grown, not just in size, 
but in impact from both at the plate and in 
the field as well. Armstrong came to UF as 
a two-way player, earning as many appear -
ances on the mound as at the plate in his 
freshman season. Now he is becoming one 
of the strongest and most dynamic Florida 
infielders on this squad. At several points in 
the fall, he led the team in RBIs and home 
runs, while also splitting, jumping and div -
ing to hold down the fort at first base. Arm -
strong will come up big for the Gators this 
season. 
Haley  - It would be surprising if Jud Fa -
bian did anything other than outstanding in 
2021. He had my favorite play of the fall, 
throwing out a runner at third from the 
warning track at straightaway center on 
the fly. But I won’t break the trend of argu -
ing favorites now, so I’ll talk about another 
fall standout in Jacob Young. Every time I 
looked up, Young was on base. Likely the 
fastest player on the team, he batted a stag -
gering .500 in the opening week of scrim -
mages. Herecordeda hit in every 2020 game, 
rolling over an 18-game hitting streak into 
2021. A vacuum in the outfield, Young’s 
presence will be felt in every game.
Who is the freshman to watch?
Florida’s 2021 roster will include nine 
first-year players. The incoming class in -
cludes two new catchers, four pitchers 
and three infielders. While we only had a 
couple months of fall ball to see how these 
young players may fit into the Florida sys -
tem, many already made a mark. Halfway 
through the fall, catcher/infielder Wyatt 
Langford led the team in batting average, 
while catcher Mac Guscette and infielder Sterlin Thompson also got the chance to 
show up at the plate several times. 
Dyson  - I’ve always been a big fan of 
pitching, and it is sufficient to say that this 
Gators team is loaded with talent on the 
mound. Freshman southpaw Timmy Man -
ning is already making a name for himself in 
the deep Florida bullpen. Halfway through 
the fall, the lefty gave up just nine hits, the 
fewest among pitchers on the team with 
over 10 innings of work under their belts. 
In the same time frame, Manning posted 16 
strikeouts and a 1.38 ERA. It will be difficult 
to fight for a spot in that competitive Florida 
pitching staff, but I think Manning has the 
edge on the rest of the freshman class. 
Haley  - Overshadowed by McMullen’s 
9th-inning shot in the final game of fall ball 
was a two-run double by Thompson in the 
bottom of the seventh. Thompson’s clutch 
hit gave his team a chance to claim the lead 
late in the game. The tall, lanky freshman 
starred in the scrimmages, hitting .308 the 
opening week and not looking back from 
there. It will be hard to find playing time in 
this infield, but Thompson was one of the 
most impressive players regardless of age.What are the expectations for this 
team in 2021?
Dyson  - This team’s future is bright, sim -
ple as that. It was dominant last year before 
the shutdown, and this team gained more 
than it lost heading into 2021. With a much 
deeper pitching staff, which includes the re -
turn of Mace and Leftwich, combined with 
a more seasoned lineup, the Gators should 
pick up right where they left off in 2020. If 
this team does not find itself in Omaha mak -
ing a strong campaign for a second national 
title, I would be sufficiently shocked. 
Haley  - I don’t think it’s reasonable to 
expect another 16-1 start to the season. But 
Florida was the best team in the country 
last year, and I don’t really see any way this 
team could be worse. The pitching staff is 
somehow deeper than last year, all the start -
ers are a little older and more experienced 
now, and they look like they just really en -
joyed playing with each other in the fall. 
This team could go really, really far, and I’d 
be surprised if they are anything other than 
national title contenders come Omaha.
@sarakatedyson
skatedyson@alligator.org
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgDiscourse on the Diamond: looking ahead to the 2021 Florida baseball season
Sara Kate Dyson / / Alligator Staff
Clouds gather over Alfred A. McKethan Field at Florida Ballpark on Nov. 13, 2020 
before one of the Gators’ fall scrimmages.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   15 
FOOTBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The last time the Gators found 
themselves in this position, the year 
was 2016.
After a scheduling controversy 
caused by Hurricane Matthew, UF 
defeated rival LSU after then-Tigers 
running back Derrius Guice was 
stuffed at the goal line in the final 
seconds. Florida captured its second 
SEC East title in as many years and 
traveled to Atlanta to get absolutely 
annihilated 54-16.
On Saturday, the Gators clinched 
an SEC East title and punched their 
ticket to the dance for the first time 
in four years. But if they want to 
take the SEC title back to Gainesville, 
here’s what they have to change go -
ing forward.The “middle eight” won’t do it anymore
As noted by my friend and col -
league, Brendan Farrell, Florida 
tends to stick with a formula where 
it performs exceptionally well in 
the last four minutes of the second 
quarter and the first four minutes of 
the third: The “middle eight”, if you 
will. Sure enough, the Gators scored 
a touchdown with 33 seconds to go 
in the second quarter against the Vol -
unteers on Saturday and another one 
less than three minutes into the third 
quarter.
Here’s the thing, though: That’s 
not going to cut it.
In its past three games, Florida’s 
SEC Championship opponent, Ala -
bama, has scored 35 points in the 
first quarter. UF has scored 10.
It doesn’t get better when looking 
at the second quarter, even with UF’s “middle eight” proficiency: The Tide 
have scored 59 points in the second 
quarter over its last three games to 
UF’s 34. If Florida is going to beat 
Alabama, it’s going to have to come 
out and immediately score points, 
something UF seems allergic to re -
cently.
“There are times, like I said be -
fore, trying to do too much, moving 
the protection, times I could have let 
it play out and little things like that,” 
quarterback Kyle Trask said of the 
team’s performance against Tennes -
see. “Nothing too big or crazy. We 
will get it cleaned up and continue to 
get better.”
Quite frankly, however, Florida is 
running out of time. The Gators will 
play LSU next week — an opponent 
that Alabama hung 55 points on this 
past week — and if Florida doesn’t come out and score right away, the 
“middle eight” will become a mis -
erable eight before the team can re -
cover.
 
The defense can’t let teams hang around
In its last three games, all against 
unranked squads with losing re -
cords, UF has only led by an average 
of seven points at the half (Its larg -
est lead of 10 was against Tennes -
see and its shortest lead of four was 
against Kentucky). And even though 
the defense has played decently well 
across all of those games — it’s given 
up under 20 points in each of those 
contests — the defense has a bit of 
a habit lately of letting these teams 
stay in the game when it heads to the 
locker room.
A habit it needs to break.
Because Alabama quarterback Mac Jones, another potential Heis -
man candidate, won’t be inclined 
to hang around with UF’s defense. 
Alabama comes out fast and vicious, 
and Florida’s defense could find itself 
blindsided in the opening quarter, es -
pecially if its offense is as lackluster 
as it has been at the start of games.
Florida certainly has much more 
of a shot than it did in 2016, espe -
cially with the electric offense it will 
bring to Atlanta. But if that electric 
offense takes a while to get a spark 
and the defense lets the Tide roll 
over them, the Gators may take the 
best team they’ve had in years back 
to the exact same place it’s been go -
ing: A New Year’s Six Bowl.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgA guide to beat the Tide: How UF can survive the SEC Championship gameOver the last four years, I’ve 
often wondered what I 
would write in this column.
I’ve watched my friends 
and colleagues graduate and 
leave their words of wisdom behind 
as they moved on to bigger and bet -
ter things, and it made me ponder 
what insight I might be able to impart 
when my time finally came to do the 
same.
Well, that time is now. In 12 days, 
I will be a graduate of the University 
of Florida. And after seven semesters at The Inde -
pendent Florida Alligator, my stay here has now 
come to a close.
Even writing those words feels surreal to me.
The Alligator means more to me than I could 
ever say. After all, how do you properly encapsu -
late an experience that had such a visceral effect 
on who you are as a person? How do you say 
goodbye to something that played a bigger role 
in your life than you ever could have imagined?
When I joined this paper two weeks into my 
first semester on campus, I had no idea that I was 
making the best decision I have ever made, and 
probably will ever make.
I knew I wanted to write about sports, but I 
had little direction in terms of how to make that 
happen at the time. I applied to The Alligator 
on a whim based on the advice of a friend who 
worked for the UAA, Turner Street. (If you’re 
reading this, Turner, thanks for that.) As I en -
tered the cramped basement of Weimer Hall in 
August of 2017, I met then-sports editors Matt 
Brannon, Dylan Dixon and Jake Dreilinger, filled 
out an application that would certainly make me 
cringe looking back at it now and grabbed a slice 
of complimentary pizza. I had no way of know -
ing how my life would change that day for the 
better.
I didn’t expect to get the job; I had no experi -
ence, whatsoever. The application asked for clips 
of my work, and since I had never done anything 
resembling sports writing, I submitted a 4,000-
word research paper I had written my senior year 
of high school about concussions in football.
If you guys read even a single word of that, 
I’d be amazed.
I still haven’t forgotten (and probably will 
never forget) the feeling of sitting in my dorm late 
on that Tuesday night getting the call from Matt, 
the sports editor at the time, to let me know they 
were bringing me on.
I was thrown on the golf beat, and I realized 
how out of my element I really was. I was asked 
to interview one of the team’s assistant coaches 
almost immediately, and I had no idea what to 
do. I’m sure she was cringing alongside me as I 
powered through my nonsensical questions. Still, 
I convinced myself I nailed it.
I remember submitting my first story and 
thinking, “I bet this will be the best damn golf 
story they’ve ever read.” Imagine my shock 
when I opened the Google Doc to see nearly my 
entire article highlighted for corrections.
It forced me to check my own ego tremen -dously. I’ve never let myself forget 
that feeling, how inadequate I felt 
in that moment. I used it as motiva -
tion, and as a constant reminder that 
there’s always room to learn more, 
improve your skills and grow as an 
individual.
The three years since then feel 
like a whirlwind. In that time, I’ve 
covered lacrosse, men’s basketball 
and football.
I had the privilege of serving as the 
sports editor in Fall 2019, the greatest 
honor I’ve ever received in my life. Those three 
months were probably the hardest, most stressful 
and sleepless of my life, but they were also the 
most fulfilling.
I had the opportunity to travel around the 
southeast covering Gators football, attended 12 
of 13 games live and checked SEC stadiums off 
my bucket list with some of my best friends. I 
had to convince myself it was real the whole time
If I had told my 13-year-old self I’d be able to 
do any of that by the time I was 21, I would have 
never believed it. It was an experience I’ll never 
forget as long as I live.
I’ve never felt such a sense of ownership over 
anything I’ve done in my life. Never have I felt 
like I belonged the way I do at The Alligator.
And that’s why now, the thought of having 
to leave is so painful. This newspaper has been 
such a key aspect of my life the last few years, 
it’s inconceivable to think about not being a part 
of it.
The Alligator has been an inextricable part 
of my college experience. I can’t even tell you 
where I would be now if I hadn’t found it, but I 
can tell you I wouldn’t be the same person.
I’ve met so many talented people who pushed 
me to be better every single day. But more than 
that, I’ve met friends that will last a lifetime. 
Good, caring people who are passionate about 
what they do.
Hell, I even met my girlfriend, the lovely and 
talented Lina Ruiz, at The Alligator.
Almost everything about my life today, I have 
this newspaper to thank for.
To the amazing student journalists who came 
before me, thank you for everything. I’ve learned 
all I know from you, and your guidance and pa -
tience toward a young, brash, over-confident re -
porter will be forever appreciated.
To everyone still there, I hope I was able to 
give back even just a small fraction of what this 
paper has given me. I’m proud of every single 
one of you and am always here for you if you 
need me.
I believe it was alligatorSports legend Ian Co -
hen who first coined the phrase, “I didn’t go to 
school at UF, I went to school at The Alligator.” 
Earlier in my college career, I didn’t completely 
understand what that meant.
But now, as I stare down the barrel of the real 
world, I can fully appreciate the wisdom of Ian’s 
words. 
Tyler Nettuno was the sports editor of The 
AlligatorSince my junior year of high 
school, I’ve been a huge 
fan of the band O.A.R. 
I listened to their “Live 
from Red Rocks” album in 
my old 2003 Buick Regal so much 
that I probably almost wore the 
disc out. One of my favorites is a 
song called “Black Rock.”
“Where we come from, it’s 
real important, no matter where 
you go in this entire world, is 
you remember that place,” lead singer Marc 
Roberge said about the song. “That place 
where you and your crew and your people, 
you had that spot.
“It’s like you can go back in your mind at 
any point in time and know exactly where 
you were when you told your friends that 
you loved them. You know exactly where 
you were when you told your people that 
they’re there for you and you’re there for 
them.” 
I think about that quote a lot. I can almost 
recite the entire thing from memory. 
For as much as I’ve loved getting to write 
about sports for The Alligator for seven 
semesters (I’ve almost lost count at this 
point), the people I’ve gotten to meet is a big 
reason why working here has been such a 
great time. 
One of the things that I loved the most 
about The Alligator was the freedom to be 
myself. I’m not exactly the most outgoing 
person, and it takes time for me to really gel 
with a group. However, around my people at 
alligatorSports, I always feel at home. 
I was also free to write about whatever I 
wanted. Any idea I had was usually met with 
fervent support. A 1000-word article on how 
the Gators use their backup quarterback? 
Yes, please. An article about how the Gators’ 
second-half offense hasn’t been that good? 
Get to work, Stat Boy.
There’s a lot about that office on SW 13th 
Street I’m going to miss. For a long time, that 
was my spot. 
I’ll miss the camaraderie a lot. Any time 
one of the sprots writers entered the room, 
it was hard to not smile and give them a 
cheerful greeting. It turns out that staying up 
late working on something together every 
week creates strong bonds between people. 
I’ll miss the constant arguments about 
whose NFL team is the worst. There’s a lot 
of heartbreak on this dumb staff, and I’m 
convinced that none of our teams will ever 
do a damn thing. 
I’ll miss walking into the office with a 
couple slices of Hawaiian pizza and hearing 
groans from my friends as they passionately 
argue that it’s not pizza. 
I’ll miss arguing about where to get food 
on a given night. I won’t miss asking “Where 
should we get food?” and having nobody 
offer anything, but I will miss the actual 
food runs with the guys. La Tienda just hits different after a few hours of 
copy editing. 
Granted, I’ve missed a lot 
of that stuff for a while now. 
We haven’t been in the office 
together since March. 
After not seeing each 
other for a while, we started a 
tradition of Zoom get-togethers 
every Wednesday night. It pretty 
quickly became a highlight of 
my week. I wouldn’t stay up 
until some ungodly hour every week hanging 
out if I didn’t love these people. 
My Black Rock wasn’t the spot itself, 
but the people in it. I’ve had the pleasure of 
getting to know so many amazing, talented 
people over the years, and I’m going to miss 
everyone a lot. In a way, I feel like saying 
goodbye to some of my closest friends more 
than I’m saying goodbye to The Alligator. 
To Mari Faiello, Dylan Rudolph and River 
Wells: My Tampa Bay friends and also my 
best friends. Thank you for being the people 
on staff I could rant about hockey with 
and not feel like I’m speaking in another 
language. Maybe when things are normal we 
can go to Amalie Arena again and hopefully 
the Sharks won’t get killed this time. 
To Mark Stine: Thank you for giving me 
a shot in the summer of 2018, right after I 
completed my first year of college. Covering 
softball with you was amazing, and our trip 
to Tampa for the USF softball tournament 
was a highlight of my time at The Alligator. 
To Tyler Nettuno: One of my favorite 
people on staff. Whether it was reminiscing 
about the homeland together, making fun 
of the futility of the Jaguars or talking about 
why 2007 was the craziest year in college 
football history, you never fail at putting a 
smile on my face or making me laugh. You 
and Mari made Fall 2019 one of the best 
semesters I had on staff. 
To River (again), Christian Ortega and 
Payton Titus: Thank you for putting up 
with me on our football staff this semester. 
Whether it’s me making fun of the UAA’s 
latest Zoom blunder, forwarding dumb 
replies to my articles from my inbox (all of 
which end with “Sent from my iPhone”) or 
complaining about how I’m somehow the 
only one who can attend a Monday afternoon 
presser, thank you for letting me be me. I’m 
sure you won’t miss editing 1200-word stats 
articles featuring at least three charts.  
It was far from a normal year on the beat, 
but thank you for letting me tag along. 
To everyone else: Listen, I wish I had 
the time and space to thank everyone 
individually. Just know that I love you all 
from the bottom of my heart and it was a 
pleasure getting to know you.
Branden Farrell was the sports editor of 
The AlligatorLet me tell you about the best decision of my life I found my home at The AlligatorNothing but Nettuno Column
Tyler Nettuno
@tylernettuno
Brendan Farrell
@Bfarrell72716   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2020
checkcheck
outout
ourour
newnew
website!website!
scan here to see
: @FloridaAlligator
 : @TheAlligator
 : @TheAlligator_
Follow us on social media for 
breaking news & daily updates!
¿Habla Español? alligator.org/spanishI’ve always been a pretty 
humble person.
 If you were to ask any of 
the people that know me best, 
they’d tell you that I prefer 
avoiding the spotlight, am not the 
biggest fan of displaying my accom -
plishments to the world and that I 
absolutely loathe being the center of 
attention.
 All of these things are true.
 However, in this piece, I’m go -
ing to brag on myself for a bit. I’m going to brag 
on myself for making one of the best decisions I 
could’ve made during my time at the University 
of Florida. A decision that has truly changed my 
life.
 When I came to UF in Spring 2018, I had no 
idea what to expect whatsoever. I was throwing 
myself into a major that, unlike most of my peers, 
I had no experience in.
 I was just a 22-year-old transfer student that 
knew his love for sports needed to be translated 
into a career path somehow.
 Before moving to Gainesville, I did tons of 
research into what I needed to be involved with 
from a journalistic standpoint. What was going 
to benefit me the most, as both a writer and re -
porter?
 I remember, without a doubt, the sports ar -
ticles I rapidly skimmed through during the fall 
months of 2017 from The Independent Florida 
Alligator left me the most impressed.
 I knew then, that, if I wanted to make sports 
journalism a career in the future, I had to become 
a member of that newsroom. It wasn’t an option. 
It was a necessity.
 I applied to join during the Summer 2018 
semester and got my foot in the door as a copy 
editor.
 It wasn’t a fancy position, but I was thankful 
that Mark Stine — the sports editor at the time — 
gave a clueless hopeful an opportunity.
 From then on, that horribly outdated building on 13th Street has been a mainstay 
for me the last two-and-a-half years.
 The place isn’t glamorous. Most 
nights the frigid air pierced through 
my 140-pound body with ease, and 
the smells that permeated from the 
aging carpet were nauseating at 
times, but it didn’t matter.
 That office is where I learned 
how to become a sports journalist. 
That office is where I met dozens 
and dozens of the most hardwork -
ing people I’ve ever seen.
 The connections I’ve made and the friend -
ships I’ve built because of The Alligator gave my 
college experience at my dream school a purpose.
It’s hard to believe this chapter in my life is 
about to become a memory. It seems like I re -
member walking into that office for the first time 
just yesterday.
 While it’s sad to move on, I’m proud of what 
I’ve done and accomplished at The Alligator.
 Over 150 bylines, four separate beats and 
three different positions later, I can wholeheart -
edly say that I’ve left my mark on this newspaper.
 So, here’s the bottom line: Believe in yourself 
and what you can accomplish.
 With anything in life, do your best not to fear 
the unknown and restrict yourself from becoming 
what you want to be.
 I took the leap knowing damn well I didn’t 
belong in that newsroom when I first got there. 
But it turned out to be one of the best decisions 
of my existence, and at this point, I couldn’t even 
imagine my last two-and-a-half years without it.
 So, thank you to the readers for the continued 
support. Thank you to everyone that makes the 
newspaper possible.
 But most of all, thank you to all of the people 
I’ve had the pleasure of working with for not only 
being my coworkers, but my friends as well.
Evan Lepak was a sports writer at The 
Alligator.Where would I be? 
As I write this, it is 
a Sunday afternoon in 
early December. I just 
watched the Jacksonville 
Jaguars lose another game to go 1-11 
to stay on track to draft Trevor Law -
rence or Justin Fields. 
Well, I sort of half-watched it. 
I covered Florida’s men’s bas -
ketball game against Stetson today. 
This followed a college football 
rankings story I wrote earlier today for another 
publication and a high school football TV show 
that I directed, edited and produced two days 
ago on Friday night at, like, 4 a.m.
Needless to say, I am exhausted. But having 
to finally accept that graduation is actually hap -
pening in mere weeks, and I have to say good -
bye to some of my favorite human beings in this 
world at The Independent Florida Alligator, I 
have to think to myself:
Where would I be? 
Without The Alligator, would I have done 
any of that other stuff? 
The honest answer is no. 
Obviously, I wouldn’t have covered men’s 
basketball for The Alligator without The Alliga -
tor itself, but I wouldn’t have my Sports Illustrat -
ed editor title either. I wouldn’t have the resume 
that it took to get basically every opportunity I 
have gotten in this industry called sports media. 
But more importantly, I wouldn’t have ac -
cess to memes as elite as the memes our very 
own editor, River Bartholomew Wells, sends on 
a regular basis. I wouldn’t have people to rant 
about the incompetencies of the Jaguars too like 
I so often do to our Duval crew. I wouldn’t have 
videos of myself singing “Beautiful Girls” with 
Dylan O’Shea and “Promiscuous” with Kyle Wood at Social karaoke night. 
And when I think about my ex -
perience since those moments now, 
I can’t feel much of anything other 
than thankful for the student news -
paper that has no equal. It’s a better 
paper than most regular, full-time 
papers. It’s run by passionate stu -
dents that are damn good at their 
jobs. 
I’m unbelievably proud that I 
got to be a small part of that for six 
semesters. 
So to people that I owe a lot to here, such as 
Jake, Mark, Alanis Thames, Tyler Nettuno, Kyle 
Wood, River, Mari Faiello, Brendan Farrell —the 
list never stops — thank you. To my beat part -
ners I’ve gotten to spend press box time with 
— Bryan Matamoros, Payton Titus (as heard on 
Paul Finebaum), Evan Lepak and Dylan O’Shea, 
thank you. 
And to the rest of the roster, thank you, too. 
Thank you for laughing at my awful jokes. 
Thank you for pretending to care about my Jags 
takes. Thank you for enjoying the fun press con -
ferences with me and suffering through the aw -
ful ones with me, too. 
But more than anything, thanks for existing 
and being amazing human beings. You’re the 
people that make me glad I chose this as my fu -
ture career path. You’re the people that make 
saying goodbye suck so freaking much. 
I love you all dearly, you know I’m a text or a 
DM away at any time. I will not respond without 
a meme attached, though. 
Graham out. Go Jags.
Graham Marsh was a sports writer at 
The Alligator.Believe in yourself. Trust me, it’s worth itJacksonville die-hard takes his talents back to Duval 
after being groomed and developed by Alligator Elites24/Evan Marsh Madness
Evan Lepak
@EvanMPLepak
 Graham Marsh
@GrahamMarshUF