We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaper”Men listen to naked women”
Café Risqué continues on pg. 3
”When I’m in there, I’m my super bada** alter ego”
Café Risqué ﬁ  nishes on pg. 4The OG social distancing theater
Ocala’s drive-in theater continues 
hosting movies for its patrons during 
COVID-19,  pg. 7
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news-MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 79
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news-
Graphic by Kate McNamara
T o UF students, and Alachua County residents, Café Risqué is a local landmark. But behind the Café’s vivid neon glow, each 
of its employees has a story to tell.FEATURE
THE WOMEN OF CAFÉ RISQUÉ OFFER 
COMPANIONSHIP IN A WORLD 
LONGING FOR HUMAN CONNECTION
By Peyton Whittington
Contributing Writer
The ﬁ  rst time I pulled up to Café Risqué, 
I was nervous. Not about seeing the dancers 
or the clients or the club itself, but about the 
prospect of getting to know this place and 
telling its story.
I sat in the parking lot in my 2011 Toyota 
Camry, surrounded by pickup trucks and 
18-wheelers. I stared at the club’s façade, 
plastered with sun-bleached posters of the 
Café’s favorite it-girls in lacy thongs and 
bustiers.
I stepped out of the comfort of my car and 
headed inside, past signs around the door-
way that warned drunk, high, rowdy and 
underage customers: Turn back now.
“Gentlemen,” one sign read, “Please 
consider this! For the amount of our cover 
charge try to approach a Beautiful Lady on 
the Street or in K-Mart etc… and ask her 
to get totally naked and dance for you for 
hours, She might slap you and probably call 
the police. We Think Our Cover Charge is a 
Bargain! Come on in!”
Sounds logical. Besides, I was not drunk, 
high, rowdy or underage. So, I entered.
I was greeted immediately by a familiar 
scent in an unfamiliar place: public school 
carpet that has soaked up sweat, grease and 
the aroma of activity for years.
 “You here to work or eat, darlin’?” the 
woman behind the ticket booth asked with a 
quizzical look on her face.
 “Oh, um, to eat,” I mumbled. I presented 
my ID and paid the $5 cover. She buzzed 
me in.
 I don’t know what I expected, but it 
wasn’t what I saw when the door swung 
open. If the lights were on, it might have 
looked like a Denny’s—except for the two 
catwalk stages to the left and right. 
 On one side was a mirror that stretched 
across the entire wall. On the other were 
poles, lined up like prison bars. Beyond the 
poles was a counter with diner-style swivel 
stools bolted to the ground.
 Commanding the poles were women 
who wore nothing but weapon-grade heels 
and maybe a garter for collecting dollar bills.
On every table was a menu with a pic-
ture of a naked woman lying down with her 
back arched at an impressive angle. Printed 
along the curves of her body were the Café’s 
offerings: French toast, biscuits and gravy, 
cheeseburgers and patty melts.
I put in my order for a short stack of pan-
cakes and hash browns and took note of my 
surroundings. The hum of the local TV news 
report. The blinking, hot pink neon sign in Baring
SEE CAFÉ RISQUÉ,  PAGE 3By Lonnie Numa
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville said goodbye to a token Mid-
town establishment Sunday—one that has 
been fending off students’ hangovers with 
its sandwiches since 1999. The owner, UF 
alumna Sarah Whitﬁ  eld, was one of those 
students herself.
In 2005, Whitﬁ  eld, 33, started work-
ing at the shop as a freshman and stayed 
all throughout her college career. She said 
she loved it so much that in 2016, Whitﬁ  eld 
used all the money she had been saving 
over the years and purchased Larry’s after 
she ﬁ  nished graduate school at UF.
The shop has been preparing to close 
for about a year, operating on a month-to-
month lease, and news of the pandemic 
wasn’t the biggest factor in their decision to 
not extend the lease further, Whitﬁ  eld said.
“The landlords are both in their 80s and 
90s, so very much this was going to happen 
eventually,” Whitﬁ  eld said. “If COVID-19 hadn’t hit we would’ve been a lot more 
likely to consider trying to ﬁ  ght through the 
summer and maybe ﬁ  ght to stay a little bit 
longer, but right now if students aren’t go-
ing to be in classes, it’s harder for us to do 
business.” 
But to Whitﬁ  eld’s surprise, COVID-19 
hasn’t kept members of the community 
from coming to show their support. Good-
byes have been the most emotional from 
regular customers, people who consider 
Larry’s a place they can identify with, Whit-
ﬁ  eld said. 
One customer, in particular, UF alumnus 
David Steinfeldt, has been going to Larry’s 
since his junior year at UF in 2018. Ever 
since his ﬁ  rst trip there, he’s regretted not 
discovering it sooner, Steinfeldt said.  
“When you walk in there’s a smoky 
smell that overwhelms you, it’s almost too 
much,” Steinfeldt said. “It just feels like it 
belongs in a college town.” 
After ﬁ  nding out Larry’s was closing, as 
the child of two UF alumni, Steinfeldt ﬁ  nally understands what his parents mean when 
they say Gainesville is losing a lot of its 
charm, he said. 
“Gainesville is so great because it is a col-
lege town, and that’s something you don’t 
get a lot of throughout the state of Florida,” 
Steinfeldt said. “What makes Gainesville 
great is being taken away just for some 
more apartments that could quite honestly 
be built anywhere.”  
The overarching feeling surrounding the 
situation is understandable but sad, Whit-
ﬁ  eld said. To her, Larry’s will always be a 
part of Gainesville, but she hopes customers 
will ﬁ  nd a new place open at 3 a.m. to call 
their own.  
“I hope they remember us and I hope 
they remember how much they love Lar-
ry’s,” Whitﬁ  eld said. “But I hope they re-
ally do ﬁ  nd somewhere that they love just 
as much.”
@lonaald
lnuma@alligator.orgGainesville says goodbye to Larry’s Giant Subs
The sub shop has been feeding students for two decades SPECIAL
EDITIONT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  68°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 79
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Renee Hancock, J.P . OprisonMarianna Colon, mcolon@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgZora Viel, zviel@alligator.org
Noah Ram, nram@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.org
Hey readers, 
The Alligator doesn’t normally 
print on holidays, but the 
editors thought it would be 
best to use today’s paper as 
a special edition to feature 
stories about local businesses. 
We hope you enjoy them. 
Stay safe, 
The Alligator team MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 the archway of the Café’s adult toy room. The 
chalkboard paint advertising the day’s ribeye 
special, accompanied by a drawing of a pole 
dancing pickle that said, “Dill with the cold…
HOT private dance.”
I waved at a dancer who I thought was 
looking my way.
“Sorry,” she said. “I was just looking at 
my a** in the mirror behind you.”
The eye contact I made with the dancers 
was the kind I make in a grocery store after 
almost bumping into someone else’s cart. But 
why was I embarrassed? It was their job, af-
ter all, to be looked at.
 It was painfully obvious that I was the 
only young woman there who was not on 
the stage. My fellow customers were geriatric 
white men who flicked me nervous side-eyes.
 One of my nervous responses is to gulp 
down water or coffee or whatever drink is on 
hand, so I soon had to use the restroom. I 
opened the ladies’ room door to find a few 
dancers applying lip gloss, fixing their hair 
and chatting. The space doubled as the dress-
ing room.
I hopscotched around their purses and 
makeup bags, past the lockers and toward 
the stalls, which had no doors. Of course. 
What’s the point of privacy in a strip club? 
I sat there, breathing in the haze of Bath & 
Body Works perfume and hairspray and 
staring at the glitter-dusted tile. Some of the 
dancers chatted as they primped.
“He just, like, sat there,” one woman said 
about a lap dance she just gave. “He just 
stared at me.”
 “That’s better than the guys who say 
weird stuff, I guess,” another chimed in.
 A plethora of pamphlets, newspaper ar-
ticles, charts, photos and fliers blanketed 
the walls of the dressing room. Among them 
were the prices for each type of dance based 
on the amount of time, charts detailing what 
parts of their bodies the dancers are allowed 
to touch onstage and numbered lists with 
titles like, “The Top 10 Ways to Become a 
Successful Exotic Dancer.”
 Yellowed newspaper clippings told sto-
ries about the Café over the years. Photo 
booth filmstrips of dancers making silly faces 
lined the cork boards, along with the manag-
ers’ schedules handwritten in Sharpie. A car-
toonishly voluptuous blond woman asked, 
“Do You Want Sum Poosie?” in a pamphlet 
tucked into the corner of a mirror.
 Back in the dining room, I finished off my 
hash browns, dropped a few dollars in the tip 
bucket and climbed out of the neon lights and 
back into my sensible four-door sedan.
 Flapjacks and feminine attention
 Café Risqué sits just off exit 374 in Mican-
opy, a tiny town on the edge of Paynes Prairie 
that’s known for a quaint downtown teem-
ing with antique stores. For most people, the 
Café is a curiosity that will never be satisfied 
or the subject of an uncomfortable family 
conversation on the way to Disney World. 
Anyone who has driven through North Cen-
tral Florida in the past 30 years has seen the 
Café’s myriad billboards, sandwiched be-
tween anti-abortion advertisements along In-
terstate 75. They make a simple proclamation 
to passing motorists: “We bare all.”
 Alachua County code prohibits nudity 
where alcoholic beverages are sold. The Café 
chose nudity. Although the dry policy re-
ceives some grumbles from new customers, 
longtime patrons fancy it as a favorite spot 
for a hot meal and a bit of feminine atten-
tion. Normal here is bare breasts and corn 
nuggets, lap dances with ketchup on the side, 
dollar bills slid past soft thighs and hot cof-
fee, and “Could you bring me a couple of 
them creamers, too, honey?”
 The patrons form half of the Café’s rec-ognizable cast of characters. There was the 
old man in a starched shirt, loafers and wire-
frame glasses. The country boy with tan lines 
from his last fishing trip who goaded the 
dancers: “Come on girl, are you gonna do it 
to it?” And the swinging couples who came in 
to add a third to their day’s fun.
Customers often ask dancers for their 
phone numbers, when they get off work and 
if they can take them out for dinner. Club 
policy forbids dancers from obliging these pa-
trons, and even if they could, they probably 
wouldn’t want to.
Perhaps these customers would envy me. 
I had the privilege of getting to know the 
dancers outside the club over lattes and cock-
tails. I got to know them not as caricatures 
or stereotypes, but as people simply doing a 
job that has been in demand since man first 
drew breath.
Over the course of a year of reporting, I 
found that the Café was hardly the den of sex 
that some locals make it out to be. Nor was it 
just a place to get a bite to eat. It was a curi-
ous blend of both down-home comfort and 
sexual fantasy.
A strip club that sells grilled cheese sand-
wiches instead of alcohol is an anomaly, to 
be sure. But that’s not what drew me to it. I 
was intrigued by the women who work there. 
Regardless of what brought them here, 
the dancers viewed the Café as just another 
job. They found ways to have fun during long 
shifts. They flipped each other the bird from 
across the restaurant and broke into epic air-
guitar solos as Phil Collins’ “In the Air To-
night” blared from the jukebox.
The women here were exotic dancers, but 
they were also teachers, mothers, business 
owners, Ph.D. students and entrepreneurs. 
They liked to visit farmer’s markets and thrift 
stores. They looked forward to fishing on 
weekends and road-tripping with their girl-
friends. They worked hard to feed their fami-
lies.
I had read countless articles about the 
Café over the years, all written with an aura 
of distaste for the club and its owners. Those 
stories had, naturally, made the operators 
suspicious of reporters. Midway into my re-
porting, owner Asher Sullivan Jr. saw me 
interviewing an employee in the Café’s of-
fice space, and I was quietly asked to leave, 
though I was later let back in.
Although Sullivan told me his primary 
reason for sending me away was his danc-
ers’ safety, I didn’t blame him for not trust-
ing reporters. Like so many other businesses 
in this conservative Southern town, the Café 
has been passed down through generations 
from father to son. But unlike other busi-
nesses, the Café has not received a kind word 
from the community, evident in newspaper 
reports each time an owner in the family lin-
eage passes away.
Since the beginning of time, sex work has 
been belittled and stigmatized, from the pros-
titutes who followed army encampments to 
today’s porn stars, cam girls and strippers. 
Sex and intimacy are universal experiences, 
but I’ve always thought society has been 
slow to accept those who commodify their 
sexuality like any other skill.
I wanted to learn more about this club full 
of women who were just a short drive away 
from my apartment in Gainesville.
I began with Cherry.
 
A club with Cherry on top
Cherry, Café Risqué’s hiring manager, 
runs daily operations and makes sure every-
one’s on top of their game. Most strip clubs 
have a house mom who takes care of the 
girls when they need a tampon, a snack or a 
shoulder to cry on. The Café doesn’t have a 
house mom; it has Cherry.
Cherry is not her real name. She and the 
other women in this story wanted to be iden-
tified only by their stage names due to the nature of their work.
She possesses that rare kind of warmth 
that allows people to relax their shoulders 
when she enters a room. Her biggest con-
cern is that her girls stay peppy, polished and 
friendly. And that they keep their shoes on.
When girls interview with Cherry, their 
first test is to get naked. She wants to see 
what they’re working with, of course, but she 
also wants to see how comfortable they are 
getting undressed.
She isn’t looking for anything in particu-
lar; I saw women of all shapes, sizes and col-
ors at the Café. After 15 years managing the 
entertainment, Cherry said she just knows if 
a girl has “it.” Taking one’s clothes off is one 
thing, but giving an electric performance is 
quite another.
 Girls are often hired without any previ-
ous stripping experience, so she trains them 
to make sure they feel confident, safe and 
in control before they ever set foot on stage. 
New hires watch a 20-minute video about 
the Café and fill out a 15-page independent 
contractor packet. This may not seem signifi-
cant to outsiders, but considering that a good 
word from another girl is usually enough for 
a dancer to get a gig at any other club, the 
Café is different.
 At the Café, Cherry flits from one table 
to the next, a blur of whatever color she is 
wearing that day. Cherry’s favorite thing is 
to “boogie,” and the jukebox is usually blar-
ing her favorite anthems: “You Shook Me All 
Night Long” by AC/DC, “Flesh for Fantasy” 
by Billy Idol and “Rock Me Baby” by Otis 
Redding.
Her thin, long dark hair is just messy 
enough to suggest she’s been for a ride with 
the top down, and she wears just a touch of 
eyeliner or shimmer eyeshadow. Cherry is a 
dream of a woman: Sassy, rarely clothed and 
always down for an adventure.
But if I wanted to see a woman with plump 
double Ds, a nonexistent waistline and skin 
unblemished by cellulite or stretch marks, I 
wouldn’t find her at the Café.
That’s not what Cherry’s customers (or 
fans, as she calls them) want anyway. They 
want her. They want a real woman to touch 
their knee and laugh at their jokes. They 
want a real woman to straddle them while 
they lament the lonely life of a road dog.
She told me about a guy who came in one 
day to buy a lap dance. They talked while she 
danced, and then she asked if she could get 
on top of him. His answer surprised her.
“Oh no,” he said. “You’ve already touched 
my soul, you don’t have to touch my d***.”
I wouldn’t call her motherly, but I always 
felt safe when I was with Cherry. One time 
when we met for lunch, a man catcalled me 
as I was walking her back to her car. She im-
mediately took me by the arm and led me away to make it seem like I was leaving with 
her. The man left us alone.
She said she’s good at noticing when an 
eye wanders too long and if she needs to step 
in. Patrons of the Café come to live out a fan-
tasy, but if that fantasy involves making a girl 
feel unsafe, Cherry’s there to see that custom-
er out the door. I understood then why many 
of the women I met at the Café spoke about 
Cherry with respect and appreciation.
One of these women was Scarlett.
 
Scarlett: Men listen to naked women
When I met her, Scarlett was 22 and en-
rolled at UF. She was studying mechanical 
and electrical engineering but still figuring 
out what she wanted to do with the rest of 
her life. She’s now taking a gap semester to 
think it over.
She moved to Gainesville a couple years 
ago in pursuit of a boy. When that didn’t 
work out, she started school. She was work-
ing long hours as a server at Yamato Japa-
nese Steakhouse for insignificant wages, and 
she needed a job with flexible hours that 
could pay her bills and tuition. Her sister told 
her she should be a stripper. Scarlett scoffed 
at the suggestion at first.
“You’re a good dancer,” she told Scarlett. 
“You’re super friendly. It’s not that different 
from posting half-naked nudes on Instagram 
like everybody else does.”
Of course, exotic dance is much different 
from the occasional “thirst trap” Instagram 
picture, but Scarlett knew what her sister 
meant. Scarlett is a woman who enjoys being 
the center of attention, and she knows it. So 
she walked into the Café, the only strip club 
in the Gainesville area. She passed Cherry’s 
infamous strip test.
Scarlett is not from these parts. She grew 
up in San Francisco, California, one of the 
most expensive cities to live in the U.S., and 
perhaps the nation’s leader of liberalism.
She went to a private school that practiced 
the alternative Waldorf method of teaching 
and had the same teacher and 20 classmates 
from first to eighth grade. She wasn’t allowed 
to watch television, play video games, listen 
to the radio or use a computer. Instead, she 
played in her grandmother’s garden during 
the day and staged home plays for her neigh-
bors at night.
That was the innocent side to her granola-
crunching California childhood. But she also 
lived next to nude beaches, and her work 
commute took her past people in chains 
crawling on all fours at the Folsom Street 
Leather Fair.
Scarlett was hardly a stranger to adult-
themed exhibitionism. Hers was an upbring-
ing that lent itself to self-expression and, CAFÉ RISQUÉ,  from pg. 1“Denny’s with a better view”
Peyton Whittington // Contributing Writer
Café patrons receive a comprehensive briefing on the club’s rules before they 
are allowed in.
SEE CAFÉ RISQUÉ,  PAGE 44   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020eventually, sexual freedom. She figured she’d 
probably be naked in front of people some-
day, so she might as well get paid for it.
Scarlett is aware of the irony in her sto-
ry—that she is stripping here while the clubs 
in her hometown flaunt private champagne 
rooms, VIP lounges and celebrity guests. 
She’s the antithesis to the small-town-girl-
becomes-big-city-stripper stereotype; she 
moved away from the “City by the Bay” to 
dance for truckers and retired men in No-
where, Florida.
But despite the Café’s small-town vibe, 
Scarlett appreciates a culture that empha-
sizes the safety of its dancers. Cameras point 
to every inch of the club, including private 
dance rooms, and the manager on duty is al-
ways keeping an eye on the footage. Dancers 
aren’t always afforded the same care in big 
city clubs, Scarlett tells me. She has heard 
this from some of the other girls who have 
danced in such places.
On stage, Scarlett is all legs and flowing 
raven hair. She has big, honest eyes and an 
infectiously bubbly personality. She wears 
sheer bathrobes and sparkly chandelier ear-
rings. Most of her work clothes come from 
fans, who will sometimes bring in pieces for 
the dancers to wear, but she makes every-
thing look designer.
Her signature move is to make intense eye 
contact with her customers while she dances. 
She was too shy to do it when she first started 
stripping, but now she knows there’s power in it. It seems to say: “I see you. I recognize 
the space you occupy. My attention is yours.” 
For patrons who paid for a gorgeous woman 
to pay them some mind, Scarlett’s signature 
move is irresistible.
But dancing is more than eye contact and 
sensual moves. In fact, Scarlett says that 
she sells 90 percent of her dances based on 
conversations with patrons. Sometimes that 
means chatting about the weather or how she 
manages to walk in 6-inch heels. Other times, 
the conversation is more serious.
Sometimes patrons feel comfortable 
enough to tell Scarlett about their marital 
woes or other personal struggles. To them, 
she is a blank slate, a bellhop in fishnets 
ready to receive their emotional baggage.
Scarlett is a persona that she takes on to 
keep her distance from her fans. Scarlett is to 
her what Wonder Woman is to Diana Prince.
“When I’m in there, I’m my super bada** 
alter ego, and she can handle anything,” she 
told me once when we met at a vegan coffee 
shop in Gainesville. “When I leave, I get to 
put her away.”
And she puts away Scarlett for the day by 
showering off the smell of fried food, meditat-
ing and playing with her cat and dog. When-
ever she starts letting Scarlett bleed into her 
life outside of the Café, her friends remind 
her who she really is.
But when she’s Scarlett, she can seduce 
any man she chooses, get him to pay hand-
somely for her time and even get him to 
change his mind about love. This she does 
without a Lasso of Truth or a golden crown—
all she needs is her heels and some time to 
change her patrons forever.One day, she told me, a man came into 
the Café who was so furious he looked to be 
on the verge of cardiac arrest. He had just 
found out that, in his words, his son was gay 
and wanted to be a woman. He and Scarlett 
talked for three hours in the club’s private 
rooms. Scarlett kept asking him simple ques-
tions until he realized he didn’t have to hate 
his son just because he was different.
The patron talked to his son on the phone 
outside the Café with the new perspective 
Scarlett gave him. Instead of telling his son 
he was going to burn in hell, he told him he 
was loved.
Turns out, she said, men are a lot more 
willing to listen to women when they’re na-
ked.
 
Karter: It’s about connection
Scarlett is a long way from home, but I 
also met dancers who grew up not too far 
from this place. Like Karter.
Karter is a busy woman. She has a hus-
band, a 4-year-old daughter, a massage ther-
apy business and she’s working on getting a 
trucking business off the ground.
Still, she made time to meet me for a cou-
ple of Jack and Cokes after she got off work 
one day. She brightened at the prospect of 
disproving stereotypes of dancers. 
Karter, 28, started stripping when she was 
18. Her parents were divorced, and she was 
living with her mom. The five jobs they had 
between the two of them weren’t paying the 
bills, and Karter wasn’t about to watch her 
mother lose everything. Not again.
She started working at a bikini bar in 
Daytona, Florida and hid the cash she made 
each night under her mattress. She gave her 
earnings to her mom piece by piece so she 
wouldn’t think Karter was selling drugs. Or 
find out about her hustle.
But her mother eventually did figure it 
out, thanks to a 6-inch clear pair of platforms 
peeking out of an unzipped duffel bag in the 
trunk of Karter’s Volkswagen. Her mother 
laced the heels’ clear straps between her fin-
gers and held them up in confusion. Karter 
burst into tears.
Her father, she believes, still doesn’t know, 
though she has her suspicions. He’s the kind 
of dad who fills up her tank every time she 
visits him. The kind who approaches heavy 
topics with humor, who’s more likely to bust 
your balls at the dinner table than have a seri-
ous talk in private.
So, when he looked her in the eyes one 
day and pushed a wadded-up hoodie into her 
hands, a Smith & Wesson .22 Magnum re-
volver nestled snugly between the sweater’s 
black folds, she knew he was serious.
He said he didn’t know what was going 
on with her, but he wanted her to take it. 
She might need some form of protection in 
the future.
He couldn’t have known that she had 
started stripping to make ends meet. She had 
carefully selected clubs far enough away so 
the clientele wouldn’t include her friends 
from high school, her neighbors or her fam-
ily. He couldn’t have known. Could he?
Karter still doesn’t know. But she has a 
family of her own to take care of. In other 
words, she doesn’t have time to worry what 
people think of her anymore. Now, she wears 
8-inch heels.
At the Café, she twists her slender, tat-
tooed body around the stage’s brass poles, 
tendrils of gossamer blonde hair framing 
her face. But when she steps down from the 
stage, strikes up a conversation with a cus-
tomer and lets them dive into her cool blue 
eyes, that’s when she really shines.
That’s what it’s all about for Karter, any-
way. Connection. It doesn’t matter if they’re 
on her massage table or watching her strip, 
people open up to her in the same way. When 
she works people’s muscles, she also unlocks 
their muscle memory. People tell her all man-
ner of things when they’re on her table.
It’s no different in the Café. She said a 
simple touch on a patron’s knee could trig-
ger a memory from when they were 5 and scraped that knee when they fell off their bike 
for the first time.
She hears it all, either from the client melt-
ing into her massage table or the client loung-
ing on the weathered booth seats of the Café.
But Karter doesn’t mind. She doesn’t need 
an alter ego to weather the storm of patrons’ 
emotional turmoil. Karter and her true iden-
tity, she told me, are pretty much the same.
When she graduated from high school, 
she said she dabbled in working as a certi-
fied nursing assistant. For her, life as a CNA 
was spent rushing from one patient to the 
next with no real regard for bedside manner 
or empathy for the patient. As much as she 
wanted to sit with the old man in Room 117 
and talk about his golden retriever, she al-
ways had another patient to get to, another 
round of medication to administer or another 
day of missed connections.
That’s why, despite the apparent contrast 
between her two day jobs, she gets her fix of 
human interaction from each in a way she 
never could as a nurse.
So she’ll happily listen to Café regulars 
talk about the exorbitant prices of chair up-
holstery, why Pepsi Max is better than Coke 
Zero or even about their wife who just passed 
away, if that’s what they need.
And when the time comes to ask if the 
customer would like a dance in a private 
room, they might ask if they can just sit back 
there and talk.
She’s fine with that, too.
 
Face masks and funding
The Café, like so many businesses, was 
forced to close its doors temporarily due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. It reopened last 
week after Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis began 
reopening the state.
Owner Asher Sullivan says he applied for 
a loan from the U.S. Small Business Admin-
istration to keep paying employees during 
the club’s month-long closure. But the SBA, 
a government agency that provides financial 
support for entrepreneurs and small busi-
nesses, excludes entities of a “prurient sexual 
nature” from receiving loans, and Sullivan 
was initially denied.
But on May 11, a federal judge in the East-
ern District of Michigan ruled that the SBA 
had no authority to keep the adult entertain-
ment industry from receiving the emergency 
loans. The decision came after strip clubs and 
other venues across America filed lawsuits 
challenging the SBA’s position.
“Congress’s decision to expand funding to 
previously ineligible businesses is not an en-
dorsement or approval of those businesses,” 
U.S. District Judge Matthew F. Leitman wrote 
in his opinion. “Instead, it is a recognition 
that in the midst of this crisis, the workers 
at those businesses have no viable alterna-
tive options for employment in other, favored 
lines of work and desperately need help.”
The Café is now eligible for a loan through 
the SBA’s Paycheck Protection Program, al-
though it hasn’t received one yet. 
But even when it does, the Café, like thou-
sands of other small businesses, will operate 
as a shadow of its former self. The dancers 
are back, but private dances are not being of-
fered at this time. Tables are spaced 6 feet 
apart, and all employees are required to wear 
masks. 
No one is sure what the future holds for 
the Café. The concept of social distancing is 
the antithesis to this place, where all that was 
risqué has now become risky.
Perhaps, when the virus loosens its grip 
and people finally feel safe enough to crawl 
forth from their homes to their favorite ice 
cream shops, group fitness classes and church 
worship services, they’ll also crawl back to 
the Café’s private rooms. Floridians will need 
their cocktails and haircuts, but, most of all, 
they will need the touch of another human 
being. And the promise of companionship in 
the form of a beautiful stranger.
@peytonmwhitt
peytonmwhitt@gmail.comCAFÉ RISQUÉ,  from pg. 3Making a personal connection
Graphic by Kate McNamara
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
7-13-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     7-13-43-10
HOMEOWNERS WANTED! Kayak Pools 
looking for Demo Homesites to display new 
maintenance free Kayak Pools. Save thou-
sands of $$. Unique opportunity! 100% financ-
ing available. 1-888-788-5464        5-18-18-10
Public Online Auctions of seized cars & ves-
sels on behalf of U.S. Customs & Border 
Protection, U.S. Treasury, U.S. Marshals 
Service. www.appleauctioneeringco.com. 
Auctioneer Kevin C. Scully, FL#AU4328      
5-18-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.
org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
7-13-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
7-13-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
7-13-43-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  7-13-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    7-13-20-43-14
 Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
7-27-20-14
Today in History - 1977: Star Wars: Episode IV - A 
New Hope, written and directed by George Lucas, first 
premieres in movie theaters.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends catch COVID-19.1For Rent
furnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
7-13-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       7-13-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of pos-
sible buyers!
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
7-14-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels? Want 
to sell? Try the Alligator Classifieds!BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Matt McKinley
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/18/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/18/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, May 18, 2020
ACROSS
1 Parson’s home
6 Wall St. hedgers
10 Seize with a 
quick motion
14 Carne __: burrito 
filling
15 Anklebones
16 Piece that starts 
next to a knight
17 Set of blank 
pages for notes 
and doodles
19 Rowboat pair
20 Discards as 
useless or 
obsolete
22 Bro’s sibling
23 Ones elected to 
office
24 Make illegal
25 It comes before 
the ques. on 
“Jeopardy!”
26 Unfilled calendar 
slot
31 Desire
33 Going __: fighting
34 Mangy mutts
35 What people are 
saying
38 Deuce topper
39 Riles up
40 Snakelike fish
41 Diminutive  
two-seater
43 Morning moisture
44 Furniture wood
45 Come out on top
46 Musical gp. that 
performs summer 
programs at 
Tanglewood
49 Through many 
experiences
54 Persia, now
55 Car showroom 
site
56 Route-finding app
57 Baseball Hall of 
Famer Willie
58 Appliance brand
59 Do as ordered
60 Fashion monthly
61 Battery 
components, to a 
doctor
DOWN
1 Surgeons’ 
protection
2 Computer data 
acronym
3 Feds busting 
dealers4 State known 
for 60-ft.-high 
presidents’ faces
5 Erodes, as 
profits
6 Musketeer pal of 
Aramis
7 Engrossed
8 Uninteresting
9 Auxiliary wagers
10 Airplane 
maintenance 
group
11 Lion’s warning
12 Choice of two
13 Novels and such: 
Abbr.
18 Amazon delivery 
boxes: Abbr.
21 Recycled 
container
25 Longtime “60 
Minutes” closer
26 Significant __
27 Crusted  
desserts
28 “The Clan of 
the Cave Bear” 
author Jean
29 “__ chic!”
30 N.J. winter hours
31 Wriggling bait
32 General vicinity
33 Gillette razor
35 Lb. and kg.36 “Stevie” for 
Stevie Nicks, e.g.
37 Former 
magazine aimed 
at adolescents
42 Greek cross
43 Conked out
45 Start of a 
question of 
possession
46 Gauchos’ 
weapons
47 Bloodhound’s 
pickup48 Gumbo 
vegetables
49 Speedy steed
50 Level, as an 
abandoned 
building
51 For two 
countries, as 
citizenship
52 “Chat soon,” in 
texts
53 Unconvincing, 
excuse-wise
54 __ Jima
By Seth Geltman and Jeff Chen
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/12/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/12/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, May 12, 2020
ACROSS
1 HIV-treating  
drug
4 Word with 
contracts or 
contractions
9 More brooding
15 Mauna __
16 Frugal way to 
wed
17 Big blood 
vessels
18 Animal kingdom 
predator
21 Car radio letters
22 Genius 8000 
toothbrushes, 
e.g.
23 Flanders of 
Springfield
24 Bakery draw
27 Most populous 
continent
28 Road Runner 
stills, e.g.
29 Animal kingdom 
traitor
32 Lucy of 
“Elementary”
33 Bark holder
34 Absorb, with  
“up”
35 Speeder’s 
undoing
37 Igor, to Dr. 
Frankenstein
40 Like Redbox 
films
44 __ a plea
46 One removed by 
a wine lover
48 Musical knack
49 Animal kingdom 
eccentricity
54 Enticement
55 Space
56 Figure of speech
57 Nonprofit URL 
ending
58 Sheena who 
collaborated with 
Prince
60 It can end on a 
high note
62 Animal kingdom 
complication
66 1927 movie 
innovation
67 Turkic language
68 The Bosporus, 
e.g.: Abbr.
69 Zooms
70 Sauce made with 
pine nuts
71 PreCheck org.DOWN
1 Two before 
Charlie
2 Fanatic love of 
animals
3 It may involve 
cooking the 
books
4 Super Bowl IV 
MVP Dawson
5 PC shortcut key
6 __-chic: hippie-
influenced 
fashion style
7 Performs surgery
8 Go over again
9 Guys’ attaché 
alternatives
10 Fireworks cries
11 Golf expert
12 Apple music app
13 Stands for oils
14 Clarinets, e.g.
19 “It’s just a flesh 
wound”
20 Nobelist Wiesel
25 Some 
undergrounds
26 It can be fresh 
but not insulting
28 Crunch’s rank
29 35mm camera 
type
30 Cultural funding 
gp.31 Swindled
36 Entr’__
38 Work a crowd
39 Digit for water 
testing?
41 Clear-cut, as for 
lumber
42 Pesky critters
43 Parched
45 Pittsburgh team
47 Stat for the 
45-Down
49 Gunny sack 
fabric50 Socks pattern
51 Enjoy a bagel, 
say
52 Add
53 Actor Neeson
54 Artists’ pads
58 City west of Tulsa
59 Pen points
61 First razor with a 
pivoting head
63 Pres. after Harry
64 Site-seeing place, 
with “the”
65 Ring ref’s decision
05/18/2020
answer on page 6HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   7-13-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees15 Services 18 Personals1. 13. He hit eight of them in  
 his 1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.Sports Quiz  answers1.  Airplane ____
1.  Dash5.  Soft, fluffy feather
2.  Impartial6.  Lift
3.  Central ____7.  Pretty ____
4.  StickAARHGN
HPENHYMPLEU
SEAIR
ELTUANR
AACEIMRSEAPEL
EOECHRANSWERS: 1A-Hangar  5A-Plume  6A-Raise  7A-Please
1D-Hyphen  2D-Neutral  3D-America  4D-Cohere  B-Mayonnaise5-25-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: A tablespoon of ____ contains
about 90 calories. BONUS
ScrabbleGrams  solution Sudoku  solution
All careers go up and down like friendships, like marriages, like anything else, 
and you can't bat a thousand all the time. – Julie AndrewsCryptoQuote  answersolution below
solution below
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020
answers below1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit how 
many home runs in his seven-season Major 
League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL's first U.S.-born 
referee and later a broadcaster for the New 
York Rangers, went by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque Isotopes 
Minor League Baseball club was inspired by 
a fictional team from what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two members 
of the Pro Football Hall of Fame Class of 
2020, spent their entire playing careers with 
what NFL franchise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial art is 
literally translated as "the way of the sword"?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated what 
mixed martial arts superstar in a 2017 box -
ing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball player won 
three NBA championships with the Chicago 
Bulls from 1996-98 and was the 1996 NBA 
Sixth Man of the Year?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
Katie Delk
Staff Writer
Despite the pandemic, the Ocala Drive-
in’s business is better than ever before, 
according to owner John Watzke.
Toward the start of the pandemic, 
Watzke sawed a hole into the concessions 
side door and installed a small window 
from his storage shed in the back. A few 
days later, Watzke fenced off every other 
parking space. With 10 to 14 feet between 
each vehicle, the drive-in’s capacity 
lowered from 445 cars to 203.
Although Watzke has received backlash 
for staying open, he said that he has 
done everything in his power to ensure 
the safety for his guests and staff. Every 
employee has their temperature taken when they arrive at work and then again 
three hours thereafter. When they deliver 
concessions to vehicles, the staff wears 
gloves and masks, and they hold trays out 
for customers to take the packages into 
their own hands. 
Normally toward the beginning of May, 
the drive-in faces a decline in customers. 
However, this year, even at half capacity, 
Watzke said the drive-in has about 40 
percent more customers than usual. During 
the week, the spots almost ﬁ  ll up. On the 
weekends, Watzke said he has had to turn 
50 to 60 cars away.
“People are getting cabin fever,” Watzke 
said. “As long as it’s appropriate, I don’t 
think they really care too much about what 
the movies are as long as they can get out 
of the house right now.”
In mid-April, Watzke owned the only drive-in in the U.S. showing newly released 
ﬁ  lms. While large ﬁ  lm companies have not 
delivered new movies, Watzke contacted 
independent and small ﬁ  lm companies like 
IFC Films and arranged for newly released 
ﬁ  lms to be shown at the drive-in.  
In 2011, Watzke opened the drive-in 
after several years of vacancy. The Ocala 
drive-in has braved Hurricane Irma and 
ﬂ  oods along with days of sparse audiences. 
Working for theaters runs in his blood. 
In 1913, his grandfather began as a 
projectionist, someone who maintains the 
video and audio features during a ﬁ  lm, he 
said. Watzke’s father, brother and sons 
have all become projectionists, too.
“There’s very little that can happen 
that somebody in my family hasn’t gone 
through working in theaters,” Watzke said.
Now, other drive-ins have caught up, but Erin Meadows, a 48-year-old Ocala 
resident, said Watzke earned all of the 
recognition. 
“I’m really glad to see that during this 
pandemic that’s going on, the community 
ﬁ  nds a safe haven with him and can 
reciprocate everything he does back,” 
Meadows said. 
Meadows met Watzke the day after he 
opened the drive-in. Since then, she has 
taken her daughter, mother, coworkers, 
grandchildren and six to seven different 
cars to the theater through the years. Every 
week, she watches the movies in the same 
parking place, sometimes even twice. On 
busy nights, she helps with concessions.
“I’ll go see a cartoon just so I can 
hear the little kids laugh and enjoy what 
I remember as a child, and that stuff you 
can’t ever replace,” she said. 
With pillows, lawn chairs and 
mattresses, people can comfortably settle 
to watch two movies on the 90-foot screen 
one, and the 50-foot screen two. Tickets 
are $6 for adults, $3 for 6- to 12-year-olds 
and free for children 5 and under. 
Watzke said the experience at the drive-
in is about more than a movie.  
“If they’ve seen it at a walk-in, they’ll 
say, ‘Oh, yeah, I’ve seen that movie. It was 
good.’ That’s the end of the conversation,” 
Watzke said. “If they’ve seen it at a drive-
in, whether they were children or adults, 
they will tell you who was with them, what 
vehicle they were driving, what drive-in 
they went to and it becomes a memory or 
a story.”
@Katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.orgOcala Drive-in survives COVID-19
Owner John Watzke continues his family’s 
100-year tradition of working in theaters Now playing at Ocala Drive-in:
SCREEN ONE:
“The Wizard of Oz”
Friday, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday at 8:30 p.m.
Saturday, Monday, Wednesday at 10:40 p.m.
“The Goonies”
Friday, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday at 10:35 p.m. 
Saturday, Monday, Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. 
SCREEN TWO:
“Jurassic Park: The Lost World (1997)”
 Nightly, 8:30 p.m.
“Jurassic World (2015)”
Nightly, 11 p.m.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Although Watzke has received backlash for staying open, he said that he has done everything in his power to ensure 
safety for his guests and staff.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 25, 2020
