We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperWhat’s up with graduation?
2020 graduation is still postponed. 2021 graduates lie in wait,  
pg. 5
Sharing stories on hair discrimination
‘How could you judge my intelligence, based  on my hair?’ , pg. 6Who gets to go?
UF hasn’t announced its protocol for students 
attending football games, so Sports Editor River 
Wells took a look at what other schools have 
planned for the college football season, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 3
Photo by Zachariah Chou / / Caption by Ryan Haley / / Alligator Staff Writers
A fire at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium Saturday afternoon that lasted about an hour and temporarily closed down 
Museum Road is under investigation. A maintenance tractor is believed to be the cause, said Steve McClain, the 
UF senior associate athletics director. Nobody was injured, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. The Florida 
Gators tweeted that there was no damage to the facility.
STUDENTS QUARANTINED ON CAMPUS FOR 
THE FIRST TWO WEEKS OF THE SEMESTER 
FACED MANY PROBLEMS IN DORMS
Thomas Weber & Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writers
Students who’ve quarantined on campus due to COVID-19 
have faced numerous hardships in the semester’s first two 
weeks, including no transportation, non-existent security in 
the quarantine dorms, inconsistent testing and sometimes, 
no food.
UF students — COVID-19 positive or not — said they’re left 
with minimal guidance and little to no help when it comes to 
quarantining, and the university didn’t start addressing their 
concerns until as late as Thursday.
As of Sunday afternoon, 857 people are quarantined 
because of COVID-19 cases across UF’s campus. UF offers 
access to on-campus quarantining facilities for students with 
housing contracts who test positive and those they come in 
close contact with, said UF’s spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
But despite on-campus isolation being complimentary for 
those with housing contracts, some students are abandoning 
UF’s housing and opting to finish quarantine elsewhere. 
Students who test positive for COVID-19 are housed 
separately from students who have been exposed but haven’t 
tested positive, according to the student quarantine FAQ.  
For COVID-19 positive students, the on-campus isolation 
facility is Lakeside Complex building two, while Riker Hall is 
for those who came in close contact with students who tested 
positive but haven’t tested positive themselves, according 
to students who’ve been quarantined. Trusler Hall is also an 
isolation dorm, but it is unclear for whom.
Graduate family housing can also be used for students 
who have been in contact with a COVID-19 positive person 
but is not the primary choice, wrote Hessy Fernandez, UF 
director of issues management and crisis communications, in 
an email.
Residents of sorority and fraternity houses who test 
positive are being told to quarantine at local hotels, Orlando 
said. The cost of the hotel room is paid for by either the 
student or their chapter.
UF’s Screen, Test and Protect, the university task force that 
aims to handle COVID-19 on campus, will notify the students 
who must quarantine. 
But the first hurdle is getting themselves there. 
Transportation and moving to the dorm
Sometimes, UF isn’t the first to notify students of potential 
exposure.
Kaiana Kibler, an 18-year-old UF aerospace engineering 
freshman, called UF Screen, Test and Protect after learning 
her roommate tested positive Sept. 1. During her call, she 
said she was told she may have to quarantine, and a few 
hours later, she said she received another call telling her to 
be at the isolation dorm within two hours.
Kibler said she wasn’t told what to bring nor given any 
assistance or transportation to help her move from Hume 
Hall to Riker Hall — she didn’t even know where Riker Hall UF’s quarantining procedure 
riddled with issues
UF ROSE FROM NO. 7 IN 2019, THOUGH IT 
FELL SHORT OF ITS TOP FIVE GOAL
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff Writer
UF has been named the sixth best public university 
in the country in the U.S. News and World Report’s 2021 
college rankings.
As of Monday, UF ties for sixth place with the University 
of California, Santa Barbara, with both schools improving 
from seventh place in 2019. The university also ranks No. 
30 in the combined list of public and private universities, 
up from No. 34. 
The top five is led by the University of California, 
Los Angeles; the University of California, Berkeley; the 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor; the University of 
Virginia; and the University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill. 
“By nearly every measure, UF is continuing to make gains, and I’m thankful to the elected leaders, faculty, 
staff and supporters of the university who have made that 
possible, ” UF President Kent Fuchs said in a statement.
Rankings are based on six factors: student outcomes, 
faculty resources, expert opinion, financial resources, 
student excellence and alumni giving. 
UF first reached the top 10 in 2017, tying with the 
University of California, Irvine and the University of 
California, San Diego for ninth place. The university has 
long hoped to become top five.
Three UF undergraduate programs also moved up in 
ranking. The Warrington College of Business rose from 
No. 28 to No. 24; the College of Engineering from No. 
34 to No. 32; and the computer science program within 
the College of Engineering debuted at No. 48 out of 481 
universities.
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.orgUF is No. 6 in U.S. public universities
SEE QUARANTINE,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW 73°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the Sunday's Top AP Headlines
Racial injustice themes fill empty 
NFL stadiums
Jason Myers kicked off to start 
the Seahawks' season-opener 
against the Falcons, and the ball 
sailed through the end zone for a 
touchback. No one moved a step.
Instead, the players all dropped to 
one knee. After years of pleading 
with the NFL to act against systemic 
racism, they were willing to wait 
another 10 seconds to make their 
point. Teams opening the year in 
empty stadiums knelt, locked arms, 
raised fists in protest or stayed 
off the field entirely for the “Star-
Spangled Banner” and the Black 
anthem “Lift Every Voice and Sing” 
on Sunday as the once-reluctant 
league brought racial injustice 
to the forefront on the NFL's first 
full slate of games. In Atlanta, the 
teams wore armbands honoring 
civil rights leader John Lewis and 
staged the most striking of the day's 
gestures: They barely flinched as the 
opening kickoff landed beyond the 
end line, took a knee and remained 
there for about 10 seconds before 
trotting off the field to resume the 
game. “It’s a start," Falcons running 
back Todd Gurley said after the 
game. "Are we going to keep doing 
this? You don’t want to make it a 
one-time thing — just like having 
a good game, and then the rest 
of the season you do nothing. ” 
Lewis, the Georgia Congressman 
who died in July, was an honorary 
captain for the game. The Falcons 
also wore shirts with his quote: 
“The Vote is the most powerful, 
nonviolent change agent you have 
in a democratic society. ” And that's 
just what the Falcons and Seahawks 
did before the game.“Everybody 
voted and said we’re going to come 
together as a unit, ” Atlanta receiver 
Julio Jones said. “Collectively, we 
can move mountains. ”
2 dead, 6 wounded in shooting near 
Rutgers University campus
An early morning shooting near 
the Rutgers University campus in 
New Jersey killed two people and 
wounded six others, authorities 
said Sunday. Middlesex County 
prosecutors and New Brunswick police said officers responding 
to the scene shortly before 1:30 
a.m. Sunday found eight people 
with apparent gunshot wounds. 
The victims were taken to 
various hospitals and two male 
victims were pronounced dead at 
Robert Wood Johnson University 
Hospital, police said George 
Biedenkapp told NJ.com that he 
thought the first loud popping 
noises that woke him up in the 
middle of the night were from a 
rumbling car but then heard more 
pops and then what sounded 
like firecrackers. “Pop, pop, pop, 
pop, ” Biedenkapp said. “And then 
five, ten, fifteen minutes at most, 
later I heard the police cruisers, 
my whole house was lit up with 
police lights. ” “I came outside, 
and then I saw the carnage, ” 
Biedenkapp said. “Police cars, 
ambulances all over the place. ... I 
saw six stretchers with people on 
them, and one looked really bad, 
they were doing CPR on the way 
to the ambulance. ”
Sally set to become hurricane and 
threaten U.S. Gulf Coast
Tropical Storm Sally slowed 
down Sunday as it churned 
northward toward the U.S. Gulf 
Coast, increasing the risk of heavy 
rain and dangerous storm surge 
before an expected strike as a 
Category 2 hurricane in southern 
Louisiana. “I know for a lot of 
people this storm seemed to come 
out of nowhere, ” said Louisiana 
Gov. John Bel Edwards. “We 
need everybody to pay attention 
to this storm. Let's take this one 
seriously. ” Forecasters from the 
National Hurricane Center in 
Miami said Sally is expected to 
become a hurricane on Monday 
and reach shore by early Tuesday, 
bringing dangerous weather 
conditions, including risk of 
flooding, to a region stretching 
from Morgan City, Louisiana, 
to Ocean Springs, Mississippi. 
Edwards urged people to prepare 
for the storm immediately. He 
also said there are still many from 
southwestern Louisiana who 
evacuated from Hurricane Laura 
into New Orleans — exactly the 
area that could be hit by Sally, 
which is a slow moving storm. “Based on all of the available 
information, we have every 
reason to believe this storm 
represents a significant threat, ” he 
said, adding that the coronavirus 
adds a layer of complexity to 
storm preparations. There are 
still some 5,400 members of the 
state's National Guard mobilized 
from Laura, and they will assist 
with Sally.
T eacher departures leave schools 
scrambling for substitutes
With many teachers opting out 
of returning to the classroom 
because of the coronavirus, 
schools around the U.S. are 
scrambling to find replacements 
and in some places lowering 
certification requirements to 
help get substitutes in the door. 
Several states have seen surges 
in educators filing for retirement 
or taking leaves of absence. 
The departures are straining 
staff in places that were dealing 
with shortages of teachers and 
substitutes even before the 
pandemic created an education 
crisis. Among those leaving is 
Kay Orzechowicz, an English 
teacher at northwest Indiana’s 
Griffith High School, who at 57 
had hoped to teach for a few 
more years. But she felt her 
school's leadership was not fully 
committed to ensuring proper 
social distancing and worried 
that not enough safety equipment 
would be provided for students 
and teachers. Add the technology 
requirements and the pressure 
to record classes on video, and 
Orzechowicz said it “just wasn’t 
what I signed up for when I 
became a teacher. ” “Overall, 
there was just this utter 
disrespect for teachers and their 
lives, ” she said. “We’re expected 
to be going back with so little." 
When school leaders said 
teachers would be "going back 
in-person, full throttle, that’s 
when I said, ‘I’m not doing it. 
No. ’” Teachers in at least three 
states have died after bouts with 
the coronavirus since the start of 
the new school year. It’s unclear 
how many teachers in the U.S. 
have become ill with COVID-19, 
but Mississippi alone reported 
604 cases among teachers and 
staff. In cases where teachers 
are exposed to the virus, 
they could face pressure to 
return to the classroom. The 
Trump administration has 
declared teachers to be “critical 
infrastructure workers” in 
guidance that could give the 
green light to exempting them 
from quarantine requirements.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 3
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinion Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
#Gators FightFlu
Get Vaccinated!  
UF students, faculty and staff are 
encouraged to receive their flu 
vaccine Sept. 14 – Oct. 30.  
Flu shots are by appointment only.  
Visit my.shcc.ufl.edu/vaccines or  
call 352.392.1161 to schedule.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020was.
In order to get to the dorm, Kibler hitched 
a ride with her two suitemates — one of 
whom had a car — who were also identified 
as contacts. Neha Iyer, one of Kibler’s 
suitemates, also moved into Riker Hall that 
evening.
“I was not offered any assistance moving 
my belongings, ” said Iyer, an 18-year-old UF 
microbiology freshman. “Carrying a suitcase 
and a couple bags and making sure I had the 
right necessities and everything — I could 
not carry them. ”
Upon arrival, she said she received a 
key to her empty room and papers with 
further instructions. Among them was a list 
of suggested items she should’ve brought, 
including 14 days’ worth of clothes — 
students don’t have access to washers or 
dryers, according to the isolation guide — a 
pillow, bedsheets, towels and any personal 
toiletries.
“They gave us a list of what we should’ve 
packed after we arrived, which was obviously 
unhelpful, ” she said. 
The list of items to bring is now provided 
to students in the quarantine FAQ, but 
Kibler said she was not given this prior to 
quarantining.
Greg Karcz, an 18-year-old UF computer 
science freshman, said he tested positive for 
COVID-19 on Sept. 5. 
Not having a car, Karcz said he would 
have had to drag his belongings about two 
miles from Cypress Hall to Lakeside Complex, 
a west-campus residence hall that’s almost 
a mile away from the nearest dorms, in 
the afternoon heat — all while sick with 
COVID-19. The only alternative was taking 
a bus, calling on a ride-sharing service or 
riding with a friend — all of which would risk 
infecting others. 
“I told them that I don’t want to infect my 
friends or infect an Uber driver, ” he said. “They 
were like ‘Yeah, I know that’s a problem — I 
guess just walk there. ’”
Karcz wasn’t showing any symptoms at 
the time, but with all his bags and boxes, he 
had no other choice but to take an Uber. He 
said he wore a mask.
Holly, a 41-year-old Uber driver who 
preferred not to share her last name for 
safety reasons, has been an Uber driver in 
Gainesville for almost a year. She said when 
the app routes her to pick someone up from a 
testing site, she often cancels the ride. 
Uber drivers are allowed to do this if they 
feel they are at risk of danger or infection, 
Holly said. 
“I have no health insurance, so I try to limit 
exposure, ” Holly, who is being treated for 
other medical issues, said.
Holly said she didn’t drive during the 45-
day stay-at-home order in March and April 
but feels mostly safe doing so now. She said 
she believes masks help a lot with exposure, 
and she always sanitizes her car.
“We are all being forced to work in our 
new condition, and most are wearing masks, ”  
Holly said. “I don’t want to get sick and I don’t 
think my passengers do either. ”
UF created GatorLift Express last week to 
transport students on campus to designated 
isolation and quarantine sites, Fernandez 
wrote. 
UF Transportation and Parking Services operates the service, which is available seven 
days a week from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
GatorLift has existed for more than 25 
years, providing rides on campus for disabled 
and mobility challenged members of the 
UF community, predominantly students, 
Fernandez wrote. GatorLift Express was born 
and named last week specifically to transport 
students to isolation and quarantine 
locations. 
But for students like Alondra Arce, 
a 19-year-old UF sustainability studies 
sophomore, GatorLift Express wasn’t a 
considered option when she went into 
quarantine Tuesday. She said she hadn’t 
heard of it until after she had gotten into the 
quarantine dorms. 
Arce said she had no safe way of getting 
to UF’s quarantine dorms on Tuesday without 
exposing anyone.
She said she took a Lyft, which she felt put 
people unnecessarily at risk.
Arce created an online petition for UF 
to provide safe travel to quarantine dorms 
on Sept. 6, which has 723 signatures as of 
Sunday. 
After she made the petition, Arce emailed 
dean of students Heather White and UF 
President Kent Fuchs about her petition but 
said she never received a response. She said 
she did, however, hear about the creation 
of GatorLift Express shortly after, which she 
feels was in response to complaints about 
transportation.
“UF has done some great things to help 
mitigate the spread of the virus, ” Arce said. 
“But UF also has had its shortcomings and I 
think we should try to accomplish solutions 
for that. ”  
Fernandez wrote students need to 
maintain a physical distance of 6 feet 
minimum from the driver, wear masks and 
gloves and provide a clear pickup location. 
She also said they must use only the rear 
entry door to the vehicle and sit in the seats 
furthest to the rear; and need to self-board, 
self-disembark and handle their luggage and 
belongings on their own.
Ella Bennett, a 19-year-old UF electrical 
engineering sophomore, said the last time 
she took the RTS bus, she saw no more than 
three of 10 passengers wearing their masks 
correctly. 
“There are students who are exposed or 
positive, continuing to use public buses, 
how does the university think that’s going 
to work? It’s only going to spread it more, ”  
Bennett said. “I know that would freak me out 
if I was the driver. ”
Bennett said she was originally supposed 
to live on-campus in Buckman Hall but 
decided to live off-campus because she 
didn’t want to be exposed to COVID-19. She 
said she uses the bus system because it’s 
accessible but feels uneasy now because she 
saw people wearing masks incorrectly. 
“If UF wanted students to come back and 
pay dorm fees, they need to have a better 
plan, and they need to be more prepared, ”  
Bennett said. 
T esting
During her quarantine, Kibler said she 
called UF Screen, Test and Protect for days 
trying to get tested, but she said responses 
to her inquiries were inconsistent. 
After being told she’d receive a call about 
testing Sept. 2, her phone never rang. Then she was told she’d receive a call before 11 
a.m. the next day, but she still didn’t hear 
back.
Kibler and Iyer did ultimately get tested on 
the afternoon of Sept. 3. But, they were both 
surprised to hear they were getting tested at 
Hume, the dorm they were supposed to be 
quarantining away from.
They were unsupervised on their walk 
from Riker Hall to Hume Hall for testing, so 
they could’ve gone anywhere they wanted, 
Kibler said.
They were tested in Hume Hall’s third-floor 
common area with other students from the 
floor who weren’t in quarantine, she said. She 
didn’t believe the other Hume residents were 
aware that she and the other Riker students 
were supposed to be quarantined.
Kibler and Iyer tested negative — they 
received their results a day and two days later, 
respectively — and have both opted to finish 
the quarantine period in their hometowns. 
Iyer said she isn’t sure if she will return to 
Gainesville this semester.
“Their testing protocol could be greatly 
improved, because I feel like the first thing 
they should’ve done was test me, ” Kibler said.
Karcz, who tested positive, faced similar 
issues with getting additional testing; he 
was told to get a test at the Student Health 
Care Center Monday, but after finding out a 
bus route passing by Lakeside was no longer 
running, he missed his test that morning.
After initially testing positive Sept. 5, he 
said he hasn’t been provided another test as 
of Saturday afternoon.
UF plans on expanding testing beyond 
the Student Health Care Center and the Hull 
Road testing site, Fernandez wrote. UF plans 
to continue pop-up dorm testing as well. 
“Locations will vary by day to increase 
access for all students to get tested, ”  
according to the email. “There will be options 
closer to on-campus isolation and quarantine 
spaces. ”
Security and quarantine enforcement
Kibler, Iyer and Karcz all said their 
quarantine dorms had little to no 
enforcement of quarantine policies. Anybody 
who is supposed to be isolating can walk 
between floors freely and even exit the dorm 
and walk onto campus.
UF uses data from quarantined students’  
key fobs, devices that allow residents into 
the dorms, to monitor their movement 
during quarantine, Fernandez wrote. Other 
than leaving the dorm for testing or meal 
deliveries, she said violation of quarantine 
may become a conduct issue with the 
university.
She also said the dorms will have staff 
monitoring students’ movement.
But Karcz said his quarantine dorm 
roommate — whom he has two of, because 
COVID-19 positive students are put into 
three-bedroom apartments in Lakeside — 
has exited and entered the dorm without any 
supervision.
“Nobody monitors anything, ” he said. “It 
feels like quarantine by choice. ”
Food and amenities 
Karcz is on a declining balance, meaning 
he has money allotted for food through his 
UF account, but not an official meal plan. For 
the last two weeks, students who didn’t have 
meal plans were left in a precarious position 
when it came to feeding themselves.
At first, he was told he couldn’t use his 
balance to buy food; instead, he was told to 
get food through Uber Eats or walk to UF’s 
Field and Fork Pantry, which is 1.5 miles from Lakeside.
Up until Wednesday night, Karcz said he 
was forced to figure out meal deliveries on his 
own, solely using Uber Eats to feed himself.
This contradicts UF’s July 10 reopening 
plan, which said all students quarantined 
on campus would be given access to food 
and other amenities during their isolation. 
There was no mention of needing a meal 
plan in order to be fed during on-campus 
quarantine.
“During that time, the student will be 
provided with food, sundries, counseling and 
other services as needed, ” the plan read.
On Friday, Fernandez wrote UF will 
provide meal delivery for students without 
meal plans. She said students will receive an 
email four hours after they go into quarantine 
detailing meal delivery options.
Students without meal plans will be 
offered a supplemental dining plan through 
Gator Dining, according to UF’s quarantine 
FAQ. This supplemental dining plan will cost 
$25 a day, despite UF’s July 10 reopening 
plan never indicating students would have to 
pay for food while in quarantine.
Fernandez wrote those quarantining off 
campus will receive a link giving them access 
to UF’s Food Assistance Program, where 
students are allotted a certain number of 
points every week, which they cash in for 
meals.
Since Wednesday, Karcz has been able to 
receive food deliveries through the school 
using his declining balance, paying $25 a day.
Iyer, who doesn’t have a meal plan, said 
she didn’t feel safe in the dorm’s communal 
kitchens or bathrooms.
“I had no food, and they didn’t really have 
a plan for what to do, ” Iyer said. “I don’t feel 
safe using the kitchen, so I brought a few 
snacks, like a bag of oranges. ”
Employees dropped off each night’s 
dinner and the following day’s breakfast 
and lunch in the dorm’s first-floor kitchen. 
Quarantined students — on all floors of Riker 
Hall — are expected to leave their rooms, go 
to the first floor and sort through the food 
themselves. 
“My main issue with the food so far is that 
a lot of it has to be refrigerated, and we have 
to share a communal fridge, ” Kibler said. 
She said the rooms in Riker don’t have 
refrigerators or kitchens, so quarantined 
students are expected to use the communal 
kitchens on their floors to store and prepare 
their food. 
In response to students’ concerns about 
communal kitchens, UF began distributing 
personal mini fridges into Riker Hall’s 
isolation rooms Friday, said Arce. 
But Kibler’s main safety concern was 
Riker’s communal bathrooms, which she 
said are completely unregulated, meaning 
multiple people are allowed to use the 
bathroom at the same time. 
Iyer said she knew people who weren’t 
taking showers during quarantine because 
they didn’t feel comfortable using the 
communal bathrooms. She described the 
bathrooms as unclean and said she limited 
her use of them, too.
Kibler said the bathrooms seem to be 
cleaned once a day, usually in the morning.
“I’m just really uncomfortable with the 
communal spaces, ” she said. “If I didn’t 
already have COVID by the contact, I think I 
would get it here. ”
@thomasjohnweber, @anna_wilderr
tweber@alligator.org, awilder@alligator.orgQUARANTINE,  from pg. 1‘They need to have a better plan’MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
BLACK-OWNED FOOD 
TRUCKS STRIVE TO 
NOURISH AND INSPIRE 
THE EAST SIDE
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Staff Writer
The smoky barbecue aroma of 
Black-owned food truck cuisine 
leads to the heart of East Gainesville. 
Fueled by the nationwide 
Black Lives Matter movement, 
Black businesses have seen an 
overwhelming amount of support 
in the past few months, even with 
the economic downturns of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
The food truck industry is no 
exception, and for Tony Jefferson, 
business has never been better. 
Swamp Religion Food Truck was 
Jefferson’s vision after more than 
a decade of working in the food 
industry. He started as a dishwasher 
at The Swamp Restaurant shortly 
after graduating from Eastside 
High School and, for the next 11 years, worked his way up to kitchen 
manager. By then, he developed his 
own style of cooking. 
“I got the passion of cooking 
and working with food, and it got 
to the point where I pretty much 
capped out at the restaurant, got 
a vision and aspiration to start my 
own, ” Jefferson said.   
The 32-year-old opened his own 
food truck in 2017 and now employs 
five people. Today, Jefferson’s goal 
is not only to nourish but also to 
inspire East Gainesville residents.
“I do this to show the Black 
community that it is possible to be 
your own boss and have your own 
business, ” he said. “That keeps me 
on my toes and keeps me waking 
up every day. I know a lot of young 
Black men are watching. ” 
Food trucks like his own fill a gap 
on the east side of town, Jefferson 
said. There aren’t many options 
for residents as the landscape is 
speckled with fast food restaurants. 
Unlike West Gainesville, affordable 
grocery stores are scarce in the 
region. 
Jefferson said his clients hail from all over Gainesville and 
Florida. However, most of the 
support is from those who grew up 
on the east side. 
Earlier this year, Ardell Wright 
decided to take a lunch break from 
his shift as the on-air personality 
for 98.9 Jamz, a Gainesville 
radio station. When the 31-year-
old arrived at the large, orange 
food truck, he felt right at home 
when he recognized people from 
Lincoln Estates, an East Gainesville 
neighborhood. 
Music blasted from the vehicles 
in the nearby Swamp Car Wash, 
Wright said. He could smell the 
spices oozing from inside the truck. 
The Cajun Shrimp Burger convinced 
him that East Gainesville residents 
were in on a secret.
 “We knew about it before 
everybody else did, ” Wright said. 
He described the crowd as 
working East Gainesville natives 
with a taste for southern food and 
hospitality. Clients swerve their 
vehicles into the truck’s permanent 
location on East University Avenue 
for a quick lunch break.“You can’t have a viable culture 
without food and music, ” he said. 
“Not everybody makes food, so the 
few people that do, it’s a big deal 
because it adds to the culture that 
is already there. ” 
Food truckers stick together 
and push one another, Jefferson 
said. He named businesses that 
garnered a lot of the east Gainesville 
community’s attention and support 
— such as Wayne Head Southern 
Kitchen and Fat G’s BBQ & Catering.  
Gregory Brown said he was 
astounded at the support he 
received when he decided to open 
Fat G’s BBQ & Catering shortly 
before the COVID-19 pandemic 
forced local restaurants to close 
temporarily or shut their doors. 
The 30-year-old is a barber by 
trade with a passion for cooking. 
The idea of starting a food catering 
business began when a pastor of 
TheWELL, a Gainesville church, 
hired him as a private chef. 
Cooking is now Brown’s full-
time job. Every Friday, Saturday 
and Sunday he stations his smoker, 
a large barbeque on wheels, on Williston Road in front of Bill’s 
Tire Repair, Inc. and serves about 
300 people. Brown said he’s ready 
for his next step — serving East 
Gainesville from a food truck. 
“A lot of the time, the weather 
closes us out, ” Brown said. “Being 
exposed to the elements under 
the tent has been discouraging 
sometimes, so we’re really happy to 
have a food truck on the way. ” 
Brown hopes his truck becomes 
a go-to for local soul food once it 
opens sometime after November. 
He added that he’s glad to see more 
food trucks sprout throughout the 
east side of Gainesville such as 3K 
BBQ, which will also begin its food 
truck operation soon. 
“We all know each other and 
love each other, ” Brown said. “We 
share each other’s posts. I’m really 
proud of what’s going on in the 
community. ” 
@EdysmarDiazCruz 
ediaz-cruz@alligator.org Follow the aroma of soul food to East Gainesville
WITH 2020 GRADUATIONS STILL 
POSTPONED,  THE CLASS OF 
2021 IS WONDERING WHAT’S IN 
ITS FUTURE 
By Corbin Bolies 
Alligator Staff Writer
Commencement is the ultimate milestone 
for most college graduates. But for UF seniors, 
it’s one they may not get to reach.
With the Class of 2020 commencement 
ceremonies indefinitely postponed due to 
COVID-19, current seniors have not been given 
a clear answer as to what will happen with 
their graduations. After UF’s announcement 
allowing fans for football this Fall, these 
students are concerned their graduation has 
been placed on the back burner.  UF has not done any comprehensive 
planning for the 2021 ceremony yet, 
said Stephanie McBride, UF director of 
commencements, calling the uncertain 
timetable for a vaccine the biggest barrier as 
to why graduations have not been organized 
yet.
The Class of 2021 graduation weekend is 
scheduled from April 29 to May 2. 
“We have the venues reserved for those 
weekends, ” McBride said. “What those 
weekends will look like? We don’t know what 
Corona’s going to do. We can’t predict that. ”
That has led Suha Zaidi, a 22-year-old UF 
psychology senior, to lose hope for a ceremony 
entirely.
“They can claim it’s a top seven school for 
academics, but if they’re not letting students 
graduate, what does that really say?” she said. 
“Losing the opportunity to have a graduation is like the cherry on the cake of what 2020 has 
been. ”
Zaidi is a Pathway to Campus Enrollment 
student (PACE) — a program that requires 
students to complete their first two years 
through UF Online — which she said made her 
feel less connected to UF. The switch to remote 
learning, especially in light of the upcoming 
football season, was the tipping point.
UF announced that Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 
will allow 20% of its regular capacity to attend 
football games this season. Other regulations 
include a four-seat distance between fans 
and mandatory masks throughout the game, 
except while eating and drinking.
Zaidi said it doesn’t matter.
“I think football is just a money source, but 
it shouldn’t be a higher priority than making 
sure we can graduate, ” Zaidi said. “If football is 
safe, that should also be safe. ”Even if UF went ahead with concrete plans, 
it could still face difficulties with the State 
University System. 
In June, the SUS directed state universities 
to plan alternatives to in-person ceremonies. 
That prevented UF from hosting their 
rescheduled Spring and Summer ceremonies, 
with the status of the Fall event still unclear.
Other state universities like Florida State 
University and the University of Central Florida 
have not announced plans for Fall 2020 or 
Spring 2021 graduates.
The Board of Governors, which oversees 
the SUS, will provide direction on future 
commencement ceremonies soon, according 
to spokesperson Renee Fargason.
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.orgUF’s spring 2020 graduates still haven’t had a graduation. Will 2021?6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020
IN SPITE OF RESENTMENT IN THE 
GAINESVILLE COMMUNITY, UF 
STUDENTS, FACULTY AND ALUMNI 
CONTINUE TO EMBRACE THEIR 
NATURAL STYLES
By Kalia Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
Rik Stevenson stands in front of his UF 
classroom, wearing a full suit, a bow tie and his 
salt-n-pepper dreads skipping past his shoulders 
and trekking down his back. He asks students 
to pull out a piece of paper and make three 
assumptions based on his physical appearance. 
Some students said his dreads make him 
look professorial or intelligent, but Stevenson 
questions how the assessment was made. 
“How could you judge my intelligence, based 
on my hair?” Stevenson said.
A study conducted by the American 
Psychological Association said strangers can 
make first impressions within half a minute. Many 
Black students, faculty and alumni have worn 
their hair naturally or in natural hairstyles, but 
their appearances to others have not always been 
positive.   
Some have experienced feelings of alienation 
due to their natural hairstyles. They admit 
receiving unwelcome comments about their hair, 
but those experiences have led them to further 
embrace it. 
Richard Murray, a 22-year-old UF African 
American studies senior, has had dreadlocks for 
eight years. They’ve become a part of his identity, 
he said.  
In 2019, Murray was shopping at a Walmart in 
Alachua County and overheard a child telling his 
mother he liked his hair. The mother responded 
that Murray’s hair reminded her of a thug and 
kept walking with her child, he said. 
Despite the encounter, Murray admits no 
comment would sway him to change it.
“If anything, it made me embrace it even 
more, ” Murray said. “Who are they to tell me what 
my value is?”
Murray said under no circumstance would he 
cut his hair for a job and argued that his hairstyle 
should not be a determining factor in the hiring 
process.Faith Morgan, a 23-year-old UF wildlife, 
ecology and conservation alumna, had a similar 
experience in Gainesville in 2017. She applied for 
a job at an animal hospital and wore a wig in the 
interview. 
On the first day of the job, Morgan said she 
wore her hair naturally. Within five minutes, her 
manager said, “I like you better with straight hair. ” 
Morgan was the only Black person at the 
animal hospital and questioned if she would 
have been hired had her hair been natural in the 
interview, she said. Her manager’s preference 
made her feel uncomfortable, and she got braids 
the following week to prevent future altercations.
“It was hard to find a job for me in the 
beginning, and I was just grateful at that point, 
but I shouldn’t have to suffer these injustices, ” 
Morgan said. 
Because of this, Morgan founded Girls w’ Curls 
that year, a UF organization that teaches young 
men and women to embrace and love their 
natural beauty. 
In May 2010, Chasity C. Jones, who wore 
short dreadlocks, was offered a customer service 
position and fired once she refused to cut her 
dreadlocks at the human resources manager’s 
request.
Three UF College of Journalism and 
Communication doctoral students conducted a 
study stating that Black consumers report feeling 
undervalued and misrepresented by brands like 
Pantene.
By denying hairstyles such as dreadlocks, 
Black people are encouraged to use irreversible 
hair treatments to straighten their thick textures 
or wear wigs to disguise them, according to the 
NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund. 
UF professor Rachel Grant, who teaches “Race, 
Gender, Class and the Media, ” said that Black hair 
is used as a form of discrimination and oppression 
“to otherize individuals” in order to uphold 
European beauty standards.
The Florida Senate bill 566 worked to halt 
discrimination of protective styles such as braids, 
locks or twists. While Title VII of the Civil Rights Act 
protects against discrimination of afros, it omits 
other natural hairstyles. This bill later became 
known as the CROWN Act.
The CROWN Act, defined as “Creating a 
Respectful and Open World for Natural Hair, ” was 
terminated on the senate floor in March. The act would have made it unlawful to discriminate 
against racial characteristics, such as hair texture.
While seven states have adopted the CROWN 
act, progress in Florida appears stagnant. 
Stevenson, a man who has worn his dreads 
proudly for 14 years, calls himself a renaissance 
man. When not teaching diversity and inclusion 
courses at UF, he’s scuba diving, flying planes 
and riding his motorcycle under the fitting name 
“groundbreaker. ” 
Stevenson said his hair is a reflection of his 
heritage: his five brothers and sisters, his parents 
who never went to college and the counselor 
who told him he could never be a teacher. His 
dreadlocks are a distinct part of who he is and he said listening to others’ expectations will put you 
in a quandary. 
“Some people will love you because of your 
hair, and then there are people who hate you, ” 
Stevenson said.
Telling someone to wear their hair a particular 
way defies the normality of its natural state, he 
said, and he encourages others to reclaim a sense 
of self-pride in natural hairstyles.
krichardson@alligator.org
@kaliarichardsonUF students and faculty speak up on hair discrimination
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
UF SCHOOL OF THEATRE 
AND DANCE STUDENTS 
TEST THEIR FLEXIBILITY 
IN CLASSES ONLINE, 
IN-PERSON AND 
OUTDOORS.
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer
How can an actor imagine themself 
to be in outer space, while their 
roommate sits across from them and 
the refrigerator hums loudly 2 feet 
away?
The UF School of Theatre and Dance 
has had to make drastic changes to 
abide by CDC guidelines. 
While many UF students are no 
longer strangers to hybrid classes, 
acting students have had to fully 
embrace flexibility in their schedules. 
Students may be asked to tune into a 
Zoom meeting one class and meet in-
person with masks in the next.
UF acting professor Ryan Hope 
Travis has made similar requests of his students during the transition to online 
acting classes this Fall semester.
His hybrid acting for the camera 
and acting analysis classes take place 
on UF stages, outdoors and in the 
digital sphere, Travis said. Careful 
consideration and planning by the 
school’s administration went into the 
decision to host indoor classes.
“Acting and dancing — it’s a 
communal experience, ” he said. “And 
it’s from this community of artists that 
you find your place. ”
His smallest class of nine students 
was assigned the largest studio at the 
program’s disposal, a 1,526 square foot 
room behind the Constans Theatre, 
Travis said. Classes can only be held 
indoors for a maximum of 90 minutes 
before students have to leave and let 
the room air out. 
This is because the air in the 
building circulates every 11.5 minutes, 
according to an email sent by the 
school’s administration to faculty 
over the summer. At the end of the 
90 minutes, the class must exit the 
building for 15 minutes to allow fresh 
air to run its course.Travis said that he is aware of the 
strain on morale these social distancing 
policies can have on students in his 
program but has been blown away by 
their resilience. 
“Yes, it has its challenges but it’s also 
in the spirit of what artmaking is, ” he 
said.
He recently learned that students 
of his had been in contact over the 
summer with one another, hopping 
into Zoom meetings to discuss current 
social movements and have group 
dialogue separate from class.
“It blew my mind, ” Travis said. “They 
were still finding a way to vibe. ”
Joseph Meisner, a 19-year-old UF 
acting sophomore, acknowledged the 
difficulty of keeping everyone in the 
School of Theatre and Dance safe this 
semester. Only half of his class will meet 
at a time to minimize sustained contact 
with others.
“Personally and overall it’s taken a 
big hit to our morale because we’re just 
so used to being with each other and 
we feed off that energy, ” Meisner said.
Travis said his background as a 
filmmaker came in handy throughout the program’s adaptation to Zoom as a 
medium. He has nine short films to his 
name, as well as a feature film, “Cocoa in 
the Dark, ” in the works. 
Props, cameras and wardrobe were 
shipped to students participating in 
“Remove Before Flight, ” a play created 
entirely through Zoom over the 
summer and directed by Travis and 
streamed July 23-26. The production, 
made up of a diverse cast of 10 UF 
actors, took on a reimagining of social 
and racial hierarchies with a focus on 
the criminal justice system.
He edited the cuts of each scene to 
create a coherent, linear telling of the 
story.
“Art comes out of a need to address 
social issues. Art comes out of a desire 
to help heal, ” Travis said. “And the pillar 
of that is our ability to stay connected. 
So, when you remove that, artists, we 
innovate. ”
Anna Roman, a 20-year-old UF 
acting junior who had an acting role in 
Travis’ “Remove Before Flight, ” echoed 
this enthusiasm but also said she’s 
experienced challenges like not being 
able to separate home, work and Zoom 
fatigue. 
She, too, feels optimistic about 
the state of the program. Some of her 
motivation is derived from seeing 
famous actors near her age like Alex 
Wolff and Florence Pugh reading plays 
over Zoom.“Everyone’s on the same playing 
field right now and there’s so much 
room to do whatever you want, ” Roman 
said.
Phia Kallas, a 20-year-old UF dance 
and acting junior, said dance students 
who share a building with acting 
students are being confined to six-foot 
squares taped out on the floor while 
wearing masks.
This not only makes some dance 
routines that rely on physical contact 
between dancers impossible but is a 
struggle for social butterflies like Kallas.
“It’s really hard to see your friend 
and not be able to hug them, ” Kallas 
said.
Technical difficulties plague the 
dance program as they do other 
departments, Kallas said. A momentary 
buffer could leave a dance student 
many steps behind in learning a new 
routine in class.
Like many others at this point in 
time, Kallas has had to make her social 
circle smaller, but she sees the silver 
lining in limited contact with others. 
“Really cultivating those one-on-
one personal relationships has been 
helpful, too, ” she said. “It’s just different. ”
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.orgUF School of Theatre and Dance adapts to 
Zoom productions and hybrid classesMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
‘Your life is worth it’
Sports writer Dylan O’Shea talks mental health and depression 
in his latest column, pg. 11KHAN DIED AUG. 30 AFTER BATTLING 
A HEART CONDITION
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
Chef Mehfooj Khan’s culinary journey took him across the 
globe: through India, into South Africa, to New York and Chicago, 
and finally to Gainesville, where he nurtured two local businesses 
and found a loving community.
The former master chef of the Indian restaurant Andaz, 
who recently continued his legacy of Indian restaurants in 
Gainesville with the opening of Tikka Express in 2019, died Aug. 
30 after battling a heart condition, Tikka Express announced on 
its Facebook Thursday. The post referred to Khan as “a loving 
husband, father, chef, and friend. ”
Khan grew up in New Delhi, India, where he first discovered 
his passion for cooking. Graduating from culinary school at 21, 
Khan worked as a chef in five-star hotels in India before moving 
to South Africa in 1992. He was one of the first chefs to introduce 
authentic Indian food to the area, said his wife Noori Syed. It was 
here that the two, who were married for 30 years, met. 
Syed was inspired by Khan to open Tikka Express at 1011 
W. University Ave. in 2019, where she and their son Abdul were 
mentored by Khan in the skills and knowledge required to run a 
restaurant. Syed, though, said the venture would not be successful 
without Khan supporting her.
“After he came to Tikka Express, Tikka Express had been 
complete, ” Syed said. “The day he walked in, I said to him 
‘Whenever you come in, I just feel that I have so much energy and 
I can do more. ’”
Syed said Khan’s career brought him in contact with many 
prominent names, as he was one of the first Indian chefs to cook 
Indian food for former President of South Africa Nelson Mandela. He also cooked for other famous figures like former U.S. President 
Bill Clinton and actor Morgan Freeman.
Despite meeting these renowned figures, Khan found his 
community in Gainesville, where he was known by restaurant-
goers as an attentive and passionate chef, even on the busiest 
days.
“If somebody comes to say, ‘Hi, ’ he would just really guide them 
and make them feel the most comfortable, ” Syed said. “He would 
never make any visitor, any guest of his, uncomfortable. ”
Two weeks before his death, Syed said Khan mentioned to 
her he wished for more people to know about his cookbook 
“Secret Is Out, ” which is dedicated to Indian food lovers around 
the world. Khan took great pride in his accomplishments, from 
his beginnings in the streets of India to present, owning his own 
restaurants and becoming a published author.
Khan passes on part of this legacy to his son Abdul Khan, who 
manages Tikka Express. Khan described seeing his son work in the 
restaurant as making him feel like a young man again, Syed said.
“He taught me a lot of things. He taught me, in fact, everything, ” 
Abdul Khan said. “He made it very difficult for me toward the end, 
because he wanted me to learn. I think he was preparing me for 
life without him. ”
Tikka Express closed temporarily for a grieving period and 
reopened Sept. 8.
Syed said she and Abdul are thankful for the Gainesville 
community’s flooding support as well as those remembering 
Khan throughout the world.
“He would always tell me that you would only know how good 
you are when you leave this world and go, ” Syed said.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgRemembering former Andaz, Tikka Express chef 
FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINK
Courtesy to The Alligator
The former master chef of the Indian restaurant 
Andaz, who recently continued his legacy of Indian 
restaurants in Gainesville with the opening of 
Tikka Express in 2019, died Aug. 30 after battling 
a heart condition.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
STARTING NEW 
RELATIONSHIPS IN A 
MOSTLY VIRTUAL WORLD
By Lonnie Numa
Avenue Staff Writer
As cuffing season approaches 
and Venus, the planet of emotional 
attachments and relationships, enters 
the sign of passionate and courageous 
Leo, some may be feeling bold enough 
to shoot their shot with the masked-
up cutie sitting three yardsticks away 
from them at Marston. But for the UF 
populace still confined to their homes, 
the desire to hit the streets grows 
unbearable. 
Even as a person thriving in 
perpetual singledom, I’ve caught 
myself gazing out my window this 
past summer like a heroine in a Brontë 
novel, longing for something more 
than the humdrum of everyday life. It 
would be easy enough to hose myself 
down in antiseptics and skulk around Turlington Plaza searching for food, 
water, atmosphere or all of the above 
— but if there’s one thing I’ve learned 
throughout 2020, it’s how to manage 
my expectations.
I don’t mean to burst anyone’s 
metaphorical bubble, but campus isn’t 
the bustling, bike-addled, pseudo-
metropolis we remember it being, 
which is making new relationships — 
both platonic and romantic — hard to 
come by. 
Emelia Ulrich, a 20-year-old UF 
instrumental music education and 
music composition sophomore, is 
having a hard time adjusting to the 
eerie stillness that currently pervades 
campus. Everyone within the college 
of music intends to follow the new 
safety guidelines, but standing six feet 
apart from her peers during practice is 
pretty strange, she said. 
“There aren’t a lot of music students 
in the music building at the same time, 
even if they are on campus, ” Ulrich 
said. “So it does feel emptier. ”Ulrich feels the welcoming 
ambiance within the college of music 
made starting out at UF easier, and 
the intimate classroom settings 
encouraged her to bond with the 
peers she works alongside today. 
In her eyes, everyone is still just as 
friendly, but I can’t imagine wearing 
masks and standing six feet apart 
from one another prevents the initial 
awkwardness new students may feel. 
Unfortunately, meeting new 
people isn’t as simple as going to 
Midtown on Wednesdays and seeing 
where the evening takes you anymore. 
This is why, for Ulrich, class GroupMe 
chats possess newfound importance 
and shouldn’t be underestimated by 
students, regardless of whether their 
classes are in person or online. 
“You have to have more intent to 
create camaraderie among everyone 
around you, ” Ulrich said. “If someone 
isn’t super comfortable with social 
media, I would assume they need to 
get a little more control with it if they want to interact with people. ” 
For now, we’re going to have to 
let go of our preconceived notions of 
what this Fall semester was supposed 
to look like. The only people you might 
get to know this semester are the 
same ones you’ve been dissociating 
through Zoom lectures with this past 
week. 
Pamela Mireles, a 26-year-old UF 
musical arts doctoral student, asks 
that if you’re considering venturing to 
campus even if you don’t necessarily 
have to, you must acknowledge that 
your decisions affect those who rely 
on UF staying open for their education 
and livelihood. 
In general, if we want to be hanging 
out with friends, or even dating this 
Fall, we’ve got to make sure we’re 
communicating openly and frequently 
with those in our social circles. 
“Just have communication with the 
people you want to hang out with, ” 
Mireles said. “Try to be conscious that 
there are people who need to take care of themselves, so please be careful. ” 
Mireles, in all her doctoral student 
wisdom, advises students looking to 
safely expand their social circles to 
join clubs, follow them on social media 
and try to attend virtual events. Some 
of the student-run organizations have 
been doing a great job of keeping 
members engaged from a distance, 
she said. 
I understand we all have needs; 
I’m not the patron saint of celibacy. 
But we’ve got to keep using the tools 
we’re lucky enough to have at our 
disposal to hopefully find new ways 
of connecting with one another. Who 
knows, if one thing leads to another, 
you could find yourself on a painfully 
awkward Zoom date with a fellow 
member of the underwater basket 
weaving society! No? Just me? Alright, 
fine, duly noted. 
@lonaald
lnuma@alligator.orgFor the navigators: Romance and friendship as campus reopens
COLUMNCOLUMNEditorialMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinionsOn Aug. 26, Dr. Michael Lauzardo gave a thoughtful answer 
when asked if UF’s opening would cause COVID-19 to 
spread and what steps the university would take to 
mitigate the impact. In the two weeks since, much has 
changed, and my worries have only grown — COVID-19 
has spread rapidly within the Gator Nation, including a 27.1% 
positive test rate at the Student Health Center. Testimonies of dead 
end contact tracing, students afraid of or refusing quarantining and 
testing and lack of proper guidance for positive cases have raised 
issues that need immediate attention, not just from UF Health and 
administration, but from the powerful decision makers on the 
Board of Trustees and the Office of the Provost Joe Glover. 
The daily median age of Alachua County cases has dropped to 
20 years old since UF reopened. There is little doubt this is a result 
of the 250-plus UF COVID-19 cases and the 850-plus individuals in 
quarantine. I have no doubt UF Health is monitoring the campus 
spread closely, but it has been my job to govern off-campus 
pandemic policy since March and I have concerns that aren’t being 
addressed. When students are off campus at Publix, Walmart or a 
favorite restaurant, remember there are immunocompromised 
people in our community you could be endangering if you carry 
COVID-19 from a weekend party. If you live off campus with random 
roommates, you have added responsibility to not go out because 
your roommates can’t distance easily at home. Alachua County 
has required masks indoors to protect consumer confidence for 
our businesses reopening since April. These messages have been 
lost in UF’s reopening plan because they have said it isn’t their 
jurisdiction.
Some cynics might ask, why should UF care if that’s my job? 
Since I was elected in 2017, UF officials have worked with me 
hand-in-hand to improve our city. It is in UF’s best interest because 
if they aspire to become a top five public preeminent university, 
then Gainesville must evolve into a preeminent city. Our future 
success is intertwined. Then COVID-19 struck Wuhan, then Europe 
and finally Florida. Now our survival is intertwined. Gainesville is 
the students’ city too, and we love to have them here, but in 2020, health and safety from COVID-19 is our new priority. Off-campus 
gatherings are threatening our survival. It is cynical to suggest that 
UF’s campus is the safest place in the city if the rest of Gainesville is 
a casualty. 
I have called on Alachua County Chair Robert Hutchinson 
and Mayor Lauren Poe to convene another joint meeting with UF 
administrators to discuss the reopening outbreak. In the meantime, 
I call on the community to submit their questions to their elected 
officials so that we can pose them in writing and expect answers 
in writing. My office will be directing questions to the Board 
of Trustees and the Office of the Provost because I hold them 
responsible. Until now they have been content to pass the buck 
to their administrators, their faculty, their undergraduate students, 
their world class health care system and the entire Gator Nation. 
As long as I have something to say, the buck will stop here. I 
will accept zero deaths related to UF community spread whether 
on or off campus. I have family here who work at UF and our local 
essential businesses that must remain open. I will not see one of 
them endangered because of well-paid office holders who throw 
up their hands and say “Let’s just hope it works out well. ” Hope is not 
a strategy, nor is it scientific. Hope is a question of faith and sincerity, 
and both are subject to proof. I place my hope in a well informed 
citizenry asking critical questions of their public institutions and 
leaders. Together we will faithfully see this through — since every 
pandemic in human history has an end — but I will not accept a 
single casualty because of a lack of leadership. 
Don’t be afraid if you woke up with a fever today. Call for a test. 
Don’t be afraid of being alone in quarantine if you test positive. You 
will be back. Don’t be afraid if you go to the hospital. Gainesville’s 
health care system is second to none. And don’t be afraid to admit 
you made a mistake, we all do. Decent people own up to mistakes 
and try to correct them. UF has made mistakes and it is time to fix 
them. 
David Arreola is the Gainesville City Commissioner for district 
three and can be reached at arreoladi@cityofgainesville.org.I woke up, fell out of bed, dragged a comb across my head 
and found my way downstairs to urgent care.
I wish I woke up being as up-beat as Paul McCartney in “A 
Day in the Life. ” However, I woke up on Labor Day feeling sick 
and achy. “Oh great, here we go, ” I thought.
In a perfect world, I would have immediately scheduled a 
COVID-19 test with UF, but we are far from that. I scoured the 
UF website for probably thirty minutes, just to schedule a test. I 
called my first of 12 UF representatives that day, who directed me 
to email UF Student Screening for a test. Their response came two 
hours later, directing me to resubmit a questionnaire I completed 
in August.
By the time that response came, I had already trekked the 1.5 
mile bike ride off-campus to CareSpot Urgent Care. The doctor 
instructed me, as a first-year student from Colorado, to find a way 
to quarantine in Simpson Hall, a traditional style residence hall, 
a petri-dish with myself as someone with a possible COVID-19 
infection.
It was up to me to call UF Screen, Test and Protect once more. 
It was up to me to report my symptoms. Upon reporting my 
symptoms, I was informed I was a suspected case, and I needed 
to await my test results in quarantine at Riker Hall. If I wanted to, 
I could have ignored my sore throat on Monday morning, gone 
to eat breakfast inside the dining hall, showered and brushed my 
teeth in the communal bathroom (all without a mask). If I wanted 
to, I could’ve not reported my conducting of a COVID-19 test. 
Totally optional.
I understand how difficult it must be to run an institution 
at this moment. However, lives are at risk. Cleaners, dining hall 
workers, students and faculty are all being put in harm’s way. To 
make testing an optional procedure? Downright despicable.
At around 2 p.m. on Monday, I heaved two giant bags of 
luggage down the stairs of Simpson Hall and up the stairs of Riker, 
and thus began my 48 hour stay in Riker Hall. I had two windows, 
a communal bathroom, a creaky old desk and a large tiled floor.Does it feel like home? Not quite; it is about as much fun as you 
would expect. Riker Hall is used as an isolation space; students 
are moved from Riker Hall to other locations on campus upon 
receiving a positive test result.
Now, I know what you are wondering, how is the food? We 
received one brown bag of food filled with three meals and a 
snack delivered to the common room each day. The university 
supplies a hot meal for dinner, a snack, water and two cold meals 
to be stored for breakfast and lunch the following day. When staff 
members realized I didn’t have access to refrigeration for these 
meals, they promised to provide it the night I left.
I spent two nights in Riker Hall and received a negative test 
result on Tuesday. I was instructed to receive one more negative 
test result in order to be cleared to return to campus. I once again 
made the trek to CareSpot and received another test on Tuesday 
night. The following morning, I received a phone call informing 
me I was cleared to return to campus.
Riker isolation was lonely at times with three desks and four 
dressers as roommates. I appreciate my friends’ efforts to wave 
from outside and to FaceTime me from across the country. 
Isolation definitely puts things into perspective. You find yourself 
pining for another dining hall meal and another socially distanced 
walk. The moment of euphoria I experienced upon leaving the 
dorm is something I hope you do not actually have to experience.
My isolation at Riker Hall was close to the best the university 
can do. I appreciate the efforts of staff to clean the bathrooms 
once daily and to deliver meals. My experience may not make 
self-reporting symptoms seem like an advantageous proposition. 
Yet, it is still the right thing to do. If you are feeling ill, stay inside. 
Please, for the safety of others and for yourself, get tested if you 
are having symptoms or are in contact with someone who does. 
We are in this fight together and must watch out for the safety 
and well-being of one another.
William Munro is a telecommunications freshman.We thought it. We know you thought it too — but sadly, 
it wasn’t meant to be.
It looks like this year wasn’t the year that UF would 
become a top five public university. While it is great that 
UF’s rank keeps on getting higher and higher, we believe 
that our increasingly high ranking only emphasizes how much 
improvement is truly needed in areas that don’t factor into our ranking.
These past several years, UF has been on a ferocious sprint up the 
mountain of public college rankings.
Now, as the banners and trumpets come out once again to celebrate 
the triumph of good (UF) over evil (other highly-ranked public schools), 
we, the Editorial Board of The Independent Florida Alligator, would like 
to remind our readers that college rankings really are just a numbers 
game and we wish UF spent more time and money on improving our 
school in ways that aren’t factored into our national ranking.
As a quick refresher, last year the Georgia Institute of Technology 
tied with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill for the coveted 
number five spot. That means there was no number six ranked school 
and the University of California Santa Barbara tied UF for the number 
seven spot.
This year, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has held 
onto the number five spot and the University of California Santa 
Barbara is still tied with UF. The pecking order of top colleges is more 
or less the same, aside from the Georgia Institute of Technology, which 
dropped a couple spots.
Now, without access to hard numbers beyond our overall ranking, 
we can’t quite tell if UF actually got any better relative to our peers or 
if our rise to top six was driven by the Georgia Institute of Technology 
having a rough year.
As students who have been around UF for a while, we have seen 
the game UF is playing. Much like someone trying to exploit point 
values and percentages in a video game, UF has been pouring millions 
of dollars into improving the 50,000 foot-level metrics that U.S. News 
uses to calculate its ranking while treating everything else as an 
afterthought.
One clear example of this has been the “Faculty 500” initiative, 
which aims to improve the student-faculty ratio from 20:1 to 16:1.
Another example of this has been through the UF Alumni 
Associations’ “My Gift. Our Legacy” initiative in which UF students 
received a medallion to wear at commencement in exchange for 
donating $10. UF should just pay us to donate money. It’s a lot simpler 
that way and honestly given the pandemic, we don’t have much cash 
to spare.
However, there are aspects to being a great university that can’t 
be measured by U.S. News’ rankings, aspects that are much more 
important to the lives of faculty and students than what percentage of 
our alumni donates each year.
What if “percentage of students testing positive for COVID-19” was 
a factor U.S. News used to calculate UF’s national ranking? Maybe it 
would be easier to get a COVID-19 test at UF.
If UF administrators approached pandemic mitigation with the 
same zeal and foresight that they did while planning our rise to the top 
five, we guarantee you we wouldn’t have ended up with a COVID-19 
mitigation plan as coherent as a magic eight ball and as transparent as 
a scratch-off ticket.
How different would UF be if U.S. News’ ranking took racial equity 
into account?
If UF administrators approached racial equity with the same zeal 
and foresight they did while planning our rise to the top five, we 
probably wouldn’t have buildings named after racists, homophobes 
and segregationists. Maybe we wouldn’t have a disproportionately low 
number of Black students.
UF’s metrics indeed rank it as the number six public school in the 
country, but there are so many other metrics that are not measured by 
U.S. News that fall far short of being what they ought to be for a school 
as highly ranked as our own.
Once we finally make it to the top of the mountain, the top five 
or perhaps the coveted number one spot, we can only hope our 
administrators will look around and realize there’s nothing left to do 
but focus less on pumping up 50,000-foot metrics and focus more on 
serving students and faculty while improving our school as a whole.Gainesville is your city and it needs your helpI was isolated in Riker Hall: A plea for a safer campus On UF’s climbing rank: There 
is nothing at the mountain top
ColumnColumn
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.April Rubin
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORRosmery Izaguirre
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORZachariah Chou
OPINIONS 
EDITORDana Cassidy
NEWS 
MANAGING
EDITORKyle Wood
EDITOR IN 
CHIEF
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to fact-check 
and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? 
Call 352-376-4458.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14,2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14,2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Craig Stowe
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/14/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/14/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 14, 2020
ACROSS
1 Old Hollywood 
sex symbol West
4 Hooded winter 
coat
9 Flinch or gasp, 
say
14 Computer giant 
whose motto is 
“THINK”
15 Go-to crew
16 One-named 
“Hello” singer
17 *Smartphone 
download
19 Bricklayer
20 Chris of “The 
Avengers” (2012)
21 “... to __ it mildly”
23 Prefix meaning 
“one”
24 Feudal worker
25 *Sheet for plotting
28 Variety show
30 “Delish!”
31 Barbecued pork 
snack
34 Rain more gently
38 Platform for Siri
39 *Mr. Lube service 
jobs
42 “If you ask me,” 
to a texter
43 Basil-and-pine-
nuts sauce
45 Ideal wheels
47 Observe
49 Rid of vermin
50 *Sample set of 
buyers used in 
market research
55 Deep cut
58 Persian Gulf 
sultanate
59 Statehouse VIP
60 Roast host
61 Part of USNA
63 Streamlines, as 
a factory ... or, 
when read as 
two words, what 
the beginnings 
of the answers to 
starred clues are
66 Recurring motif
67 Soccer shoe 
gripper
68 Has too much, 
briefly
69 __ Hawkins Day
70 Learns (of)
71 Eagle or evil organ
DOWN
1 Performers often 
“trapped” in 
imaginary boxes2 Overhead
3 Humiliate
4 Close friends
5 Dug in, at dinner
6 Irish actor 
Stephen
7 Phi Beta __
8 Increase the 
intensity of
9 Ewe’s beau
10 Sushi soybean 
side dish
11 “The Frog and 
the Fox” fabulist
12 Replicate 
genetically
13 Barbershop 
quartet voice
18 Deduce
22 Biblical “your”
25 Expert
26 Harness strap
27 Star that’s also a 
source of radio 
waves
29 Presidential 
rejections
31 Nurse, as a drink
32 “The Raven” 
poet
33 B and B’s first B
35 Game with x’s 
and o’s
36 Thurman of “The 
Avengers” (1998)
37 __ favor40 Pakistani 
language
41 “Not a __ out of 
you!”
44 Tidal wave 
cousin
46 Igneous rock, 
once
48 Omelet 
ingredient
50 Roman and 
Comic Sans
51 Nebraska city 
near Boys Town52 Gave in
53 Exterminator’s 
target
54 Reproductive  
cell
56 Like dive bars
57 “Siddhartha” 
author
60 CPR pros
62 Jeans label
64 Leaves in hot 
water?
65 Rowboat  
rower
By Susan Gelfand
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/09/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/09/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, September 9, 2020
ACROSS
1 “The Grapes of 
Wrath” family 
name
5 Pay attention to
9 Havana houses
14 Court legend 
Arthur
15 On the ocean
16 Pixel pattern
17 *Feature of 
Santa Claus’ 
beard
19 Kind of wave
20 Colorful birds
22 Woodworking 
tool
23 Arouse
26 Enjoys now and 
then, with “in”
28 __ hand
29 Skater’s surface
32 Auditioner’s aim
33 Santa __: dry 
winds
34 Chess pieces
35 Peaks
38 Polite address
39 *Out-of-control 
guy
41 Primitive dwelling
42 Bothers quite 
a bit
44 Tiny ammo
45 Rocky Road 
holder
46 Italian peak
47 Holiday veggie
48 Bridle strap
49 Many map lines
52 Genre for the 
Village People
53 Lipstick  
container
54 Custard-filled 
pastries
58 Challenging  
tests
60 Roughhousing, 
or a hint to 
both parts of 
the answers to 
starred clues
64 Permissible
65 Roused
66 Roof overhang
67 Signed
68 Church recess
69 Sometimes 
seedy loavesDOWN
1 Word with bone 
or breaker
2 __Kosh B’gosh
3 Tuna type
4 Routes that 
contain the 
letters in  
“routes”
5 Half a food fish
6 Golfer Aoki
7 Actor __ Patrick 
Harris
8 Took a risk
9 Op. __: footnote 
abbr.
10 Friendly
11 *Bobbysoxer’s 
footwear
12 Staring intently
13 Monica of  
tennis
18 Bard’s “before”
21 Cutting talk
23 Temporary  
stage
24 Ancient Greek 
region
25 *Football field 
director
27 Partner of raised, 
in bios29 Copy
30 Cartoon frame
31 Finish no later 
than
36 Long, loose top
37 Courtroom 
staple, for short
39 Ebb
40 Corp. VP’s 
degree
43 Metal marble
45 Lettuce keeper
49 Grey Goose rival50 Shroud city
51 The “u” sound in 
“census”
52 “__ Day”: 1993 
rap hit
55 Circuit
56 Slow-moving 
boats
57 “Now it’s clear”
59 Normal: Abbr.
61 Put down
62 Hail, to Hadrian
63 Cry of success
09/08/2020
solution on page 10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
Handmade Florida Gator Face Masks, $10. 
Several styles to choose from! Washable, 
breathable, and quality made. Look me 
up on Facebook or Etsy at Lauras Sewing 
Basket. Free shipping. Garteiserl@gmail.com      
9-14-20-1-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
Timed Online Auction
Good Wheels, Inc.
Bidding closes: Thurs, September 24, 2020 
at 12:00 P.M.
Transportation Service Vehicles: Chevy/
Glaval Bus C4500 Cutaway Vans, 
International 300IC School Bus, Blue Bird 
School Buses, Dodge Grand Caravans, Ford 
E-250 Passenger Vans, GMC Yukon XL and 
more. Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com.
Pick-up/removal: Fort Myers, FL.
Preview: 09/22 by appointment. Call for de -
tails (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors 
Case No. 20-CA-003718
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     9-14-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
WE BUY FISHING REELS Penn, Hooker, 
Blue Marlin &amp; More! Honest - 
Reliable. We Pay Top Dollar. Call or Text 
Scott: (517) 515-4517                     9-14-1-13
14 Help Wanted
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Senior Display Research Engineer. FT. 
Design, simulation and fabrication of OLED 
devices and AMOLED prototype display pan-
els, including: Organic materials selection 
(HTL, ETL, HIL, emitters, dopants); OLED 
device fabrication and optimization through 
design of experiments; Optical simulation by 
ray-tracing and EM-wave techniques (FDTD 
or RCWA); Maintenance of high-vacuum 
deposition equipment; Development of op-
toelectronic testing equipment and software. 
Collaboration with materials suppliers to sim-
ulate and synthesize novel organic semicon-
ductors for use in OLED devices. Supervise a 
display architect and process engineer. Other 
duties as necessary.  Requirements: Master 
of Science or higher degree in Engineering. 
Foreign equivalent accepted. Three (3) years 
of engineering experience in OLED display 
technology.  To apply, mail resume and ref-
erences to: Mattrix Technologies, Inc., Attn: 
Maxime Lemaitre, 747 SW 2nd Ave, IMB #29, 
Gainesville, FL 32601.                          9-14-2-14
Café Risqué
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
352- 466- 3803
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Cooks / Waitresses / Managers / Performers
Apply NOW
11-2-8-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org1For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
*********** STUDENTS ***********
1 and 2 bedroom apartments and houses. 
All convenient to campus and downtown. 
Call or text 352-359-2304. tedcoprops@
yahoo.com.                              9-21-20-3-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. ABSOLUTELY 
HUGE! Gorgeous Wood Floors, central 
AC/HT, dishwasher, laundry room, fenced, 
pets OK $1,890 per month. 352-665-8166
10-26-20-8-2
4 Roommates
1BR/1BA available in 2BR/2BA Condo
Close to Shands. $400/mo + 1/2 utils.
W/D. Call 352-318-1702                          9-28-3-4
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
Timed Online Auction
Escobar Solutions, Inc. d/b/a Proactechs
Bidding closes: Wed, September 23, 2020 
at 12:00 P.M.
Huge inventory of Assorted Apple iPhone 
and Mac parts for various models including 
hardware, speakers, batteries, cameras, 
displays, faces, backs and tool kits specific 
to Apple product repair. Over 125+ New 
iPhones in box (iPhone 8, iPhone 8+, iPhone 
X, iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max, iPhone 11, 
iPhone 11 Pro), MacBooks, iMacs, iPads, 
New iPhone accessories, New Apple Watch 
accessories and much more. Registration, 
catalog, photos and terms available at 
www.moeckerauctions.com.
Pick-up/removal: Fort Lauderdale, FL.
Preview: 09/21 by appointment. Call for de -
tails (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors 
Case No. 2019-035670-CA-44
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin       9-14-1-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-1010 For Salesolution below answers below
1. U.S. STATES: Where is the Rock & Roll 
Hall of Fame located?
2. LITERATURE: Which famous novel be -
gins with the line, "You better not never tell 
nobody but God"?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the nick -
name of Tulane University's athletic teams?
4. MUSIC: Acorn, drop, ball and barrel are 
all types of what?
5. MOVIES: Which animated Disney movie fea -
tured the theme song "A Whole New World"?
6. GAMES: How many strikes must one throw 
to achieve a perfect 300 score in bowling?
7. ANATOMY: Which human organ filters blood, 
removes waste and regulates salt levels?
8. HISTORY: How many people survived the 
sinking of the Titanic in 1912?
9. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the island of Pa -
lau located?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a group of 
rhinoceroses called?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Mega Maze  solutionTrivia Test  answers1. Cleveland, Ohio
2. "The Color Purple"
3. The Green Wave
4. Drumsticks
5. "Aladdin"6. 12
7. Kidneys
8. 706
9. Oceania
10. A crash or herd
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14,2020
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"16 Health ServicesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020
www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida moves up to No. 5 in AP Poll
The Gators moved up to No. 5 on the newest iteration of the AP Poll 
released on Sunday. UF sits right behind Georgia but right above LSU as 
one of six SEC teams in the top ten.
Former UF cornerback CJ Henderson 
recorded an interception in his debut 
game with the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
Henderson also made the game-
clinching pass deflection to bring 
Jacksonville to 1-0.I was 19 when my therapist reached into the top-left drawer of her desk and 
handed me a pamphlet on suicide prevention.
It was fall 2017, my freshman year at UF.
If you placed the handout on a scale, it would have come in at less than an 
ounce. My hands still  trembled under its weight.
She gave me that pamphlet out of fear that I wouldn’t make it to next week’s 
session. I gripped the pamphlet between my thumbs and stared through it for 
what felt like an eternity. This is what my life came to.
I wept.
While I never contemplated taking my life, that moment was an all-time low 
for me. I thought I was invincible for most of my young life, impervious to the 
depression and anxiety I witnessed in others. That moment made me think differently.
No one is immune to illness, mental or physical.
And because of this, anyone going through battles with mental health deserves a support 
system. People need to know it’s OK to not be OK.
However, when Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott opened up about his struggles 
with depression during the 2020 NFL offseason, he was met with criticism by sports journalist 
and “Undisputed” co-host Skip Bayless.
On Sept. 9, Prescott revealed the passing of his 31-year-old brother Jace Prescott on April 
24 had been a suicide. Dak said his brother’s death, along with the effects of COVID-19 and 
social quarantine, rapidly deteriorated his mental health.
While he said football is his career and passion, he added that he got to the point where he 
no longer wanted to work out and practice.
Bayless took to his Fox Sports 1 television show and blasted Dak, claiming he’d shown 
weakness and vulnerability. Bayless said there was no place for softness for the Cowboys 
signal-caller.
There is an increased stigma surrounding mental health issues for men in particular. We’re supposed to be strong. There is pressure to dull our spectrum of emotions. And 
don’t we dare shed a tear.
This mindset is wrong. It’s outdated. It’s destructive.
While having conversations about mental health has become more normalized 
in recent years, Bayless’ remarks only highlight that the world’s uncompassionate 
fire toward mental illness is still ablaze.
Not only is Bayless wrong to condemn Dak’s transparency, he also missed the 
mark on what it means to be a leader.
A leader isn’t stoic, cold and macho. That false definition of leadership 
originates from generations of insecurity and a lack of empathy.
A true leader is relatable, shows emotion and cares for his or her peers. That’s 
who Dak is.
He’s doing a great service to his teammates, the NFL and the rest of the world by being 
honest about what he’s going through. Dak isn’t weak for opening up about his depression. 
He showed ultimate strength in doing so. Starting the conversation is the first step in healing.
Hopefully, this most recent development in the battle to normalize conversations about 
mental health helps people understand how important it is to talk about these issues.
Because, while it’s difficult to be honest about our pain, transparency and empathy are our 
greatest allies.
I’ve come a long way since my lowest point three years ago. But my battles with mental 
health are still ongoing. I have had off days. I’ve skipped class. I’m guilty of putting on a brave 
face sometimes. And, there are days where I can’t hit the snooze button enough.
But, I don’t ever wonder if I have a life worth living. Because if you’re here on Earth and 
breathing, your life is worth it. And life is a beautiful thing.
We’re not perfect. And, it’s important to remember we’re no more than human beings.
However, it’s even more important to remember we’re no less.COVID-19
By River Wells
Sports Writer
When the USF Bulls ran onto the 
field at Raymond James Stadium, 
it was business as usual. The team 
burst through a makeshift pen 
beneath a slew of pyrotechnics and 
smoke as music blared over the 
loudspeakers.
But there was no roar from fans 
to greet them. When the announcer 
introduced the starting lineup and 
images of the team flashed across 
the Jumbotron, he did so to an 
empty stadium. There was no band 
on the field: Instead, they appeared 
over video as their music was 
pumped through the speakers.
Raymond James Stadium was 
empty as the Bulls won their 
opening game over The Citadel 27-
6. While the stands were hauntingly 
devoid for the opener, that isn’t the 
plan going forward: USF plans to 
have fans in attendance for all of its 
remaining home games, including 
the vaunted “War on I-4” against 
UCF.
New USF head coach Jeff Scott, 
who received an ice bath for only 
his team to witness upon his first Bulls win, said the Bulls would 
probably allow around 15,000 
fans when they are let back into 
Raymond James. 
“I would just encourage all of 
our fans that haven’t bought tickets 
yet for that Oct. 10 game (against 
Eastern Carolina) to go ahead 
and buy those tickets, ” Scott said. 
“Whatever our maximum number 
for capacity is, that’s what I hope 
we’re able to have to this team. ”
There’s just one problem: USF, 
like UF and so many other schools 
across the nation, hasn’t presented 
a plan for who will get those seats.
Florida sent out an email on 
Aug. 27 to season ticket holders 
saying that seat availability would 
be determined by “Gator Booster 
Football club levels. ” The email 
didn’t say anything about student 
tickets, however: In fact, students 
were not mentioned at all. 
On Sept. 3, UF sent an email 
out explaining that attendance at 
The Swamp would be capped at 
about 17,000 people, or 20 percent 
capacity. 
“While we continue to develop 
finalized ticketing and parking 
information, we plan to provide the specifics for ticketing and parking 
next week, ” the email read.
But the next week came, and 
there were no specifics. It’s been 11 
days since the email was sent out, 
and Florida students are still left 
wondering how — and if — they 
will be allowed into Ben Hill Griffin 
come the Gators’ home opener. 
But what are other schools 
around the nation doing?
Florida State is also using a 
donor-based tier list for season-
ticket-holder ticket priority. For 
boosters, there are two ticket 
packs for home games that contain 
different home games across the 
season: The highest donors can 
buy both ticket packs, and the 
opportunities descend from there. 
For the students, ticket priority is 
based on “class standing, ” where 
seniors and graduate students 
get the most points and younger 
classes get fewer. Students have the 
opportunity to earn points through  
activities such as making tweets or 
posts on social media with official 
hashtags.
Texas Tech, meanwhile, initially 
gave priority to season ticket 
holders before opening sales to the public. Students are delegated 
to the lower bowl at Jones’ AT&T 
Stadium and can come in on a first-
come, first-serve basis after paying 
a flat fee of $61.20 for the semester, 
according to Texas Tech’s ticket 
office.
These are a few of the options 
UF could pursue in getting students 
back into The Swamp. And while 
fans are eager to create at least a 
fraction of that college atmosphere, some players, like USF quarterback 
Jordan McCloud, are just happy 
to play football regardless of the 
attendance.
“Our last game was in November, ”  
McCloud said after the game. “So to 
come back nine months later, fans 
or no fans — regardless, it was fun. ”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgWhat will the stands look like at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium?
River Wells / / Alligator Staff
The USF Bulls played their first home game without fans, but they 
plan  on allowing them in future games. UF will be at 20 percent 
capacity for home games this season.
Dak Prescott’s openness about his depression shows true strengthO'Shea Can You See
Dylan O'Shea
Twitter: @dylanoshea24
Email: doshea@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2020
TENNIS
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators men’s tennis team will be 
allowed to compete beginning Oct. 1st for the 
2020-21 season, coming off of a season where 
it finished 9th in the final Intercollegiate Tennis 
Association Division I rankings before the season 
was suspended.
The Gators have 10 student-athletes on their 
men’s tennis team for the upcoming season. Meet 
the players who will wear orange and blue on the 
court this year.
Andy Andrade, Senior, Bradenton, Florida
A 2019 Second Team All-SEC and a member of 
the 2019 SEC Honor Roll, Andrade has recorded 
at least 24 singles wins in each of the last three 
seasons. He had a team-high eight-match singles 
win streak last spring. Andrade won his first singles 
draw last fall at the Dick Vitale Intercollegiate Clay 
Court Classic.
Brian Berdusco, Senior, Bradenton, Florida
The 2018 ITA Southeast Region doubles 
champion, Berdusco has been in Gainesville 
for the past two seasons after competing at 
Pepperdine his freshman year. He and Johannes 
Ingildsen reached a high of No. 18 in doubles in 
Jan. 2020. Berdusco won the orange draw of the 
UVA Masters with Lukas Greif in Sept. 2018.
Blaise Bicknell, Sophomore, Miami, Florida
As a freshman last season, Bicknell finished 
fourth on the team with 19 singles victories, 
including an undefeated 7-0 in dual singles and a victory in his only SEC singles match. Bicknell was 
ranked as high as the nation’s No. 10 recruit as a 
high schooler according to the Tennis Recruiting 
Network and played three matches for the 
Jamaican national team in the 2020 Davis Cup.
Josh Goodger, Senior, Wallington, England
A transfer from the University of Tulsa, 
Goodger ranked third on the team in singles 
wins (21) and first in doubles wins (16) in his first 
season with the Gators last year. He went 3-1 in 
SEC Singles and 3-0 in SEC Doubles. He was a 
finalist in singles at the Dick Vitale Intercollegiate 
Clay Court Classic last fall.
Will Grant, Sophomore, Orlando, Florida
As a freshman last year, Grant had a 10-3 record 
in doubles in the spring with Johannes Ingildsen, 
including a pair of SEC victories. Grant won both 
of his singles appearances last spring, including 
clinching a team victory over Mercer. He was 
ranked as high as the No. 5 recruit in the country 
according to the Tennis Recruiting Network in 
high school and was a seven-time International 
Tennis Federation doubles champions before he 
came to Florida.
Lukas Greif, Junior, Newburgh, Ind.
A member of the 2019 SEC All-Freshman 
Team, Greif has a 11-1 career record in SEC singles 
matches. He qualified for the main singles draw 
at the 2019 ITA All-American Championship and 
won SEC Player of the Week on Feb. 19, 2020, after 
leading a comeback against No. 6 Wake Forest at 
ITA National Team Indoors.Johannes Ingildsen, Redshirt Senior, 
Copenhagen, Denmark
Returning for a fifth season, Ingildsen has 
been a staple in the Gators’ roster since Fall 
2016. He has been a two-time Second Team All-
SEC (2018, 2019) and two-time All-American in 
doubles (2017-18). Ingildsen has recorded 98 
singles victories and 86 doubles victories during 
his four years at Florida. He reached a career-high 
ITA doubles ranking of No. 24 in February 2020.
Sam Riffice, Junior, Orlando, Florida
Riffice is one of two captains for the upcoming 
season. He was named SEC Freshman of the Week 
twice (Feb. 6, 2019, and March 26, 2019) and 2019 
ITA Southeast Region Rookie of the Year after 
going 10-0 in SEC singles as a freshman. Riffice has 
notched 42 overall singles victories and 34 overall 
doubles victories in only two seasons. He was also 
pegged as the 2020 ITA Southeast Region Player 
to Watch and the ITA National Player to Watch.
Ben Shelton, Freshman,
 Gainesville, Florida
A local freshman, Shelton attended Buchholz 
High School in Gainesville. He’s the reigning  
FHSAA State Champion in singles. Shelton 
won doubles at the 2019 United States Tennis 
Association Boys 16s Clay Courts Champion and 
was a finalist in singles at the 2020 USTA Boys 18s 
Winter Nationals. He is also the son of head coach 
Bryan Shelton.
Duarte Vale, Senior, Cascais, Portugal
Vale is the other captain this season. He has 
gone 9-0 and 4-0 in SEC singles the past two seasons. He posted a team-leading 27 singles 
victories last season and reached a career-high 
ITA singles ranking at No. 11 in Feb. 2020. He won 
the singles title at 2019 ITA Southeast Regionals. 
He’s also been named an ITA All-American twice 
(2018 - doubles, 2020 - singles).
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgFlorida men’s tennis 2020-21 roster preview
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Senior captain Duarte Vale is one of nine 
returning players to the team as it begins 
the 2020 season.
