We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperCWC oﬀ  ering virtual services during coronavirus
Read this, how the pandemic is affecting religious 
ceremonies and how a sign deemed racist went viral, pg. 4
How the LGBTQ+ community feels about elections
The last day to vote is March 17, pg. 3Fans speak out after coronavirus 
hits sports world
Sports have been put on hold due to the rapid 
spread of the virus and fans are feeling the 
effect, pg. 7
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 69
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
UF UNDERGRADS AVERAGE 
MORE THAN $21,000 IN DEBT 
AFTER GRADUATION
By Payton Titus
Alligator Staff Writer
The issue of college affordability is 
personal for Amy Abuqawod. 
Abuqawod, a 21-year-old UF criminology 
senior and member of UF Students for Bernie, 
works two jobs to help pay for school. She 
was awarded the Pell Grant, which is given 
to certain college students depending on 
their ﬁ  nancial needs. 
But she said her student loans still 
accumulate interest each day. 
“The price for one class is just so 
outrageous,” Abuqawod said. “When I’m 
looking for a presidential candidate, I want 
someone who is willing to cancel student 
loans because I think it is not a legitimate 
form of debt.” 
UF reported in its 2017-2018 fact book 
that its undergraduate students owed $21,713 on average. This ﬁ  gure is about 
$10,000 less than the national average of 
$32,731, according to Forbes. But despite the 
cut, students are still concerned about debt 
and tuition costs — and it’s affecting how 
they cast their ballots this election season.
2020 Presidential Candidates on 
College Affordability
Each presidential candidate has different 
plans for college affordability.
Bernie Sanders’ plan is to eliminate 
all student loans and make public college 
tuition-free. Sanders’ plan also includes 
increasing Pell Grants to aid with non-tuition 
costs and tripling funding for work-study 
programs, according to his website.
Joe Biden plans to make two-year 
community colleges free. He also wants to 
double the maximum value for Pell Grants to 
help low-income and middle-class families.
Tulsi Gabbard plans to support legislation 
such as the College for All Act, which 
eliminates tuition and fees at four-year 
public colleges and universities for families who make less than $125,000 a year. It also 
makes community college tuition-free for 
everyone.
However, President Donald Trump has a 
very different stance on affording college.
He proposed cutting funding from the 
Department of Education — including 
$2 billion from the Pell Grant services, 
according to the National Association of 
Student Financial Aid Administrations. 
Bill Weld, who is running for the 
Republican candidacy, emphasized that 
online education will remove signiﬁ  cant 
costs, according to the ﬁ  nancial aid 
administration association.
Tuition and Loans at UF 
Among UF, Florida State University and 
University of Central Florida, UF has the 
most expensive in- and out-of-state tuition, 
according to the universities’ websites.
In-state tuition at UF is $6,380 per year, 
while FSU’s is $5,656 and UCF’s is $6,368. 
Eighty-ﬁ  ve percent of UF students 
receive ﬁ  nancial aid, and 64 percent of undergraduate students graduated without 
debt in the 2017-2018 school year, according 
to UF Student Financial Affairs.
But for those with debt, the process of 
paying it off is a struggle, according to credit 
rating agency Moody’s Investors Service. 
Most students pay off only 3 percent of their 
debt a year, it reported. 
Hannah Matthew, a 21-year-old UF 
computer science senior with conservative 
values, said she doesn’t believe that college 
should be free and believes Biden is the 
stronger Democratic candidate. But she 
proposes that the government create more 
scholarships and grants. 
However, not everyone should be 
pressured to go to college, she argued. 
“Instead of pushing everyone from high 
school, there should be more talk about real 
careers and job paths that they can take 
outside of college,” she said.
Stephany Matat contributed to this report.
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgUF students talk college affordabilityTHE FLORIDA 
PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY 
ELECTION IS MARCH 17
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
Someone stole the head of 
a $50 Bernie Sanders lifesize 
cutout. The president of Students 
for Bernie, William Zelin, said he 
chased after the thief. 
The 22-year-old UF political 
science and statistics senior said 
this cutout is one of the tools the 
student group supporting Sanders 
used to attract students. They 
had the cutout on display when 
they informed students about the 
Democratic candidate.
Zelin said he supports Sanders’ 
version of the Green New Deal 
and believes student loan debt 
should not exist. 
Sanders funds his campaign 
through grassroots efforts. In fact, 
the members of the organization 
have raised more than $1,800 
that they’ve donated to Sanders’ 
campaign.“It’s continuing to expand 
more and more as the campaign 
progresses,” Zelin said. 
“It’s giving him the staying 
power other candidates aren’t 
experiencing.”
Zelin leads his 258 members 
to campaign for Sanders in the 
presidential election. The group 
hosted debate watch parties, 
reached out to voters by phone, 
talked to UF voters about his 
campaign and supported other 
volunteers in Gainesville by 
canvassing. 
However, Students for 
Bernie isn’t the only student 
organization that campaigned for 
a specific candidate.
Students for Joe Biden planned 
to register as an official UF 
student organization the Monday 
following Spring Break but has 
not done so because members 
haven’t found a faculty adviser 
yet, which has been difficult 
to find since the coronavirus 
outbreak, said Bruce Glasserman, Student political clubs 
advocate for Democrats
SOUND OF SILENCE
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Arianna Sherman, an 18-year-old UF women’s studies freshman, sings a Krishna mantra at the 
Plaza of the Americas on Friday, despite the quietness of campus due to classes being moved 
online from the COVID-19 outbreak. Read the latest updates on COVID-19 on page 4. SEE CANDIDATES,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  62°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.SUNDAY’S TOP AP HEADLINES
European arrivals jam some 
airports amid virus screen 
testings
Some airports in the United 
States are experiencing jams 
from European arrivals as 
they’re screened for the 
coronavirus upon re-entry to 
the country. While President 
Donald Trump tweeted that the 
interruptions and delays were 
due to vigilant screenings, 
others, such as Chicago Mayor 
Lori Lightfoot, remarked 
people were being “forced into 
conditions that are against 
CDC guidance and are totally 
unacceptable.”
Worshippers go online, those at 
services keep their distance
Some religions have taken to streaming their services amidst 
the coronavirus outbreak. 
Others, such as the St. Philip 
African Methodist Episcopal 
Church in Atlanta, Georgia, 
still held services, though the 
church that would normally 
hold thousands of people 
held about 100 on Sunday. In 
Italy, the Vatican announced 
that Holy Week liturgical 
celebrations will not be open to 
the public.
Oil giant Saudi Aramco sees 
2019 profits drop 20 percent
Amid coronavirus fears, 
Saudi Aramco announced a 
20 percent drop in profit from 
2019. Capital expenditure was 
down in 2019 to $32.8 billion 
compared to $35.1 billion the 
year before. Aramco expects 
to spend between $25 billion to $30 billion this year, down 
some $10 billion than previous 
estimates. This year, Saudi 
Aramco also plans to close 
its $69.1 billion purchase 
of a 70 percent stake of the 
petrochemical company SABIC 
from the kingdom’s Public 
Investment Fund.
Trump calls on Americans to 
cease holding food, supplies
On Sunday, President Donald 
Trump told Americans to stop 
hoarding supplies such as toilet 
paper and groceries during 
the coronavirus pandemic. 
Dr. Anthony Fauci, one of the 
nation’s leading senior health 
officials and a member of the 
White House coronavirus task 
force, said he would like to see 
“aggressive measures” such as 
a 14-day national shutdown.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 69
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Katelynn Joyner, kjoyner@alligator.org
Renee Hancock, J.P . OprisonEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
EXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
ELECTION DAY: TUESDAY, MARCH 17
EARLY VOTING FROM FRIDAY, MARCH 6UF Graduate 1983
College of Agriculture
Degree in Food Science
Served as Senior Biological 
Scientist for Interdisciplinary 
Center for Biotechnology
“MOVE GAINESVILLE FORWARD”
Paid political advertisement approved by Scherwin Henry for Gainesville City Commission At-Large, Seat 2FOR GAINESVILLE CITY 
COMMISSION AT-LARGE, SEAT 2VOTE FOR
HENRYSCHERWIN
EXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
EXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
WWW. SCHERWINHENRY .COM
MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
THEIR EXPERIENCES WILL 
AFFECT WHAT THEY VALUE
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
As a gay college student, Dylan Blose’s 
political views are motivated by issues that 
affect the LGBTQ+ community. 
But while he values better care for mental 
health because of the high suicide rate of 
transgender people, he also supports ideas 
that have nothing to do with his sexual 
orientation, such as the Green New Deal, 
a proposed resolution for the United States 
to reduce fossil fuel use and transition to 
renewable energy.
“It’s an issue where you have to be 
really radical,” Blose, a 19-year-old UF 
history freshman said, “because we don’t 
really have many options left.”
Because sexual orientation isn’t recorded 
by the university, the size of its LGBTQ+ 
voter population and the group’s influence 
on election outcomes are unclear. But 
with 50 percent of the nation’s LGBTQ+ 
voters registered as Democrats and the 
exit of the first openly gay candidate from 
the presidential race, the political views of 
UF’s LGBTQ+ community have increased 
importance. 
Blose, who sees this year’s Democratic 
presidential field as the most progressive 
yet, said he’s supporting Sen. Bernie 
Sanders because of his consistent 
progressive beliefs.
“He’s been fighting for queer rights since the ‘80s when no one was, other than 
queer people,” Blose said.
He believes that even Pete Buttigieg, the 
nation’s first openly gay former presidential 
candidate, hasn’t spent enough time in 
politics to make a significant impact on the 
lives of LGBTQ+ people.
Buttigieg suspended his campaign 
on March 1 and endorsed former Vice 
President Joe Biden for president the next 
day on the eve of Super Tuesday when 14 
states held their primary elections.
Blose said although he liked Buttigieg’s 
passion for the country, he didn’t think 
the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, 
would be able to beat President Donald 
Trump in November’s general election. 
“He’s too fond of the old ideas of 
politics being about incrementalism and 
compromise,” Blose said.
On the other hand, Brian Marra, an 
18-year-old UF history freshman, thinks 
it’s more practical to support a moderate 
candidate such as Biden, even though he 
said he doesn’t particularly agree with 
the former vice president’s old-fashioned 
approach.
As a gay Democrat and a South 
Carolinian, Marra believes a more centrist 
candidate could earn more votes in places 
such as his home state where there is 
limited support for liberal candidates. 
He said while the Young Democrats of 
America chapter at his high school provided 
him a space to discuss politics with like-
minded people, many conservatives in his 
neighborhood thought of Democrats in “a certain, very limited scope.”
Marra said these experiences encouraged 
him to cling to his liberal views.
“Being from a red state and being blue 
in my veins...I just need to find someone 
who has that same drive and passion that I 
do for the Democratic Party,” he said.
Marra, who said he was often bullied 
for being gay while growing up, said he 
favors candidates who want to help put an 
end to the type of discrimination he faced. 
He found his views reflected in Buttigieg, 
whom he cast his vote for in the South 
Carolina presidential primary on Feb. 29 
while home for Spring Break. But now that Buttigieg’s presidential bid is over, Marra 
said he plans to support whoever becomes 
the Democratic nominee.
“Regardless of whether you’re a Bernie 
bro or a Yang Gang supporter or a Biden 
supporter or anything like that, we are still 
Democrats,” he said. “We’re all fighting for 
the same general idea of policies.”
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgHow UF’s LGBTQ+ community is shaping the 2020 Democratic primaries
the co-founder and president of the 
group. Glasserman decided to start the 
club in light of Biden’s comeback on 
Super Tuesday. 
Glasserman, a 20-year-old UF political 
science sophomore, posted an interest 
form on Facebook March 5 to gauge 
student interest. It received 37 responses 
as of Sunday evening.
Glasserman said he supports Biden’s 
plans on supporting the framework 
behind the Green New Deal and rejoining 
the Paris Climate Accords if elected. He 
also said he supports Biden’s plans on 
expanding loan forgiveness programs 
and increasing aid through doubling Pell 
Grant funds.
“That commitment, that sense of duty from him is what pushed me to support 
Vice President Biden,” Glasserman said.
To support Biden, Glasserman has 
donated $60 to his campaign since he 
announced his candidacy in April. 
He said his support for Biden was 
solidified when he met the former vice 
president and former Sen. Bill Nelson in 
Tallahassee October 2018. Glasserman, 
who lost his uncle and grandmother 
to cancer, said he spoke to him about 
cancer research.
“He promised me face-to-face that he 
would do everything within his power to 
fund cancer research,” Glasserman said.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgCANDIDATES,  from pg. 14  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020
Staff Report
With more than 100 coronavirus cases in Florida and four 
in Alachua County, Gainesville and UF are both adapting to 
ensure the well-being of residents and students.
Campus events were affected by the pandemic, such as 
Andrew Yang’s visit to UF, which was postponed, and Dance 
Marathon’s annual fundraising event, which was canceled.
Along with this, UF and Santa Fe College are now fully 
online until March 30. Alachua County Public Schools is closed 
until the same date. Here’s what else has changed due to 
COVID-19:
CWC will offer remote counseling
Students may experience increased feelings of anxiety 
and loneliness from recent changes to classes because of the 
coronavirus, said Ernesto Escoto, Counseling & Wellness 
Center director. 
Although campus will be fully open and operational during 
the move to classes online, the CWC will only offer services 
over the phone and telehealth, a video conferencing service 
offered through Zoom Video Communications that is certiﬁ  ed 
by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
 “It’s important for students to maintain a routine as much 
as possible in times like this,” Escoto said.
The transition aims to minimize the spread of coronavirus, 
according to a CWC statement.
Counselors will assess the needs of students and make 
follow-up plans as necessary for when classes resume on 
campus, Escoto said. There is no limit on the number of times 
students could call.
Regular and previously scheduled appointments will also 
take place remotely. Students can call (352) 392-1575 to set up 
an appointment with a counselor. 
That phone number transitions after hours to an overnight 
and over-the-weekend emergency phone-support service, a 
service the CWC offered before the pandemic.
What’s happening with religious events?
Chabad UF’s rabbi is optimistic when handling changing 
situations with the coronavirus.
“The Jewish tradition teaches us that one must take 
dangerous situations more seriously than even religious 
situations,” Rabbi Aron Notik said. 
Notik said no services are canceled. However, he is requiring 
everyone who enters the synagogue to wash their hands and is moving seats further apart. 
Other religious groups in Gainesville are also adapting to the 
COVID-19 outbreak to help keep their members safe.
Catholic Gators announced Friday on Facebook it would 
take speciﬁ  c measures during its services. These adjustments 
were ordered from the Catholic Diocese of St. Augustine, which 
is in charge of a region of Florida that includes Gainesville.
Starting Saturday, the Holy Communion with the chalice 
was suspended and distributed only by hand. The physical sign 
of peace, shaking hands, was discontinued along with the non-
liturgical practice of holding hands. 
Greenhouse Church’s campus location posted an update 
Saturday, saying it will no longer hold Sunday services on 
campus, but it will instead live stream on YouTube, Facebook 
and Church Online — Greenhouse’s service streaming library 
—  at 9 a.m., 10 a.m., 11 a.m. and noon. 
Gator Wesley, the Methodist church next to The Standard 
on West University Avenue and across the street from campus, 
normally streams its services every Sunday for those who 
can’t attend. However, viewing the live stream is now the 
only option for members, said Joel Pancoast, a Gator Wesley 
director. Gator Wesley is also doing its weekly Bible studies 
using Zoom.
UF’s Islam on Campus postponed all scheduled events until 
March 30, including Relay for Life, Qur’an Competition, Spring 
BBQ, Town Hall and all brothers and sisters’ fellowship events. 
Islam on Campus is working to ﬁ  nd alternative solutions 
and dates for these events, according to an email sent to its 
members. Jummah, Friday prayer, on campus has also been 
canceled.
“We pray that these obstacles are removed and that everyone 
remains healthy,” the organization wrote in the email. 
A signed deemed racist went viral
“The coronavirus won’t last long because it was made in 
China.”
That is what a sign outside of National Vacuum, a 
Gainesville store known for unconventional messaging, read. 
The phrase was put up Monday and received immediate and 
intense backlash on social media, said Rick Bernal, the store 
manager. 
“We never intended to offend anyone,” Bernal said. “We 
were trying to make a light joke out of a serious matter.” 
Photos of the sign were shared internationally on popular 
Chinese social media apps like Weibo. Yifei Tang Sr., a 22-year-
old UF sports management master’s student from Beijing, said 
someone from South Carolina ﬁ  rst sent him the photo.“I don’t think the sign was funny,” he said. “International 
students in the United States — we’re facing such a disaster. 
This is a really serious situation.” 
Anti-Chinese sentiment is on the rise in the United States as 
coronavirus fears grow. UF President Kent Fuchs posted a tweet 
Friday stating Asian UF students have faced discrimination.
“It has been reported to me that some of our students of 
Asian descent have been targeted with racist comments. I 
condemn this behavior,” the tweet read.
Though the ﬁ  rst reported coronavirus case originated in 
Wuhan, China, cases have since been reported in at least 
131 countries. The virus is a global pandemic and cannot be 
attributed to any person or group based on racial identity. 
Photos of the sign were also posted on Facebook and 
countless responded. Hundreds of people who have never 
shopped at the store — some who had never heard of 
Gainesville — left negative comments online and even called 
the store to complain. Some called the sign racist.
Bernal said he doesn’t regret the sign’s messaging because it 
started a conversation he otherwise wouldn’t have had.
The sign has existed since 1979 and has been used to remark 
on incidents like September 11 or occasions like Valentine’s 
Day ever since. It changed once more Friday to address the 
incident.
“Our last message went ‘viral’. We never meant to offend,” 
the new sign read.
Chasity Maynard, Hannah Phillips, Payton Titus and 
Stephany Matat contributed to this report.
St. Patrick’s 
Day
$4 Triples
ALL DAY
St. Patrick’s 
Day
$4 Triples
ALL DAY
$1 Guinness Drafts
$1 Guinness Drafts
$1 Guinness Drafts
$1 Slane Irish Whiskey  
$1 Slane Irish Whiskey  
$1 Slane Irish Whiskey  
$3 Car Bombs
$3 Car Bombs
$3 Car Bombs
(prices go up $1 every hour)
(prices go up $1 every hour)
(prices go up $1 every hour)
$4 Green Tea Shots (all day)
$4 Green Tea Shots (all day)
$4 Green Tea Shots (all day)
1728 West University Avenue
Plus Live DJ, Sheppard’s PIE, and Bangers & Mash!
Plus Live DJ, Sheppard’s PIE, and Bangers & Mash!
Plus Live DJ, Sheppard’s PIE, and Bangers & Mash!
St. Patrick’s 
1718 West University Avenue
Doors & DJ 
@7pm
(no cover)
18 & UP
18 & UP
18 & UP
18 & UP
18 & UP
$1 Guinness Drafts
$1 Guinness Drafts
$1 Guinness Drafts
Beat-the-Clock
Beat-the-Clock
Beat-the-Clock
This Tuesday starting @ 2pm 
This Tuesday starting @ 2pm 
This Tuesday starting @ 2pm 
(No Cover for the 1st 400)
(No Cover for the 1st 400)
(No Cover for the 1st 400)
(No Cover for the 1st 400)
(No Cover for the 1st 400)
(No Cover for the 1st 400)
Beat-the-Clock
Beat-the-Clock
Beat-the-Clock
restaurant & rooftop barTHENushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Rick Bernal, the store manager of National Vacuum 
located on 504 NW 75th St., said the store put up its 
previous sign to make light of a serious situation. “We 
never intended to offend anyone, ” Bernal said. 
Coronavirus aﬀ  ecting mental health, religions, racism
A sign some deemed as racist in Gainesville
 went viral on social media SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
LAW SCHOOL/ GOLF COURSE ADJACENT
5BR/3BA
Available August 1st. Rent $2100/mo
Call 904-862-1009    3-30-20-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
HAVING A PARTY?
● ● I have Marde Gras / Party Beads ● ●
$25 / case -   ~ 300 per case
Various Sizes & Colors     Call 352-278-4663           
3-18-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-22-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors Hiring
Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-18-20-10-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring Summer Camp, After-School, 
Gymnastics, Dance, Ninja Zone and more. 
Join our team. Apply now:
suncountrysports.com/jobs      3-20-20-9-141For Rent
furnished8 Electronics 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Ed Sessa
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/16/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/16/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, March 16, 2020
ACROSS
1 Potentially 
insensitive, 
briefly
5 Police
9 ABBA’s “__ Mia!”
14 Vidal’s 
Breckinridge
15 Pequod captain
16 Native 
Nebraskans
17 Plenty
18 Islamic branch
19 Transports by 
truck
20 Winding, hilly 
thoroughfares
23 Gandhi’s land
24 Like oysters on 
the half shell
25 French water
28 Not kid around
33 IV amounts
36 List-shortening 
abbr.
37 Italics feature
38 Walter White 
shaved his off
40 In contention (for)
43 On the house
44 Aimée of “La 
Dolce Vita”
46 Dmitri’s dissent
48 In low spirits
49 Traitorous spies
53 Driver’s license 
info
54 Wayside stop
55 One-up
59 Halloween 
discards, and 
what the three 
sets of circles 
represent?
64 “Dallas” surname
66 Solid precipitation
67 Backside in a 
fall?
68 Long-shot rags-
to-riches enabler
69 Ices, mob-style
70 Girl in a Salinger 
story
71 Enter on a laptop
72 Italian eight
73 Sweetheart
DOWN
1 Savory taste 
first identified in 
Tokyo
2 Carpet synthetic
3 __ as a peacock
4 Tabby stimulant
5 José’s house6 “Fancy meeting 
you here!”
7 “No __, no gain”
8 Mall pizza chain
9 Goth hairstyles
10 Opposite of 
17-Across
11 Headpiece for 
kids in Mickey’s 
TV club
12 Filmmaker 
Brooks
13 Biblical beast of 
burden
21 Yarn
22 Boating blade
26 Sleep concern
27 “¿Cómo  
está __?”
29 Dune buggy, 
briefly
30 “We did it!”
31 Throw wildly
32 North Pole 
toymaker
33 “Hanging” 
problems in the 
2000 election
34 Algonquin 
transport
35 Iowa port on the 
Lewis and Clark 
Trail
39 Coax (out), as a 
genie41 “Science Guy” 
Bill
42 Title for DDE
45 Fictional 
language 
spoken by 
Sheldon and 
Leonard on “The 
Big Bang Theory”
47 Sporty car roof
50 Wind up
51 Slangy “Movin’ 
right along ... “
52 Had a late meal56 Not long-winded
57 Daytime soap, 
e.g.
58 Big name in 
blenders
60 Opposed to
61 Float like a 
feather in the 
breeze
62 Breakup
63 “Let me add ... ”
64 Yellowstone 
grazers
65 Misery
By Debbie Ellerin
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/14/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/14/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, March 14, 2020
ACROSS
1 Hardly a routine 
favor
7 Rubs out
15 Project that 
led to the first 
moonwalk
16 “And how!”
17 Rounds of shots
18 Meditation goal
19 Money in music
20 “__: a Dog”: 1962 
film based on a 
1919 novel
21 Fruit with a 
Medjool variety
22 Fathers and sons
23 Portable Asian 
dwellings
25 “Live at Red 
Rocks” musician 
John
26 Fathers and 
sons, say
27 Tiny resistance 
unit
29 Petrol measure
31 Start of a Seuss 
classic
36 Galleria degli 
Uffizi city
37 Range in which 7 
is neutral
38 “Swords into 
plowshares” 
prophet
39 Had difficulty
40 Maker of many 
jets
42 Fields of cookies
43 __ entry
47 Plant that has 
become invasive 
in much of the 
Eastern U.S.
48 One acting badly
49 “Swan Lake” 
maiden
51 Vitamin bottle 
abbr.
52 Marathoners’ 
sources of energy
54 Telemarketing 
tactic
56 “Scream” scream
57 Rule that keeps 
you from spelling 
weirdly?
58 With great 
intensity
59 Colonists
60 Dr. Scholl’s 
productDOWN
1 Stalwart political 
group
2 Apples since 
2012
3 The best of times
4 Harmonica-
playing 
chipmunk
5 Gin flavoring
6 Ring decisions
7 Off-the-wall
8 No longer fazed 
by
9 Time meas.
10 VA concern
11 Mount an attack 
on
12 Kiwi-shaped
13 Bashes
14 Just baked, say
20 Riches
23 1994 co-Nobelist 
with Yasser and 
Shimon
24 Fluffy toy
26 Ex-U.N. chief 
Annan
27 “Anaconda” 
rapper Nicki
28 Kenyan tribe
30 Worn welcome 
symbol
32 Game show VIPs33 Enclave in Italy
34 Warning signal
35 High-tech 
capacity units
37 Pie sometimes 
topped with 
pineapple
39 Gatherings 
before snaps
41 Salon device
43 Day of films
44 Brick of the 
Southwest45 High land
46 Up in the air
48 Long-eared 
critters
50 Biol. branch
52 “Big Brother” 
host Julie __ 
Moonves
53 Terrier breed 
from Scotland
55 “What __ the 
odds?!”
56 Go downhill fast
03/13/20
answers on page 66   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020
Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
5-12-20-14
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Environment
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training provided
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501         3-20-
20-5-14
Calling Artists, Engineering, Construction, 
Education & Community Majors! Maker 
Summer Day Camp Now Hiring! Do you like 
making crazy things, Getting dirty, Playing 
with kids, with Lots of Laughs along the way? 
Come work with us this summer! F/T $12/hr 
More info at www.masterbuildercamp.com      
5-14-20-20-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
This Super Affiliate System Will
Make You A Stable Income.
Free Training, Take Action. 
www.digitalmarketinglifestyle.best     3-16-
20-4-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Time to sell your DVD collection? Your MP3 
player? Looking to buy one? Check out the 
For Sale section for great results. HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
LEARN HOW
one guy went from $0 to $11,506/day in 
Affiliate marketing? Watch this free webinar 
https://www.clkmg.com/highnooner/1gcafs     
3-20-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.18 Personals 14 Help Wanted
1.  Pointer
1.  Reason for a filling 5.  Stop by to see
2.  ____ dressing 6.  Very mad
3.  Anger7.  Sign of a cold
4.  StickOSRCRU
TYAVCIITIVS
AERTI
USANIRS
UGETORAEZNESE
REEHCOANSWERS: 1A-Cursor  5A-Visit  6A-Irate  7A-Sneeze
1D-Cavity  2D-Russian  3D-Outrage  4D-Cohere  B-Nova Scotia3-16-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ is located in the Atlantic Time Zone.
BONUS
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
ScrabbleGrams  solutionBut more wonderful than 
the lore of old men and  
the lore of books is the 
secret lore of ocean.
–H.P. LovecraftCryptoQuote solution1. This winner of five career Grand Slam titles 
recently announced her retirement from tennis at 
the age of 32. Who is she?
2. Actor/wrestler Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson 
played on the defensive line for what college 
football team?
3. What player hit two home runs in his de -
but with the New York Yankees on Opening 
Day 2018?
4. Who is the only NCAA Division I basketball player - - male or female - - to record 2,000 points, 
1,000 assists and 1,000 rebounds in a career?
5. What sport of ancient Gaelic origin uses a ball 
called a sliotar?
6. What Division I men's basketball team has 
the most appearances in the NCAA Tournament 
Sweet 16?
7. What NBA team broke the league record (pre -
viously held by the 2016-17 Golden State War -
riors) for earliest playoff clinch?  answers below© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
1. Who was the last Oakland A’s 
player before Khris Davis in 2018 to 
lead the American League in home 
runs for a season?
2. How many times has a Tampa Bay 
Rays pitcher won 20-plus games in a 
season?
3. Who scored the first rushing 
touchdown in Super Bowl history?
4. Name the last Division II men’s 
college basketball player to be select-
ed in the NBA Draft.
5. Which player won the most Stan-
ley Cups without ever playing for the 
Montreal Canadiens?
6. In 2019, the U.S. women’s nation-
al soccer team set a record for biggest 
margin of victory in a World Cup 
game (13 goals). Which country had 
held the mark?
7. Of WBC heavyweight boxing 
champion Deontay Wilder’s 43 pro 
bouts, how many have ended with 
Wilder recording a knockout?
Answers
1. Mark McGwire hit 52 homers to 
lead the A.L. in 1996. 
2. Twice — David Price won 20 in 
2012, and Blake Snell won 21 in 2018. 
3. Green Bay’s Jim Taylor, in the 
second quarter of Super Bowl I in 
1967.
4. Robert Whaley of Walsh Univer -
sity was selected with the 51st pick in 
2005.
5. Red Kelly won eight Stanley 
Cups, four with Detroit and four with 
Toronto, between 1950 and 1967. 
6. Germany won a World Cup match 
by 11 goals in 2007.
7. Wilder has recorded 41 knockouts 
on his way to a 42-0-1 record.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
  solution below
• The game of marbles is estimated to 
be about 5,000 years old. Through most 
of their history, the toys were made of 
stone, bone, clay or whatever material 
was available, with truly round marbles 
being both rare and expensive.
• Golf balls were originally made from dried cow eyeballs.
• Alexandre Dumas, best known for "The Three Musketeers" and "The 
Count of Monte Cristo," felt very strongly that all his works must be 
presented on colored paper. He wanted all his fiction presented on 
blue paper, his articles on pink paper and his poetry on yellow paper.
• Turning back the giant hands on Big Ben's four clock faces takes an aston -
ishing total of five hours.
• "Cenosillicaphobia" is the fear of an empty beer glass. (Use this one to 
impress your friends during Happy Hour.)
• In his travels, Marco Polo believed at one point that he had stumbled 
across unicorns, writing that "They are very ugly brutes to look at. They 
are not at all such as we describe unicorns." Not surprising, considering 
that he was actually viewing rhinoceroses.
• • •
Thought for the Day: "At the touch of love, everyone becomes a poet." 
                                  –Plato
 
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.• It was famed cultural anthropolo-
gist Margaret Mead who made the fol-
lowing sage observation: “One of the 
oldest human needs is having someone 
to wonder where you are when you 
don’t come home at night.”
• It’s been estimated that a million 
pigeons live in New York City.
• When pop star Christina Aguilera is 
on tour, she insists on having a police 
escort. She hates to be stuck in traffic. 
• Next time you’re heading to Illinois, 
you can stop off in Metropolis and visit 
the self-declared birthplace of Super -
man. In honor of their hometown super -
hero, the citizens erected a 15-foot 
bronze statue of him on Main Street.
• It was Abraham Lincoln who signed 
into law the legislation that created the 
Secret Service. That very night, he was 
assassinated. 
• Those who study such things 
say that on the 13th of every month, 
triskaidekaphobia causes a loss of $83 
million to American business due to 
absenteeism from work and other dis-
ruptions.
• In the United States, more babies 
are born on Oct. 5 than on any other 
day of the year. If you do the math, 
you’ll find that New Year’s Eve is 9 
months and 5 days before that. 
***
Thought for the Day: “Show me a 
hero, and I will write you a tragedy.” 
— F. Scott Fitzgerald
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
By Samantha WeaverKing Features Weekly Service
January 27, 20201. Maria Sharapova.
2. The University of Miami Hurri -
canes.
3. Giancarlo Stanton.
4. Sabrina Ionescu of the University 
of Oregon Ducks.
5. Hurling.
6. The University of Kentucky Wild -
cats, with 44 as of 2019.
7. The 2019-20 Milwaukee Bucks, 
who recently clinched a playoff berth 
after 56 games.Sports Quiz  answers
By Lucie WinbourneBy Ryan A. BerenzFlorida AD Scott Stricklin wrote 
an open letter to Gators fans 
following cancellations, saying 
"It is imperative that we address 
this issue through a community 
lens. "NFL league year to begin on time
ESPN’s Adam Schefter reported that the start of the league year, 4 p.m. 
Wednesday, will not be moved back. The start of the league year begins the 
trading period for teams. All other major pro sports leagues have had serious 
changes to their calendars in the past week.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
CORONAVIRUS
By Christian Ortega
Sports Writer
Earlier this season, Florida point guard An-
drew Nembhard was diagnosed with the flu. He 
was quarantined, and his roommates were giv-
en separate hotel rooms. Team managers dis-
infected their apartment on a level that would 
rival an operating room’s sterilization. 
The team likely thought the brief scare on 
Jan. 17 would be the last run-in with a virus. It 
had no idea what was coming.
On Thursday, the NCAA announced that 
all spring and winter championships were can-
celed.
It’s the first time a men’s basketball cham-
pion would not be announced since 1939, and 
the first since the NCAA took over the women’s 
tournament since 1982. 
“This decision is based on the evolving CO-
VID-19 public health threat, our ability to ensure 
the events do not contribute to the spread of the 
pandemic, and the impracticality of hosting 
such events at any time during this academic 
year given ongoing decisions by other entities,” the NCAA said in a statement. 
The news broke the sports world.
After witnessing the Gators’ collapse against 
Kentucky on March 7, Kathleen Klimek, the 
president of the Rowdy Reptiles, an organiza-
tion that serves as the official student section 
of the men’s basketball team, shook off the loss 
and set her sights toward Nashville, Tennessee. 
For a year, she, her family and her three 
roommates, all Rowdies, planned to attend 
the SEC Tournament in the Music City to see 
Florida play. It was a proposed birthday celebra-
tion — one that would have been sweetened by 
strong performances from the Gators. 
On Wednesday night, the international stud-
ies junior and her roommates went to The So-
cial at Midtown to celebrate her 21st birthday. 
The next day, she would be on a plane to Nash-
ville to join her family and fellow Gator fanatics. 
Her world shattered when she found out 
fans couldn’t attend the tournament to limit 
exposure to COVID-19. They stared at their 
phones in silence as Twitter exploded. 
She still planned to travel, as they could eas-
ily watch the games from a nearby bar — but she couldn’t imagine what would follow over 
the next day.
“We’re getting our suitcases together when 
my phone blows up with tweets and texts about 
the cancellation of the (SEC) Tournament and 
the NCAA Tournament,” she said. 
They canceled their trip. 
At that same moment, David Steinfeldt, vice 
president of the Rowdies, and his roommate 
were on their way to Nashville where they were 
expected to also meet up with Klimek later in 
the day. 
They were 15 minutes away when he saw 
the news on Twitter. 
“I started laughing, honestly,” said the se-
nior business administration major.
The SEC wasn’t the first to cancel its tourna-
ment. Moments before, the Big Ten Conference 
announced it would cancel its tournaments to 
slow the spread of COVID-19. 
Steinfeldt read the tea leaves and anticipat-
ed that the rest of the college basketball world 
would follow suit. 
Steinfeldt and Klimek joined the rest of the 
sporting world as they struggled with filling the 
void left by the absence of March Madness. 
On Twitter, fans were split in their reactions. 
Some called it the right decision, saying pub-
lic health is more important than tournaments.
Others were uproarious with their disap-
proval of spring sports’ cancellations, including 
baseball and softball. Both sports' seasons ex-
tend into summer. 
Caroline Gibbs, 22, a UF alumna and a grad-
uate student at Vanderbilt University, agrees 
with the decision but is disappointed with the 
seasons’ untimely conclusions. 
Sports were always a fixture in her life 
growing up. Her siblings were athletes and she 
played soccer growing up.
Her family swore allegiance to orange and 
blue. Raised in Orlando, Gibbs and her fam-
ily often visited Gainesville to see relatives and 
watch games. 
But March held a special place in her fam-
ily’s hearts. It brought with it the NCAA Tourna-
ment and its bracket challenge. 
Since Gibbs could remember, she and her 
family participated in filling out separate brack-
ets to compete against each other each year. It was a tradition unlike any other for her family, 
so much so that her parents expressed concern 
over missing games during her brother Eric’s 
wedding later this month. 
“They thought that people would be upset if 
they were missing games,” she said. 
With the cancellations, a family tradition 
and a talking point were stolen from them.
“When my brothers went away to college, 
it was another way to keep in contact,” Gibbs 
said.
“There were always games that we could 
talk about, and when the Gators are in a game, 
we’re texting each other in the group chat the 
whole time.”
The sporting world is not deaf to the sever-
ity of the virus, but it can’t help but grieve the 
cancellation of NCAA-sanctioned sports and the 
XFL’s season, and suspension of the NHL, NFL 
and MLB. 
“I’ve been joking with my friends for the 
last couple of days, saying, ‘What are we going 
to do with our lives now?’,” Steinfeldt said. “If 
I can’t talk to my dad about football and bas-
ketball, we’re going to have to find something 
new.”
Klimek is more despondent as she comes to 
terms with the sporting world’s hiatus. 
She wasn’t born a Gators fan. She chose UF 
because she wanted something different from 
her hometown of Middletown, New Jersey. 
When she arrived on campus, she fell in love 
with the academics, weather and athletics, es-
pecially basketball. She also grew to love the 
football and baseball teams, and they served as 
transitions between basketball seasons. 
“To not have that sporting aspect is really 
making me and other Rowdies feel pretty lost as 
to what to do in our spare time,” Klimek said. 
“To have basketball cut at the best time of the 
year and to have nothing to transition to, as a 
sports fan, is very difficult and definitely alters 
my college experience.”
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.orgSports world falls apart in wake of coronavirus
NIL BILL
By Christian Ortega
Sports Writer
The Florida House of Representatives gave 
the final legislative approval of a bill that 
could allow college athletes within the state 
to make money from their name, image and 
likeness (NIL) on Friday night. It would take 
effect on July 1, 2021. 
The House approved the bill by a 98-14 
vote. After passing through the Senate earlier 
this week by a 37-2 margin, the act was sent 
to the desk of Gov. Ron DeSantis, who in 
October endorsed such a proposal. 
Florida could join California in having this type of law if the governor approves the bill. If 
passed, Florida’s would take effect 18 months 
before California’s. 
The bill’s primary sponsor Rep. Chip 
LaMarca (R) said he wanted to create a 
standard for other states to follow. 
The bill outlines name, image and likeness 
(NIL) legislation as: “Compensation must be 
commensurate with the market value of the 
authorized use of the athlete’s name, image 
and likeness.” It does not define market value. 
It also says compensation related to NIL 
“may not be provided in exchange for athletic 
performance or attendance at a particular 
institution.” It does not address how it would be enforced. 
The bill goes on to say that a school, 
boosters and other fundraising groups can’t 
compensate current or prospective athletes. 
Florida lawmakers believe the bill has more 
of a reason to succeed because it does not 
directly address the NCAA, unlike California’s 
similar law, which expressly addresses the 
governing body of college athletics. 
Lawmakers in over 20 other states are 
proposing or considering NIL bills. 
The NCAA views legislations such as this 
as a violation of a commerce clause in the U.S. 
Constitution. The clause says only Congress 
has the authority to regulate commerce. “Wearing a school’s jersey shouldn’t 
mean choosing between using your talent 
and earning extra money to support your 
education,” LaMarca said on Twitter. “Gov. 
DeSantis has been a champion of this 
legislation since day one and I couldn’t be 
more thankful for his support. I look forward 
to the day the governor signs this bill into 
law.”
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.orgFlorida legislators send name, image and likeness bill to DeSantisAlligator File Photo
Gators fans are among the multitude of sports fans who will have to go — at the very 
least — weeks without seeing their favorite teams play as a result of the coronavirus 
fallout. 
8  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020
CHOMP THE PRIMARY ELECTION
Vote on March 17
Find Your Polling Location Here
GrahamCenter @GrahamCenter @UFVotes