We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperNewk’s Eatery ﬁ  nally opens
Soups, salads and sandwiches are on the menu, pg. 8
UF expands newspaper digitization
The project will be funded by a $309,000 award, pg. 6White earns 100th career win at UF
Gators forward Keyontae Johnson scored 15 
points in Florida’s 71-55 win over Ole Miss,
pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 47
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
IRAN MEMORIAL
Grethel  Aguila // Alligator Staff
A student passerby stops to honor the victims of a Ukrainian plane crash in Iran at a vigil put on by the 
Iranian Student Association in Turlington Plaza Tuesday afternoon. Read the story on page 3 .THE LAST DEBATE 
BEFORE DEMOCRATIC 
PRIMARIES WAS THE 
FIRST WITH NO PEOPLE 
OF COLOR
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
Following the ﬁ  rst Democratic 
presidential debate of 2020, UF 
political party leaders shared 
their thoughts on the lack of 
diversity on the debate stage.
The debate was held Tuesday 
night at Drake University in Des 
Moines, Iowa. It was the last 
presidential debate before the 
Iowa caucuses begin Feb. 3.
Although there are 12 
Democratic candidates 
running for president, only 
six conquered polling and 
fundraising thresholds to qualify 
for the debate: Joe Biden, Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar, 
Bernie Sanders, Tom Steyer and 
Elizabeth Warren.
This was the ﬁ  rst Democratic 
debate of the election cycle that 
didn’t have a candidate who 
was a person of color.
Christina Pugliese, the 
outreach director for UF College 
Democrats, said the lack of 
minorities on stage was like 
“going backward in history.” 
Pugliese said she hoped to 
hear a broader range of topics 
compared to previous debates, 
as she was interested in hearing 
the  stances candidates had 
on transgender rights and 
intersectional feminism.
She enjoyed listening to 
Julián Castro discuss these 
topics but now that he’s out 
of the race, her other choices 
FOUR FACULTY MEMBERS LEFT 
THE UNIVERSITY
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
A letter from the National Institutes 
of Health named four UF faculty mem-
bers and contained information about 
“questionable foreign meddling in grant 
research and funding,” according to UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando and the Tam-
pa Bay Times. 
UF is one of at least 60 universities that received letters from the medical research 
center, a part of the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services, Orlando said. 
UF was the top National Institutes of 
Health-awarded school in Florida, receiv-
ing more than $190 million in grants last 
year, according to The Times.
Since receiving the letter, four faculty 
members have left the university. 
The university’s investigation revealed 
activity by two researchers, and the medi-
cal resarch center’s probe connected the 
other two to the inquiry, according to the 
Times.The center issued another letter in Au-
gust 2018 expressing “serious concerns re-
garding efforts by foreign entities to exert 
inappropriate inﬂ  uence on research in the 
U.S.,” Orlando wrote. The letter did not 
specify any one university.
Following this letter, the Department 
of Defense, National Science Foundation 
and congressional members issued similar 
communications, he wrote.
The university responded to these con-
cerns by creating a website and issuing 
statements and informational sessions out-
lining the university’s disclosure policy for foreign involvement with federally funded 
research projects. In the Fall, an Interna-
tional Risk Assessment process was im-
plemented to screen foreign institutions, 
designate conﬂ  icts of interest and issue 
approvals for activities. The process rarely 
approves foreign talent programs.
In a December letter to Sen. Rick Scott, 
President Fuchs wrote that these new pro-
grams identiﬁ  ed faculty members partici-
pating or seeking to participate in foreign 
talent programs. 
DOCTORS WEREN’T SURE 
THE HORSE 
WOULD SURVIVE 
By Alyssa Feliciano 
Alligator Staff Writer
In 2016, Casino Royale, an 
American Warmblood horse, was 
down on his luck. 
Shortly after he and his owner, 
Danielle Ammeson, learned they 
had qualiﬁ  ed for the U.S. Dres-
sage Foundation 2016 Regional Championships, 
Casino Royale   
contracted a bac-
terial infection 
in his right hind 
leg. 
Ammeson still 
isn’t exactly sure 
what happened 
to the horse, who they commonly 
refer to as Royal, whose competi-
tion name is Casino Royale. All 
she knows is that he somehow 
punctured the bone, leading to an infection. 
Ammeson said Royal was run-
ning around with another horse, 
and when she went to check on 
him, she noticed something was 
wrong.
“When I went to go get him, 
he was just kind of standing there 
motionless on three feet,” she 
said. 
At ﬁ  rst Ammeson said she 
wasn’t too concerned about it, 
and it looked like it had only 
punctured the skin. But asfter a week of watching the wound and 
having their local vet visit Royal 
daily, they started to realize the 
wound was getting worse and 
that he needed more intensive 
care. 
Ammeson then decided to have 
Royal treated at the UF Large Ani-
mal Hospital in August 2016. 
After completing an initial 
exam of Royal at the hospital, 
emergency surgery was sched-
uled the following day. 
Dr. Alison Morton, clinical associate professor and Chief of 
Large Animal Surgery, performed 
a surgery on Royal that removed 
areas of the affected bone. 
Morton wrote in an email that 
while she has seen cases similar 
to Royal’s, she’s never seen one 
progress as quickly as his. The 
infection caused damage to the 
tendon and bone quicker than a 
typical case. 
In the intensive care unit, Roy-Diversity weak in debate
UF responds to faculty tied to foreign research meddling
After live-saving surgery, a horse treated at UF is winning awardsSEE DEMOCRATIC DEBATE,  PAGE 4
SEE FOREIGN,  PAGE 4
SEE HORSES,  PAGE 4Casino Royale
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  82° LOW  60°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WEDNESDAY
Selfie Day at Florida Museum of 
Natural History
When: Wednesday 10 a.m.-5 
p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History
What: The Florida Museum 
will host a selfie celebration 
during #MuseumSelfieDay on 
Jan. 15 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Capture and share your like-
ness on social media in the 
permanent exhibits. The most 
creative selfie will win an in-
dividual museum membership. 
For more information, visit 
www.floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
event/museum-selfie-day or 
call 352-273-2062.
Gator Dining Job Fair
When: 10 a.m.-2 p.m.
Where: 10 NW 6th St.
What: Aramark is hosting open 
interviews for jobs at UF Gator 
Dining. Gator Dining is looking 
for cooks, supervisors, leads, 
cashiers, food service workers 
and more. Background checks 
will be required.
THURSDAY
Plant-Based Junk Food in 
Gainesville
Where: Cypress & Grove 
Brewing Co., located at 1001 
NW 4th St.
When: 3 p.m.-9 p.m.
What: Vulture Food comes 
from Los Angeles to bring 
Gainesville vegan comfort food 
in a special pop-up hosted by 
Cypress & Grove Brewing Co., 
featuring their Vegan Crispy 
Chik’n Sandwiches and Loaded 
Fries. Free entry.
FRIDAY
Concord Coffee Market
Where: Concord Coffee, locat-
ed at 1038 W University Ave.
When: 1 p.m.-5 p.m.What: Concord Coffee rings in 
the new semester with another 
market. A variety of local arti-
sans will sell individually curat-
ed selections of handmade and 
reworked goods and there will, 
of course, be coffee. The mar-
ket will be held outside on the 
patio overlooking University 
Avenue.
100.1 FM WGOT’s 12th Birthday 
Bash/Benefit
Where: 433 S Main St.
When: 9 p.m-1:30 a.m.
What: Spread the word as 
your favorite community ra-
dio station celebrates its 12th 
Anniversary, featuring bands 
Arrows in Action, In Bed by 
Ten, Articles and the Rick 
Randlett Band. Doors open at 
9 and the show begins at 9:30.
SATURDAY
34th Annual Hoggtowne 
Medieval Faire
Where: Alachua County 
Fairgrounds, located at 3100 
NE 39th Ave.
When: 10 a.m.-6 p.m.
What: Travel back in time at 
the 34th Annual Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire for three week-
ends: Jan. 18 and 19, 25 and 26 
and Jan.  31 and Feb. 2. Nine 
stages of entertainment feature 
battling knights, dancing gyp-
sies and mystifying magicians, 
and the marketplace features 
hundreds of artisans selling 
their medieval-inspired wares. 
Other activities include joust-
ing, a full-flight falconry show, 
battle chess, old world games 
and food fit for a king. Tickets 
are available at the gate, online 
at www.hoggetownefaire.com 
or at any Gator Dominos loca-
tion. 
Heartwood Presents: Rising 
Appalachia
Where: The Heartwood 
Soundstage, located at 619 S Main St.
When: 8-11 p.m.
What: Folk band Rising 
Appalachia, made up of sisters 
Leah and Chloe Smith, come 
to the Heartwood on the heels 
of their new album, Leylines. 
Doors at 7 p.m., show at 8 p.m. 
Limited seating, standing room 
only. 
Gainesville Comedy Con
Where: The High Dive, located 
at 210 SW 2nd Ave.
When: 6 p.m.
What: Gainesville Comedy Con 
is a showcase of Gainesville 
stand-up comedy, sketch com-
edy and improv comedy pre-
sented by Gainesville Comedy 
Shows. Featuring S/LAUGHTER 
HOUSE COMEDY, Gainesville 
Improv Guild, House Improv 
Theater, Generation Sketch 
Comedy and more. $8 in ad-
vance, $10 at the door. The 
show is 18 and over unless ac-
companied by a parent or legal 
guardian. $3 fee at the door for 
those under 21.
Wintr Ball 2020
Where: The Cade Museum, lo-
cated at 811 S Main St.
When: 7 p.m.-11 p.m.
What: Feathr hosts its annual 
Wintr Ball, a night of music 
and dancing, to raise money for 
charity and celebrate the new 
year. This year, the ball will 
take place at the Cade Museum 
with a theme of “Classic 
Hollywood”. This year’s 
Wintr Ball charity is the Cade 
Museum’s STEAM Curriculum 
Partnership Program with the 
YMCA. Tickets are $35. 
SUNDAY
Russ Liquid With Special Guests 
Cofresi and Side Trakd
Where: Signal, located at 7 SW 
1st St. 
When: 8 p.m.-2 a.m.
What: The Brainquility Festival 
presents Russ Liquid and 
Cofresi’s return to Gainesville 
with support from Side Trakd. 
Brainquility will be at the 
event raffling off two tickets 
to Branquility Music Festival 
2020. Tickets are $15 presale 
and $20 at the night of show. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 47
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Meagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, Manny ReaEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Faculty Member from the 
UF College of Journalism and Communications
(unpaid member of the board of directors)
The application for this position is available at the 
Alligator office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday 
through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until 
Tuesday, January 14th. Look for the Alligator sign located in 
the lobby. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Friday, January 17th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be 
held on Friday, January 24th at 1 p.m. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator . Applicants must be a faculty member from 
the UF College of Journalism and Communcations.The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position:
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Grethel Aguila // Alligator Staff
Students mourn the loss of their loved ones in a Jan. 8 plane crash 
headed from T ehran to Kyiv. 
MORE THAN 40 STUDENTS 
AND COMMUNITY 
MEMBERS ATTENDED A 
MEMORIAL
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
As the bells in Century Tower 
chimed, Turlington Plaza ﬁ  lled with 
the sound of somber piano music. 
Flowers, candles, Iranian desserts 
and collages of photos adorned a 
brick table.
Shaghayegh Esmaeili pointed to a 
wedding photo of an Iranian couple, 
her eyes puffy from tears.
“The tragic thing for these beau-
tiful people is that they went back 
to Iran to celebrate their wedding,” 
Esmaeili said, gazing at the photo 
of her longtime friends from under-
graduate school in Iran. They were 
killed in the Ukrainian jet crash that 
took 176 lives on Jan. 8. 
Esmaeili, a 26-year-old UF hu-
man-centered computing doctoral 
student, is not alone in her mourn-
ing. At least two UF students, includ-ing Esmaeili, lost loved ones in the 
plane crash, said Mansour Sodagari, 
the president of the Iranian Students 
Association.
Sodagari, a 34-year-old UF con-
struction management doctoral stu-
dent, said the memorial was meant 
to be a time for the community to 
mourn together. 
“The students on the plane com-
ing back could’ve been us,” Sodagari 
said.
More than 40 students and com-
munity members attended the me-
morial held Tuesday evening hosted 
by the UF Iranian Students Associa-
tion.
The Boeing 737, operated by 
Ukraine International Airlines, 
crashed Jan. 8 in Tehran en route to 
Kyiv. Nine crew members, 82 Irani-
ans, 63 Canadians, 11 Ukrainians, 10 
Swedes, four Afghans, four Britons 
and three Germans were killed, ac-
cording to Ukraine’s Foreign Minis-
ter Vadym Prystaiko. 
With increasing tension between 
the U.S. and Iran after the killing of 
Gen. Qassem Soleimani, senior Ira-
nian ofﬁ  cials initially dismissed ac-cusations that Iran shot down the 
aircraft as propaganda. The Iranian 
Revolutionary Guard acknowledged 
that it shot down the plane acciden-
tally on Saturday.
Cyrus Vanden Bosch, a 19-year-
old UF computer science freshman 
and Iranian American, said he was 
just walking on campus when he 
came across the memorial. He said 
the crash impacted him because he 
had traveled to Iran recently.
“They shot down a plane without 
thinking twice,” Vanden Bosch said.  
     During the memorial, Gainesville 
resident Ziba Ahmadi chatted with 
Zahra Godarzi, who left Iran a year 
ago. Godarzi said her husband 
stayed home during the memorial 
because one of the crash victims was 
his former student in Iran.
“People are not happy with this 
government,” Godarzi said in Farsi.  
“Now there are a lot of kids whose 
dreams will never come true.”
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.org
 THE PROGRAM ROSE 
FROM FIFTH PLACE
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
In the six years since it 
launched, UF Online has risen 
through the ranks of nationally 
acclaimed online programs. 
Now, UF Online is ranked 
fourth in the U.S. News & World 
Report’s list of 2020 Best Online 
Bachelor’s Programs on Tuesday. 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said the ranking is terriﬁ  c news 
considering that UF also ranked 
seventh in the 2019 U.S. News’ 
ranking of national universities.
“It shows that we have a lot to 
be proud of,” he wrote in a text 
message to an Alligator reporter. 
UF Online is a ﬂ  exible and 
cost-effective alternative to tra-
ditional UF degree programs. 
Online tuition, fees and living ex-
penses cost 40 percent less than 
those of in-person undergraduate 
degree programs, according to 
data from the UF student ﬁ  nancial affairs ofﬁ  ce.
Though the program costs less, 
the education is just as rich of a 
learning experience as traditional 
schooling, said Evangeline Cum-
mings, director of UF Online. 
The credentials and qualiﬁ  -
cations of UF Online faculty are 
higher than many other online 
programs on the report, she said. 
Most UF Online professors have 
high degrees in the ﬁ  elds they 
teach, and many are tenured. 
Cummings said this is one reason 
for the program’s high ranking. UF Online also provides stu-
dent services to keep the program 
fresh and engaging, Cummings 
said. For example, the UF Online 
Student Plaza is a virtual campus 
where students can interact and 
network with one another, simi-
lar to Turlington Plaza. 
Since the online program be-
gan in Spring 2014, enrollment 
rates have risen from 5,746 when 
UF Online launched to 23,370 in 
2019. Still, the average online 
class size is 29 students. 
For the upcoming years, UF Online will focus on further im-
proving the quality of the student 
experience rather than increasing 
its enrollment, Cummings said.
“Our students deserve the best 
experience we can give them,” 
Cummings said.
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgTwo UF students lose loved ones in Ukrainian plane crash in Iran
UF Online ranked fourth in U.S. News 2020 Best Online Programs4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE
WORLDORGANIC RAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its Northern 
end and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and sustainable 
wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.comElectric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!
Courtesy to The Alligator
Danielle Ammeson rides her American Warmblood dressage horse, Casino Roayle, during the U.S. 
Dressage Federation Regional Competition in October. 
al wasn’t improving or respond-
ing to antibiotics. Throughout 
it all, Morton said he remained 
positive. 
“We discussed euthinasia a 
couple of times, because of the 
severity of the infection and lack 
of response to treatment,” Mor-
ton wrote. “But Royal never com-
plained and had such a great will 
that kept us trying.”
Ammeson ultimately decided 
to bring Royal back to their home 
in Sarasota to live out the rest of 
his days. While there, he was put 
on a new, stronger antibiotic. At 
ﬁ  rst, Ammeson said she didn’t 
think it was helping. Months went by before she saw improve-
ment, but slowly Royal started to 
get better. 
In January 2018, Ammeson 
was able to ride Royal again. In 
October 2019, Royal’s story came 
full circle and he was able to com-
pete at the regional competition 
he had missed three years earlier. 
Royal ended 2019 with six 
new medals: three from the U.S. 
Dressage Foundation and three in 
the American Warmblood Society 
and Sporthouse Registry. 
afeliciano@alligator.org
@alyssashantelleHORSES,  from pg. 1He caught a bacterial infection
“Any faculty member who fails to disclose their participation in a foreign talents 
program is subject to discipline, including termination for cause,” he wrote.
Since 2018, administration members have participated in programs led by federal 
agencies and national organizations to contend with foreign inﬂ  uence and the university 
has taken steps to protect its intellectual property and technology from foreign threats, Fuchs wrote.
“It is important to emphasize that even as we must remain vigilant, our rules focus 
on behaviors, not speciﬁ  c nations or peoples,” Orlando wrote. “Our campus remains an 
open and welcoming place to students, faculty and staff from around the world and of 
every race and ethnicity.” 
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.org
— Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren — don’t talk about the 
issues, she said.
Still, Pugliese said she believes Joe Biden or Bernie Sanders 
might secure the Democratic nomination. Of the two, she hopes 
that Sanders will prevail.
“Especially in Iowa, Bernie Sanders is killing it, and I’m OK 
with that,” Pugliese said.During the debate, candidates discussed how to make America 
safer, how to keep businesses accountable through environmental 
regulations, whether a woman could be president and the cost of 
health care plans for Americans.
Robert Meyer, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior and vice president 
of UF College Republicans, said he thinks this lack of diversity on 
stage is “hypocritical” of the Democrats.
“It’s kind of a shame that the party that always preaches about 
diversity — in particular diversity of color — is the party that 
doesn’t actually have diversity up on stage,” Meyer said.
schery@alligator.org
@SammyChery4276FOREIGN,  from pg. 1
DEMOCRATIC DEBATE,  from pg. 1Iowa primaries begin Feb. 3 Candidates ranked by 
speaking time
• Elizabeth Warren
• Bernie Sanders
• Amy Klobuchar
• Pete Buttigieg
• Joe Biden
• Tom SteyerA POTENTIAL 30-YEAR 
CONTRACT BETWEEN GRU AND 
FPL WILL BE DISCUSSED
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville City Commissioners will 
discuss a potential 30-year contract be-
tween Gainesville Regional Utilities and 
Florida Power & Light during its Thurs-
day meeting.
The meeting will begin at 1 p.m. in 
the City Hall Auditorium. Known for 
having the highest municipal utility 
rates in the state, GRU remains a contro-
versial issue in Gainesville.  
Edward Bielarski Jr., general man-
ager of GRU, spoke at the Jan. 9 Utility 
Advisory Board meeting about a plan to 
reduce GRU debt, lower utility rates and 
lessen reliance on fossil fuels. He said 
GRU has four options: It could maintain 
the status quo, replace its equipment, 
exit the business or create a hybrid solu-
tion.
The hybrid solution includes a part-
nership with FPL, he said. FPL is a pow-
er utility company that services over 10 
million Floridians. The plan would be-
gin in 2022 and save GRU up to $400 
million, Bielarski said. It would also 
advance the commission’s goal of using 
100 percent renewable energy by 2045.
Five GRU power plants are over 
three decades old, Bielarski said. The 
new plan would help GRU avoid build-
ing new plants by itself.
“Quite frankly, it is not a sustainable 
business model,” Bielarski said, before 
telling the commission to authorize him 
to continue pursuing the plan with FPL.Bielarski wrote in an email to The Al-
ligator that while it’s too early to discuss 
the absolute impact this contract will 
have on electric rates, GRU imagines 
it will lead to rates falling “far below 
where they are projected to go.” 
During the meeting, Tim Rockwell, 
a member on the board, asked FPL rep-
resentative Matt Pawlowski if he would 
be willing to commit to being 50 percent 
green. Pawlowski replied that he was 
uncomfortable with that measure.
When asked about how this plan 
will impact GRU employees, Bielar-
ski said that some employees, such as 
those in fossil fuel burning plants, may 
lose their jobs. He said training and ap-
prenticeship programs will evolve, but 
he was unwilling to provide additional 
information.
Bielarski said that because GRU 
must reduce its debt before lowering 
rates, it’s too soon to be certain about 
future electric rates. However, he was 
clear that jobs will be lost.
“We will be eliminating positions in 
the future and assisting any displaced 
workers with other opportunities within 
the city,” Bielarski wrote. 
The contract between FPL and GRU 
is a major decision, said City Commis-
sioner David Arreola. He said there will 
be critics of GRU and citizens with gen-
uine concerns who will come forward 
with questions.
“My job is to review all the op-
tions and evaluate if making this deci-
sion is in the interest of the people of 
Gainesville,” Arreola said.
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgTHE PARK IS EXPECTED TO BE OPEN 
BY EARL Y TO MID-FEBRUARY
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Staff Writer
The newly constructed Reserve Park is 
looking for a personal touch to enhance its 
opening for next month.
Wild Spaces and Public Places (WSPP), 
a community recreational improvement pro-
gram, is seeking stories and memorabilia 
donations from those connected to the C.R. 
Layton U.S. Army Reserve Center, the park’s 
predecessor located at 1125 NE 8th Ave., 
said project manager Peter McNiece. An 
army transportation battalion operated there from 1953 to 2009.
McNiece said that they are looking for 
people who have pictures of the facility from 
when it was in operation to create an inter-
pretive sign for the park. The sign would ex-
ist to preserve the history of the site.
The project is being funded with a half-
cent sales tax, said Angie Gould, WSPP’s 
senior marketing and communications spe-
cialist. The half-cent sales tax is a ballot ini-
tiative from December 2016, which increased 
the Alachua County sales tax by one half of 
one percent, she said. The money from the 
tax will be used by WSPP to improve and ac-
quire environmentally sensitive lands and to 
create and maintain parks and recreational 
facilities like Reserve Park. Gould is also in charge of designing the 
sign and said that donating photographs of 
the Army Reserve Center in service would be 
specifically helpful in completing the park. 
The history of the interpretive sign comes 
from the Reserve Center’s 257th movement 
control battalion, known as the Movers and 
Shakers, who occupied the 6.8-acre site for 
nearly 60 years.
“All the signage is complete except for 
that interpretive sign, just because we want 
to make sure the history is correct,” Gould 
said.
The space became available when the 
Army Reserve relocated to a former Navy 
Reserve center in 2009, McNiece said. Mili-
tary-grade protective gear company Phalanx Defense Systems moved into the vacated 
building in 2016, but a huge field was still 
left available for use, he said.
McNiece has received stories from people 
in the community who remember tanks driv-
ing over this field in the Reserve Center’s 
prime. The extensive space became far less 
dynamic upon its vacancy, and he said he 
hopes the park will give it new life.
Most of the land remained in this state 
until discussions for the park started in 2012, 
McNiece said. The plethora of community 
discussion has contributed to the amount of 
time taken to come up with a plan and bring 
it to completion.
“We’re really excited about the opportu-
nity to fix up these community parks here in 
Gainesville,” McNiece said. “It means a lot to 
the neighbors in this area to have something 
this nice.”WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE ASSESSMENT CAN PREDICT 
USERS’ 10-YEAR RISK OF HEART 
ATTACK OR STROKE
By Christopher S. Cann
Alligator Staff Writer
In the U.S., someone has a heart 
attack every 40 seconds, according 
to the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. Researchers at UF 
are attempting to lower this figure. 
UF researchers developed a new 
assessment, Easy Cardiovascular 
Disease (EZ-CVD) Health Risk As-
sessment, which can predict the 10-
year risk of a heart attack or stroke 
with a few questions.
The EZ-CVD is made up of six questions: age, sex, diagnosis of dia-
betes or high blood pressure, family 
history of premature heart attacks 
and current smoking status. 
According to the Center for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, heart 
disease is the leading cause of death 
for men, women and people of most 
racial and ethnic groups in the U.S.
The standard cardiovascular dis-
ease risk assessment focuses on the 
Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Dis-
ease (ASCVD). This assessment re-
quires those taking it to know their 
current blood pressure and choles-
terol levels, according to the Ameri-
can College of Cardiology. The extra 
lab appointment to get blood pres-
sure and cholesterol levels can be discouraging to patients. The Ameri-
can Heart Association said the EZ-
CVD bypasses these extra steps and 
allows users to receive their results 
in one visit, and it can even be com-
pleted online.   
Ara Jo is a member of the re-
search development team for the 
EZ-CVD. The study began one year 
ago and was initiated by Hend Man-
soor, recent graduate of UF’s health 
services research Ph.D. program, for 
her doctoral dissertation, according 
to Jo.
She said the research was con-
ducted based on existing literature 
review. First, they analyzed existing 
CVD risk scores. It turned out that 
there was no score-utilizing survey from patients, which lead the team 
to create a patient-centered score, 
Jo said. The research team used the 
national longitudinal database called 
the Atherosclerosis Risk in Commu-
nities Study (ARIC) and advanced 
statistical skills to develop the score. 
She also said the EZ-CVD does 
not diagnose. Users whose scores 
reflect high risk are encouraged to 
share the information with their doc-
tors. 
Julianne Jankowski, a 19-year-
old UF art sophomore, said she has 
a family history on her dad’s side of 
cardiovascular disease. In December 
2015, Jankowski’s father suffered 
from a major heart attack and was 
rushed to the hospital.“It was the worst day of my life,” 
she said.
She said her father is healthy 
now, but that moment in her life still 
remains a reminder of how life can 
be taken away without warning. She 
plans to take the EZ-CVD due to her 
family’s history. 
“If my dad would have been 
more aware of early signs he would 
have probably lived differently,” she 
said. So maybe something like this 
wouldn’t have happened to him. I 
do think this assessment would have 
been really valuable to him.”
The free EZ-CVD assessment can 
be taken on the UF Health Services 
Research, Management and Policy 
website before a medical appoint-
ment. 
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgUF Researchers create heart attack prediction tool NEWBERRY HIGH HAD A 
100 PERCENT GRADUATION 
RATE
By Stephany Matat
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County is making it 
very difficult for students to fail 
their classes, which has led to 
greater gains in the county’s grad-
uation rates.
Newberry High School became 
the first public high school in the 
county to have 100 percent of 
its 154 seniors for the 2018-2019 
school year graduate, according to 
the Florida Department of Educa-
tion.
The school is one of 74 schools 
documented by the department 
that received a 100 percent gradu-
ation rate compared to a total of 
1,084 high schools in the state. But 
it’s also a part of a growing trend 
of increased graduation rates in 
Alachua County. 
Graduation rates in Alachua 
County increased 0.5 percent from 
2018 to 2019, according to the 
state’s education department. In 
2019, 88.5 percent of the county’s 
high school students graduated, 
which was above the state average 
of 86.9 percent.
“I’m very proud of our 
schools,” said Eileen Roy, Alachua 
County School Board chair. “Ev-
ery year we just do a little bit bet-
ter. We’re ahead of the state and 
going in the right direction.”
Roy said the equity plan, first 
presented in August 2018, has 
helped close the gap between the minority and white students grad-
uating. She said students achieve 
graduation in this plan through 
credit retrieval of failed courses 
and by putting more minority stu-
dents in higher-level classes.
Alachua County’s African 
American graduation rate in-
creased from 79.2 to 79.9 percent, 
and the Hispanic/Latinx gradu-
ation rate increased from 83.7 to 
90 percent. The white graduation 
rate increased from 92.2 to 92.9 
percent. 
Eastside High School, a pre-
dominantly African American high 
school, contributed to closing this 
gap. Its graduation rate for African 
American students went from 84.9 
to 91.8 percent, and for white stu-
dents went from 100 to 96.6 per-
cent. This improvement from hav-
ing a 15.1 percent gap to having a 
4.8 percent gap was a significant 
achievement, said Shane Andrew, 
Eastside High School principal.
Eastside High School also had 
the largest increase in graduation 
rates from 92.5 percent in 2018 to 
94.9 percent in 2019, according to 
the Florida department. Addition-
ally, it had the largest gains in at-
risk students, which was a 10.5 
percent increase. 
James Sheppard, principal of 
Newberry High School, said the 
school was able to achieve this 
goal by going the extra mile, which 
included having teachers stay later 
hours, meet on Saturdays, pick up 
these students during the summer 
and feed them both breakfast and 
lunch during the summer to make 
up their credits. “When it comes to getting 100 
percent graduation rate, some-
times there are students that run 
across the finish line, and I teach 
to our staff that sometimes there 
are students you have to drag 
across the finish line,” he said. 
“We make it very difficult for our 
students to fail, and you have to 
go beyond the school’s day to get 
100 percent graduation.”
Sheppard said there will be a 
party to celebrate the communi-
ty — not just the high school — 
hopefully in late February. 
“Going the extra mile may get 
you 95 percent,” Sheppard said. 
“But you gotta go the extra five 
miles to get 100.”
Althea Wilson, a 15-year-old 
Newberry High School student 
and sophomore class president, 
said she believes her school 
reached this accomplishment be-
cause of the effort from the teach-
ers and students.
“I feel very honored to be going 
to this school,” Wilson said. “The 
teachers really believe in their stu-
dents.”
Andrew said he believes these 
gains came from teachers under-
standing the students’ needs and 
improving any deficiencies the 
students may have had in their 
learning. Meg Auerbach, East-
side High School English teacher, 
praised the Edgenuity program 
for helping students exercise what 
they learn and also being the plat-
form for credit retrieval.  
 
@StephanyMatat
smatat@alligator.orgAlachua County graduation rates increase City Commission to discuss GRUReserve Park to open at former Army Reserve Center6   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
NEW PROJECT WILL 
INCLUDE CONTENT FROM 
THE VIRGIN ISLANDS 
AND FOCUS ON ETHNIC 
NEWSPAPERS IN FLORIDA
By Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s George A. Smathers li-
braries announced a rebranding 
of their $1.2 million newspaper 
digitization project, The Florida 
and Puerto Rico Digital Newspa-
per Project (FPRDNP), Wednes-
day across their social media ac-
counts. 
The project will now be called 
the U.S. Caribbean & Ethnic Flori-
da Newspaper Project (USCEFNP) 
and will expand the scope of the 
project to include newspapers 
published in the Virgin Islands, 
according to a press release. It 
will also continue efforts to digi-
tize newspapers in Florida and 
Puerto Rico, with a focus on eth-
nic newspapers in Florida.
The project will be funded by 
a $309,000 award from the Na-
tional Endowment for the Hu-
manities (NEH), which also gave 
UF $923,000 to fund the FPRDNP, 
and will run until Aug. 31, 2021, 
said project coordinator Melissa 
Jerome. UF will work alongside 
the University of Puerto Rico-Río 
Piedras and the University of the 
Virgin Islands to digitize 100,000 
pages of historic newspapers. 
The FPRDNP started in 2013 
and ended in September last year. 
UF libraries worked with the Uni-
versity of Puerto Rico-Río Piedras 
to make over 300,000 pages of newspapers from 14 Florida pub-
lications and four Puerto Rican 
titles accessible online, Jerome 
said. 
Through this project, past is-
sues of The Alligator dating back 
to 1912 were digitized.
Both projects are branches of 
a larger project being executed at 
the national level by the NEH and 
the Library of Congress called the 
National Digital Newspaper Proj-
ect, she said. The project desig-
nates one institution from each 
state to participate, and UF repre-
sents Florida. 
The newspapers are digitized 
through a process that converts 
them to online files from small 
rolls of film called microfilm, 
Jerome said. An advisory board 
helps decide which papers are 
significant enough to be digitized 
and evaluates them on criteria 
including historical significance 
and rareness. 
“We do get a lot of suggestions 
from the community,” she said, 
“So we try to keep that in mind, 
too.”
The files are then uploaded to 
a website created and maintained 
by the Library of Congress: chron-
iclingamerica.loc.gov. 
“The accessibility piece is 
big,” she said. “They’re being 
digitized, and then they’re being 
put on this open-access website 
where there is not a fee. There 
will never be a fee — as long as 
you have internet, you can access 
it from anywhere.”
Jerome said she thinks that 
this project will benefit everyone 
but is especially significant for historians, genealogists and edu-
cators.
April Hines, the librarian for 
the College of Journalism and 
Communications, said she spends 
a lot of time referencing historical 
newspapers in order to help stu-
dents do research. She said it’s a 
big deal when these newspapers 
get digitized, especially if they’re 
smaller publications that repre-
sent an underserved community.
“It opens up a whole new 
world of research,” Hines said. Any Florida or Puerto Rican 
newspaper published between 
1690 and 1963 is eligible to be 
digitized, but Jerome said that the 
amount of content published after 
1922 is small because of copyright 
issues and a cutoff date of 1963, 
enacted only three years ago. 
She said that in the com-
ing years the amount of content 
available post-1922 will increase 
significantly, which is “huge.”
“There’s something I like to 
call the black hole of digital news-paper access,” said Hines, as she 
explained that digital access to 
newspapers after 1922 and before 
the ‘80s can be extremely limited, 
and that the work that the USCE-
FNP will do to increase access to 
those publications would open up 
a lot of possibilities for research.
“People don’t always real-
ize how hard [old papers are] to 
find,” she said. 
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.org
By Bobby Caina Calvan
Associated Press
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — 
Florida lawmakers signaled that 
they would likely tackle educa-
tion spending and health care 
costs but might seek to avoid a 
battle over forcing employers to 
verify the immigration status of 
workers, as the 2020 legislative 
session began Tuesday.
House Speaker Jose Oliva was 
unsparing in his criticism of what 
he called the “healthcare indus-
trial complex,” including drug 
companies, hospitals and medi-
cal device companies that he said 
were “the great robber-barons of 
our time.”
Oliva sought to build on some 
of the health care initiatives of 
last year’s legislative session, in-
cluding passage of a first-in-the-
nation drug importation bill.
“We did not choose healthcare 
as our priority,” he said. “No, it 
chose us. It chose us through the 
sheer audacity of the defenders of 
the status quo.”With a presidential election 
looming this fall, fierce partisan 
divides could influence the work 
of lawmakers.
But an air of collegiality pre-
vailed Tuesday, as bouquets fes-
tooned the chambers and the 
Capitol halls and rotundas pulsed 
with activity. Opening day was 
also important for lobbyists and 
the activists who seek to influ-
ence lawmakers and the legisla-
tion that will be crafted over the 
60 days the Legislature has to 
complete its business before ad-
journing.
While DeSantis enjoys strong 
relationships with lawmakers — 
particularly his fellow Republi-
cans who run both chambers of 
the statehouse — he may not nec-
essarily get everything he wants 
during his second year as the 
state’s chief executive.
His $91.4 billion budget calls 
for major spending on the envi-
ronment and education — includ-
ing a nearly $1 billion outlay for 
teacher raises and bonuses. Some 
fiscally conservative lawmakers said they would give the spend-
ing intense scrutiny.
On the eve of the Legislature’s 
opening day, thousands of edu-
cators and their allies descended 
on the Capitol to draw attention 
to the governor’s plan, calling 
it flawed because of potential 
pay inequities and because vet-
eran educators and non-teaching 
school employees would be left 
out.
Some key Republicans have 
also cast doubt on the governor’s 
plan to require employers to use 
a federally operated electronic 
database known as E-Verify to 
check the immigration status of 
workers.
E-Verify has been opposed by 
agriculture, construction, tourism 
interests and other industries that 
rely on immigrant labor.
Hundreds of bills await, en-
compassing education spending, 
health care, the environment and 
public safety — as well as approv-
ing the billions of dollars required 
to keep the country’s third-most 
populous state operating day to day.
Legislative Democrats are 
pushing for stronger gun control 
measures, but face long odds to 
win over their Republican col-
leagues.
Addressing a joint session of 
the state House and Senate dur-
ing his State of the State address, 
DeSantis urged cooperation — 
particularly when it comes to ap-
proving his agenda on the envi-
ronment and education.
“This is Florida’s season of 
opportunity,” DeSantis told law-
makers. “We have the chance to 
build on a strong foundation, the 
chance to face the challenges be-
fore us and the chance to leave 
a legacy of success that will ben-
efit our people now and in the 
future.”
Rep. Chris Sprowls, a Republi-
can who’s next in line to be House 
speaker, commended DeSantis for 
the sweep of his speech -- cover-
ing priorities, he said, that were 
crucial to Florida’s future.
“The members of the House 
want to help the governor be-cause we believe in the same 
thing,” Sprowls said.
However, Sprowls declined 
to discuss the merits of specific 
legislation proposed by the gov-
ernor, saying that task will be un-
dertaken in the days and weeks 
to come. And while the gover-
nor’s agenda appeared “bright,” 
he said, “nothing is ever a slam 
dunk.”
In his opening remarks, Senate 
President Bill Galvano, a Republi-
can, reminded lawmakers of their 
weighty responsibility.
“As we go into this session let 
us continue to show our constitu-
ents that we can exchange and 
debate ideas while maintaining 
civility and decorum,” he told the 
chamber. “That we can problem 
-solve together. That we can put 
aside personalities and politics 
for good policy. And, that we are 
not a microcosm of Washington, 
D.C., but instead will continue to 
be an example for Washington, 
D.C.”UF libraries announce plan to expand newspaper digitization
Florida Legislature sets sights on education, health care Courtesy to The Alligator
The newspapers are converted to online files from small rolls of film called microfilm. 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
High Dive to host inaugural Comedy Con
The event will take place on Saturday from 6 p.m. to 
9:30 p.m.Women’s basketball continues stiff schedule
The Gators are facing four ranked opponents in the coming 
weeks. pg, 12By Cassandra   Perez   
Alligator Staff Writer
On Saturday, The Florida Museum of 
Natural History held its 41st annual Col-
lectors Day. The event, which featured 
over 100 collections of everything from salt 
shakers to potato mashers, grants visitors 
the chance to listen to collectors talk about 
the history of their valuables. The event is 
meant to bring attention to the importance 
of collections in research. 
Having collected many items over the 
years, many collectors can’t remember when 
they obtained their ﬁ  rst piece. But 60-year-
old Gainesville resident Chuck Field remem-bers when he got his ﬁ  rst View-Master. 
“When I was in middle school, a friend 
showed me his father’s antique stereoscope, 
but we were not allowed to touch it,” Field 
said. “When I grew up, I was at an antique 
show. I got to pick one up and actually 
look at the pictures and see them in 3D. My 
now-ex-wife suggested I purchase the ste-
reoscope, and from that point on I just went 
crazy and collected different formats from 
antique stereoscopes to View-Masters.”
The event showcased collectors with 
a variety of experience. For 68-year-old 
Gainesville resident Miriam Welly Elliott, 
it was her 36th year exhibiting her Beatles 
memorabilia collection at the event. 
The 8-foot table allotted to her by the museum was piled high with countless 
magazines, ﬁ  gurines, posters and pins, but 
her favorite piece from her collection is the 
one she wears around her neck. An accordi-
on necklace in the form of a leather-bound 
journal, the golden lettering has worn off 
from frequent use as a teenager. But when 
opened, it reveals an array of well-preserved 
photos of the Beatles members. 
“Between classes, I could take a look at 
my boys.” Elliott said. 
For Elliott, collecting Beatles memora-
bilia has allowed her to connect with oth-
ers who have similar interests. She keeps a 
journal of the interesting stories she’s heard 
throughout her years of collecting. 
“People come and tell me wonderful sto-
ries,” Elliott said. “I’ve actually had people 
at the table cry and say ‘I had one of these when I was a kid. I went off to college and 
my mom threw my Beatles stuff away or sold 
it in a yard sale.’ The ﬁ  rst time I heard that 
story, I called my mom and said thank you 
for never throwing away my Beatles stuff.” 
Many collectors ﬁ  nd a sense of identity 
in their collection. Their collections are 
more than just items — they are personal 
treasures. 
“I always say I am who I am because of 
the Beatles.” Elliott said. “There are other 
inﬂ  uences in my life — obviously my par-
ents, Martin Luther King, Jr. and stuff — 
but the Beatles kind of put me on a path. 
And I don’t think I’d be that same person 
without them.”
cperez@alligator.org
@cassandraperez0Florida Museum of Natural History holds annual Collectors Day
ART
The event featured over 100 collectorsDIRECTOR JAMES ALBURY 
OFFERS GUIDED SHOWS 
YEAR-ROUND
By Katie Delk
Alligator Staff Writer
In 2045 a solar eclipse will pass 
through Gainesville. At age 77, direc-
tor of the Kika Silva Pla Planetarium 
James Albury says he plans to see it 
— even if he’ll be in a wheelchair by 
then.
Albury has been interested in 
astronomy since he was a child. 
He was introduced to the subject 
through watching PBS documenta-
ries such as “Star Hustler” with his 
father. After he watched them, Al-
bury would go outside and look at 
the constellations and eclipses he 
learned about. 
At age 13, he went to the plan-
etarium at the Miami Museum of 
Science and saw the show “Child 
of the Universe” produced by Jack 
Horkheimer, host of “Star Hustler” at 
the time. He was so impressed by the 
show that he asked the planetarium 
operator how he could become a di-
rector himself.
The following summer, he be-
came an apprentice at the planetar-
ium and began to pinpoint constel-
lations. Through the beginning of 
high school and college, Albury was 
a console controller.
Albury studied astronomy in col-
lege because he knew he wanted to 
become a planetarium director. Fol-
lowing school, he worked at UF in the ofﬁ  ce of Academic Technology, 
dissertation tech labs, at the help 
desk and at a healthclub in Jackson-
ville.
He then found the position of di-
rector of the planetarium at Santa Fe 
College. He began the job in 2009. 
Nine years prior, Professor Sally 
Hoffman, an instructor of astronomy 
and physical sciences at Santa Fe, 
proposed to have a planetarium built 
on the campus. Once the faculty 
agreed, the planetarium was built.
Albury said Santa Fe applied 
for an educational grant to pay for 
a $375,000 Chronos Projector — 
capable of displaying over 8,000 
stars at any location or time dating 
back to thousands of years — and a 
$175,000 digital projector that shows 
pre-recorded shows. When the grant 
fell through, the 34-foot dome sat 
empty for six years. 
The Chronos Projector and digi-
tal projector were installed after 
Congressman Cliff Stearns provided 
educational funding from a federal 
appropriation. John Pla and his wife 
Amy Howard also made a donation, 
and the planetarium was named af-
ter Pla’s mother Kika, a nickname for 
Maria. 
The planetarium opened on Sept. 
8, 2006, the 40th anniversary of Star 
Trek. 
“It wouldn’t surprise me if [Doc-
tor Hoffman] requested the college 
to do the dedication ceremony on 
the same day, knowing Doctor Hoff-
man as I did,” Albury said.
Hoffman passed away in Decem-
ber 2014 after teaching at Santa Fe for 40 years. Because of her contri-
bution to the planetarium, Sept. 1 
was designated “Dr. Sally Hoffman 
Day.” 
The only planetarium in North 
Central Florida, it offers an immer-
sive experience in the form of shows 
written and narrated by Albury. His 
guided tours, like “Florida Skies: 
Winter,” change weekly and season-
ally based on shifts in the location of 
the stars and moon.
A star map of Gainesville is dis-
tributed so the audience can ﬁ  nd the 
stars after the show. Other presenta-
tions like “Music 360: Pink Floyd - 
The Dark Side of the Moon” are pre-
recorded music shows displayed by 
the digital projector.
At these shows, Albury tells the 
mythology behind the constellations 
and displays those visible at night 
with the Chronos Projector. He’s 
sure to add in some humor, often 
asking the audience to clap if they 
are still awake. 
“I’ve heard that I have a voice 
that puts people to sleep,” he said. 
“If I have a show in the afternoon 
I’ll say ‘Usually if you’ve had lunch 
already, that carbohydrate nap will 
hit you in about 10 minutes.’” 
Evangelos Dollas, a 21-year-old 
Santa Fe marketing student and the 
console controller at the planetari-
um, says the banter with Albury is 
his favorite part of working at the 
planetarium. 
“James is an entertainer through 
and through,” he said. “He’s really 
good at his job and he picks up on 
jokes really quickly so it’s always fun.” 
In the future, Dollas plans to gain 
experience in the U.S. and then pos-
sibly work in Greece, where he was 
born. He says that once Greece’s 
economy improves, he wants to in-
tegrate astronomy into his career 
and work for foundations associated 
with science there.
Dollas says he loves his job. 
“Getting to entertain people,” he 
said. “Getting to sit down and do 
something fun. That’s something I 
would like to do for the rest of my 
life.”
Nick Pedem, a 58-year-old from 
High Springs, has been to the plan-
etarium with his father-in-law Curtis 
Moss “two or three times.” They are 
both interested in museums and his-
tory, but Moss, an 85-year-old from 
Orlando, says he is particularly inter-
ested in the sky.
Moss’ fascination has prompted 
him to build model airplanes and 
telescopes. 
“It’s over my head but still neat to 
see,” Pedem said. “He sits there and 
tells me things and he talks about it 
and I try to understand it and get a 
little grasp of it.”
Without accessible resources, 
Moss learned how to craft telescopes 
by asking questions and reading at 
the library. 
“I was always curious about 
everything,” he said. “I drove peo-
ple crazy with questions that they 
couldn’t answer. ‘What are these 
stars? What are these lights in the 
night sky? Why are they there?’”
In the future, Albury hopes to create a show similar to “Star Gaz-
ers” — renamed from “Star Hustler” 
after host Horkheimer passed away  
— which he hosted until recently. 
The show, featuring naked-eye as-
tronomy, is tentatively set to air at 
Santa Fe in late February or March. 
“I like being a communicator of 
astronomy,” Albury said. “I like to 
think of myself as the Dollar General 
version of Neil deGrasse Tyson.” 
More information about light 
shows can be found on the Kika 
Silva Pla Planetarium’s website.Kika Silva Pla Planetarium: a home for all astronomy lovers
ART
Courtesy of James Albury
The Chronos Projector 
(pictured) is worth 
$375,000.
8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
THE BAND FEATURING 
LEGENDARY PERFORMER 
MIKE CAMPBELL IS 
COMING APRIL 26
By Christopher S. Cann
Alligator Staff Writer
Celebrated guitarist and song-
writer Mike Campbell of Fleetwood 
Mac and Tom Petty and the Heart-
breakers is coming to the High Dive 
on April 26. 
He will appear in the band The 
Dirty Knobs, which features musi-
cians Jason Sinay of Neil Diamond, 
Lance Morrison of Don Henley and 
Matt Laug of Alanis Morissette. 
The all-star-packed show was an-
nounced at 10 a.m. Monday morn-
ing to great anticipation from locals 
and Tom Petty fanatics alike. 
Pat Lavery is the owner of Glory 
Days Presents, the primary booking 
agency for the High Dive. Lavery 
said he has been working on bring-ing Mike Campbell to the High Dive 
since he learned about the Dirty 
Knobs two years ago. 
“We are absolutely thrilled to 
have a true Gainesville music legend 
live in the ﬂ  esh on our stage,” he 
said. “Mike is not only an amazing 
guitarist but co-wrote a lot of the big-
gest Heartbreakers hits.”
Lavery said this will be the big-
gest show at the High Dive to date 
and will add to the growing list of 
amazing talent who have performed 
in the historic building. Mike Camp-
bell is also the second Heartbreaker 
to perform at the High Dive. In 2016, 
original drummer Stan Lynch reunit-
ed his pre-Heartbreakers Gainesville 
band Road Turkey for a one-time 
show. 
“Wreckless Abandon” is the 
upcoming debut album from the 
Dirty Knobs. The album will be re-
leased on March 20 via BMG. The 
project features contributions from 
esteemed songwriter and guitarist Chris Stapleton.
Garret Pogue, an administrative 
support assistant for the UF Depart-
ment of Physical Therapy, is thrilled 
about the show announcement, es-
pecially since it marks Mike Camp-
bell’s return to Gainesville.
“He is incredibly talented and he 
has such strong roots to Gainesville,” 
Pogue said. “I think it is so cool that 
he is coming back to play with this 
new band of his.”
Pogue said she hopes Campbell 
continues his tradition of playing the 
songs he wrote with Tom Petty live. 
She enjoyed the single released by 
The Dirty Knobs titled “Wreckless 
Abandon,” and plans on purchasing 
tickets to the show when they are 
released. 
Tickets for the show will be re-
leased for purchase Thursday, Jan. 
16 at 10 a.m. 
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgThe Dirty Knobs with Mike Campbell Coming to High Dive
Courtesy of Pamela Littky
The former Heartbreaker is coming to Gainesville for the High 
Dive’s biggest show to date. 
After over a year of anticipa-
tion, Newk’s Eatery has ﬁ  nally 
opened its doors in Gainesville.
The chain, known for its 
soups, salads and sandwiches, 
ofﬁ  cially opened its Butler Pla-
za location Jan. 13, a year after 
the location’s previously slated 
opening of mid-January 2019.
Newk’s Gainesville location 
is one of two recent additions 
to the restaurant chain, includ-
ing a venue in Athens, Ga. 
which is set to have its grand 
opening Jan. 24.
David Eidson, the general 
manager of the Gainesville lo-
cation, said they are eager to be 
a part of this southern expan-
sion.
“We could not be more ex-
cited to be here,” Eidson said. 
“This is the last SEC town with-
out [a Newk’s Eatery] and now 
we’ve conquered the last one.”
The chain offers meals 
Eidson describes as “comfort 
food with a Southern twist.” Its 
menu varies from California-
style pizzas to fresh bakery 
items, such as imported bread-
sticks, while featuring grated 
parmesan and bread and butter 
pickles as other condiments.
Claire Sabino, a 19-year-old 
UF English freshman, said she 
hadn’t heard of Newk’s Eatery before but is interested in expe-
riencing their take on the com-
fort food classics.
“I’m always delighted to 
hear of eateries with the sta-
ples like soup, salad and sand-
wiches,” Sabino said. “I think 
Newk’s has a little more incen-
tive going for it by giving its 
rather common cuisine an un-
common twist.”
Newk’s Gainesville will hold 
a Grand Opening Celebration 
on Friday. The celebration will 
feature members of the UF Spir-
it Squad including the Florida 
Gators Cheerleaders, the Daz-
zlers and Albert and Alberta 
Gator. The event will include 
free prizes and giveaways, as 
well as a sweepstake to win 
free Newk’s for a year.
Eidson said Newk’s is look-
ing forward to interacting with 
the Gainesville community, and 
more events can be expected in 
the future.
“We want to be part of the 
community,” Eidson said. “The 
anticipation has built for a 
long, long time.”
Newk’s Eatery in Gainesville 
is open from 11 a.m to 9 p.m. 
daily.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgLong-awaited Newk’s 
Eatery opens in Butler Plaza
AFTER A YEAR OF RESCHEDULING, THE CHAIN’S 
GAINESVILLE LOCATION HAS OPENED
By Marlena Carrillo
Alligator Staff WriterTHE EVENT, CAROLPALOOZA, 
RAISED $7,000
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
Carol Perrine said she isn’t go-
ing to let cervical cancer get her 
down. She means this ﬁ  guratively, 
and, as she proved by twirling un-
der a disco ball to a Beatles cover 
on Saturday, literally. 
The idea for Carolpalooza 
came from Mike Boulware, 67, the 
owner of B-Side Vintage and Per-
rine’s friend of around 40 years. 
Boulware said he’s hosted beneﬁ  t 
concerts for a long time. 
“Years ago we started realizing 
that the one power we had was to 
raise awareness through music,” 
he said. “It’s all about just getting 
the word out.”
Since Perrine, 64, was diag-
nosed in 2018, she has struggled 
to afford the treatment.
“Insurance is inadequate on 
many levels and only covers cer-
tain types of treatment,” Perrine, 
a self-described “empowerment 
coach,” said. “My energy level 
isn’t what it used to be so my cli-
ent load is greatly reduced.”
The event included perfor-
mances by local bands The Im-
postors, Mark Miale & Kimberly 
LeCouteur, Ned and the Dim 
Lights, The Threetles and Nancy 
Luca.
Besides the suggested $10 do-
nation for entry to the event, mon-
ey was raised through a rafﬂ  e. The 
prizes included gift certiﬁ  cates to 
local businesses as well as art by local artist Elaine Shoaf. Accord-
ing to Boulware, the event made a 
total of $7,000.
Boulware said around 150 peo-
ple attended the event.
Despite the dance moves dis-
played at the concert, Perrine said 
the illness negatively affects her 
daily life.
“I am not able to be physically 
active or lift much weight or the 
symptoms worsen,” reads Per-
rine’s GoFundMe page. “The price 
I pay for playing with my grand-
son or even light bouncing on an exercise ball could be grounds for 
a blood transfusion.”   
As of Tuesday night, Perrine’s 
GoFundMe page has made $1,175 
out of its $17,500 goal.
Perrine considers the concert a 
huge success. 
“The room was so full of love 
for each other and for me,” Per-
rine said. “The Gainesville com-
munity is amazing. I have the 
most incredible friends ever.” 
@noroneill
noneill@alligator.orgB-Side Vintage holds beneﬁ  t concert for 
Gainesville resident with cervical cancer
MUSIC
 FOOD
MUSICCourtesy of Laura San Juan
Carol Perrine (far left) watches as two of her friends dance at 
the Carolpalooza Beneﬁ  t Concert.  
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1, - very nice 5BR house. 
Remodeled kitchen, game room, large yard, 
W/D incl, fireplace. Call or text 352-339-2342 
to see. $1800/mo 1803 SW 43rd Ave. More 
info at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com      
1-22-20-5-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      1-24-
20-19-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Please recycle this newspaper.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Voluteers Needed: Make Gainesville
Butterfly City Again
Contact: gabrielhillel@gmail.com       
1-17-20-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through adver-
tising. We suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Kevin Christian
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/15/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/15/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, January 15, 2020
ACROSS
1 Minor 
misunderstanding
5 Long part of an 
arrow
10 Pride Month 
letters
14 Sticky pod
15 Grammy winner 
Jones
16 Channel marker
17 Letter starter
18 Speechify
19 Soda __: fountain 
worker
20 Dog, barking
23 “Understand?”
24 Common 
Scrabble tile 
value
25 Afflicts
27 Satisfied sigh 
sound
30 Dog, begging
36 Driving problem
38 Sinewy
39 Rio contents
40 Burton of “Star 
Trek: TNG”
41 Rhea cousin
42 Harry’s mom Lily 
__ Potter
43 Not buttoned, as 
a shirt
44 “Bummer!”
45 It flows below the 
Pont Neuf
46 Dog, ears erect
49 Nada
50 Steel-toe item
51 “Just a __!”
53 Southeast airport 
code
55 Dog, tail wagging
62 Thigh muscle, 
briefly
64 “Outlander” series 
novelist Gabaldon
65 Big name in big 
projections
66 Bear overhead
67 Sprinter Bolt
68 Daughter in the 
2019 film “Judy”
69 Unwelcome 
diners
70 __ hose
71 Agenda bullet
DOWN
1 Mary __ Lincoln
2 Swedish 
superstore3 San __: Cal. city 
nickname
4 FX series 
inspired by a 
Coen brothers 
film
5 Noisy bedmate
6 Traditional group 
dance
7 Decimated Asian 
sea
8 Karma
9 Course of 
treatment
10 JFK-RMN link
11 “No, still not 
right”
12 Snooze inducer
13 Tot
21 Go in
22 Up to, briefly
26 Split
27 Luminous
28 First Hebrew 
letter
29 Enjoy oneself 
immensely
31 Fancy pitchers
32 Focus on, as a 
bull’s-eye
33 Alternative to 
dare
34 Branch of Islam35 Watercolor prop
37 Totaled, as 
costs
42 First name in 
beauty products
44 Went out with 
someone 
wealthier, say
47 Amaze
48 The same 
number
52 __ dog
53 Teal relative54 Go bad
56 Legal thriller 
writer Scottoline
57 Scott of “Hawaii 
Five-0”
58 Tending to the 
matter
59 Exclude
60 Puzzle with dead 
ends
61 Checkup
63 Prosecutors, 
briefly
By Roland Huget
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/14/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/14/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, January 14, 2020
ACROSS
1 Watering hole
4 African language 
group
9 Suddenly took 
interest
14 Québec street
15 Future oak
16 Way to go it
17 City near the 
Great Salt Lake
19 Has to have
20 Biceps exercises
21 Hosting a show, 
briefly
23 Tennis do-over
24 Breyers __ 
Cookies & Cream
25 “Be yourself,” 
nowadays
27 Arnaz-Ball 
production 
company
29 Muss, as hair
30 Magazine VIPs
31 Adjust to one’s 
environment
35 Old fast fliers
36 Casino advantage
39 Fleshy fruit
42 Barbecue spot
43 Can opener
46 Feathered friends
49 Beethoven’s 
“Tempest,” e.g.
51 “Be right with you”
55 Chimps and 
gorillas
56 Furry sitcom 
extraterrestrial
57 Chutzpah
58 Stick with a pin
59 Early American 
crop
61 Earth’s most 
central geologic 
layer ... or what 
can be found 
in each set of 
puzzle circles
63 Geographer’s 
volume
64 Tokyo-based 
watchmaker
65 No-frills bed
66 Filters (through)
67 Jacket material
68 “Very cute!” 
soundsDOWN
1 Tacit rules of 
male friendship
2 Was a sign of
3 Set right
4 Passes a law 
against
5 Pressure prefix
6 “I’m innocent!”
7 Barely detectable 
amount
8 Far from cool
9 Serenaded
10 Stein filler
11 Like many 
summer shoes
12 Still being 
shuffled
13 Tablet crushers
18 “The Time 
Machine” race
22 Little point to pick
25 Spiral-horned 
antelope
26 Tricky plan
28 Vientiane people
32 Poisonous 
African snake
33 Stew morsel
34 Vietnamese New 
Year36 Cookbook verb
37 Spinal segment
38 Bit of baby talk
39 Often-
abbreviated 
attire
40 Produce eggs
41 Put in the wrong 
folder
43 Pudding choice
44 Was humiliated
45 Laundry holders47 “Easy to clean” 
ad claim
48 __-Cat: winter 
vehicle
50 DEA agent
52 Live
53 Muscular power
54 Start of a 
counting rhyme
58 Cattle poker
60 Microwave
62 Squeeze (out)
01/13/20
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
 Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14
LEARN HOW to make an
extra $400 per week
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: collegecash.fun        1-22-20-4-14
After School Counselor
This is a part time afternoon position M-F 
working with girls ages 5-14. Required to 
pass level II background screening. Apply at 
www.girlsplace.net.      1-24-20-4-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Time to sell your iPad Mini? Your Nintendo 
GameCube? Looking to buy one? Check out 
the For Sale section for great results. Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the 
classifieds to find trip arrangements or show 
off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home 
by drunk drivers
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!  MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020, Non-Nazi 
Republican, Not divorced or bankrupt.
For TRUE TIME Standards &
MAKING AMERICA GOAT AGAIN!
Paid for by Mitchell Willliams, Republican for 
President P O Box 33 Palatka, FL 32178
1-15-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
1. True or false: Boston Red Sox 
great Ted Williams is not in the 
top 20 for highest slugging per -
centage in a single season.
2. In 2018, Ronald Acuna Jr. set 
an Atlanta Braves single-season 
record of eight leadoff homers. 
Who had held the team mark?
3. Place-kickers Adam Vinatieri 
(599) and Morten Andersen 
(565) are 1-2 in career NFL field 
goals made. Who is No. 3?
4. When was the last time before 2019 that Auburn's men's 
basketball team made it as far in the NCAA Tournament as the 
Elite Eight?
5. Who scored the overtime goal against New Jersey to send the 
New York Rangers to the 1994 Stanley Cup Finals?
6. Mikaela Shiffrin set a record in 2019 for most career World 
Cup slalom wins by any skier. Who had held the mark?
7. In 2019, golfer Viktor Hovland set a new mark for lowest 
total score by an amateur (280) at the U.S. Open. Who had 
the previous record? 1. Who was the last pitcher before 
Arizona’s Zack Greinke in 2018 to 
have a hit, an RBI and a stolen base in 
at least two games in a season?
2. Name either of the major-league 
pitchers who led his respective league 
in shutouts a record seven times.
3. When was the last time before 2018 
that Army’s football team was ranked in 
The Associated Press Top 25 poll?
4. Dwane Casey holds the record for 
most career regular-season victories 
(320) as coach of the Toronto Raptors. 
Who is second?
5. When was the last time the Boston 
Bruins won 50 or more games in con-
secutive NHL seasons?
6. The U.S. women’s soccer team 
set a Women’s World Cup group stage 
scoring record in 2019 with 18 goals 
in three games. What country had held 
the record with 17 goals?
7. How many fights did former 
heavyweight boxing champion Joe 
Frazier have after losing to Muham-
mad Ali in the Philippines in 1975?
Answers
1. Bob Gibson, in 1969.
2. Walter Johnson (A.L.) and Grover 
Cleveland Alexander (N.L.).
3. It was 1996. 
4. Sam Mitchell, with 156 victories 
(2004-09).
5. The Bruins did it from the 1970-71 
season through the 1973-74 season.
6. Norway (1995).
7. Two fights.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
November 25, 2019King Features Weekly Service
           answers
Sudoku  answers ScrabbleGrams solution
1. False. He holds the 17th (.7346 
in 1941) and 19th (.7310 in 1957) 
spots.
2. Marquis Grissom had seven 
leadoff homers in 1996.
3. Gary Anderson, with 538 field 
goals made.
4. It was 1986.
5. Stephane Matteau 
6. Sweden's Ingemar Stenmark, 
with 40 World Cup slalom wins 
(1974-87).
7. Jack Nicklaus had a 282 score 
as a U.S. Open amateur in 1960.1: auctioned - cautioned, education
2: mastering - emigrants, streaming
3: introduces - discounter, reductions4: restrain - retrains, strainer, terrains, trainers
5: teardrop - prorated, parroted, predatorSports Quiz  answers Stickelers  answers
 PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONSanswers below
answers below solution  belowFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators gymnast Trinity Thomas 
was named SEC Gymnast of 
the Week for the fourth time in 
her career for her performance 
against Arkansas.White earns 100th win at UF Tuesday night
It took UF men's basketball coach Mike White 158 games to reach the 
milestone. Former Gators coach Billy Donovan did so in 154 games.
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
UF forward Keyontae Johnson led the 
team with 15 points against Ole Miss.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
HERNANDEZBy Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida returned to Gainesville 
wanting to show that giving up 91 
points during a 16-point drubbing 
in its last contest wasn’t going to 
be the new norm.
It did just that, getting back to 
its suffocating defense by shut-
ting down a banged-up Ole Miss 
squad.
Florida held its opponent to 18-
of-45 shooting from the ﬂ  oor and 
3 of 16 from beyond the arc, win-
ning 71-55 over the Rebels at the 
O’Connell Center.
The Gators (11-5, 3-1 SEC) 
came out on Tuesday night with 
a swagger they severely lacked in 
their double-digit loss to Missouri 
last time out.
Florida opened up the game 
on an 8-0 run and led 17-6 after 
a three-point play from forward 
Keyontae Johnson.That’s when Florida’s ener-
getic start to the game came to a 
screeching halt.
The Rebels (9-7, 0-3 SEC) -- 
averaging just 58 points per game 
during their three-game losing 
streak -- set the nets ablaze behind 
a 12-point ﬁ  rst half performance 
from forward Blake Hinson.
Ole Miss erased the double-dig-
it deﬁ  cit with a 16-2 run and coach 
Mike White was left scratching his 
head after the lapses on defense 
from his team.
But the defensive intensity for 
Florida turned up signiﬁ  cantly af-
ter the Ole Miss run. The Gators 
went on to cause 11 turnovers and 
limited the Rebels to just eight 
points during the ﬁ  nal nine min-
utes of ﬁ  rst-half play.
“We wanted to come out with 
more of an edge on the defensive 
side of the ball,” guard Andrew 
Nembhard said. “We’ve been 
slacking these last few games, and I thought we picked it up.”
The team shot 62.1 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld overall and nar-
rowed its turnover margin to ﬁ  ve.
The second half carried more 
of the same for UF: efﬁ  ciency on 
offense and solid play on defense.
Through the ﬁ  rst 10 minutes of 
play in the half, the Gators led by 
double digits and outscored Ole 
Miss 13-8. They led by as many as 
23 points late into the second half.
Defensively, UF terrorized the 
Rebels in the second half, leading 
to Mississippi’s 29-percent ﬁ  eld 
goal percentage for the half.
After an atrocious performance 
in its last game, it was imperative 
for Florida to improve on defense, 
and it made huge strides on Tues-
day toward becoming a more bal-
anced team on both sides of the 
court.
“It makes me feel better about 
our team and our chances moving 
forward,” White said, referring to the defensive performance. “The 
way we defended today gives you 
a chance night in and night out.”
Offensively, UF dominated the 
interior, outscoring Ole Miss 44-18 
in the paint and taking advantage 
of Rebels 6-foot-10 forward Khad-
im Sy’s absence (8.8 points and 
5.1 rebounds per game).
Johnson and forward Kerry 
Blackshear Jr. led the Gators with 
15 and 13 points. Nembhard was 
the third and ﬁ  nal Gator in double 
ﬁ  gures with 10 points and six as-
sists.
This type of defensive show-
ing is one that UF needs to build 
upon with matchups against No. 4 
Auburn and No. 2 Baylor coming 
later this month.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
Netﬂ  ix’s original documentary series, 
“Killer Inside: The Mind of Aaron Hernan-
dez,” premiered today on the streaming 
platform.
The teaser trailer began with a collect 
call that a shaken-up Aaron Hernandez 
made from prison. The only indication he 
gives as to why he is distraught is made by 
the last four words he speaks in the video, 
which are projected on the screen in bold, 
white script: “You know my temper.”
Before the buzz around his violent ten-
dencies came about, Hernandez enrolled at 
the University of Florida in 2007 and played 
football under coach Urban Meyer through 
the 2009 season.
According to a release, the three-part 
documentary “meticulously examines the 
perfect storm of factors leading to the trial, 
conviction, and death of an athlete who 
seemingly had it all.”
A successful Division I career, BCS Na-
tional Championship ring and a 5-year, $40 
million contract with the New England Pa-
triots does sound like “it all” to any football 
player in the country.
While at UF and during his three seasons 
in the NFL, he garnered attention on and 
off the ﬁ  eld. Hernandez’s talent at the tight 
end position was evident, but so was his 
involvement in violent crimes.
As a Gator, Hernandez broke the school 
record for most catches by a tight end in 
a season with 68 in 2009, which also led 
the nation for receptions by a tight end that season. In the FedEx BCS National Champi-
onship, he led Florida in receiving against 
Oklahoma with ﬁ  ve catches yielding 57 
yards. He also became the ﬁ  rst and only 
Gator to ever win the John Mackey Award 
in 2009, which is bestowed upon the best 
college tight end annually. 
But behind all of the awards and accla-
mations, Hernandez was deeply troubled. 
Most sports fans know the extremely 
public landmarks of Hernandez’s story. He 
was involved in two trials for the murder 
of semi-pro football player Odin Lloyd and 
two Boston-area men, respectively. He was 
then convicted for the ﬁ  rst-degree murder 
of Lloyd and charged with a life-sentence. 
And in April of 2017, he committed suicide 
via the bedsheet he was found hanging by 
in his prison cell. This series goes deeper 
into his narrative than that.
The special includes exclusive interviews 
with friends of both Hernandez and Lloyd, 
courtroom footage and collect calls from 
prison, like the one in the teaser trailer, 
to ﬁ  nd the root of Hernandez’s disastrous 
downfall. It unearths startling details about 
his childhood life in Bristol, Connecticut, 
and other little-known motives that led to 
his aggressive behavior.
All three episodes were made available 
early this morning for Gators fans, football 
fanatics and crime show junkies alike to 
binge through the weekend. 
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgGators take down Ole Miss behind stout defense
Netﬂ  ix premieres new special
Watching the national 
championship game 
made me realize a 
couple things.
One, I don’t think 
a team has ever made me realize 
that football ﬁ  elds are too short 
like LSU’s offense did all season.  
Two, these games start way 
too late and go on for way too 
long.
Among all of the tweets ques-
tioning whether Joe Burrow is a human being 
and the endless “I’m taking the Tigers” predic-
tions that made me roll my eyes and die a little 
on the inside were a barrage of just how end-
lessly long this football game was.
Legend has it that you could have ﬁ  t An-
dre Debose’s entire career at Florida within the 
ﬁ  rst quarter and a half of the game.
It clocked in at roughly four hours long, 
which is equivalent to watching the entirety of 
“Gone With the Wind” or playing “1917” and 
“Joker” back to back. 
It certainly didn’t help that the game didn’t 
kick off until 8:18 on a Monday night. That 
already makes it difﬁ  cult for most people to 
watch it in the ﬁ  rst place. 
The biggest culprit of college football’s ev-
er-increasing game length has to be the num-
ber of commercial breaks. Was anyone actu-
ally excited to watch what was happening in 
Fansville rather than the next drive?
I didn’t think so.
No matter if it’s the SEC on CBS or ESPN 
showing a big game, it just feels like these 
commercial breaks take up way too much 
time. We’re at the point where the SEC and the Pac-12 have introduced count-
down clocks at games during 
commercial breaks, like we’re just 
waiting on some Hot Pockets to 
ﬁ  nish cooking in the microwave. 
Broadcast networks and the 
NCAA should take inspiration 
from hockey and soccer broad-
casts (the only time I will ever rec-
ommend that someone take point-
ers from the NHL on NBC). The 
more ﬂ  uid nature of both sports 
make an exact parallel difﬁ  cult, but watching 
both sports makes me realize just how much 
football screws this up. 
With hockey, it’s simple: three commercial 
breaks per period with two intermissions. It’s 
perfect, and it shows that it’s possible to get a 
sport with 60 minutes of actual action down to 
under three hours.
Soccer is even more radical and contin-
ues to prove that it is quite possibly the most 
un-American sport possible. No commercial 
breaks during both halves with ads being 
shown at halftime. Even for big matches, I can 
count on an English Premier League game end-
ing in under two hours.
For anyone who wasn’t an LSU or Clemson 
fan, it was awfully tempting to just turn the 
game off at halftime and get some sleep before 
work or class the next day. Even playing the 
game on a Saturday night like almost any other 
big college football game would make it easier.
Meanwhile, I, a guy who regularly watches 
hockey games that start at 10 p.m., found it 
difﬁ  cult to make it through college football’s 
biggest event of the year. 
And that’s a shame.Fix start times and commercial breaksLock, Stock and Farrell
Brendan Farrell
twitter: @Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2020
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - close“PITCH”er Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
with Karaoke!WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
MEN’S TENNISBy Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Four games. Four ranked op-
ponents. 
Florida’s women’s basket-
ball team is in the midst of a 
four-game stretch of match ups 
against top-25 teams. This se-
ries of tough opponents began 
against then-No.14 and now-
No. 11 Kentucky on Sunday, in 
which UF lost handily 65-45 at 
home. 
The Gators stay in Gainesville 
to host No. 24 Tennessee on 
Thursday before traveling to 
College Station, Texas, to play 
No. 12 Texas A&M. Then, they 
head to Fayetteville, Arkansas, 
a week later to face No. 23 Ar-
kansas. 
This season’s track record for 
Florida (11-6, 2-2 SEC) does not 
favor the upcoming games. 
UF hasn’t beaten a ranked 
team this year. Indiana, Flori-
da State, Mississippi State and Kentucky were all in the top 20 
when they played the orange 
and blue.
They all beat the Gators by 
an average of 25 points. 
In fact, the FSU game was the 
only one decided by less than 
20 points (66-55). For coach 
Cam Newbauer’s squad to have 
a chance, here are three things 
that will need to happen. 
Briggs Must Score
Freshman guard Lavender 
Briggs went into the Kentucky 
game leading the team in scor-
ing at 14.6 points per game. De-
spite 33 minutes of action, she 
scored only two points against 
the Wildcats. 
Upcoming opponents have 
too much offensive ﬁ  repower 
for UF’s most lethal scorer to 
be ineffective again. Tennessee 
guard Rennia Davis averages 
17.4 points a game, while Texas 
A&M guard Chennedy Carter 
averages 21.9. If the Gators put 
out a 45-point performance of-fensively as they did against UK, 
and Briggs scores in single dig-
its, it is unlikely they have any 
chance to pull out wins in these 
games.
Turnovers Must Decrease
Florida turned the ball over 
25 times against Kentucky. The 
Wildcats turned those into 31 
points. Seven of those turnovers 
came from Briggs, while six 
came from guard Kiara Smith, 
UF’s other primary ball-handler. 
“We got sped up too much 
by (Kentucky’s) defensive pres-
sure,” Newbauer said. “And it 
led to not very good offensive 
basketball on our end.”
Rebounding Must Improve
Another killer for Florida 
against the Wildcats was UK’s 
offensive rebounds. Kentucky 
hauled in 19 offensive boards 
and turned those into 13 sec-
ond-chance points. UF’s next 
two opponents have offenses 
talented enough already. Ten-
nessee and Texas A&M average 75.3 and 72.7 points per game, 
respectively. It will make win-
ning much harder on the Gators 
if they allow extra opportunities 
like that. 
“Some of the box-outs that 
work in non-conference aren’t 
the same that work in-confer-
ence,” Newbauer said. “They’re 
longer, stronger people.” 
Rebounding is a matter of 
toughness, and Newbauer has 
preached it to his team heading 
into this stretch of games. That 
must show itself more at some 
point to reign victorious in any 
of these upcoming contests.
“We stressed (toughness) 
before the (Kentucky) game. 
That was something we were 
going to have to have on offense 
and defense.” Newbauer said. 
“Twenty-ﬁ  ve turnovers and 19 
offensive rebounds is not tough-
ness.”
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.org
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
A battle of No. 1 vs. No. 2. A Fi-
nal Four rematch. A non-conference 
reigning national champion coming 
to Gainesville in January.
That is what we have this after-
noon when the No. 2-ranked and 
defending national champion Texas 
Longhorns come to the Ring Tennis 
Complex to take on the No. 1 Gators. 
The match kicks off at 5 p.m. and 
is one of the biggest regular-season matches in recent program history.
The separation between UF and 
UT is incredibly slim. In the Oracle/
ITA Preseason Rankings, UF re-
ceived ﬁ  ve ﬁ  rst-place votes, while 
UT received four.
Both teams are coming in with 
momentum. Florida had a dominant 
opening weekend, besting Furman 
6-1 and FAU 7-0 while going 11-1 in 
singles and 4-0 in doubles. For Tex-
as, this is its ﬁ  rst dual match of the 
season, but it is coming off a com-
manding performance in the Miami 
Invitational this past weekend, win-ning at least nine matches each of 
the three days.
Revenge will also be on the mind 
of the Gators. In 2019, Florida had 
one of the best seasons in school his-
tory and made the Final Four for the 
ﬁ  rst time since 2005 and for only the 
third time ever. However, its season 
ended in Orlando at the hands of the 
Longhorns 4-2 on May 18.
UF’s returning talent and depth 
is why the Gators began the sea-
son No. 1. However, Texas is still 
a strong team, led by No. 2 Yuya 
Ito, who won the ITA National Fall Championships and ITA All-Ameri-
can Championships in singles this 
past fall. In the latter, he defeated 
Gator sophomore Sam Rifﬁ  ce in 
straight sets.
Florida will look to defeat a reign-
ing national champion for the sec-
ond year in a row at the Ring. It beat 
Wake Forest 5-2 in March.
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida continues stiﬀ   schedule with 3 ranked opponents coming up
UF faces Texas in clash between top 2 teams in countrySamantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Gators guard Lavender Briggs averages 
13.8 points and 5.6 rebounds per game.
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Lukas Greif had a singles win 
against FAU Saturday.
