Aubrey Bocalan & Shannon Ahern / / Alligator StaffALLIGATOR     MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020   SPECIAL EDITION
STUDENTS WHO LIVE ON CAMPUS CAN VOTE AT 
THE REITZ UNION
By Rachel Slay
Alligator Staff Writer
As the November election approaches despite the CO -
VID-19 pandemic, UF students both on and off campus 
have different options for how to cast their vote. 
UF students who plan to vote in the presidential elec -
tion this November can do so by mail or in person. If they 
live on campus, they can vote at the Reitz Union on the 
ground floor of the Career Connections Center.  
Early voting opens on Oct. 19 and lasts until Oct. 31. 
On-campus early voting will be open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
There are six early voting polling places in Alachua 
County, including the Reitz, and the addresses can be 
found on the Supervisor of Elections’ website. Voters can 
vote at any of these during the early voting window. 
Each voter has a precinct, or designated location, to 
vote on Election Day based on their residential address – 
and that is the only place he or she can vote.  For example, 
a student who lives at Gainesville Place Apartments can -
not vote at the Reitz. To find his or her voting location, he 
or she needs to go to the Supervisor of Elections website 
or contact its office. 
Students who do not live on campus may vote at pre -
cincts around Alachua County. Voters can find their pre -
cinct location by inputting their address on the Alachua 
County Supervisor of Elections’ website. 
Students registered in another county may not vote 
in Alachua County. If they cannot vote in person in the 
county they are registered for, they may request a mail-in 
ballot. 
Students have until Oct. 24 to request a vote-by-mail 
ballot from their county. Voter ballots should arrive within 
two business days of a request. If a ballot does not arrive 
within a reasonable time, students should contact their lo -cal Supervisor of Elections office. 
Alachua County absentee ballots can be returned di -
rectly to the county’s office at 515 N. Main St., Suite 300 or 
by mail, according to the county’s Vote-by-Mail FAQ page. 
Vote-by-mail ballots cannot be taken to a voting pre -
cinct on Nov. 3, Election Day. They should be returned 
to the county’s office, either by mail or dropped off in 
person, before Election Day. 
Along with the 2020 presidential race, six state amend -ments will appear on the Alachua County ballot. They 
cover topics like changing two words in Florida’s consti -
tution, requiring voter-approved legislation to be passed 
twice and raising the minimum wage. 
According to data from the National Study of Learning, 
Voting, and Engagement, 64.2% of UF students partici -
pated in the 2016 presidential election. UF saw an increase 
of 3.5% from the 2012 election. 
Any additional questions about voting by mail or voter 
information can be sent to votebymail@alachuacounty.us.
@racheljslay
rslay@alligator.org
MORALE MAY BE LOW, 
BUT COMMUNITY 
MEMBERS AND LEADERS 
ENCOURAGE ONE 
ANOTHER 
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Staff Writer 
Tyra Edwards feels tired and 
ready for the election to end. 
Edwards, 50, plans on driv -
ing with her family in a full SUV 
from her Ironwood residence to 
the Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections on North Main Street. 
She will drop off a vote-by-mail 
ballot in the metal box adjacent 
to the building on the first day of 
early voting. 
With the general election less 
than two weeks away, voters are 
encouraging relatives to fight vot -
er apathy. The added challenge 
of the COVID-19 pandemic has 
pushed Gainesville residents, and 
voters throughout the nation, to 
request vote-by-mail ballots.  
Edwards did not want to risk 
losing her vote in transit. Her 
31-year-old son and 24-year-old 
daughter will be casting their 
votes alongside hers, and she has 
encouraged her five grandchildren 
to witness their elders voting. She 
wanted to set an example for 
them. “Every time I run into people 
and we’re talking, I ask: ‘Will you 
be voting? When will you be vot -
ing?’” she said.   
Edwards believes morale is 
low in her community. Marginal -
ized communities with limited re -
sources and opportunities priori -
tize putting food on the table and 
paying rent. Usually, they are not 
thinking about voting, she said.
She’s participated in every 
election for the past ten years and 
votes Democrat. Healthcare is one 
of the issues that Edwards is con -
cerned about. She hopes to see 
Obamacare remain intact after the 
elections and worries for all the 
people she knows who rely on it. 
East Gainesville residents have 
a promising chance of surpassing 
voter turnout from the previous 
elections, said TJ Pyche, director 
of communications and outreach 
at the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections.
But he won’t know for certain 
how many more people registered 
and voted until after the elections 
are over.
For two weekends, Pyche par -
ticipated in neighborhood walks 
through precinct 33, which cov -
ers from Northeast 16th Avenue 
to Northeast 39th Avenue. He 
knocked on doors and took ten 
steps back before delivering vot -ing information to East Gainesville 
residents. 
“They seem to know and have 
a plan for how they are going to 
vote,” he said. “There are societal 
barriers to voting. By sending out 
information, by going to people’s 
neighborhoods, we hope to kind 
of break through some of that, 
and encourage people to partici -
pate.” 
He helped residents update 
voter registrations before the Oct. 
6 deadline and requested mail 
ballots for them. He remembers 
meeting a lot of first-time voters. 
“We’re confident that the com -
munity is going to turn out and 
have the necessary tools to do 
so,” he said. “Folks are excited 
and I think people are engaged.” 
Evelyn Foxx, president of 
NAACP Gainesville Chapter, has 
no doubt there will be a signifi -
cant turnout of Black voters in 
East Gainesville. 
Fox believes East Gainesville’s 
faith leaders and activists have 
done their part by combing the 
neighborhoods to register and in -
form first-time voters. The NAACP 
distributed informational pam -
phlets explaining each amend -
ment on the ballot. 
“There will be a complete 
change with voter turnout. I think 
people are very upset,” she said. “And they want their voices to be 
heard.” 
The deadline to request a vote-
by-mail ballot for the 2020 Gen -
eral Election is 5 p.m. on Oct. 24. 
Armando Grundy-Gomes, 40, 
feels drained from the nation -
wide political tension. However, 
as a U.S. Army veteran, he feels 
adamant about his right to cast a 
ballot. 
“I want to repeal and replace,” 
Grundy-Gomes said. “If you’re 
looking for a specific outcome, if 
you don’t cast your ballot, then 
there is no outcome. You have 
to accept the results as whatever 
they may fall.” 
Grundy-Gomes will do what 
it takes to make sure his vote 
counts. He opted for early-voting 
and will be submitting his ballot 
at Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections. Grundy-Gomes  encour -
aged his friends and family to 
join him Monday to drop off their 
votes as soon as early voting is 
permitted.
He said East Gainesville resi -
dents like himself are tired but 
remain vigilant about taking their 
concerns to the polls. 
Doris Edwards, 73, wants can -
didates who care about her com -
munity. The night before going to 
the Supervisor of Elections office, 
she filled out her information with a ball-point pen, signed her name 
and enclosed her ballot. 
She prayed over the pink en -
velope before bed. The following 
morning, she pulled her hair back 
into a bun and put on a pair of 
black jeans. She wanted to dress 
up for the occasion. 
“There is just a feeling of ac -
complishment when you do it,” 
she said. “There’s a deep bone 
marrow pride. When you do it, 
it’s like you own something. And I 
love doing that. But this year, it’s 
different.”
As the president of the Lincoln 
Estates Neighborhood, Edwards 
considers herself a super voter. 
She encourages fellow residents 
to vote, and if they need a ride, 
she’ll get them in touch with vol -
unteers who are willing to take 
them. 
She does community outreach 
from her home while minimizing 
her potential exposure to COV -
ID-19. Despite having to stay in -
doors, the act of voting has kept 
her hopeful. 
“It changes your whole life 
when you can get someone in of -
fice that thinks about you and the  
problems that you have rather 
than sitting back and not voting,” 
she said.
@EdysmarDiazCruz
ediaz-cruz@alligator.orgWhen, where and how to vote on campus 
East Gainesville residents feel drained yet eager to vote early Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Linda Spurny takes a selfie with her ballot as she drops it off in front of the Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections Office on Thursday, Oct. 15, 2020. She said she took the photo to ensure it is counted.
We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  
pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Endorsements from the Editorial Board
One Mill Ad Valorem Tax would bring millions to public schools, 
pg. 17
Education funding up for renewal
The Alligator weighs in on local races and amendments ahead of 
November election, pg. 10Se habla espa ñol
El Caimán, The Alligator’s Spanish-
language section, makes its print 
debut, pg. 14
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 8
IF ELECTED, ADAM CHRISTENSEN 
WOULD BE THE COUNTRY’S 
YOUNGEST DEMOCRATIC 
CONGRESSPERSON
By Steven Walker
Alligator Staff Writer
Monetary contributions:  $138,679.96
T otal spending:  $68,397.13
All information from FEC
Adam Christensen wakes up at 6 a.m. to 
coach the Oak Hall School boys varsity soccer 
team before he hits the campaign trail a few 
hours later.
The 27-year-old small business owner and 
Democratic nominee is the leader of one of 
the youngest congressional campaigns in 
the country. He is looking to flip Florida’s 
3rd Congressional District, which has stayed 
Republican since Ted Yoho won the seat in 
2012. Christensen is running against the Re -publican nominee, 
Kat Cammack, Yo -
ho’s former deputy 
chief of staff.
Running a cam -
paign is much like 
coaching a team, 
Christensen said. 
He thinks in both 
campaigning and 
in soccer, it’s the 
work that nobody 
sees that gives his 
team the edge to win.
“If you do it right, you not only close the 
gap, but you can shock some people,” he said.
Christensen would shock some people if 
he wins Florida’s 3rd congressional district. 
The Cook Partisan Voting Index rated the dis -
trict as an R+9 “solid Republican” district in 
2018. Yoho, who is not seeking re-election as 
of now, won his four elections by an average 
of 24 percentage points.KAT CAMMACK HAS BEEN 
INFLUENCED BY HER BACKGROUND 
AND HER VALUES AS A 
CONSERVATIVE
By Anna Wilder 
Alligator Staff Writer
Monetary contributions:  $803,988.26
T otal spending:  $570,672.63
All information from FEC
Kat Cammack woke up at 4:30 a.m. 
Wednesday for her interview on “Fox & 
Friends,” followed by about a dozen Zoom 
meetings. Her focus throughout the day is on 
her campaign. 
Cammack considers herself a “constitu -
tional conservative.” 
“My job, and my oath and my loyalties are 
to the United States constitution,” she said.The 32-year-old 
is running as the 
Republican District 
3 representative in 
Congress, replac -
ing Republican U.S. 
Rep. Ted Yoho, 
who is not seek -
ing re-election as 
of now. Cammack 
was a former depu -
ty chief of staff for 
the congressman from 2011 to Dec. 2019.  
Cammack’s campaign policies touch on 
immigration, protecting life at conception, 
supporting the second amendment and the 
military, repealing Obamacare, returning con -
trol of education back to the states and more. 
However, out of these, she said the most 
prominent issue right now is fiscal spending. Meet the Congressional District 3 candidates 
SEE CHRISTENSEN,  PAGE 6 SEE CAMMACK,  PAGE 6
UF STUDENT DECIDES 
TO WORK AT THE POLLS 
TO HELP PREVENT 
OLDER ADULTS FROM 
CONTRACTING COVID-19
By Aurora Martinez
Alligator Staff Writer 
After noticing the overwhelm -
ing number of poll workers at risk 
of having health complications as -
sociated with COVID-19 due to their 
age, Diarmuid Swan decided to give 
it a try.
“It was the pandemic that really 
led me to consider doing it,” Swan 
said.
Swan, a 24-year-old UF political 
science junior, is one of about 2,000 
people who applied this year to be 
poll workers in Alachua County for 
the coming general election Nov. 3. 
Swan, who first voted in 2016, said 
he believes people need to do more than just vote in elections to make a 
difference in the U.S. 
Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections spokesperson TJ Pyche 
said the number of college-age stu -
dents interested in being poll work -
ers has considerably increased com -
pared to previous years.
Poll workers on Election Day are 
paid between $150 to $280 based 
on their positions, including being 
a clerk, who looks over most tasks; 
and voting machine operators, who 
greet voters, check IDs and verify 
and update voter information. Due 
to COVID-19, there will be desig -
nated poll workers tasked with sani -
tizing electronic pens and cleaning 
voting areas throughout the day, 
Pyche said.
Workers receive their payment 
in the form of a check about four 
weeks after Election Day, Pyche 
said. 
Swan will be paid $180 for op -
erating a voting machine but said the money was not a factor in his 
decision. He said he wants to have 
firsthand knowledge of how elec -
tions work and possible flaws that 
might exist.
Poll workers are required to be 
at their assigned location from 5:45 
a.m. until about an hour after 7 
p.m., once the location has closed.
Swan was assigned at the 25th 
precinct, Santa Fe College’s Charles 
L. Blount Center in downtown 
Gainesville. Pyche said each loca -
tion will have between seven and 
10 workers. 
Swan said the poll worker appli -
cation process was easy and com -
pletely online. Once approved, he 
attended a five-hour training session 
at the SOE building to learn how to 
operate the voting machines.
About 10 other prospective poll 
workers attended the training ses -
sion with him and practiced social 
distancing at all times, he said. 
On Election Day, every poll worker is required to remain non-
partisan in their appearance. They 
are not allowed to wear political at -
tire or speak in any way that sug -
gests their candidate preference, 
Pyche said.
Pyche said all election workers 
are required to wear masks and all 
polling locations will allow for social 
distancing. Voters are encouraged to 
wear masks. Maskless voters will be 
offered a face covering but will be 
allowed to vote if they decline. 
Swan said he is planning to stay 
by making sure he doesn’t hold vot -
ers’ IDs and constantly cleaning the 
electronic pens voters use to sign. 
“It’s really gonna be on our end 
to protect ourselves and not really 
on the voters,” Swan said.
He said that although people are 
voting by mail due to COVID-19, 
he still expects to see long lines 
and many people voting in person 
because they do not trust USPS to 
deliver their ballots. Despite the training he received, 
he is more worried about making a 
mistake while using the voting ma -
chines than contracting COVID-19.
For the primary elections on 
Aug. 18, Alachua County had a 
shortage in poll workers. However, 
for this coming election, the SOE 
has received about 2,000 applica -
tions, and only about 600 have been 
accepted. The rest are on stand-by, 
Pyche said.
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
he estimated about 80% of election 
workers and applicants were over 
the age of 60. Now, he said, it is 
about 50%.
“Anecdotally, it used to be once 
in a blue moon when we would 
see a young person — somebody 
perhaps under 25 — apply for one 
of these positions or apply to be an 
election worker,” Pyche said.
@AuroraCeciliaM
amartinez@alligator.org Part of the political process: One student’s choice to become a poll worker (R) Kat Cammack, 32
 (D) Adam Christensen, 27
T oday’s Weather
ISSN 0889-24234   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 8
A GUIDE TO ENSURING A MAIL-IN BALLOT IS 
RECEIVED AND COUNTED IN 
ALACHUA COUNTY
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
With rising concerns of contracting COVID-19 from 
in-person voting, Alachua County voters may find them -
selves wanting to make their voices heard from home 
through mail-in ballots.
Voting by mail is a popular option for voters this 
year, as the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections of -
fice reports more than 31,000 mail-in ballots were already 
counted as of Oct. 16.
Voters must renew their mail-in ballot request every 
two general elections, according to state statutes. Mail-in 
ballots can be requested on the county supervisor of elec -
tions’ website until Oct. 24. They can take five to six days 
to arrive but can also be picked up from the supervisor of 
elections office, located at 515 N. Main St., with a picture 
and signature ID. 
Instructions on how to fill it out will arrive with the 
ballot. The ovals next to the intended candidate must be 
filled completely. If a voter makes a mistake, they should 
request a new ballot. 
The next step is to seal the ballot in the return enve -
lope provided and sign the voter's certificate on the back 
of the envelope. Voters should use the same signature 
shown on their government-issued ID or the supervisor of elections office may invalidate the ballot. Including the 
secrecy sleeve, another envelope meant to protect the in -
tegrity of the ballot, is recommended but will not stop a 
ballot from being counted.
Mail-in ballots must be received by 7 p.m. on Nov. 
3, so voters should send them back as soon as possible. 
While most voters will send their ballots through the mail, 
there are other options available. Ballots can be dropped 
off at the supervisor of elections’ office before Election 
Day. Drop boxes will also be available outside early vot -
ing locations from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m until Oct. 31. 
After the ballot is dropped off or sent back to the su -
pervisor of elections’ office, its status can be tracked on -
line. This is the most accurate way to ensure that your 
ballot is received and counted.
The Alachua County Supervisor of Elections Office 
can be contacted Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. at 352-374-5252. Residents who speak Spanish 
can call toll free at 833-875-0365. Information about vote-
by-mail can also be obtained by emailing votebymail@
alachuacounty.us. 
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinions Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett MullenaxHow to successfully fill 
out a mail-in-ballot
VALUE CHECKING account
visa®  platinum reward credit cardWe have better ways to help 
you manage your money!
Member owned. Community proud.™ Since 1954Take advantage of no monthly fee  and 
no minimum balance requirement  in a checking 
account backed by friendly local service since 1954!
With an introductory rate of 0% APR* for 15 mos.** 
for balance transfers and new purchases , 
get more purchasing power!
*APR = Annual Percentage Rate. **0% offer for Visa Reward, Visa Wave and Visa Rate 
card. Fresh Start, Business and HELOC not eligible for promotion. 0.00% Introductory APR 
for 15 monthly billing cycles following the issuance of the account. After that, your rate will 
be 12.90%-17.90%. This APR will vary with the market based on the Prime Rate. Promotion 
for new cards only, transfers and/or existing FCU cards or loans are not eligible. Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) on purchases and balance transfers will be fully indexed APRs, which 
are currently the APRs set forth in the agreement here. Offer expires November 30, 2020.
Federally insured by NCUA FCUMKVS0100-0820flcu.org | (352) 377-4141CHUCK CLEMONS IS THE INCUMBENT WHO 
EMPHASIZES THE ENVIRONMENT, EDUCATION 
AND AGRICULTURE 
By Steven Walker
Alligator Staff Writer
Republican
Campaign Finances
Monetary contributions:  $386,109.20
T otal spending:  $165,262.86
All information from Florida Department of State Division of 
Elections
Chuck Clemons, who has represented Florida’s 21st House 
District since 2016, is running for a third term this November.
The 63-year-old incumbent Republican is running against 
Democratic nominee Kayser Enneking to represent Florida’s 
21st House District in Tallahassee. Enneking lost a race for 
Florida Senate District 8 against Keith Perry in 2018. Clemons’ 
platform emphasizes protecting the environment, funding edu -
cation and supporting agriculture. He won his last bid for re-
election in 2018 by about 2,000 votes.
As the Chair of the Agriculture and Natural Resources Com -
mittee in the Florida House of Representatives, Clemons said 
the environment is vitally important to him. In 2018, he pro -
posed a bill to ban fracking in Florida. Fracking is a natural gas 
drilling method considered to be harmful to the environment. 
The bill died in committee without ever reaching a vote.
“We have to push back on some of the pressure that human 
beings are placing onto our environment in Florida,” Clemons 
said. “That’s why I’ve been staunch about banning fracking.”
Environmental conservation is one of the campaign’s major 
focuses, Clemons said. He helped secure $200 million in Flor -
ida’s annual budget to go towards natural spring restoration. 
There are multiple springs in Clemons’ district, such as Ginnie 
Springs in Gilchrist County.Education is an important and personal issue, Clemons said. 
He is a first-generation college graduate. Clemons attended 
Lake City Community College, now known as Florida Gateway 
College, and then graduated from UF in 1979 with a degree in 
advertising. 
In March 2020, Clemons voted in favor of budgeting $500 
million to increase teacher salaries in Florida. The bill passed 
unanimously through both the House and the Senate. 
“I’m proud to have been a part of that progress,” he said.
Clemons also works in higher education. He is the Santa Fe 
College vice president of advancement where he helps secure 
scholarship funding for first-generation students, underrepre -
sented populations and non-traditional students.
Much of Florida House District 21 is rural, and agriculture is 
a large part of Clemons’ platform. Clemons said he continues 
to fight for the state to provide local farmers with guidance on 
issues such as pesticides and regulations.
Clemons does not always vote along party lines. He said 
he is proud of voting against two of the first five House bills of 
the 2020 legislative session. These bills were favorites of House 
Speaker Republican José Oliva and voting against them was 
breaking party lines, he said. Clemons was a Democrat up until 
1998, when he said the party began moving too far to the left.
In wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, Clemons’ campaign ad -
justed its tactics. The campaign shut down in-person canvass -
ing in the spring but has since resumed the practice. Clemons 
said the campaign is knocking on doors and standing up to 15 
feet away in order to physically distance.
“We’ve had several people say, ‘You know, you’re the first 
state representative that’s ever knocked on my door, and I’ve 
lived here for 32 years,’” Clemons said. “So that’s very reward -
ing.”
Clemons said he has utilized Zoom to campaign to groups 
such as the Florida Nursery Growers and Landscape Associa -
tion and the Builders Association of North Central Florida. He 
said he’s had to get used to the digital platforms, and he’s spo -
ken with dozens of organizations through Zoom.Nicole McEwan, a 20-year-old UF political science junior, is 
an intern for Clemons’ campaign. McEwan said he cares more 
about education than other candidates she’s seen. This in turn 
makes him more receptive and considerate to his student cam -
paign interns, she said. 
Clemons is passionate about what he does, McEwan said, 
and it’s one of the main reasons she supports him.
“I’ve gotten to see how passionate he is about what he is 
doing,” McEwan said. “He’s really dedicated to changing the 
community and representing the public interest.”
@swalker_7 
swalker@alligator.org Meet the Florida House of Representatives District 21 candidates 
ENNEKING IS A PHYSICIAN WHO WANTS TO 
CHANGE FLORIDA’S HEALTH DISPARITIES 
SHE’S SEEN FIRSTHAND 
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
Democrat
Campaign Finances
Monetary contributions:  $497,735.40
T otal spending:  $273,338.28
All information from Florida Department of State Division of 
Elections
Dr. Kayser Enneking’s years of work as a physician have 
opened her eyes to issues in Florida’s communities, such as lack of nutrition and education and homeslessness, which are 
roots of the disparities in the healthcare system. 
The Gainesville native and UF anesthesiology professor is 
the Democratic nominee for the Florida House of Representa -
tives District 21.
Enneking’s policies are based on affordable health care, 
COVID-19 recovery, education, economic opportunity, pro -
tecting the environment, reforming gun laws and putting fami -
lies first. 
She is running against Republican nominee Chuck Clem -
ons. Clemons is running for his third term in the Florida House 
of Representatives. He won his last bid for re-election in 2018 
by 2,000 votes. 
Enneking first ran, and lost, in 2018 as a first time candi -
date against Republican Keith Perry for Florida’s 8th district 
senate seat. She said it was a bruising election and believed 
many people in the community felt like the vote had been 
stolen from her. 
“It didn’t feel like it was a fair n’ square race,” Enneking 
said. “I couldn’t go to Publix without seeing someone and 
them saying ‘Ah they robbed you, you should’ve been state 
senator.’”
She lost the election by 1%. She said losing made her think 
she wasn’t cut out to run as a politician. However, she said 
there were a lot of people who pushed her to run again. 
“I kind of had an obligation to use the name recognition I 
had and all the time and energy and money that people had 
put into me to make sure I did something good with it,” En -
neking said. “And so, that’s how I find myself running again.” 
The basic care of our communities is lacking, Enneking 
said. Through experiences with patients, she has seen the 
healthcare system fail at the basic levels. 
Enneking said she wants to emulate a North Carolina pro -
gram called NCCARE360 in Florida. It allows health care pro -
viders who notice patients who are dealing with food insecu -
rity, housing security, education security or homelessness, to 
make a referral to a hub, she said. This hub can then refer pa -
tients to programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program or housing and education sites for them to receive 
better care. 
“There are a bunch of services that are out there for people, 
but they’re just not very well connected up,” Enneking said. “And oftentimes, folks who have some of these problems are 
not the most savvy at navigating our system.”
In March, when the World Health Organization declared 
COVID-19 a pandemic, Enneking said she worked hard at her 
hospital preparing for what she thought would be a rush of pa -
tients. She believes it was extremely arrogant and short-sight -
ed of Gov. Ron DeSantis to push to start re-opening in May. 
Although new teachers did get a pay raise in Florida in 
June, Enneking said there are veteran teachers, bus drivers, 
office staff and employees that need one too. 
“Schools are important, they’re important for our kids, but 
they’re important part communities as well, and our commu -
nities, and they’re part of the sort of fabric that knits us all 
together,” Enneking said. 
In terms of gun violence, she supports the “Moms Demand 
Action’’ approach, which is helping to understand issues that 
will help with gun safety. She said it’s really important to not 
propose ideas that cut off conversation and talk about these 
common sense policies that actually reduce gun violence. 
Ground zero for climate change is here in Florida, Ennek -
ing said. She said Florida needs to get to the root of this prob -
lem and needs to be investing in a different energy source than 
fossil fuels. 
“Climate change is real, baby, and it is an existential cri -
sis,” Enneking said. “...I’ll be damned if I sit around and I 
don’t do anything about this.”
Amanda Rivera, a 23-year-old UF political science master’s 
student, is Enneking’s field director. She said she is really pas -
sionate about getting a good Democrat in the House District 
21 seat. 
Rivera said voters of House District 21 will see that Ennek -
ing is not the average politician, and she has Florida’s best 
interest at heart. 
“She really is a doctor with Florida’s best interest at heart 
and the district’s best interests at heart, and I think that vot -
ers will see that, and we will be victorious on November 3,” 
Rivera said. 
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.org
MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
grifolsplasma.comNew Plasma Donors EARN $300 for 4 donations!*
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!004IA
New donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.
 Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!*
* when applicable
*fees subject to change without notice. We DO NOT pay by WEIGHT!
004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 7/16/20   12:27 PM7/16/20   12:27 PM
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
STANDARD GARAGE  
BY UF NOW OPEN!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable monthly & yearly rates!Despite past election results, this race is closer than one 
would think, Christensen said. He thinks Yoho only won elec -
tions by such big margins because of his name recognition. 
Christensen said he does not consider his policy platform to 
be radical. He said his number one policy priority is small busi -
ness growth and protecting small businesses from monopolies 
and big corporations. 
“We haven’t been growing, we’ve been stagnant for a very 
long time,” Christensen said. “I think people are sick of that.” 
Born in Kansas and raised in Indiana, Christensen traveled 
the country after college before settling down in Gainesville at 
age 22 to start his business. He’s the CEO of Essential Validation 
Services, a biotechnology laboratory that tests natural products 
such as essential oils and CBD.
Christensen said he wants to put small business incubators 
in every county in the district so people with an idea for a busi -
ness don’t move somewhere else. Small business incubators are 
spaces where small businesses can rent space with other small 
businesses in a community to grow together. 
He also said he is passionate about protecting college stu -dents from student loan debt. Christensen’s platform supports 
making higher education free to all who want it.
Although Election Day is Nov. 3, early voting in Alachua 
County starts Oct. 19. The campaign is going to up its pace in 
these last few weeks, Christensen said. 
“We just hit fourth gear,” he said. “We’re about to hit fifth, 
and this is a six-speed.”
Christensen supports universal basic income, a policy popu -
larized by former Democratic presidential candidate Andrew 
Yang, according to his campaign website. Universal basic in -
come is a policy where the government allows every adult to 
opt into a stipend every month in place of welfare programs.
“Here’s your money back from the government, go spend it 
however you want,” Christensen wrote in a tweet.
Christensen also supports Medicare For All, a policy spon -
sored by former Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sand -
ers. The policy proposes a universal single-payer healthcare sys -
tem where people pay for healthcare through the government.
In Gainesville, organizers marched from UF’s campus to 
downtown multiple times in response to the death of George 
Floyd. Christensen marched with the protesters and said he 
supports reallocating funding from police budgets to other so -cial services.
“The funding needs to go to make sure that we’re actually 
investing in things that lower crime,” he said.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the campaign evolved 
and changed. Anton Kernohan, a 21-year-old UF political sci -
ence and sustainability junior, is Christensen’s campaign man -
ager. The campaign was built for a situation like this because of 
how young everyone is, he said. 
“We are lucky that we designed our campaign to be entirely 
youth-led,” Kernohan said. “That meant we knew how to use 
social media, and we knew how to run a virtual campaign.”
Despite the focus shift to online platforms, the campaign has 
had to adapt to the competition. Kernohan said the campaign 
has been knocking on doors again as the campaign hits the final 
stretch.
The doors the campaign knocks on are in places that nor -
mally do not vote Democratic, Christensen said. In order to get 
people to open their doors, Christensen said the campaign has 
been employing creative strategies, like wearing red shirts in -
stead of blue, a color associated with the Democratic party.
@swalker_7 
swalker@alligator.org 
Cammack is running against Adam Chris -
tensen, the Democratic nominee. Her goal: 
standing in Congress alongside President 
Trump. He first endorsed Cammack on Sept. 
10 via Twitter. She also spoke at his campaign 
rally on Friday in Ocala.
“Our country in the next 20 days is going to 
be making a decision between socialism and 
freedom,” Cammack said. “And that is really 
what the nexus of this election is all about.”
Cammack grew up on a cattle farm as the 
daughter of a single mother. Her family ran a 
commercial sandblasting and monument busi -
ness. Growing up, she saw gaps in how the 
federal government directed funding to small 
businesses.
“Really seeing how the government, partic -
ularly big government or federal government, 
did not facilitate or really create an environ -ment in which businesses could thrive,” Cam -
mack said. “I learned firsthand the red tape 
that was involved.”
In April 2011, the family ended up losing 
their small cattle ranch to a government pro -
gram called the Home Affordable Modification 
Program, a federal loan modification program 
introduced in 2009 to help homeowners avoid 
foreclosure. 
Cammack said she had 23 days to evict and 
was in hotels for several months. 
“When you’re homeless for several months, 
that uncertainty is terrifying,” Cammack said.
Cammack said the U.S. needs to make criti -
cal reform to these programs. She said it is the 
job of representatives in Washington D.C. to be 
good stewards of taxpayer money. 
“No one is talking about the mandatory 
spending in Washington that’s on autopilot, 
and that’s Social Security, Medicare and Med -
icaid,” Cammack said.
She has also been working with the North Central Florida Human Trafficking task force 
for the last seven years and said it’s an issue 
that has been swept under the rug. 
“It’s something that is happening here 
in our backyards, it’s happening here in 
Gainesville, it’s happening everywhere,” Cam -
mack said. “We collectively need to come to -
gether to make sure that no one is trafficked in 
this country or globally.”
Faith Allen, a 20-year-old UF telecommu -
nication junior, is Cammack’s press secretary. 
Allen said she is proud to support a young fe -
male conservative. 
Allen said she has been working for Cam -
mack since January and met her last August 
when she was interning with Ted Yoho for 
the fall semester of 2019. Allen said she thinks 
Cammack is going to win and said Cammack 
is fully prepared to take on the policies she 
stands with. 
“Kat is an inspiration, she’s an incredibly 
hard worker,” Allen said. “To see her really take this young team under her wing is really 
important to me.” 
In March, when everything started shut -
ting down, she said her campaign took a hit 
in fundraising due to uncertainty from donors. 
Cammack said they were able to translate their 
grassroots strategy from being in the field to 
online and over the phone. 
“While COVID has definitely turned our 
entire world upside down, we have adapted, 
and I think that’s a sign of how we will be in 
Washington,” Cammack said. 
If she wins, Cammack said she will be tak -
ing an oath to the U.S. Constitution, not to a 
party. That means representing all constitu -
ents, Democrats, Republicans and everyone 
in-between, she said.
“In this district, we have 710,000 constitu -
ents that have jobs and families and lives, and 
they need to make sure that their representa -
tive has got their back,” Cammack said. 
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgCHRISTENSEN,  from pg. 1
CAMMACK,  from pg. 1Christensen’s priority is small business growth
The biggest issue to Cammack is fiscal spendingMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
ENGINEER WANTS TO FOCUS ON 
SUSTAINABILITY, WHICH SHE 
VIEWS AS A BALANCE BETWEEN 
THE ENVIRONMENT, ECONOMY 
AND EQUITY
By Diane Hernandez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Mary Alford, 59
Democrat
Campaign Finances
Monetary Contributions:  $31,290.69
T otal Spending:  $26,298.84
All information from Voter Focus
Mary Alford is an environmental engineer 
and Santa Fe College and UF graduate who 
owns The Sustainable Design Group, an ar -
chitecture and engineering consulting firm. Al -
ford’s projects aim to reduce carbon footprints. 
Aside from her professional experience, Al -
ford was impacted by the death of her 24-year-
old son, Joseph Peter Williamson, who didn’t 
go to the emergency room when he felt sick 
because he didn’t have valid insurance. He 
was diagnosed with leukemia in 2008 and died 
a year later.
After her son’s death, Alford became in -
terested in politics, joining Alachua County’s 
Environmental Protection Board in 2013. In 
the past decade, she served on several local 
committees, including the Gainesville Utility 
Advisory Board and Alachua County Code En -
forcement Board.
“I don’t want that to happen to any other person,” she said. “Especially now with CO -
VID-19 with people that don’t have access to 
medical care.”
If elected, Alford said she would focus on 
sustainability, which she defines as a balance 
among the environment, the economy and eq -
uity.
She said the county needs to work on its 
current infrastructure and to prepare for uncer -
tainties, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and 
climate change.
“You can build the greenest building in the 
world, but if you can’t afford it, it doesn’t get 
built,” she said. “If everybody can’t have ac -
cess to the things that are good and healthy, 
then that’s not equitable.” 
Alford also said she would continue to en -
force Alachua County’s face mask order and 
occupancy limits. 
While the county financially assisted resi -
dents through the CARES Act grant, Alford said 
she would also increase food distribution to 
residents struggling with food insecurity. This 
process would begin with a coordinator who 
would identify areas where food isn’t as avail -
able, she said. 
She said she fully supports the Black Lives 
Matter movement but wouldn’t push to defund 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office. Instead, 
she would advocate for the department to hire 
social workers and mental health and sub -
stance abuse counselors to handle non-violent 
emergency situations. 
She would also advocate to move toward 
a bail-free system. The bail system keeps de -
tainees in jail until the trial. However, she said 
courts can instead use ankle bracelets or call 
the accused before their trial.Meet the District 1 County Commission candidates
THE ATTORNEY SAID SHE’S 
RUNNING TO REPRESENT THE 
WILL OF ALL ALACHUA COUNTY 
RESIDENTS
Raemi Eagle-Glenn, 40
Republican
Campaign Finances
Monetary contributions:  $26,642.96
T otal Spending:  $18,071.54
All information from Voter Focus
Raemi Eagle-Glenn is an attorney and 
owner of Everything Mac, a computer re -
pair store in Gainesville. Eagle-Glenn grad -
uated from UF’s Levin College of Law in 
2011, specializing in environmental law.
She now works on civil law cases, which 
usually deal with businesses, contracts and 
real estate, she said. She also prepared 
memorandums, or documents recording 
legal details, when former U.S. President 
Barack Obama pardoned drug trafficking 
offenders.
Eagle-Glenn believes the Alachua 
County Commission has only focused on 
Gainesville and failed to represent rural 
residents. She said she’s running because 
she wants to represent the will of the peo -
ple. 
That’s why Eagle-Glenn unsuccessfully 
threatened to sue the Alachua County Com -
mission over its face mask order in May. 
She said the mandate discriminated against 
those with medical disabilities and violated 
medical privacy.
“When I saw that the courts in this 
country were allowing local governments 
to continue with extreme regulations that 
infringe upon our basic constitutional rights, I decided I needed to take the fight 
to the ballot box,” she said. 
Eagle-Glenn believes that Gov. Ron De -
Santis’ orders were enough for Alachua 
County because the county is smaller than 
others, like Miami-Dade. Mask require -
ments and occupancy limits shouldn’t have 
been as strict as those in larger counties. 
Her store, Everything Mac, could only have 
half a person inside because of the county’s 
occupancy limits for 3 days in March. She 
appealed to the city of Gainesville, and her 
business was deemed essential. 
If elected, she said she would only en -
courage residents to wear masks. She 
would also reduce occupancy limits on 
small businesses.
Eagle-Glenn also said she believes 
that Black lives matter, which is why she 
would advocate to police all neighborhoods 
equally. After speaking to some Black men 
in Alachua County, she said they want law 
and order within their neighborhoods. She 
would advocate to fund ACSO, infrastruc -
ture and education.
The county stunted East Gainesville’s 
growth in 2016 by not allowing Seattle-
based Plum Creek Development to create a 
new city center in the area, she said. 
The main change needs to stem from 
reworking the 2021 fiscal year budget, 
Eagle-Glenn said. Loosening COVID-19 re -
strictions will allow for more development, 
which could help the Black community 
grow because jobs will become available, 
she said. If jobs grow, so will affordable 
housing, she added.
@dianehern19
dhernandez@alligator.org 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
PRIZZIA CANDIDATE PLANS 
TO PRIORITIZE EDUCATION, 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
AND NATURAL RESOURCE 
CONSERVATION
By Alan Halaly
Alligator Staff Writer
Anna Prizzia, 43
Democrat
Campaign Finances
Monetary contributions:  $46,983.01
T otal spending:  $43,125.51
All information from Voter Focus
Anna Prizzia is an alum of the Peace 
Corps and director of the UF Field and Fork 
Program, an initiative within the pantry that 
aims to solve food insecurity among students. 
She received her master’s degree in wildlife 
ecology and conservation at UF and moved 
to Alachua County in 2000. 
“As soon as I put my toes in the springs, I 
knew I’d never leave,” Prizzia said.
Although she has no experience as an 
elected official, she said she has dealt with 
bureaucracy at the university. She has 
worked alongside local governments while at 
the UF Office of Sustainability and the Field 
and Fork Program. 
Prizzia said she feels economic and ra -
cial disparities are Alachua County’s greatest 
weakness. She said she would prioritize edu -
cation, community development and natural 
resource conservation. 
If elected, she hopes to address climate change preparedness and water quality. She 
also said she would incentivize renewable 
energy in local businesses while also upgrad -
ing infrastructure to withstand increased heat 
and storms. 
During the early days of the COVID-19 
pandemic, the commission responded quick -
ly and listened to medical experts, Prizzia 
said. She cited the county’s face mask order 
and social distancing requirements. 
However, Prizzia said the commission 
could have done a better job managing 
CARES Act funding. She said the application 
process was slow, which impacted business -
es that needed money quickly. 
To Prizzia, the policy of continuing to ex -
pand westward while neglecting historically 
Black communities like East Gainesville is a 
huge problem.
Black lives matter, Prizzia said, and they 
are important to the unique character of the 
community.
Prizzia said she would bring a community 
development finance institution to Alachua 
County, which is a credit union that helps fi -
nancing for poor and impoverished residents. 
The CDFI would be funded from deposits 
made by local government and businesses.
She believes this would support equitable 
development because it would be more likely 
to lend money to people with lower credit 
scores, and she hopes to use the program to 
finance community development projects.
If elected, Prizzia said she would work 
with sheriff-elect Clovis Watson Jr. to focus 
on community policing and advocate to de -
militarize the Alachua County Sheriff’s Of -
fice. Meet the District 3 Alachua County Commission Candidates
THE REALTOR AND FORMER 
NEWBERRY COUNTY 
COMMISSIONER WANTS TO BE ‘A 
VOICE FOR THE UNHEARD ‘
Joy Glanzer, 65
Republican
Campaign Finances
Monetary Contributions:  $18,480.00
T otal spending:  $14,024.54
All information from Voter Focus
Joy Glanzer was a Newberry City Commis -
sioner until 2019 and has owned Glanzer Re -
alty, a real estate agency since 2009. She said 
she has been a public servant since joining the 
parent-teacher association at her children’s 
school at 20 years old. 
While on the city commission, she said 
she advocated to move the Alachua County 
Fairgrounds to Newberry. She believes this 
success prompted a later decision to add a 
Newberry UF-Institute for Food and Agricul -
tural Sciences extension facility. She also said 
she convinced all four male commissioners to 
budget for 8-week paid parental leave for city 
employees.
As a Newberry resident, she said she be -
lieves smaller municipalities are often ren -
dered voiceless in Alachua County politics. 
That’s why she decided to run for county of -
fice. 
“I wanted to be a voice for the unheard,” 
she said. “Even though they have a smaller 
population, they still pay the same taxes as 
they do in Gainesville, and that’s why I feel 
they need a voice.”
COVID-19 recovery efforts, a living wage 
and the creation of more affordable housing are the most important issues to Glanzer. 
If elected, she said she would work with 
sheriff-elect Watson to create a task force to 
place addicts in drug rehabilitation programs 
instead of the Alachua County Jail. She start -
ed a Newberry Nar Anon chapter, a support 
group for the families of addicts. 
The county commission deserves praise for 
adapting to challenges posed by COVID-19, 
Glanzer said. The face mask order and busi -
ness shutdowns were necessary for residents’ 
safety.
She said COVID-19 policies should be 
crafted using science-based evidence and 
listening to experts. The only measure she 
wouldn’t agree to would be checking that so -
cial distancing is followed on private property.
As a small business owner, Glanzer said 
she would relax regulations, lower taxes and 
start a task force with commissioners and 
business owners. She also said she supports a 
$15 an hour living wage so that residents can 
afford housing and rely less on social services.  
Like Prizzia, she pointed to inequities in 
Alachua County.
“You look on the east side of town and 
don’t you see the nice curbs, gutters, side -
walks and landscaping that you do on the 
west side,” Glanzer said. “You look at the east 
side schools and they don’t have new desks.”
Glanzer is an organizer with Truth and 
Reconciliation, an effort to recall Alachua 
County’s history of racial injustice and lynch -
ings. She said she believes in the importance 
of bringing injustice to light.
“If you can’t understand the past, you 
can’t move forward,” she said. 
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
RESIDENTS HAVE VOTED FOR 
THE ONE MILL INITIATIVE EVERY 
FOUR YEARS SINCE 2008
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida has some of the lowest education 
funding in the U.S. A local measure on the No -
vember ballot could prevent program losses re -
lated to budget cuts and low funding.
The One Mill Ad Valorem Tax for School 
District Operating Expenses, a measure that 
supports arts and magnet programming, coun -
selors, media specialists and technology in Ala -
chua County Public Schools, is up for renewal. 
A “yes” vote would extend the tax from July 
2021 to June 2025. 
Residents have voted on the One Mill every 
four years since 2008 and passed it each time. 
More than 75% of voters supported it in 2016. 
The measure funds music, career and mag -
net programs. It also covers partial or full sala -
ries for teachers and specialists, such as music 
teachers, counselors and librarians. The tax, if 
reapproved, is expected to raise about $17 mil -
lion for schools in the coming year.
The initiative is funded by imposing taxes at 
one mill, a tax rate. In this case, the tax rate is 
worth $1 for every $1,000 of the taxable value 
of owned property. It costs less than $7 per 
month for the average homeowner, according 
to the school board website.
Because it’s a renewal, the approval 
wouldn’t cost taxpayers any extra money.
Now, the initiative will also help address fi -
nancial effects from the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic has cost the school district 
about $16 million, which could be due to lower 
revenues as a result of less economic activity 
during the pandemic. Certain measures that 
provide the school district money earn funds 
through sales taxes, such as the Half-Cent for 
Schools, a different measure that supports fa -
cilities improvements. While the school dis -
trict’s budget has increased this year, there are 
still challenges stemming from decreased state 
funding. This is largely due to cuts to property 
taxes, which fund schools.
ACPS incurred costs totaling more than $12 
million from teacher training, personal protec -
tive equipment and extra technology purchas -
es, ACPS spokesperson Jackie Johnson said.
“It’s important for people to recognize we 
are facing a critical financial crisis worse than 
we were facing when it was first approved dur -
ing the Great Recession,” Johnson said.
The measure brought in more than $128 mil -
lion for schools since 2009, according to a 2019 
report from the One Mill Oversight Committee. 
It covers the salaries of over 300 employees and 
purchases of thousands of pieces of technology, 
ranging from computers to projectors.
The program is crucial for continuing pro -
grams that were at risk of being cut, Johnson 
said. During the Great Recession, the county’s 
music programs halved. With the tax, there is 
guaranteed funding to avoid that, she added. 
For concerned voters, Johnson said the bal -
lot language is very specific about where mon -
ey is spent, Johnson said. An oversight commit -
tee reviews all expenditures to ensure money is 
spent as voters intended. 
However, some voters are still worried 
about how the funds are used. Chanae Jackson, a 41-year-old former East 
Gainesville resident, sends her daughter to pri -
vate school because of the inequity she sees in 
public schools.
To Jackson, the initiative pushes a dispro -
portionate amount of funding into magnet pro -
grams. About 32% of funding goes to magnets 
and career programs. Black students make up 
35% of the school district’s population but only 
13% of magnet students.
“Yes, we should say yes to the One Mill,” 
she said. “But then there should have to be a 
step two. And that step two is to require that 
the district give us a plan and to show us that 
the plan is going to be equitable.”
One Mill helps fund programs like the Insti -
tute of Culinary Arts at Eastside High School. 
Students in the program learn everything 
about the culinary and hospitality industries, 
said Pam Bedford, director of the program. 
About 90% of her students ultimately end up 
in these sectors. She usually has about 100 stu -
dents each year. 
“Without this money, I don’t have a job,” 
Bedford said. “These students do not have this 
opportunity.”
The students might be seen catering with 
Centerplate, an event venue catering and hos -
pitality services business, during game days 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Bedford wonders 
where her students would be without the pro -
gram.
“We have to have it to keep these students 
engaged in learning,” she said. “You know, 
some of these students, this is the only reason 
they come to school.”
Erin Coolican-Dickman, a 39-year-old moth -
er to a seventh grader at Fort Clarke Middle School, has seen the impact of the initiative. 
When in elementary school at Glen Springs, her 
daughter, Lily, got hooked on music. She joined 
the rock band club after school and learned to 
play guitar, the bass and even the drums. She 
now plays clarinet at Fort Clarke.
Coolican-Dickman said she already voted 
for the measure on her early mail-in ballot.
“I think that having a well-rounded student 
is more important than having just complete 
focus on academics,” she said. 
@feinberg_sophie 
sfeinberg@alligator.orgBallot initiative could mean millions for Alachua County Public Schools  
THESE AMENDMENTS RANGE FROM CITY OF 
GAINESVILLE AMENDMENTS TO COUNTY-
WIDE CHARTER CHANGES
 By Steven Walker and Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writers
Local amendments on the ballot propose changes that 
could affect policy at the local level.
Six proposed amendments are to the Alachua County 
charter, and four amendments are for the City of Gainesville 
charter.
Establish a Growth Management Zone
The Establish a Growth Management Zone amendment 
would establish areas the county wants to preserve for the 
environment, said Mark Sexton, the communications and 
legislative affairs director for Alachua County. 
On the proposed zone map, the grey indicates zones that 
are already incorporated into cities while the green indicates 
the proposed growth management zone. If cities want 
to expand into the green zone, they would have to follow 
strict county environmental ordinances. The area would not 
constrain Alachua County municipalities, Sexton said. He 
said it would likely take cities decades to expand to the point 
where the county protects the area.
Municipal and County Relationship for Protection of Natural 
Resources
The Municipal and County Relationship for Protection of 
Natural Resources amendment would establish a relationship 
between cities and the county in terms of natural resources 
and the environment.
This would apply to the cities of Gainesville, Alachua, 
Newberry, Archer, High Springs, Lacrosse, Waldo, Hawthorne 
and Micanopy. If passed, cities could pass ordinances that 
are stricter, but not more lenient, than Alachua County’s 
environmental ordinances. 
Identification and Elimination of Racial and Gender Bias in 
Alachua County Policies
The Identification and Elimination of Racial and Gender 
Bias in Alachua County Policies amendment asks voters if they want the county’s board of commissioners to annually 
explore ways to eliminate racial and gender bias in county 
programs and services. 
This would create an annual commission review of 
county policies and programs, Sexton said. The review would 
encompass things such as new ordinances, the sheriff’s office 
and the supervisor of elections office among other county 
programs. 
Establishing Alachua County Affordable Housing Trust Fund
The Establishing Alachua County Affordable Housing 
Trust Fund amendment proposes the creation of a county 
trust fund for affordable housing. 
If the amendment passed, it would not mean the county 
is budgeting for affordable housing, Sexton said. It creates a 
framework for the county to raise funds if it ever wanted to 
start funding for affordable housing. 
Sexton said Alachua County offers limited housing 
assistance, like down payment assistance and rental 
assistance, in conjunction with coronavirus relief from the 
federal government.
Candidate Treasurer Report Requirements
The Candidate Treasurer Report Requirements amendment 
proposes removing any requirement to turn in treasury 
reports filings by paper. Currently, candidates have to file 
these reports electronically and by paper. 
Removing Unconstitutional Provisions 
The Removing Unconstitutional Provisions amendment 
proposes removing unconstitutional provisions from previous 
amendments.
One provision the amendment seeks to remove imposes 
unconstitutional residency requirements for Alachua County 
Commission candidates. Currently, candidates must move to 
the area they are running in as soon as they begin campaigning. 
This amendment would allow candidates who are running to 
stay where they currently reside, even if they don’t live in the 
region they are running in, until they are elected.
The amendment also proposes removing a provision which 
prohibits protections based on sexual orientation, preference 
or similar characteristics. In 1993, the county commission 
passed an ordinance that added these protections, but a 
citizens initiative countered it and got enough signatures to 
remove these protections. A few months later, a judge struck it down as a violation of the 14th amendment, but the harmful 
language was never removed.
The county measures get voted on by everyone in the 
county; however, city amendments are only on the ballot for 
voters within the city of Gainesville municipal boundaries. 
Changing the name of the Charter Officer
The Changing the name of the Charter Officer amendment 
proposes changing the name of the Charter officer from 
“Clerk of the Commission” to “City Clerk.” Shelby Taylor, the 
communications director for the office of communications and 
engagement for the city of Gainesville, said this amendment 
really has no impact beyond reflecting the professional status 
of the position. 
Eliminating Restrictions on Construction of Paved Surfaces on 
City-Owned Land
The Eliminating Restrictions on Construction of Paved 
Surfaces on City-Owned Land amendment proposes tearing 
back some of the more restrictive funding designations that 
require only certain funds be used to pay for paved surfaces 
on city-owned land. 
Mark Sexton said there are some misconceptions that this 
project will lower property values or make places as more 
dangerous. But, data shows the opposite, he said, and people 
become more cognizant of these areas when utilized. 
Limiting Commission Authority to Dispose of Certain Utility 
Systems
The Limiting Commission Authority to Dispose of Certain 
Utility Systems amendment on the ballot prevents the county 
commission from selling utility systems without voter 
approval. Taylor said electric services are currently protected 
from sale, but other utilities are not.
Creating a Preamble to the Charter
 The Creating a Preamble to the Charter amendment would 
add a preamble to the city charter that would explain why the 
document is important and the city’s values. Taylor said most 
charters have a preamble, and passing this amendment is 
more for consistency and to be more similar to other charters. 
swalker@alligator.org 
awilder@alligator.org
@swalker_7 Local amendments on November’s ballot offer incremental changeShannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
THE AMENDMENTS INCLUDE PROPOSED 
CHANGES TO THE MINIMUM WAGE AND 
PRIMARY SYSTEM
By Steven Walker and Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writers
On the ballot this November are six amendments to the Flor -
ida Constitution. Amendments 1-4 are citizen-proposed amend -
ments which made it on the ballot by obtaining over 766,000 
signatures from Florida residents. Amendments 5 and 6 were 
proposed and unanimously passed by the Florida Legislature. 
Now, voters will decide if the amendments become law.
Amendment 1
Amendment 1 is a measure to change the words in the Flor -
ida constitution from “every citizen of the U.S. who is 18 years 
old or older can vote in Florida” to “only a citizen of the U.S. 
who is 18 years old or older can vote in Florida.” Non-citizens 
are not able to vote in Florida, and this amendment doesn’t 
change that. 
Pedro Malavet, a UF law professor, said the single word 
change in Amendment 1 does nothing legally substantial. How -
ever, he said the change in wording is a symbolic nativist state -
ment and can be seen as xenophobic. 
“Voting is a right, and the change in the wording changes 
the commitment to the right to vote into language that suggests 
that it’s more a privilege than a right,” Malavet said. 
Malavet said he worries that people who do have a right 
to vote currently may experience burdens or voter suppression 
from the change in wording. He said the wording could be in -
terpreted to limit the right to vote, and result in strict voter ID 
laws and a lack of lingual diversity on ballots. 
John Loudon, the chairman of the amendment’s sponsor or -
ganization, Florida Citizen Voters, argues the change could pre -
vent cities from allowing non-citizens to vote, as some in other 
states have, according to the Tampa Bay Times. San Francisco 
allowed noncitizens, including those without legal status to 
vote in a school board race in 2018. No municipality in Florida 
allows this.
Jeremiah Tattersall, the 34-year-old chair of Alachua County 
Labor Coalition and a UF alumnus, said Amendment 1 doesn’t 
actually do anything. 
“It’s on there to encourage misinformed people that believe 
that non-citizens are voting or even able to vote,” Tattersall 
said. “I mean, there’s no reason anyone should vote ‘yes’ on 
this amendment.” 
Amendment 2
Amendment 2 proposes to increase the minimum wage to 
$10 per hour effective September 30, 2021, and would then in -
crease by $1.00 per hour every year until the minimum wage 
reaches $15.00 in 2026.  
For minimum wage workers like Krisdawn Simpson-Voss, a 
21-year-old working four jobs, the change could mean a night 
off with her friends, or even more — a better livelihood. 
“I just go to work, come home, sleep and repeat,” Voss said. 
“I haven’t had a day off in three months; it’s not killing me yet, 
but I feel drained.” 
Voss said the minimum wage isn’t survivable with one job 
in Gainesville. Oftentimes she finds herself barely able to stay 
awake and upset she can’t take a night off like most friends her 
age. Voss said even a one dollar raise would help. 
“I get home at 5 a.m. or 7 a.m. On days with only night 
shifts, I tend to sleep for 12 hours and sometimes sleep my 
whole day because I’m so exhausted,” Voss said “It’s not even 
my body. It’s my mind that’s exhausted, and then I just get up, 
go back to work. I do the same thing over.”
However, Sandra Carlisi, the owner of East End Eatery in 
Gainesville on 1202 NE 8th Ave., said she probably won’t vote 
for the minimum wage raise because her restaurant is barely 
scraping by as it is. She said she supported the idea of the raise 
before COVID-19, but now the timing isn’t right. 
“It’s a really difficult time for small businesses in general, 
and I think that an added payroll burden would be the end of 
some businesses,” Carlisi said. 
Although her restaurant didn’t close, it was limited to carry 
out for months and hasn’t had many customers after opening 
up the restaurant for dine in. 
Carlisi is not alone.
By June 15, 57,000 restaurants permanently closed their 
doors due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, according 
to the Yelp Economic Average report for the second quarter of 
2020. A month later, the number of closures rose to 72,842. John Morgan, founder of Morgan and Morgan law firm, is 
the sponsor of Amendment 2. He is also the chair of the Florida 
for a Fair Wage campaign.
The UF double alumnus in political science and law said 
getting Amendment 2 on the ballot took time and work. He first 
started getting signatures for Amendment 2 over two years ago, 
and collected over a million signatures to get it on the ballot. 
Twenty-one states began 2020 with higher minimum wages 
than the previous year. Seven states; Alaska, Florida, Minne -
sota, Montana, Ohio, South Dakota, and Vermont automati -
cally increased their rates based on the cost of living. Florida’s 
minimum wage was $8.46 in 2019, and was raised to $8.56 in 
2020. If Amendment 2 is approved, Florida would become the 
first state to increase the state’s minimum wage to $15 per hour 
through a ballot measure, and would be the highest minimum 
wage rate of any ballot measure as of 2020. 
“I believe that in America, the single issue that is causing 
so much distress, friction, violence and just pure frustration is 
income and equality,” he said. “During the pandemic, the rich 
got way richer, the poor got poorer. We saw who our essential 
workers were, and it is essential that we treat them with dig -
nity.”
Hector Sandoval, a UF assistant economics professor, said 
there is not a lot of information about how Amendment 2 will 
affect the economy. With huge job losses and high unemploy -
ment rates resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, it’s hard to 
say whether or not this will be a good thing for Florida, he said. 
Florida’s unemployment rate in September was 7.6%, down 
from 11.3% in July. 
“Small businesses are facing a lot of hardship because of the 
pandemic, and it’s a very different situation right now,” San -
doval said. 
Sandoval said previous research had shown the minimum 
wage increase would harm the economy because there would 
be fewer job opportunities. However, recent research has 
shown the negative employment effects are very small.
Although a 2017 study from Econofact showed little nega -
tive effect, Sandoval said COVID-19 changes things, especially 
for the economy. He said if restaurants that are already facing 
economic hardships were forced to pay their workers more, it 
could mean additional costs on products and possibly reducing 
staff. 
Ashley Chambers, press secretary for Florida Restaurant and 
Lodging Association, a nonprofit organization for restaurants 
and hospitality, said Amendment 2 will devastate Florida’s 
small businesses. 
“If they’ve already survived COVID, restaurants are going 
to have to make hard decisions about how to be able to afford 
such a large increase in their own costs,” Chambers said. 
Amendment 3
Almost a quarter of Alachua County’s about 191,000 regis -
tered voters cannot vote in primary elections. 
But Amendment 3 proposes an open “top-two” primary elec -
tion system that could change that.
The top-two system differs from a normal open primary, 
where parties still have separate ballots. In both systems, voters 
of any party affiliation can participate in the primary and vote 
for one candidate. Florida is one of nine states in the U.S. that 
holds completely closed state primary elections, meaning only 
voters registered to a political party can vote in that party’s pri -
mary election. Over 45,000 registered voters in Alachua County 
cannot vote in major-party primary elections because of their 
registration.
If the amendment passes, candidates from all parties would 
be on the same primary ballot, and the two with the most votes 
would face off in the general election. Only two other states, 
California and Washington, have a top-two open primary sys -
tem.
Joshua Christopher, a 35-year-old registered Republican in 
Alachua County, said he only aligns with the party because of 
Florida’s closed primary system. He plans to vote in favor of 
Amendment 3. Christopher, who lives in northwest Gainesville, 
said sheriff elections are something he feels left out of because 
of closed primaries. 
“As a conservative, or as a libertarian, I do not have a voice 
to vote who’s going to be my sheriff,” he said. “I don’t believe 
that’s how the founding fathers wanted it.”
Chris Jones, the vice chair of the Alachua County Affiliate 
of the Libertarian Party of Florida, said the organization does 
not support the amendment. Non-party members should not be 
able to make decisions for private organizations, which political Six Amendments to Florida’s Constitution are on the ballot
Aubrey Bocalan and Shannon Ahern / / Alligator StaffSEE AMENDMENTS,  PAGE 13MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020   ALLIGATOR   13 
parties are, he said. 
“I don’t think it’s great that a 
large portion of population had no 
say in that election,” Jones said. “But 
at the same time that is what the op -
posing party’s job is to do is put forth 
the candidate.”
The NAACP Florida State Confer -
ence and the League of Women Vot -
ers of Florida have come out against 
the amendment. In a statement, the 
league said it believed a top-two sys -
tem would adversely affect Black 
candidates.
Both the Republican Party of Flor -
ida and the Florida Democratic Party 
have also come out publicly against 
the amendment, testifying to the 
Florida Supreme Court. Carol Weis -
sert, a political science professor at 
Florida State University researching 
state politics, said the parties might 
be worried that opening their prima -
ries to new voters could create un -
wanted results.
She said the amendment could 
change the number of registered 
non-party voters in the state. More 
voters aged 19 to 29 tend to regis -
ter as non-party-affiliated, Weissert 
said, and they may be more inclined 
not to vote in primaries because they 
would have to change their party af -
filiations to do so.
“That’s the wrong signal to send 
to young voters,” Weissert said. “We 
want people to vote.”
Tom Wells, a former Democratic 
candidate for Florida’s 3rd Congres -
sional District, said non-party voter 
participation in primary elections 
would help to moderate extremes 
in the Democratic and Republican 
parties, specifically on issues like cli -
mate change.
Wells believes if the Aug. 18 
primary election was an open “top-
two” primary, the district could have 
seen two Democrats on the general 
election ballot. While the top two 
vote-getters in the Aug. 18 primary 
were Republican Kat Cammack and 
Democrat Adam Christensen, Wells 
said he thinks many no-party vot -
ers would have voted for either him, 
Philip Dodds or Adam Christensen.
“We need to let everybody have 
a decision in the primary as to what 
path of destruction we’re going 
down,” Wells said. “Really fast, or 
slightly slower.”
Amendment 4
The most funded measure on No -
vember’s ballot would require any 
Florida ballot measure passed in the 
future to be passed a second time in 
the next election before it takes ef -
fect. 
Sponsoring Amendment 4 is the 
Keep Our Constitution Clean PAC. 
Jason Zimmerman, the PAC chair -
man, said the amendment helps vot -
ers understand the impact of what a 
constitutional amendment is. As of 
2020, ballot measures in Florida only 
need to pass one time with a 60% 
supermajority.
“We should make the people 
want to understand the gravity of 
what they’re doing,” he said.
Nevada is the only other state 
that requires constitutional amend -
ments to be passed a second time. The state implemented the require -
ment in 1962. Nevada voters have 
passed 14 amendments since then, 
and of those, only two did not pass 
again in the next election. North 
Dakota is also voting on a similar 
amendment this November.
Zimmerman said the PAC used 
the $9 million raised in support of 
the amendment to collect signatures 
to get it on the ballot. None of the 
money is being spent right now, he 
said.
“When you’re talking about the 
foundational document over govern -
ment, I think you should be slow 
and careful in what you’re doing,” 
he said.
Many organizations oppose the 
amendment, including the League 
of Women Voters of Florida. In its 
official statement, the organization 
said the amendment would limit a 
citizen’s ability to engage in direct 
democracy.
In 2018, Alachua County over -
whelmingly voted in favor of the 
amendment that gave ex-felons the 
right to vote in Florida. About 73% 
of the 116,172 ballots cast voted in 
favor of the amendment.
If Amendment 4 had been in 
place in 2018, the amendment that 
gave ex-felons the right to vote 
would have to pass again in 2020.
Those looking to get measures on 
the ballot in 2022 have taken notice 
of Amendment 4. Nick Hansen, the 
chairman of Make It Legal Florida, 
is working to get a constitutional 
amendment on the ballot in 2022 
that would legalize the recreational 
use of marijuana for anyone over the 
age of 21.
He said Amendment 4 is signifi -
cant overkill, because the current 
process already requires arduous 
steps before an amendment even 
makes it onto the ballot, like obtain -
ing over 750,000 signatures.
“I simply cannot wrap my head 
around a six-year campaign to 
amend our constitution,” Hansen 
said.
Amendment 5 
Amendment 5 proposes to extend 
the deadline to transfer portability 
from the homestead exemption from 
a previous home to a new home. The 
homestead exemption is how Florida 
homeowners can cap their home’s 
assessed value, the value of a home 
used for tax purposes, to increase, at 
most, 3% per year. 
Portability is the difference be -
tween a home’s assessed value with 
the exemption and the market value 
per year. The state allows home -
owners to transfer portability to a 
new home within two years, and the 
amendment proposes extending that 
window to three.
To be eligible for Florida’s home -
stead exemption, a homeowner must 
both own and permanently reside in 
the home. Permanent resident eli -
gibility is done on a per-case basis, 
said Jeff Boyd, the Alachua County 
Property Appraiser public informa -
tion coordinator. 
Passing the amendment could al -
low Alachua County residents to pay 
less in property taxes when buying a 
new home, Boyd said. Being able to 
move portability to a new home al -
lows for the new homeowner to low -er the home’s assessed value, which 
in turn leads to lower property taxes. 
Extending the deadline for an ex -
tra year will reduce local tax receipts, 
according to a budget analysis done 
by the Revenue Estimating Confer -
ence. If passed, the amendment 
would lower local property taxes by 
$1.8 million next year, eventually 
growing to an annual reduction of 
$10.2 million.
Amendment 6
Amendment 6 proposes allowing 
a homestead property tax discount 
to be transferred to the surviving 
spouse of a deceased veteran. Sam 
Killebrew, a Florida State representa -
tive, is sponsoring the amendment. 
Killebrew said veterans who are 65 
or older and became permanently 
disabled during combat currently 
have a discount on their homestead 
property tax in proportion to the 
amount of disability payment they 
receive. However, when a veteran 
dies, their spouse cannot continue 
taking the discount.
If passed, Amendment 6 would 
change that. 
“The minute I read it to three 
committees and the house floor, 
there were no questions, and it was 
a 100% yay,” Killebrew said. “There 
was no negative vote on it.” 
Florida has a large veteran popu -
lation with about 1.5 million veter -
ans currently residing in the state, 
according to the U.S. Census Bu -
reau. Killebrew said the discount the 
veterans and spouses get depends 
on tax and millage rates, which are 
about $1 for every $1000 spent in 
home value for each county. 
Some Florida statutes allow 
spouses to obtain a partial discount 
from their spouse, but there was 
nothing specific to combat veterans, 
Killebrew said. It’s why he felt the 
amendment was necessary.
Lynn Frazier, President of the 
League of Women Voters of Alachua 
County, said the league does not 
support Amendments 5 or 6. 
The league opposes Amendment 
5 because it adds tax laws into the 
constitution, which could become 
difficult to change in emergency situ -
ations, such as pandemics.
The Alachua County Democratic 
Party endorsed the amendment in its 
voting guide.
A Florida House bill analysis 
said Amendment 6 would cost local 
governments about $4 million annu -
ally if fully enacted, according to the 
Tampa Bay Times. 
Frazier said the consequences of 
Amendment 6 could be decreased 
funding for schools and other com -
munity projects and funding. 
Killebrew said the lost revenue is 
only an estimate, and at the worst 
case each county and city in Florida 
could lose $8,368 a year in taxes. He 
said he thinks that money is better 
off staying with the widowed spouse.
@swalker_7 
@anna_wilderr 
swalker@alligator.org
awilder@alligator.orgAubrey Bocalan and Shannon Ahern / / Alligator StaffAMENDMENTS,  from pg. 12LUNES, 19 DE OCTUBRE DE 2020
www.alligator.org/spanish
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones so El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/spanishEl Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@_ElCaiman_. 
AUNQUE LA COMUNIDAD LATINA 
ES EL BLOQUE DE VOTANTES 
ETNICO MÁS GRANDE, AÚN 
EXISTEN PROBLEMAS PARA 
LOGRAR QUE LOS JÓVENES 
LATINOS ACUDAN A LAS URNAS.  
Por Arlette Garcia 
Escritora de El Caimán
Viviana Moreno cree que cuando la comun -
idad latina ejerce su derecho al voto, se genera 
una ola de acción monumental.
Moreno, una estudiante latina de UF, será 
parte de los 32 millones de votantes hispanos 
que serán elegibles para votar en las próximas 
elecciones presidenciales. De estos 32 millones 
de votantes, más del 40% tendrá entre 18 y 30 
años. Los votantes latinos no solo se conver -
tirán en el grupo étnico más grande del electo -
rado, sino que también se convertirán en uno 
de los grupos étnicos más jóvenes.
La estudiante de periodismo de 21 años dijo 
que siente un deseo fuerte por votar debido al 
poder que tiene su voto en este momento. 
“Creo que existe esta mentalidad de que el 
voto individual no cuenta, especialmente en las 
comunidades marginadas”, explicó Moreno. 
Por esta misma razón, Moreno cree en la 
importancia de la representación de estas co -
munidades dentro de las elecciones. 
Moreno siente que los jóvenes latinos es -
tán usando las redes sociales para superar este 
problema y abogar por la importancia de votar. 
Ella se ha sentido inspirada por las historias 
que otras personas latinas comparten en línea 
y cómo motivan a otros jóvenes para votar. 
“Estamos aquí y nuestras voces son fuertes 
e importantes. Cuando uso las redes sociales, 
siento que me llena de orgullo y esperanza al 
ver las publicaciones de información para los 
votantes”, dijo Moreno.
A pesar de esta creciente promoción e in -
terés en línea, todavía existen problemas para lograr que los jóvenes latinos acudan a las ur -
nas. La comunidad latina es el bloque de vo -
tantes más grande detrás de los votantes blan -
cos, pero quedan cortos frente a otros grupos 
étnicos en la participación electoral, según el 
Centro de Investigación Pew. 
Los jóvenes latinos, como Velqui Pérez-
Tomas, se han unido a organizaciones para re -
solver este problema de falta de participación 
juvenil latina.
Pérez-Tomas es una estudiante de Estudios 
Internacionales y Ciencias Políticas y actual -
mente trabaja como coordinadora en prácticas 
del Grupo de Investigación de Interés Público 
de Florida, también conocido por sus siglas en 
inglés, FLPIRG. Esta organización no partidista 
tiene como objetivo promover el voto joven a 
través de brindar información sobre el proceso 
de votación.
Pérez-Tomas explicó que su participación 
en el grupo comenzó por el deseo de estar ac -
tiva durante el semestre de otoño, pero tam -
bién por lo impactante que cree que serán las 
elecciones presidenciales.
“Es una elección histórica por lo que está 
sucediendo en el país en este momento. Sentí 
que era muy importante para mí tener una par -
te de esa acción”, explicó Pérez-Tomas.
La estudiante de tercer año de UF ha partici -
pado en una gran variedad de programas con 
FLPIRG que incluyen campañas de registro 
de votantes, bancos telefónicos, campañas de 
voto por correo y campañas de recursos.
A pesar del éxito del grupo al registrar a 
más de 900 estudiantes antes de la fecha límite 
de registración, Perez-Tomas afirma que to -
davía existe el obstáculo de la falta de interés 
entre los jóvenes votantes latinos. 
"Según mi experiencia, los jóvenes latinos 
no terminan votando porque tienen la impre -
sión de que votar no les servirá de nada o no 
les servirá de mucho", explicó Pérez-Tomas.
Ella cree que esta falta de entusiasmo se 
debe en parte a la falta de recursos dirigidos 
a los jóvenes latinos durante su tiempo en la 
escuela secundaria.“Muchas escuelas secundarias no tienen 
los recursos para expandirse mucho en este 
tema. Creo que eso tiene un gran impacto. Los 
jóvenes no saben por qué es importante votar 
o no ven cuán vital es votar en una elección”, 
dijo Pérez-Tomas.
A través de su trabajo en FLPIRG, espera 
abordar este obstáculo dentro de su comu -
nidad facilitando campañas que alienten a los 
votantes latinos jóvenes a tener un plan de 
acción cuando llegue el momento de votar. 
Pérez-Tomas declaró que estaría activa dentro 
de los chats de grupos hispanos en UF para 
compartir estos recursos y sitios web que moti -
van a los jóvenes latinos no solo a registrarse, 
sino también a ejercer su derecho al voto. 
Dahlia Fabregat ha utilizado recursos simi -
lares a los que promueve Pérez-Tomas para 
formular una mejor comprensión sobre las 
próximas elecciones. Ella habló sobre el pro -
ceso de aprender a enviar su boleta por correo y conocer las plataformas de los candidatos a 
través de recursos en línea.
La estudiante de primer año de educación 
primaria votará en una elección presidencial 
por primera vez en noviembre. Sin embargo, 
mencionó que algunas de las personas que la 
rodean no están tan motivadas como ella para 
votar.
“No es que no quisieran votar, pero es 
como si no sintieran la urgencia de hacerlo”, 
explicó Fabregat.
Ella cree que votar es un privilegio que 
los jóvenes latinos deben usar para ayudar a 
aquellos que están subrepresentados.
“La votación no soluciona todos los prob -
lemas y solo comienza a solucionar algunos de 
ellos, pero es un paso que puedes dar y debes 
dar”, afirmó Fabregat.
@arlettengarcia
agarcia@alligator.orgEstudiantes latinos de UF hablan sobre la importancia de votar
¡SALUDOS!¡SALUDOS!
Aubrey Bocalan / / Diseñadora de The Alligator
UNA GUÍA PARA GARANTIZAR QUE 
SE RECIBA Y SE CUENTE UNA BOLETA 
POR CORREO EN EL 
CONDADO DE ALACHUA
Por Alan Halaly
Escritor de The Alligator
Los votantes de Alachua County podrían 
estar considerando votar por correo este 
año a la luz de las posibilidades de contraer 
COVID-19 al votar en persona. 
La oficina del supervisor de las eleccio -
nes, o SOE por su sigla en inglés, del conda -
do de Alachua anunció que mas de 31,000 
boletas de voto por correa han sido conta -
das desde el 16 de octubre. Los votantes deben renovar una solici -
tud de boleta de voto por correo cada dos 
años, según estatutos estatales. Boletas de 
voto por correo pueden ser solicitadas en 
la página web del supervisor de las eleccio -
nes del condado hasta el 24 de octubre. Se 
pueden demorar entre 5 y 6 días en llegar y 
también se pueden recoger en la oficina del 
SOE, ubicada en 515 Main St., mostrando 
una tarjeta de identificación que contenga 
su imagen y firma. 
La boleta llegará con instrucciones para 
llenarla. Los óvalos al lado de los nombres 
de los candidatos se deben rellenar comple -
tamente. Si un votante se equivoca, debe 
solicitar una nueva boleta. 
El siguiente paso es sellar la boleta en 
el sobre de envío provisto y firmar el cer -tificado de votante al lado del sobre. Los 
votantes deben usar la misma firma de su 
identificación emitida por el gobierno para 
evitar que la oficina del supervisor de elec -
ciones anule la boleta. A pesar de que es 
opcional, se recomienda incluir la funda se -
creta, otro sobre para proteger la integridad 
de la boleta.
Las boletas de voto por correo se deben 
recibir antes de las 7 p.m. el 3 de noviem -
bre, así que los votantes deben mandarlas 
lo antes posible. Aunque muchos votantes 
las mandarán por correo, también hay otras 
opciones. Las balotas se pueden dejar en la 
oficina del supervisor de elecciones antes 
del día de las elecciones. Algunos buzones 
estarán ubicados al exterior de ubicaciones 
de votación anticipada hasta el 31 de agosto de 9 a.m. a 6 p.m. 
Después de que la balota se ha mandado 
o dejado en la oficina del supervisor de elec -
ciones, se puede hacer un seguimiento de 
su estatus. Es la forma más precisa de ase -
gurar que su balota se reciba y sea contada. 
Se puede llamar a la oficina del Supervi -
sor de Elecciones del condado de Alachua 
al (352) 374-5252 de lunes a viernes de 8:30 
a.m. a 5 p.m. Los residentes hispanohablan -
tes pueden llamar gratis al (833)-875-0365. 
Mas información sobre el voto por correo 
puede obtenerse enviando un correo elec -
trónico a votebymail@alachuacounty.us. 
ahalaly@alligator.org
 @AlanHalalyVotando desde casa: como llenar una boleta de voto por correo 
TRADUCCIÓNTRADUCCIÓN
Escanea para seguir a The Alligator en Spotify
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers for 
our Tower Road location. Day shifts and night 
shifts available. Part and full time available. 
Flexible scheduling and great work environment. 
Reliable car a must. Pay is $8.56/hour plus tips. 
Apply in person at 600 NW 75th St or online 
at fivestarpizza.com/employment and choose 
Gainesville NW 75th St for location.    
11-2-20-3-14
Café Risqué
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
352- 466- 3803
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Cooks / Waitresses / Managers / Performers
Apply NOW
11-2-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking a Biological Scientist III to serve as 
a Biomechanical Engineer in the Department 
of Orthopaedics, College of Medicine. 
Responsible for developing research proto-
cols for highly advanced biomechanical test-
ing studies related to orthopaedic disabilities 
or devices.  Expected to develop the study 
design, purchase needed equipment and 
supplies, coordinate collaborating research -
ers, design and make specialized fixtures 
for biomechanical testing, implement bio-
mechanical motion analysis testing involved 
in the Orthopaedics laboratories, Human 
Dynamics Lab, Comparative Orthopaedics 
and Biomechanical Lab (COB Lab), and 
the UF Health Sports Performance Center. 
Responsible for developing all computer pro-
grams to enhance data collection and analy -
ses for all motion analysis studied.  Provide 
project management and oversight for grad-
uate-level research projects conducted by 
residents and fellows in the Department of 
Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation. Conduct, 
analyze, and prepare research papers from 
the data collected.  Serve in a departmental 
consultative capacity for faculty and resi-
dents engaged in biomechanics of motion 
analysis studies programs.  
Requires a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering 
or closely related field and two years of ex-
perience or Masterís degree in Mechanical 
Engineering or closely related field and five 
years of experience or Bachelorís degree in 
Mechanical Engineering or closely related 
field and seven years of experience. The 
required experience must have involved; 
working in the areas of Anatomy/Physiology, 
biomechanics and kinesiology, motion cap-
ture (both camera and electromagnetic); ex-
ecuting motion capture testing on the sports 
field, on athletic courts and in the laboratory; 
and writing computer code and electromyog -
raphy.
To apply, please forward resume via email to 
Attention: Nelda Loper, HR Coordinator, at 
OrthoHR@ortho.ufl.edu. 
10-19-1-14BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Craig Stowe
(c)2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/19/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/19/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, October 19, 2020
ACROSS
1 “I get it!”
4 Swamp, briefly
8 Trails through the 
woods
13 Zero, in soccer
14 “Star Trek” 
communications 
officer
16 Crosswise, 
shipwise
17 *Chooses not to 
partake in
19 Cocoon occupant
20 Six-sided state
21 What the big 
hand indicates
22 Part of PTA: 
Abbr.
23 North or South 
Asian country
25 *Random quality-
control measure
27 Actress Behrs of 
“2 Broke Girls”
29 Wide shoe size
30 *Often herky-
jerky animation 
technique
35 DNA test kit item
39 Scarecrow 
material
40 Stinker
42 Hurry, to 
Shakespeare
43 Angry cat’s 
warning
45 *Rainbow-end 
rewards
47 Cobbler’s punch
49 Small stream
50 *Lickety-split
56 Front-end wheel 
alignment
59 Second half of 
most musicals
60 Kansas city
62 Youngest Brontë 
sister
63 Showed again
64 Easy-to-remove 
caps ... or one 
way to get the 
starts of the 
answers to 
starred clues?
66 Panfry
67 Cocktail 
garnishes
68 Boy king
69 Key above Shift70 Roof problem
71 UFO crew, they 
say
DOWN
1 Aimée of “8 1/2”
2 Aware of
3 Young acolytes
4 Quid pro __
5 “Not a chance”
6 Parking lot 
occupants
7 Word after study 
or social
8 Royal residence
9 Embarrasses
10 To the point
11 Wreak __: cause 
mayhem
12 Hit hard
15 Curly hairdo
18 Animal sheared 
for wool
24 Casino cash 
dispensers
26 Stretching 
muscle
28 Flashy publicity
30 “Button it!”
31 Mai __: cocktail
32 Confucian path
33 Loan pmt. part
34 Pigs out (on)36 Musical symbol 
with no stem
37 Feel sick
38 Word with room 
or board
41 “Think nothing 
__”
44 Quench
46 Be a bad winner
48 Crybaby
50 Break down, as 
a sentence
51 Arctic or Atlantic52 Walk proudly
53 __ bath: therapy 
treatment
54 Sauna wrap, 
often
55 Beethoven’s “Für 
__”
57 Contribution to 
the discussion
58 Egg holders
61 Whodunit pooch
65 Disapproving 
sound
By Jerry Edelstein
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/13/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/13/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 13, 2020
ACROSS
1 Floats on the 
wind
6 Campus houses
11 “¿Qué pasa?”
14 Assign, as time 
for a job
15 Columbus’ birth 
city
16 Spanish “a”
17 Tend, as a fire
18 Great __ 
Mountains
19 “Fresh Air” airer
20 The quaking 
aspen is one
22 Yucatán years
23 First-aid 
organizer
24 Vintage violin
26 Bad way to act
28 Cartwright son, in 
a TV Western
31 Coffee server
32 Words after hole 
or all
33 “__ Maria”
34 Restrictive type of 
ceiling
36 Music holders, 
briefly
37 Unleavened 
bread
39 Hockey’s  
Stanley __
40 Lindsay of  
“Mean Girls”
43 No-winner  
result
44 Bowie’s weapon
46 Put on __: 
postpone
47 Washer cycle
49 Sis may have 
one
50 Gush
51 Commercial 
ambassador
52 Like a feeling of 
déjà vu
54 Witch
55 Auto parts giant
57 Ditch
61 Picks out of a 
lineup
62 Tries to lose, in 
a way
64 “__ Mio”
65 Brookville, N.Y., 
campus
66 Stopped playing
67 First “perfect 10” 
Olympic gymnast 
Comaneci
68 Cubs’ home69 They hold your 
horses
70 Cleaned the floor
DOWN
1 Nasty stinger
2 Sax type
3 Failed venture
4 Stein partner 
Alice B. __
5 What’s picked 
up when you 
accelerate
6 NFL threes
7 Still hasn’t lost
8 Shortly, quaintly
9 Michener’s “The 
Bridges at __”
10 Throws in the 
towel
11 Titanic, e.g.
12 Disentangle after 
a tackle
13 Political faction
21 Castro of Cuba
25 Follow the 
footprints of
27 Extinct flightless 
bird
28 Bad actor
29 Egg cells
30 Daily 
phenomenon ... 
and a hint to the 
puzzle circles34 Fails, as a 
business
35 Steeple topper
38 Some reds, 
briefly
41 Opening day 
pitcher
42 Improved 
companion?
45 Sumter or 
McHenry
47 Band van traveler
48 Friend of Jerry 
and George50 Up-and-down 
ride
51 50-Down rider, 
often
53 Wrinkle  
removers
56 Mani mate
58 Connecting  
point
59 Film excerpt
60 Warm up, as  
food
63 Militant ’60s 
campus org.
10/12/2020Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-131For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
BE A HERO. 
WEAR YOUR MASK!
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. ABSOLUTELY 
HUGE! Gorgeous Wood Floors, central 
AC/HT, dishwasher, laundry room, fenced, 
pets OK $1,890 per month. 352-665-8166
10-26-20-8-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
Friends don’t let friends 
catch COVID-19.
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
2 SIDED T-SHIRT
MAKE AMERICA SANE/NICE AGAIN
White on Blue  - XL  100% Cotton
$13 Pick-up OR $15 I Mail
Call 352-373-9400                         11-2-20-3-10 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY10 For Sale
answer on page 10
answers below1. Name the race-car driver who won the 
1996 Indianapolis 500 and the 2000 Indy 
Racing League season championship.
2. What Chicago Cubs manager went on a pro -
fanity-laden tirade to reporters after Wrigley 
Field fans booed the team during a one-run 
loss to the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1983?
3. For what college team did U.S. softball 
pitching great Jennie Finch compile a 119-16 
record from 1999-2002? 
4. What Golden State Warriors player at -
tacked head coach P.J. Carlesimo with a 
choke hold during a practice in 1997?
5. What is the name of the muscular bundle 
of wheat that serves as the Wichita State Uni -
versity Shockers mascot?
6. What women's basketball legend recorded 
the first quintuple double with 25 points, 18 re -
bounds, 11 assists, 10 steals and 10 blocks in a 
1997 game for Texas' Duncanville High School?
7. What sportswriter and author was host of ES -
PN's "The Sports Reporters" from 1988-2001?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
solution below
answers below
1. TELEVISION: What is 
Homer's favorite beer 
brand on "The Simp -
sons"?
2. MEASUREMENTS: 
How much does a gal -
lon of water weigh?
3. GEOMETRY: How 
many sides does a tris -
kaidecagon have?
4. MOVIES: Who is the 
voice of Buzz Lightyear 
in the "Toy Stories" mov -
ies?
5. LITERATURE: What 
are the names of "The 
Three Musketeers"?
6. HISTORY: What was 
the first car that was 
mass-produced?
7. FOOD & DRINK: 
Which region of Italy 
produces Marsala 
wine?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: 
How do snakes smell?
9. SCIENCE: What is 
the study of sight and 
light called?
10. GENERAL KNOWL -
EDGE: What was Twit -
ter's original character 
limit?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  solution Sports Quiz  answers1. Buddy Lazier.
2. Lee Elia.
3. The University of Arizona Wildcats.
4. Latrell Sprewell.
5. WuShock.
6. Tamika Catchings.
7. Dick Schaap.Trivia Test  answers1. Duff
2. 8.34 pounds
3. 13
4. Tim Allen
5. Athos, Porthos and Aramis
6. Ford Model T
7. S ic il y
8. With their tongues
9. Optics
10. 140
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         10-19-4-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily Now you can easily 
submit your classified submit your classified 
ad for print and/or web ad for print and/or web 
editions right through editions right through 
our website!our website!
just go to:just go to:
www.www.alligatoralligator .org.org
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
EditorialMONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinionsThe Alligator devotes itself to serving the UF and greater 
Gainesville communities. For that reason, we are releasing 
endorsements for candidates and amendments that will ap -
pear on the local ballot as well as our recommendation for 
the top of the ticket in an immensely consequential presiden -
tial election.
All we ask is that you vote.
President:  Joe Biden /Donald Trump
This election is about the present and the future of America. Joe 
Biden is not the future of our country. But another four years of Donald 
Trump will make our future more bleak than the past four years have 
been. We are not great again. That commercialized slogan was the 
first of many lies that emboldened racists, left hundreds of thousands 
of Americans dead and made us the laughing stock of the world. Four 
more years will not make us great again, either. It will undoubtedly 
make us worse.
It will take more than another presidential term to undo the dam -
age that Trump has done. Biden’s presidency will be a step in the right 
direction as opposed to continued steps back.
Biden is an imperfect candidate and we have plenty of differing 
views with him on many issues. However, no perfect candidates ever 
exist in politics.  
We have the choice between a typical politician or a misogynistic 
racist facing more than 25 sexual assault accusations who can’t stop at -
tacking the military, initially refused to condemn white supremacy and 
decimated the credibility of the office he holds with his countless lies.
Four years ago, we certainly didn’t have two perfect candidates to 
pick between. People went to the polls and voted for the reality show 
candidate and we got a reality show president and, in turn, a reality 
show country.
The term “presidential” used to have a positive connotation. It im -
plied dignity, grace and confidence. We can certainly say Trump isn’t 
lacking in ego, but we also wouldn’t describe someone who regularly 
hate-tweets other politicians, celebrities and civilians at 2 a.m. as grace -
ful or dignified.
Public health and access to healthcare are of the utmost importance 
to millions of Americans, especially right now. Biden will keep and 
reinforce the Affordable Care Act, which he fought for with former 
President Barack Obama, and better yet, he will listen to experts and 
science as we adjust to the COVID-19 pandemic and barrel toward a 
vaccine and, hopefully, a semblance of normalcy.
This isn’t a glowing endorsement of Biden, but it’s our strongest 
indictment of Trump the person and Trump the president. Let’s demote 
45 back to Trump the person, where he’s capable of inflicting far less 
damage on our democracy.
Florida’s Third Congressional District:  Adam Christensen /Kat Cammack
Voting for Christensen, a fresh new face, is the way to go if you 
are the type of person who doesn’t like career politicians and wants 
to “drain the swamp.” Cammack seems to be your typical candidate 
from the other side of the aisle, though the lack of endorsement from 
her former boss Ted Yoho and mysteries surrounding her demotion as 
Yoho’s chief of staff don’t quite pass the sniff test.
Florida House of Representatives District 21:  Kayser Enneking /Chuck 
Clemons
If you care about public health and science, Enneking is the candi -
date to vote for given the moment and for the long term.
Clemons’ antiquated stance on issues such as marijuana legalization 
and gun safety make us wish for someone with the guts to challenge 
the status quo. The lawsuit against him for blocking people on social 
media doesn’t make him any more fit to serve in our eyes.
Alachua County Commission District 1:  Mary Alford /Raemi Eagle-Glenn
With a responsible stance on COVID-19 policies and noble ideas 
such as moving toward a bail-free system, Alford has earned our vote.
Eagle-Glenn’s recent unsuccessful anti-mask lawsuit against the 
county and reluctance for future pandemic mitigation measures make 
her unideal for leadership as we approach a “third wave” of COVID-19 
cases. Alford has the experience and right priorities we need now and 
beyond the pandemic.Alachua County Commission District 3:  Joy Glanzer /Anna Prizzia
We have warm opinions of both candidates, who share several simi -
lar beliefs. However, Glanzer has more experience in government and 
thus has a longer track record of getting things done. We appreciate 
her support for a living wage and her idea to connect those addicted to 
drugs to treatment instead of jail time.
Amendment 1:  No
This amendment doesn’t do anything. The millions of dollars spent 
pumping up this useless amendment would have been better spent 
actually improving our elections process.
Amendment 2:  Yes
Championed by a UF alumnus, this amendment is a step toward 
helping everyone earn a living wage. People working more than 40 
hours a week shouldn’t struggle to make ends meet. Any business 
model that doesn’t decently pay workers deserves to be discarded.
Amendment 3:  No
Democrats and Republicans actually agree for once: This amend -
ment is a terrible idea. These are not the true open primaries we are 
looking for — rather, a messier version called “jungle primaries” that 
could result in general elections being decided between two people 
from the same party. That’s not good for democracy.
Amendment 4:  No
Sure, there’s some odd stuff in our constitution, but this amendment 
only makes it a more expensive and lengthier process to amend our 
constitution in the future. If you don’t want something in our constitu -
tion, just don’t vote for it the first time around. We recommend you do 
so for this amendment.
Amendment 5:  Yes
We support this tax amendment because it allows for greater access 
to the homestead tax exemption. We think the overall costs diffused 
throughout the state will ultimately be negligible in the long term or 
would otherwise be at a level that could be offset by cutting down on 
government waste.
Amendment 6:  Yes
Like the above amendment, this one expands access to the home -
stead tax exemption, though to a more specific group of people, spous -
es of deceased veterans. It is a little difficult to vote against anything 
benefiting spouses of deceased veterans, so we recommend you vote 
for this small benefit for them. Just don’t forget to write to your legisla -
tors and hold them accountable in making sure our veterans get the 
proper treatment before they pass away.
One Mill:  Yes
We support this amendment because it supports the quality of our 
local education system. Providing continued funding to public edu -
cational institutions is of paramount importance, especially with the 
added hurdles brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. The amendment 
has been approved every year since 2008. Let’s fund our future.
County charter amendments concerning growth management, natural 
resources, racial and gender bias, an affordable housing trust fund, treasurer 
reports and unconstitutional provisions:  Yes
City charter amendments concerning the city clerk, paved surfaces, utility 
systems and a charter preamble:  Yes
A hodgepodge of tweaks of various sizes to your local government, 
these amendments all deserve a “yes” vote. Two amendments worth 
highlighting include the amendment that aims to crack down on racial 
and gender biases within county policies and the amendment that es -
tablishes an affordable housing trust fund, which would help balance 
out the bland, overpriced, low quality, luxury apartment complexes 
flooding our area.Election recommendations from The Alligator Editorial Board Don’t throw away 
your vote by voting 
for a third partyEditorial
The stakes have never been 
higher this election season, yet 
many people will ultimately cast 
a vote for a candidate who will 
never win, and they know it.
Look, we all get it. Our current 
electoral system is far from ideal. 
We harbor immense disdain for the 
antiquated electoral college and the 
two-party system we are stuck with. 
Rank-choice voting is neat, but it is not 
the status quo.
In our current system, a vote for a 
third party candidate is a vote that is 
thrown away.
A third party candidate will not win, 
and if you think or vote as if they will, 
then you’re either dreaming or don’t 
care about the people who won’t live to 
see the next election.
You may be voting for the candidate 
that perfectly aligns with your values, 
but if they don’t win, then what good 
did your vote do? What happens if 
you end up with a candidate that you 
actually like less than one who could 
have won with your vote?
As noted by The New York Times, 
Republicans have repeatedly attempted 
to take advantage of third party 
candidates such as those from the Green 
Party and now, Kanye West, in order 
to divert votes away from Democratic 
candidates. It’s a sleazy tactic that takes 
advantage of people who are voting 
purely off of principle without concern 
for political realities.
Voting isn’t marriage, it’s taking the 
bus. You take the bus that gets you 
where you need to go. You don’t have 
to love the bus. You won’t be on the 
bus for the rest of your life. It may not 
be the bus you wanted, but it sure beats 
having to walk 20 blocks because the 
bus you wanted didn’t have the gas to 
get you where you wanted to go.
Elections have consequences, and if 
you are to waste your vote on a matter 
of pure principle, then you certainly 
cannot complain when you are unhappy 
with the result.
The Editorial Board is made up of 
the Editor-in-Chief, Digital Managing 
Editor, Engagement Managing Editor, 
News Managing Editor and 
Opinions Editor.
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to 
fact-check and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also 
welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.18   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
Come see for yourself why CAMPUS is better than a bank!As a not-for-profit financial co-op, owned by our members, it’s in our DNA 
to support the community and the organizations that support them.
campuscu.com/community-ad (Promo code: C300)
 Visit us online to learn how to open a Free Checking Account1 and earn up to $300!2
Your non-profit or student organization ad HERE.
Visit campuscu.com/community-ad to learn more.
Membership is open to students, faculty and staff of the University of Florida, UF Health, and all residents of Alachua County!3 
CAMPUS does not endorse the organization or cause in this ad. Offer may not be combined with any other offer. Offer subject to change without notice. One bonus per household. Offer not available to 
members with an existing CAMPUS checking account. 1. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member must elect to receive eDocuments. 2. Within the first 90 days, member must 
elect to receive eDocuments and establish Direct Deposit of at least $200 per month. If the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $300 reward will be made available 
to the member. $300 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT.  3. Credit approval and initial $5 deposit required. Other restrictions may apply. Federally insured by the NCUA.
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$15 Haircut with Student ID
Download the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
THE PROTEST ECHOED NATIONAL 
WOMEN’S MARCH RALLIES 
HONORING THE LEGACY OF 
SUPREME COURT JUSTICE 
RUTH BADER GINSBERG
By Alan Halaly and Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writers
“May her memory be a revolution,” 
stated on one sign. “Men of quality do not 
fear equality,” another stated, held by a 
man in the crowd, protesting to support 
the women in his life. 
More than 150 masked protesters 
marched down Main Street and University 
Avenue from Depot Park to Bo Diddley Pla -
za Saturday morning during the Gainesville 
Women’s March. 
The event, organized by Larah Doyle, 
a 30-year-old academic advisor at the UF 
Warrington College of Business, was in -
tended to be a peaceful protest against at -
tacks from the Trump administration on 
the rights of all women — including trans -
gender women and women of color. 
“They don’t listen when we ask, they 
don’t listen when we demand, they don’t 
listen when we have protests or rallies or 
marches,” Doyle said. “But this march is 
not for them. It is for us to listen to one 
another; to encourage one another.”
Protesters were asked by organizers to 
keep masks on at all times, and crowds 
kept to this rule, sporting eye-catching 
masks with messages written on them like 
“Vote” and “Together we rise.” The social 
distancing rule of maintaining a six feet 
distance was mostly followed when march -
ers arrived at Bo Diddley Plaza as speakers 
from the community took the stage to gal -
vanize the crowd. 
This protest follows a chain of simi -
lar demonstrations dating back to 2017, 
when the inauguration of President Donald 
Trump sparked Women’s March protests 
around the globe, including the march in Washington D.C., the most well-attended 
day-long protest in U.S. history. 
Women’s March protests around the 
U.S. were held Saturday to honor the late 
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Gins -
burg and to protest the confirmation hear -
ings of Supreme Court nominee Amy Co -
ney Barrett. Gainesville’s protest echoed 
this sentiment. 
Amanda Foreman, a 19-year-old UF ani -
mal sciences sophomore, held a sign that 
read “My SCOTUS knows my 1st Amend -
ment Rights! #ForRuth,” in reference to 
Barrett forgetting to name the right to pro -
test when asked to list First Amendment 
rights during her Senate confirmation hear -
ing last week.
“I don’t know if I can stand another four 
years,” she said. “My reproductive rights, 
my rights as a woman, and just the overall 
representation of women in American soci -
ety are at stake.”  
In Florida, abortions are legal. Howev -
er, in September, restrictions were put in 
place such as the requirement to notify the 
parent of a minor and for women to have 
an ultrasound. The Trump administration 
has historically been anti-abortion. It tried 
to repeal an FDA restriction on medication 
for early abortion in Sept. 2020.
Protesters left Depot Park holding sun -
flowers as Melissa Muller, the 30-year-old 
manager of Swallowtail Farms, distributed 
her freshly-cut extras. Swallowtail Farms 
grows sustainable food and flowers in the 
City of Alachua.
Muller was just planning to hand out 
flowers to passersby, but when she found 
out about the march, she said it seemed 
like fate. In 2017, she and other Swallow -
tail farmers travelled to Washington D.C. 
to attend the Women’s March. 
“It was ethereal...” Muller said. “It was 
the most amazing thing to be with all these 
like-minded people.”
Stevie VanAusdale, a 31-year-old UF 
doctoral student with a focus in counselor 
education and supervision and therapist at the UF Counseling and Wellness Center, 
brought her two daughters, two-year-old 
Aria and one-year-old Maya whose shirts 
read “Tiny Changemaker”. The two sisters 
shared a miniature sign that featured a no -
table quote from Kamala Harris at the 2020 
Vice Presidential Debate: “I’m speaking.”
VanAusdale emphasized the importance 
of putting mental health first, but acknowl -
edged the challenges associated with doing 
so as the rights of minorities are continu -
ally under attack by politicians and policy -
makers. On stage, she shared her experi -
ence as a mother with postpartum anxiety.
“In these last two years becoming a 
mother of two, one through adoption and 
one through birth, it has opened my eyes 
to the lack of care for women that have had 
children,” she said. “We are expected to be 
the emotional support for our family and our loved ones — that’s a heavy weight 
and a huge responsibility.” 
Karen Bethel, a 51-year-old Alach -
ua County Public School administrator, 
spoke to the crowd about systemic racism 
and sexism in the Alachua County Public 
School system. She mentioned Alachua 
County’s high achievement gap between 
white students and students of color, and 
called to the crowd to help uplift young 
women and children of color in education. 
“I love what I do,” she said. “I love the 
school board that I work for. But Houston, 
we have some problems.”
@AlanHalaly
@sofecheverry 
ahalaly@alligator.org
secheverry@alligator.orgMore than 150 masked protesters rally in Gainesville Women’s March
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Protesters are seen holding signs with messages such as “Just Biden my time! 
Kama-long with me!” and “I am tired of still marching!” during the Gainesville 
Women’s March, which started down Main Street and University Avenue from 
Depot Park to Bo Diddley Plaza on Saturday, Oct. 17, 2020.
SPECIAL EDITION    MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020   ALLIGATOR  
NO SOCIAL DISTANCING WAS 
FOLLOWED AND FEW MASKS 
WERE WORN
By Anna Wilder and Steven Walker
Alligator Staff Writers
OCALA, Fla. — As Air Force One landed 
on the runway, “Macho Man” by Village 
People blasted through the speakers. Presi -
dent Donald Trump arrived.
Masks were rare in the crowd of thou -
sands who Trump spoke to at Ocala Inter -
national Airport on Friday afternoon. The 
president’s campaign has focused heavily 
on Florida in the last month. 
Trump jumped from topic to topic 
throughout his hour and a half-long speech, 
touching on fake news, his polling in Flori -
da, “corrupt” Joe Biden, China, energy inde -
pendence and his stances on abortion and 
the Second Amendment. 
“If Biden wins, the radical left will be 
running this country,” Trump said. “They’re 
addicted to power, and God help us if they 
ever get it.”
Florida has nearly 750,000 confirmed 
cases of COVID-19 as of Oct. 17. Gov. Ron 
DeSantis lifted COVID-19 restrictions on 
bars and restaurants on Sept. 25. The rally 
itself had no mask mandate and no social 
distancing.
On Oct. 2, the president tested positive 
for COVID-19. Trump has since tested nega -
tive multiple times, according to his doctor. 
He was released from Walter Reed National 
Military Medical Center on Oct. 5.
Trump spoke at a rally in Sanford on 
Monday, and Vice President Mike Pence 
hosted an event in The Villages two days 
earlier. Trump also participated in a town 
hall event on NBC Thursday night in Miami, 
where he fielded questions from potential 
voters.
Donald Trump Jr., the president’s son, 
was scheduled to speak at a gun store in Gainesville on Oct. 5 until the president test -
ed positive for COVID-19.
The crowd huddled together on bleachers 
and seats set up close together surrounding 
the stage. As Trump’s staff tested the mi -
crophones on stage, the crowd booed and 
jeered at the press, chanting “four more 
years” and “CNN sucks.” 
“It’s the enemy of the people, our media 
is the enemy of the people,” Trump said. 
“It’s very, very dangerous what they do.”
During the speech, the crowd cheered 
when the president mentioned confirming 
Supreme Court Justice nominee Amy Coney 
Barrett.
“What a breath of fresh air, right? She’s 
fantastic,” Trump said. “You know, you’re 
not allowed to discriminate, I do like smart 
people on the Supreme Court.”  
Pat McBride, a 61-year-old printing 
and embroidery business owner and UF 
alumnus, stood outside of the airport sell -
ing masks, t-shirts, cups and more embla -
zoned with “MAGA.” Thousands of people 
streamed by his tent as they entered the ven -
ue. By the end of the event, he had almost 
sold out of some items in his inventory.
“It’s just so awesome to feel the energy 
watching everybody walk by, and this coun -
ty is a big supporter of him,” McBride said. 
“And it’s gonna be a close election.”
Trump trails Biden by about four points 
in Florida, according to polling averages 
from FiveThirtyEight. Biden leads the presi -
dent by about 11 points on average nation -
ally.
Waiting in line to get into the event was 
Dennis Kulonda, a 77-year-old from Lees -
burg, a town just outside of The Villages. 
Kulonda did not have a mask on and said he 
wasn’t worried about COVID-19. He said he 
loved the atmosphere and number of people 
he saw at the rally. 
“It’s a testimonial to the not only popu -
larity but the capability of Mr. Trump,” he 
said. 
Before the president took the stage, Re -publican congressional nominee Kat Cam -
mack, who is running to replace Ted Yoho 
in Florida’s 3rd Congressional district, 
spoke. Gov. Ron DeSantis also spoke before 
the president took the stage.
Governor Ron DeSantis talked about the 
Supreme Court nomination of Amy Coney 
Barrett and the potential responses to it from 
Democrats.
“Answer the question, Joe,” DeSantis 
said, referring to what he characterized as 
Biden’s reluctance to answer if he will add 
justices to the Supreme Court.
Outside of the venue, only a small group 
of about five protesters gathered briefly, 
holding Biden signs.
Inside the venue, tents offered snacks, 
water and cooling fan stations. Misting fans 
spritzed cold water onto sweaty attendees. 
People huddled close together inside the 
tents and throughout the rest of the venue, 
ignoring social distancing guidelines. The 
City of Ocala passed a mandate in August 
requiring facial coverings in indoor spaces. 
Because the rally was outside, that mandate 
did not apply.
David Hammar, a 61-year-old attendee, 
stood in the cold water vapor after four 
hours of waiting for the event to begin in 
the sunny, 84-degree weather. He wasn’t 
wearing a mask but said he was not wor -
ried about COVID-19 because the event was 
outside and it was breezy.
Stuart Sawyer, a teacher from Ocala, 
wore a Superman-esque suit with a “T” 
on the chest, a fake tan and a blonde wig. 
He called himself “MAGA Man” or “Super 
Trump” and said the president was just like 
a superhero.
“He’s fighting for all of America,” Sawyer 
said. “In fact, I think he is one of the greatest 
presidents the United States has ever had.”
Trump noticed Sawyer in the crowd and 
pointed him out. The president called Saw -
yer’s costume great and thanked him for 
coming.
People swarmed him afterward, eager to get a picture of the man lauded by the presi -
dent.
“My heart is so full right now,” Sawyer 
said to his fans after the event. 
Turning Point USA at UF, a conserva -
tive student organization, sent a group of 
students to the event. Carter Mermer, a 
21-year-old UF business administration se -
nior and the organization’s president, said 
he couldn’t even tell the president just had 
COVID-19.
“I was just impressed with how he just 
had coronavirus and he was sick,” Mermer 
said. “You wouldn’t be able to tell that he 
just got out of the hospital.”
Standing in the middle of the crowd, 
maskless, 51-year-old Ocala resident Frank 
Thomas observed the rally. As a Black man, 
Thomas said he supports Trump because 
he’s a “true American.” He said he often 
hears the stereotype that Republicans are 
racist, but he doesn’t agree.
“I’ve been here around thousands and 
thousands of white people and I don’t see 
any racists,” Thomas said.
Three generations of Victoria Hickman’s 
family came out to support Trump. She 
was there with her 15-year-old daughter, 
Ryleigh, and her mother, Terry Martin. Be -
ing together at the event was a dream come 
true.
Ryleigh said it was “pretty awesome” to 
come together as a family and show support 
for the same things. She said she saw a de -
cent amount of people from her school, For -
est High School in Ocala, and appreciated 
their similar views. 
Terry Martin said she loves Trump and 
wanted to be there to support him. 
“I want him to know that he has all of 
us on his side,” Martin said. “We’ve got his 
back.”
@swalker_7 
@anna_wilderr
swalker@alligator.org 
awilder@alligator.org Thousands gather in Ocala for a Donald Trump campaign rally
Zachariah Chou / / Alligator Staff
President Donald Trump is seen pointing his finger at the crowd during his campaign rally at the Ocala International Airport on Oct. 16, 2020.
ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020   SPECIAL EDITION
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff  
Terry Roberts is seen organizing and counting ballots in the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections Office on Thursday, Oct. 15, 2020.Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Ina Fritsch (left) and Kristin Rubin (right) open and count ballots in the 
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections Office on Thursday, Oct. 15, 2020.
