We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -A look inside a Reitz Union staple - the barbershop
Owner and manager Jay Jarrell followed in his father’s footsteps 
and is now navigating the haircutting industry in COVID-19,  pg. 6
To East Gainesville and beyond
Jones Edmunds & Associates Inc. is teaming up with NASA to 
send a woman to the moon in the next four years,  pg. 7Five years in the making
Joe Pagdin, who c ommitted to UF at the 
age of 13, is finally hitting the green as a 
Florida Gator this season , pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 10
OVER 113,000 PEOPLE IN THE COUNTY HAVE VOTED 
EARLY IN-PERSON OR BY MAIL 
By Steven Walker and Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writers
Nearly 60% of registered voters, more than 113,000 
people, have already cast their ballots in Alachua County. 
More than 54,000 people voted early in-person in Alachua 
County in the weeks leading up to the election on Nov. 3. 
In the 2016 general election, about 80,000 county residents 
voted early and by mail combined. As of Sunday, 62,353 
Democrats, 29,276 Republicans and 21,777 third party or 
non-party affiliated voters have voted.
Early voting in Alachua County started Oct. 19 and ended 
Oct. 31. The county had six early voting locations. Four early 
voting locations were in Gainesville, one was in the city of 
Alachua and the other was in Hawthorne. 
Here are just a few of the more than 54,000 people who 
voted in-person during early voting. Some worried about the 
rhetoric of American politics while others emphasized the 
importance of voting and supporting their candidate.
Dante DeBose, 30-year-old apartment management employee 
Dante DeBose, a 30-year-old Gainesville resident, voted 
for the first time on Oct. 25. As a Black man, Debose said 
voting is one of the most important things Black people can 
do right now.
“It’s kind of hard to feel like we do really have as much 
freedom as we’re getting told that we have,” he said. ”You 
have a right to vote, why not use it?”
This election marks the first time Debose has ever really 
educated himself about politics. He attended a “Souls to the 
Polls” event on Oct. 25 near the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections office, where he said he learned more about the 
candidates before casting his ballot.
The decision to vote in this election was easy to make, he 
said. Everything about this election, from the candidates to 
this year’s social movements, pushed him to vote.
DeBose wasn’t willing to share who he voted for, just that 
he was confident he “voted right.”
Brian Ardavin, 21-year-old UF student
Brian Ardavin, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, 
is a registered Democrat who voted early for former Vice 
President Joe Biden on Oct. 22 at the Reitz Union polling More than half of Alachua 
County’s voters have cast ballots
Zachariah Chou / / Alligator Staff
Von Brockington, a barber at The Reitz Union Barber Shop, is seen trimming John Smith’s hair 
on Monday, Oct. 19, 2020. Read more on page 6.
SEE VOTER PROFILES,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
ISSN 0889-24232   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 10
VOTERS CAN DECIDE PUBLIC EDUCATION 
FUNDING AND SUPPORT EDUCATORS, 
SPEAKERS SAID
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
Standing in front of a navy tour bus in the 
pouring rain, public education advocates urged 
people to vote like their lives depend on it. 
The American Federation of Teachers, a 
national union of teachers and other education 
professionals, held a rally at First United Methodist 
Church, located at 418 NE 1st St., Thursday. It 
aimed to increase voter turnout through a bus 
tour, in which Gainesville was the first of six stops 
in Florida.
A lineup of speakers from the Florida Education 
Association, UF Graduate Assistants United and 
the United Faculty of Florida addressed the need 
to prevent budget cuts and keep schools from fully 
reopening during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Educators are seeing a reckless risk to their 
lives during the COVID-19 pandemic, said Candi 
Churchill, a field staff member for the United 
Faculty of Florida, an organization that fights for 
high quality education in colleges and universities.
Florida teachers went to court over the decision 
to reopen the classroom during the summer. A 
similar fight has been shaping up at UF, where 
faculty are fighting a push for in-person Spring 
classes.
“We want to make sure that working conditions 
are safe and that people are not being forced back 
to campus,” Churchill said.
Graduate assistants are also impacted by 
government decisions about classrooms as both 
employees and students, said Meridith Miska, a 
co-president of UF Graduate Assistants United, 
a union for teaching, research and graduate 
assistants.
Miska addressed concerns about racial 
inequities at UF, such as how she hears that 
Black, international and graduate students 
feel unwelcome, unsafe and unheard by 
administration.
She also talked about the union’s perspective 
on a university she sees gentrifying a community 
and furloughing workers in need.
Voters, Miska said, can help control the 
conversation that administrators are having about 
faculty returning to classrooms or saving campus jobs.
“The best way to fight back against it is to 
get our members out to vote, make sure the 
community is involved and understands what’s 
going on at UF,” she said. 
American Federation of Teachers President 
Randi Weingarten said people need to go out to 
vote because so much is on the ballot, including 
public education.
“If I sound urgent in the rain, I am,” she said. 
“Because we need to vote like our lives depend on 
it because they do.”
To Fedrick Ingram, American Federation of 
Teachers secretary-treasurer, every single person 
matters in democracy. 
“Some candidates want to talk about Wall 
Street,” he said. “Some candidates want to talk 
about Main Street. All those things are important, 
but we want to talk about what’s happening on 
your street.”
@feinberg_sophie
sfeinberg@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinions Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett MullenaxEducation organizers 
urge Gainesville to vote
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Randi Weingarten, the president of the American 
Federation of Teachers, speaks about education 
budgets at an early voting rally hosted by AFT 
on Thursday, Oct. 29, 2020, at the First United 
Methodist Church in Gainesville, Fla.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
THE LIVING LEARNING 
COMMUNITY WILL BE IN THE 
MURPHREE AREA
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
In Fall 2021, UF will open a Living Learning 
Community for first-generation UF students to 
access academic support and community.
The First Generation Student LLC will open 
by Fall 2021 in the Murphree Area, said Deken -
drick Murray, the Office of Academic Support’s 
assistant director. Living Learning Communi -
ties are groups in UF’s dorms students can join 
to participate in activities and have access to 
course offerings and resources related to their 
LLC theme.
“We’re maximizing resources,” Murray 
said. “And we’re pulling together different 
things to make sure that first generation stu -
dents are supported.” 
First-generation students are the first in 
their family to go to college. They often lack 
the resources and generational knowledge 
about college’s fast academic pace and daunt -
ing social environment.
Some of the 16 existing LLCs on campus are 
the Arts LLC in Reid Hall, the Black Cultural 
LLC in Graham Hall and the Engineering LLC 
in East Hall. 
About 150 to 175 freshman and sophomore 
students will live in the LLC, Murray said. UF 
Housing and Residence Education approved 
the LLC Oct. 5 and is now designing programs 
for students.
The First Generation LLC will give students 
a community of peers and resources. 
There will be workshops on adjusting to the college experience and the professional world, 
academic advisors from the Office of Academic 
Support dropping by the LLC, study spaces 
and mentorship programs, Murray said. The 
residents will also be able to share an Intro to 
Natural History and Quest 1, a general educa -
tion class for incoming students.
“We’re really joining together to create a 
united front for supporting first generation stu -
dents,” he said. “We call this the first genera -
tion alliance.” 
Murray hopes the resident assistants in the 
First Generation LLC will be first-generation 
students themselves.
Multiple first-generation scholarships and 
departments like Promise, McNair Scholars, 
Machen Florida Opportunity Scholars and 
First-Generation Student Success Office are col -
laborating to bring students into the LLC.
Daniel Badell, UF Student Government’s 
First Generation Affairs Cabinet director, pro -
posed the idea to the Office of Academic Sup -
port in May.
“For first generation students, their family 
is a really great support system but only to the 
extent of the things that they know, and they 
don’t know anything about college,” Badell 
said. “It can be a struggle to find your place in 
such a big community.”
UF Promise is a program that provides 
select students with additional support like 
workshops and access to Academic Support 
resources to help them adjust to life at UF. 
Promise also has an LLC for its recipients in 
the Murphree area in Summer B.
 About 70% of Promise recipients are also 
first-generation students, Murray said.
UF Housing and Resident Education fund 
LLCs through the laundromats students pay to use in the dorms, said Mary Jordan, associate 
director of UF Housing’s Student Learning and 
Engagement. The amount LLCs get depends 
on how much students use the washers and 
dryers.
Another new LLC, the Marsha P. Johnson 
LLC for LGBTQ students, will come to Springs 
Complex in Fall 2021. It was also announced 
this month. 
UF Housing and Resident Education is 
forming the two LLCs as part of a review and 
revamp of the department, Jordan said. Along with forming new LLCs, the department is 
looking at the accessibility of their buildings 
and increasing occupancy.
“Where you live is where you spend the 
most of your time outside classes when you 
are in college,” Jordan said. “Being able to 
have this great complimentary experiential 
residence hall experience is very exciting.”
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.orgDorm community for first-generation students announced for Fall 2021
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
location at UF. 
The Alachua County Supervisor of Elections office 
implemented COVID-19 precautions to its early voting 
locations around the county. At the Reitz Union polling 
location, Ardavin said he never felt unsafe. He said the 
lines at the Reitz Union were adequately spread out and 
everyone he saw wore a mask.
Ardavin has voted before but never for president. 
“It felt good to be able to do something that might 
influence where the country goes for the next four years,” 
Ardavin said.
Ardavin said he voted for Biden because he’s seen too 
much hateful rhetoric in politics over the past four years. 
He said the former vice president could help fix that.
“There needs to be a reshaping in mindset and 
environment,” Ardavin said. “There’s a lot that needs to 
be different.”
Alexis Speed, 36-year-old nurse
Alexis Speed, a 36-year-old nurse at UF Health Shands 
Hospital, voted early at the Supervisor of Elections office 
on Oct. 25.
She decided to vote early because she didn’t want 
to stand in the long lines on Election Day. Speed also 
attended the “Souls to the Polls” event on Oct. 25 that 
encouraged people to vote early. 
“I would say it’s definitely my civic duty to vote, 
especially to make sure that kids and everyone that’s not 
able to vote still has their voice heard, and my own voice 
heard,” Speed said. “Especially this year with everything 
going on, this was definitely a major election year.”Treavon T aylor, 32-year-old trash and recycle helper
Treavon Taylor, a 32-year-old Waste Corporation 
of America trash and recycle helper, voted early at the 
Supervisor of Elections office. Taylor said he planned 
to mail in his ballot but didn’t have time to send it in 
because he works 11-12 hour shifts.
Taylor said his church, Upper Room Ministries on 3575 
NE 15th St. in Gainesville, encouraged him to go vote. He 
said he hasn’t voted since the 2012 election. Taylor said 
he didn’t have time with his hours for work, but this time 
his church encouraged it and he felt compelled to come 
out. Taylor is a registered Democrat and said he voted for 
Biden. 
Lee Givens, 60-year-old school media aid
Lee Givens, a 60-year-old retired teacher and current 
school media aid, voted at the Legacy Park Multipurpose 
Center in Alachua. He planned to come and vote early 
but not at the Legacy Park location. He said the other 
locations were too crowded. 
“We drove from Jonesville up to here because we 
heard that it wasn’t as long over here,” Givens said. “Sure 
enough, 15 minutes and we’re done.”
Givens said he didn’t think there were enough early 
voting locations. He said six wasn’t enough and there 
should be one location in every town. Of Alachua 
County’s nine municipalities, only three have early voting 
locations. 
Givens said he voted for President Donald Trump. 
Givens said he has been a lifelong conservative registered 
Republican, but Trump was not his first choice in 2016, 
and he would have preferred Republican nominees Ted 
Cruz or Mike Huckabee, who both ran for president 
four years ago. However, he said Trump fulfilled all his 
promises on his campaign the last three and a half years, 
which is why he trusts him. Connie Richard, 55-year-old cashier 
Connie Richard, a 55-year-old cashier, voted at Legacy 
Park Multipurpose Center in Alachua, because the line 
was too long at the Tower Road Branch Library voting 
location in Gainesville. She is a resident of Newberry, and 
although this location was out of the way, it was worth 
it for her. 
Richard said she did not plan on mail-in voting because 
she does not believe it is safe this year.  She said she 
voted for Trump and is currently a registered Democrat 
but is going to change her registration. 
“He has been good for the last four years, so yeah, I 
believe he will do good,” Richard said. 
Richard said she didn’t really feel like there needed to 
be more locations for early voting. She said she waited 
about 10 minutes in the Legacy Park line. 
Keri Guynn, 35-year-old business owner 
Keri Guynn, a 35-year-old business owner of Serpentine 
Plants and Provisions on 209 NW 10th Ave., Gainesville, 
turned in her mail-in ballot at the Supervisor of Elections 
office. She said she wanted to see her ballot go into the 
box herself.  
Guynn voted for Biden. She said she was a registered 
Independent in the past, but for the last two or three 
elections, she changed her affiliation to Democrat. She 
said Biden was far from her first choice as a Democratic 
candidate, but between him and Trump, he was the best 
option. 
“It is important that I use my vote on behalf of people 
who don’t have the privilege to vote,” she said.  
@swalker_7 
@anna_wilderr
swalker@alligator.org 
awilder@alligator.orgVOTER PROFILES , from pg. 1Early voting ended Oct. 31, Election Day on Nov. 3MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
ABOUT 40 PEOPLE 
PROTESTED AGAINST UF’S 
DECISION TO HAVE 
IN-PERSON CLASSES 
IN THE SPRING
By Corbin Bolies 
and Aurora Martinez
Alligator Staff Writers
About 40 members of UF’s 
faculty and graduate unions pro -
tested outside UF President Kent 
Fuchs’ house Sunday where, de -
spite facing heavy rain and wind, 
they spoke out against the move 
for more in-person classes in the 
Spring.Members of United Faculty of 
Florida-UF and Graduate Assis -
tants United-UF, local represen -
tatives of the Democratic Social -
ists of America, Gainesville City 
Commissioner Harvey Ward and 
an Alachua County Labor Coali -
tion member spoke at the event 
against UF’s plans for more in-
person classes in the Spring due to 
COVID-19. 
The President’s House, across 
the street from the UF Levin Col -
lege of Law, served as the back -
drop, with masked attendees — 
including a costumed Grim Reaper 
— who said the administration’s 
decisions put lives at risk. Protes -
tors weren’t sure whether or not Fuchs was home.  
Bobby Mermer, a co-president 
of GAU-UF, said in his speech that 
at-risk members of his union are 
being asked to choose between 
their lives and livelihoods.
“They’re being led into the 
slaughter,” Mermer said.
Jacob Giner, a 19-year-old UF 
anthropology sophomore and ac -
tivist with the Young Democratic 
Socialists of Gainesville, said UF 
was complicit in Gov. Ron DeSan -
tis’ proposals to re-open the state.
He said only those who’ve pro -
posed face-to-face classes believe 
them to be successful.
“I’m not going to die on a venti -
lator so the politicians and admin -
istrators can ignore the problem,” 
Giner shouted.
The Board of Governors, the 
17-member body that oversees the 
State University System, has not 
released official guidance on how 
to administer classes in the Spring. 
Other speakers, like Roxanne 
Palmer, a member of the Demo -
cratic Socialists of America’s 
North Central Florida chapter, 
used more explicit language in de -
scribing their fury.
“Gainesville is a very small 
pond. UF is a gigantic fish and 
the fish is f------ sick and is bleed -
ing poison into the environment,” 
Palmer said. “Show some f------ 
leadership, Kent Fuchs.”
The Sunday protest was the 
latest in a saga of disagreements 
between the faculty and graduate 
unions and the UF administration 
over in-person classes.
UFF-UF and GAU-UF were 
against UF’s partial reopening this 
Fall, calling it “ill-advised and ex -
tremely risky” in a press release. 
Once UF announced plans to hold more in-person classes in 
Spring, faculty members immedi -
ately expressed concerns, starting 
with an Oct. 5 petition that had 
more than 3,300 signatures as of 
Sunday afternoon. 
UF Provost Joseph Glover ac -
knowledged those concerns in a 
Faculty Senate town hall on Oct. 
6 but stressed the importance of 
returning to the classroom.
The unions hosted a press con -
ference on Oct. 20 stating their 
opposition to UF’s Spring plan, 
asking the administration to pro -
vide the option for faculty to teach 
remotely, especially for at-risk fac -
ulty and staff or for those who live 
with at-risk family members.
“We’re working harder than 
ever, but why is the University 
of Florida endangering our health 
and our well-being by forcing us to 
go back to face-to-face learning in 
the Spring?” Paul Ortiz, the presi -
dent of UFF-UF, asked the crowd.
Sunday’s event will not change 
the UF administration’s mind, Or -
tiz said afterward, but it will be 
part of a pressure campaign. He 
said administration still has time 
to change their minds regarding 
in-person classes.
“We’re just gonna continue 
raising our voices and doing what 
we should be doing as a univer -
sity community,” Ortiz said. “My 
main disappointment with Presi -
dent Fuchs right now is I don’t see 
any dialogue.”
When reached for comment 
Sunday, UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando referred to Fuchs’ Oct. 9 
video promoting in-person courses 
next semester.
Other UF administration mem -
bers, including Dean of Students 
Heather White and Assistant Dean Kris Klann, attended to observe 
the protest but declined to com -
ment.
Brantlee Spakes-Richter, a UF 
plant pathology associate profes -
sor, attended the protest holding a 
sign that had written on it, “There 
is no top 5 without your teachers!” 
She has worked at UF for 10 years 
and said she is outraged at the 
way the administration has made 
its decisions. 
Richter said the first article of 
the UF constitution describes a 
shared governance system, which 
means faculty and administrators 
are entitled to voice their opin -
ions when it comes to making 
policy decisions. UF did not follow 
such procedure to decide on an -
nouncing in-person classes for the 
Spring, she said.
UF allowed for faculty com -
ments at Glover’s town hall last 
month, but hasn’t publicly ad -
dressed their concerns since 
Fuch’s Oct. 9 video.
“There was no seat at the table, 
there was no option for us to par -
ticipate in charting the path for -
ward for UF,” Richter said, “and I 
find that abhorrent.”
That lack of conversation — 
and commitment to in-person 
courses — is what’s caused the 
divide.
“We gotta be honest with what 
this face-to-face policy will do,” 
said Ara Hagopian, a 24-year-old 
UF graduate student, who dressed 
as the Grim Reaper. “It will cost 
lives.”
@AuroraCeciliaM
@Corbinbolies
amartinez@alligator.org
cbolies@alligator.org
MANY UF PROFESSORS 
HAVE MANDATED STUDENT 
PARTICIPATION AND CAMERAS 
TO INCREASE STUDENT 
ENGAGEMENT
By Kalia Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
UF African American Studies professor 
Vincent Adejumo said he is like a Method -
ist preacher in his virtual classroom. 
His animated storytelling coupled with 
dramatic pauses hasn’t faltered since 
switching his Intro to African American 
studies course online, and his attendance 
has even gone up.
“If you’re a boring teacher then it’s go -
ing to be boring,” Adejumo said.
COVID-19 has forced many professors to 
change their curriculum and create virtual 
scavenger hunts and camera-on policies to 
engage with students. While some profes -
sors have easily adjusted to the change, 
others miss the in-person interaction. 
This fall, 4,202 courses were offered 
online, hybrid and in-person. The number 
of courses offered online cannot be deter -
mined because some professors decided to 
teach online after low-attendance or fears 
of catching COVID-19 from unmasked stu -
dents, wrote UF data literacy professor 
Norman Lewis in an email.
Within the live lecture, Adejumo uses internet scavenger hunts, breakout room 
discussions and current events to keep his 
60 students engaged online. He watches 
the shows his students watch like “Love -
craft Country,” a TV drama and horror se -
ries that takes place during the Jim Crow 
era. He also discusses police brutality and 
Black death within the news, he said.
“The passion just comes out when the 
literature lines up with the current events,” 
Adejumo said.
For more than seven years, Adejumo 
has taught online and hybrid courses. He 
has no problem teaching synchronous on -
line lectures in the Spring, and he said he 
prefers it. 
“There’s no point of resisting,” Adejumo 
said. “You just have to embrace it and get 
the proper training.”
The online classroom flexibility also 
benefits traveling student athletes, Adeju -
mo said. It matters less that a student is 
styling their hair, making French toast or 
logging in from their phone for the lecture, 
he said. He just requires students to have 
their cameras on and participate in class 
lectures.
“We’re all adults,” he said. “So, that’s 
what they want to do, I’m not going to be 
such a stickler on it.”
Miklos Bona, a UF mathematics profes -
sor, said his class engagement has suffered. 
While class grades have remained the same, 
his jokes fall flat and most students don’t 
bother to turn their cameras on. He misses 
the tune of students shuffling into class, he said, and discussing word problems. 
“That’s always music to my ears when 
I walk into a regular classroom, and I hear 
right before class that the students are talk -
ing to each other about the material,” Bona 
said. 
With muted microphones and blacked-
out screens on Zoom, he can’t scan the 
room for confused faces or glance over the 
shoulder of students writing down the ma -
terial like in a classroom, he said. 
Bona often waits for a verbal yes before 
he moves on, but it is often the same stu -
dents giving it, he said.
While he understands teaching from 
home is a safety precaution, he’s counting 
the days until he can return to the class -
room safely and better service his students.
“I still prefer a traditional classroom,” 
Bona said. “The online experience is not all 
negative, but the negatives outnumber the 
positives.”
While UF French professor Rori Bloom 
has only 10 students in her French litera -
ture class, she still finds it hard to see them 
while she shares her screen. In addition, 
the informal interaction is lost in their wal -
let-sized Zoom frames.
“You don’t see how they make each 
other laugh,” Bloom said. “Or that some of 
them are wearing uniforms because they’ve 
gotten off work.”
To break the ice, Bloom said she’ll ask 
about a poster or the pink wallpaper in 
their room to get students comfortable with 
speaking informally in French. She also creates one-on-one meetings during class 
time to make up for time usually spent dur -
ing in-person office hours. 
Despite the Zoom headaches and the 
virtual classroom frustration, Bloom said 
all of her students keep their cameras on 
and want to engage in discussion.
“It’s going really well in terms of the 
level of maturity and engagement,” she 
said.
Michael Marsiske, a UF clinical and 
health psychology professor, wrote in an 
email that teaching online is among the 
least of his worries with COVID-19, climate 
change and political unrest within the na -
tion.
“I consider the move to online platforms 
(Zoom, Canvas) the best thing that ever 
happened to my teaching,” Marsiske wrote. 
By requiring his students to have their 
camera on, three-person breakout rooms 
and “Get to know you” meetings, he 
doesn’t feel a disconnect.
Students can hear his lecture clearly 
over Zoom compared to a fading voice 
within a 50-student lecture hall, he wrote, 
and students don’t have to squint to see 
the board. 
“My personal experience is that Zoom 
has opened up a door to more fun, effec -
tive, engaging and interactive instruction – 
done with fewer sensory challenges – than 
the in-person classroom allows,” he wrote. 
@Kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.org UF faculty and graduate students protest in-person Spring classes
UF professors adapt to the Zoom classroom with activities, expectationsEmily Felts / / Alligator Staff
Cristina Cabada, the Alachua County Labor Coalition Coordinator, 
spoke to a crowd assembled across the street from the Dasburg 
House during a protest against in-person classes this spring at UF, 
on Sunday, Nov. 1, 2020.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
JAY JARRELL AND THE REITZ UNION 
BARBER SHOP: THE HIDDEN GEMS 
OF UF’S REITZ UNION
By Rachel Slay
Alligator Staff Writer
Smiling eyes and the faint fragrance of 
shaving cream greet patrons as they enter the 
barbershop on the ground floor of UF’s Re -
itz Union. The gray tile floors, black leather 
chairs and Gator sports memorabilia bring a 
sense of old school, hometown comfort to the 
building’s business-oriented atmosphere.  
The Reitz Student Union Barber Shop has 
been serving customers on UF’s campus since 
1967, and current owner and manager Jay 
Jarrell has been around almost every step of 
the way. Over his 49 years there, he and the 
shop have survived major downsizing, build -
ing renovations and now, a global pandemic. 
Jarrell followed in his father’s footsteps 
by becoming a barber. In his hometown of 
Miami, his dad, John David Jarrell, graduated 
from and eventually owned Miami Barber 
College. Jay Jarrell also attended college and 
became a barber at the age of 16, when he 
had to cut his dad’s hair and shave his beard 
for his final exam. 
Shaving was never one of his strong suits, 
Jay Jarrell said. 
In the fall of 1971, Jay Jarrell moved to 
Gainesville, and after quitting his job at the 
local Sears Automotive Department, started 
working at the shop as a UF psychology stu -
dent. Soon after, his dad sold the barber col -
leges in Miami and decided to buy the Reitz 
Union Barber Shop.
About 35 years ago, Jay Jarrell said he 
bought the shop from his father and took over 
as manager. 
When COVID-19 caused campus to close 
during the Spring semester, Jay Jarrell knew 
things would look different for the shop when campus reopened again in Fall. The shop 
closed on March 21 and reopened on May 11, 
after Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis issued an ex -
ecutive order to allow barbershops and other 
cosmetic businesses to open. 
Before UF required students to leave cam -
pus, business was already declining, Jay Jar -
rell said. Many students had already gone 
home. This semester, Jarrell has been able to 
pay his bills, but business is not the same. 
The shop has seen about 40% of the amount 
of clients a typical October would have, he 
said.  
The shop is not financially supported by 
the university, so it relies completely on cli -
ents and service for profit. UF gave Jay Jarrell 
a break on rent during April and two months 
of relief to compensate for COVID-19, he said. 
“Normally, October is our busiest month,” 
Jay Jarrell said. “I would never be able to go 
play golf on a Friday morning.”
To keep up with COVID-19 guidelines, cli -
ents wear their mask for the duration of their 
appointment. Jay Jarrell has clients hold their 
mask over their nose and mouth if they want 
their beard trimmed and shaves one half of 
their face at a time. 
The sanitation of equipment between cli -
ents is similar to a barber’s typical process, 
he said. He sweeps the floor, wipes down the 
chair and sanitizes all of the tools before an -
other person sits down. 
The shop still takes appointments and 
walk-ins, but students are no longer allowed 
to wait in the shop for their barber to be ready 
for them. Jay Jarrell asks them to take advan -
tage of the seating out in the Reitz common 
areas instead. 
Even at 69 years old, Jay Jarrell was not 
nervous about returning to work. He was 
confident in his ability to maintain a sanitary 
environment. 
“I’m going to do everything I can to keep 
from catching it,” Jarrell said. “But if I was re -ally worried, I wouldn’t be working.” 
The Reitz Union Barber Shop that ex -
ists today is much smaller than the original 
shop built in 1967, Jay Jarrell said. It was 
1,100 square feet and had 10 stations. About 
20 years ago, it became difficult to keep that 
shop busy because it was so big, he said. 
Jay Jarrell had a conversation with his 
buddy Michael Schwartz, former dean of UF 
pharmaceutics, about problem solving and 
the challenge of maintaining such a large 
space. 
“I thought, ‘Well, how can I make this 
work without just working 60 hours a week 
for the rest of my life?’” he said. Downsizing was the answer. In 2010, he 
signed a new lease with UF and moved into 
the smaller space. Now, the shop has three 
stations and a glass window from floor to ceil -
ing looking into one of the main hallways at 
the Reitz. 
During his time working on UF’s campus, 
Jay Jarrell has had countless students and no -
table professors sit in his chair. He said one of 
his favorite clients was the late Ralph Lowen -
stein, who served as dean of UF’s College of 
Journalism and Communications for 18 years. 
“I cut his hair about a week before he 
passed,” Jay Jarrell said. “He was pretty vi -
brant and pretty healthy right up until the 
very end.”
The university brings him the best types of 
clients a barber could ask for, he said. 
“This clientele is elite clientele,” he said. 
“Everyone has good communication skills, 
and they’re not shy about telling me what 
they want so it’s pretty easy to please people.”  
In the shop, Jay Jarrell works alongside 
the 39-year-old, gregarious Von Brocking -
ton. Brockington is quick with a joke and 
casually refers to customers as “Buddy.” The 
Gainesville native has been working at the Re -
itz Union Barber Shop since 2004 and doesn’t 
plan on leaving anytime soon, unless he wins 
the lottery, he said. 
It’s Jay Jarrell’s funny, warm spirit that 
makes working at the shop so special, Brock -
ington said. 
“In a barbershop, you kind of work for 
yourself so to be able to work with people you 
get along with is always good,” Brockington 
said. 
When UF President Kent Fuchs arrived at 
the university in 2015, he asked Jay Jarrell 
if he was getting ready to retire. Jarrell told 
Fuchs he will stay as long as he is president 
of UF. 
Talk of Jay Jarrell leaving the shop was 
sad for Brockington. It doesn’t matter who is 
in charge, as long as he still comes around, 
Brockington said. 
“I don’t want to think about the bird leav -
ing,” Brockington said. “That’ll be a sad day.”
As he approaches 70, Jay Jarrell hopes to 
transition from manager to a supporting role. 
In five years, he would like to see Brockington 
running the shop so that he can play golf and 
be a good husband to his wife of 45 years. 
“I see Von thriving and me chilling,” he 
said. “My wife’s been waiting a long time to 
have more time with me.” 
@racheljslay
rslay@alligator.orgA 49-year legacy of hair cuts and southern hospitality
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
John Smith, a retired construction and restaurant worker, is seen getting his hair trimmed at the Reitz Union Barber Shop on Monday, 
Oct. 19, 2020. Smith said he always goes to Von Brockington, one of the barbers, because he “makes his morning better.”Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
Von Brockington, a barber at the Reitz Union Barber Shop, trims John Smith’s hair on 
Monday, Oct. 19, 2020. Brockington’s worked at the Reitz Barber Shop since 2005.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
THANK YOU
on
TODAY 
    TODAY 
    
Come see for yourself why CAMPUS is better than your bank!As a not-for-profit financial co-op, owned by our members, 
it’s in our DNA to support the organizations that help the community.
campuscu.com/community-ad
Membership is open to students, faculty and staff of the University of Florida, UF Health, and all residents of Alachua County!3 
One bonus per household. Offer not available to members with an existing CAMPUS checking account. 1. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member 
must elect to receive eDocuments.  2. Credit approval required. Offer subject to change without notice. May not be combined with any other offer. Member must elect to 
receive eDocuments and deposit over $200, per month, for the first 3 months. If the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will 
be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT 3. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required.
This ad space donated by CAMPUS USA Credit Union. Visit campuscu.com/community-ad  for more info.
(Promo code: UF150) Visit us online to learn how to open a Free Checking Account1 and earn up to $150!2
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
THE FIVE-YEAR CIVIL 
ENGINEERING CONTRACT 
WILL SUPPORT AMERICANS’ 
RETURN TO MOON
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Staff Writer 
An East Gainesville firm could 
play a role in American astronauts’ 
return to the moon. 
NASA awarded Jones Edmunds 
& Associates Inc. a five-year civil 
engineering contract in mid-Sep -
tember. The East Gainesville firm, 
along with two others in Orlando 
and Viera, will provide architectur -
al-engineer services for the NASA 
Artemis program, which aims to 
send the first woman to the moon 
by 2024 — more than five decades 
after the first moon landing. 
With a partnership that spans 
28 years, this is the fifth time Jones 
Edmunds will collaborate with the 
Kennedy Space Center in Cape Ca -
naveral, Florida. The new contract 
allows the Gainesville firm to pro -
vide services to NASA nationwide, 
firm vice president Terri Lowery 
said. 
It also awards $150 million for 
space-related engineering projects, 
she added. Projects intended for 
the Artemis program include utili -
ties infrastructure, site planning, 
transportation engineering and 
stormwater and solid waste man -
agement. 
Space innovation is only one of 
the firm’s initiatives, Lowery said. 
Located on Waldo Road, the firm 
has spearheaded multiple projects 
in East Gainesville. The firm’s en -
gineers helped design the Duval 
Stormwater Park, restore Sweet -
water Wetlands Park and upgrade 
road safety for traffic, pedestrians and bicyclists of the northeast. 
“It’s pretty exciting to see what 
our team has done over the years 
at the facility,” Lowery said. “It is 
a testament to the hard work and 
the service that our technical team 
provides to NASA.” 
The contract is also a financial 
boost for the firm, which supports 
more than 130 employees, Lowery 
said. Many of them are Gainesville 
residents. 
Jamie Bell is one of these em -
ployees. As an engineer and North 
Duckpond resident, she gets to be a 
part of space innovation 10 minutes 
from her quaint neighborhood. 
Bell will be working with an in -
frastructure team to create a waste -
water master plan and redesign 
Kennedy Space Center’s Crawler -
way, the roadway used to move 
rockets to the launch pad, for the 
Artemis project. 
“Believe it or not, there’s actu -
ally space-related work going on 
in East Gainesville,” Bell said. “It’s 
also really interesting to see how 
the space industry is growing again 
because it did kind of take a dip for 
a little while.”  
The Obama administration ap -
proved the NASA Authorization 
Act of 2010, which turned to pri -
vate companies to send astronauts 
into space, while NASA focused 
on creating larger rockets to travel 
further distances. The act canceled 
the Constellation Program, a NASA 
mission geared to send astronauts 
to the moon, in favor of commer -
cial flights to the International 
Space Station. 
Gregory Harland, a Kennedy 
Space Center spokesperson, desires 
to push the boundaries of space ex -
ploration even further. With the 
Artemis program, Harland and his colleagues have their eyes set on 
the moon — and even Mars. 
“I can only imagine what the 
Apollo era folks were thinking. I 
could only imagine what the space 
shuttle era folks were thinking,” 
Harland said. “We are at the very 
beginning of this new pioneering 
spirit, taking a deep breath in the 
universe.”
NASA hasn’t sent an astronaut 
into space from U.S soil in nine 
years until flights resumed this 
summer through a partnership 
with SpaceX, Elon Musk’s private 
spaceflight company. NASA’s mission has evolved to 
lead the development of a commer -
cial space industry, Harland said. 
He notes that its multi-user space -
port, which was initially built for 
the Apollo Mission, has converted 
from a strictly governmental facil -
ity to a blended government and 
commercial facility. 
Laura Rochester, director of 
procurement at the Kennedy Space 
Center, hopes NASA’s endeavors 
would inspire children to pursue 
math and science. With more space 
innovation, more commercial tech -
nology will be created, she added. Rochester looks forward to 
space innovation’s comeback.   
“When we’re on TV launching 
astronauts to the space station and 
then watching them safely splash 
back down, it brings everyone to -
gether,” she said.    
Rochester and Harland may 
not wear space suits, but both 
agree steering a rocket is only one 
of many ways to support space 
exploration — even from East 
Gainesville. 
@EdysmarDiazCruz
ediaz-cruz@alligator.orgAmong the stars: NASA awards contract to East Gainesville engineering firm
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenueCommanding athletes in their own right 
Online Sports Editor Payton Titus unpacks the sexism behind 
Gators softball player Jade Caraway’s portrayal as Kyle Trask’s 
girlfriend and other instances of gender discrimination in sports 
media, pg. 12Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
LIVE STREAMS AND 
FUNDRAISERS CONTINUE 
THROUGH UNCERTAINTY
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s quieter in downtown Gainesville these 
days. 
Residents still filter in and out of local 
businesses for a bite to eat or a coffee break, 
and UF students still frequent their favorite 
spots with friends. But the energy, once 
electric, has lulled to a low hum. 
Pat Lavery, facility and events manager at 
High Dive, felt the change.
“Downtown is dead,” he said. 
The COVID-19 pandemic has left downtown 
Gainesville, an active area of local arts and 
culture, at a standstill. A major contributor to 
the desolation is the absence of live events in 
local venues. 
These venues are still trying to decide 
how to safely provide entertainment and turn 
a profit in a time that’s been anything but 
opportune. 
When the pandemic began in March, 
temporary closures were the immediate 
responses from venues both in Gainesville 
and throughout the country. But what was 
thought to be a weeks-long hiatus turned into 
a far more significant break in business. 
“We were closed completely for over six 
months,” Lavery said. 
Venues like High Dive spent the time 
finding safer alternatives to standard practices, 
cutting costs and creating solutions for the fact 
that “business as usual” couldn’t happen. 
What ensued was an onset of fundraising 
initiatives: t-shirts, gift cards, a GoFundMe 
page and more. 
The options for operation were limited, 
though.
The various fundraisers worked to an 
extent, Lavery said, and High Dive is still on 
its feet, but being profitable means selling 
a product. While restaurants and other 
businesses could make changes to safely put 
products into customers’ hands, live venues 
did not have that luxury. 
“There’s not really a takeout menu for live 
music,” Lavery said. 
Other Gainesville stages have experienced 
similar struggles. Dave Melosh, owner and 
general manager of Heartwood Soundstage, 
said the venue is “barely breaking even.” 
Heartwood, a venue specializing in audio 
and video recording of live music, also closed 
its doors from March to late September, save 
for one socially distanced outdoor show in 
June. 
The past few months were touch-and-
go, so much that Lavery said High Dive was 
“literally adjusting every week,” but new 
ventures have kept the venues afloat. High 
Dive initiated an alcohol delivery service for a 
short while along with their other fundraising 
efforts, and Heartwood now hosts a weekly 
farmers market with live music.
The alternatives provided some financial 
relief, but these establishments’ ultimate goal was left unmet.
“Our only purpose is to book and produce 
shows,” Lavery said. 
Live entertainment venues exist for exactly 
that – live entertainment. But with in-person 
shows no longer an option, the question 
remained: How does live music start to make 
its way back?
The answer laid in the art of the livestream. 
Heartwood, High Dive and other venues 
across the country have taken to the platform 
to distribute local music to their patrons. 
Bands play remotely or film at the venue, 
and the content is streamed to users through 
Facebook, YouTube or other services.
Local artists like Arrows In Action, 
Driveaway and The Forum have participated 
in a handful of High Dive’s “Live From Home” 
streaming benefit concerts, and Heartwood 
has recruited a host of local singer-songwriters 
for their “Song From The Heart” streaming 
series.
For MusicGNV co-founder Brandon Telg, 
live streaming hasn’t just been the most 
efficient avenue of operations – it’s been the 
only avenue. 
MusicGNV is a nonprofit organization 
dedicated to supporting Gainesville artists. The 
business was originally set to launch in May as 
a booking and public relations organization, 
among other services, but when the pandemic 
hit, Telg changed plans. 
Instead, MusicGNV officially launched 
in March and has since served as an outlet 
for artists to perform live streams with their 
ongoing “Safe At Home” series. 
“That wasn’t our intention, to do 
livestreams, but that’s what became 
available,” Telg said. 
Current conditions considered, livestreams 
are the safest approach to providing 
entertainment, but in terms of filling in for the 
absence of live shows, Lavery said it’s simply 
not enough. 
Venues like High Dive didn’t just function 
as flourishing businesses on their own: they 
were also profitable for the downtown area 
as a whole, Lavery said. Attending a High 
Dive show usually meant grabbing dinner at 
a nearby restaurant, stopping for drinks at a 
bar after the show or frequenting other local 
businesses. 
“For every dollar that people spend on 
a ticket at High Dive, they’re spending, on 
average, another $12 elsewhere downtown,” 
Lavery said.
Perhaps the more significant impact, 
though, is the drain on Gainesville’s morale. 
The lack of energy is palpable, Melosh said. 
After months of tightening belts and 
grasping at straws, of questions unanswered 
and futures uncertain, of some venues barely 
getting by and others not at all, Melosh said 
the lack of energy is palpable. 
But the hard work is worth it if it means 
keeping live events in the Gainesville 
landscape, the venue officials said. It was 
impossible for them to overstate the value of 
live entertainment to local culture.
For Lavery, it “gives us an identity that we 
don’t really have otherwise.”
For Melosh, it’s “the breadth of what the Gainesville community is.”
And for Telg, live entertainment is the 
connection itself. 
“I feel disconnected from my friends, from 
my community,” Telg said, “And a large part 
of that community for me was at events, was 
at concerts and was at live music.”
What comes next is still uncertain. 
Government aid, Lavery said, is the only 
viable solution to the financial crisis venues 
are experiencing. However, with the Save 
Our Stages Act, a Congressional bill drafted 
to provide aid to independent venues, still 
suspended in the Senate, these funds are not 
guaranteed.
The next option is support from the 
community, which the venues have 
experienced. Melosh said his venue has been 
kept alive by a loyal group of patrons who 
have continuously sent donations. 
“There’s a pretty hardcore group of maybe 
300 to 400 people in Gainesville who’ve 
supported Heartwood through thick and 
thin,” he said. 
Under Gov. Ron DeSantis’s reopening 
plans, Florida venues are legally allowed to 
operate at 100% capacity, but some, like High 
Dive and Heartwood, are continuing with 
limitations and distancing guidelines. The 
approach is a gradual one, with the venues 
easing back into having a crowd present for 
live events. 
Heartwood’s current plan, Melosh said, 
is to continue relying on their outdoor space 
for live events. Streaming events from their 
indoor space to an audience seated outdoors 
is also a possibility, he said. 
High Dive is reintroducing live events 
as well, Lavery said, proceeding first with 
allowing patrons to watch livestreams from the beer garden and continuing with distanced 
seating inside the venue and a mandatory 
mask policy. 
As for MusicGNV, Telg and his team are 
taking the next few months to regroup, with a 
current plan to step away from livestreaming 
starting in November. 
“We are winding down the livestreams,” 
he said 
These are the first of many steps to return 
to normalcy, which Melosh predicts may not 
happen for at least another year.
But it’s a return he said he looks forward 
to despite the potentially lengthy time frame. 
Though the marquee acts Gainesville attracts 
are cause for anticipation, Melosh said the real 
magic of live shows lies in the little moments 
of connection and community.  
“Your scene is only as good as the collection 
of those moments you have,” he said. 
And in Gainesville venues, where Saturday 
nights bleed into Sunday mornings, and 
hometown heroes pour their hearts out for 
a crowd of their closest family and friends, 
those moments exist in spades. 
There has never been a more challenging 
time to be in the live music industry, Telg 
said, but if there were a single truth to be 
understood from the circumstances, he said it 
would be this:  
“There is no equal to live music.”
For more information on upcoming 
events or how to donate, visit High Dive, 
Heartwood Soundstage and MusicGNV’s 
websites 
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgThe show must go on: How Gainesville venues are moving forward
MUSICMUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Gainesville’s High Dive closed temporarily for six months due to COVID-19 
business shutdowns. Now, the venue is moving forward as Gainesville’s 
music scene recovers.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers for 
our Tower Road location. Day shifts and night 
shifts available. Part and full time available. 
Flexible scheduling and great work environment. 
Reliable car a must. Pay is $8.56/hour plus tips. 
Apply in person at 600 NW 75th St or online 
at fivestarpizza.com/employment and choose 
Gainesville NW 75th St for location.    
11-2-20-3-14
Café Risqué
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
352- 466- 3803
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Cooks / Waitresses / Managers / Performers
Apply NOW
11-2-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Service & Maintenance Help Needed
Experience as a maintenance technician 
Strong work ethic and an eager to learn 
attitude
Apartment housing experience a plus!
Working knowledge of appliances, plumb-
ing & HVAC
Able to work flexible schedule, which may 
include nights/weekends and emergency-
on-call rotation
Excellent customer service
Must Reliable transportation and valid instate driv -
erís license. Apply online at colliercompanies.com    
11-2-20-2-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         11-2-6-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By George Jasper
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/02/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/02/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, November 2, 2020
ACROSS
1 Brutus’ 300
4 Florida city on its 
own bay
9 Actor Charlie or 
his dad Martin
14 “Oh, I get it now!”
15 Schoolbag 
measuring stick
16 Overly theatrical
17 “Frozen” 
collectible
18 1980 Travolta/
Winger film set in 
Texas
20 Asian island 
capital
22 Bring to mind
23 Aristocracy
26 Fateful March 
day
29 London district
30 NBA tiebreakers
31 Agassi of tennis
32 Cat burglar’s 
undoing
35 Con artist’s target
36 Fond du __, 
Wisconsin
39 Previously owned 
auto
41 Fla. summer hrs.
42 Top NFL player
44 More out of sorts
46 Smelly 
emanations
47 Tulsa sch. named 
for an evangelist
48 “Avalon” author 
Seton
52 Freelancer’s encl.
53 Pandemonium
56 Cybermoney
58 Chickpea dip
59 Where a 
quarterback may 
line up
63 Language suffix
64 Like a nasty 
remark
65 Waze suggestion
66 Novelist Deighton
67 Trait carriers
68 Editorial second 
thoughts
69 Up until now
DOWN
1 Plant seen in 
Road Runner 
cartoons
2 Bargain-
basement
3 Islamic leader
4 More factual5 Bond foe 
Goldfinger
6 Org. with A’s and 
O’s
7 Veggie in a pod
8 James of 
“Gunsmoke”
9 “Beat it!”
10 “A Brief History 
of Time” author 
Stephen
11 Attached to a 
military unit, as a 
journalist
12 Angsty music 
genre
13 Bronx team, 
initially
19 Walgreens rival
21 Low-level 
laborer
24 Drop, as weight
25 Was humbled
27 Bow-wielding 
god
28 Mailed
31 Billion suffix
33 Yours and mine
34 Personal ad 
“looking for”
35 Good buddy
36 East Asian 
country
37 Alan of 
“M*A*S*H”38 Approached for 
a raid
40 Board game with 
a candlestick
43 Lead up to
45 Former Chicago 
mayor Emanuel
47 “Plays well  
with __”
49 For instance
50 “It’s like this,” and 
a phonetic hint to 
the five longest 
Across answers51 Agree
53 Sch. near 
Hollywood
54 Scarlett’s  
Butler
55 Heals
57 Greek war god
59 Post-Civil War 
pres.
60 SSW’s opposite
61 “__ on my 
watch!”
62 U.S. Election 
Day: Abbr.
By Paul Coulter
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/27/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/27/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 27, 2020
ACROSS
1 Analyze 
grammatically
6 Comic Silverman
11 Atlanta-to-Miami 
dir.
14 At full speed
15 Actress De La 
Garza
16 “Buffy” airer after 
The WB
17 Breakfast dish 
that sounds 
spoiled?
19 Part of LGBTQ
20 Ashtabula’s lake
21 Fruity drinks
22 Master, in 
Swahili
24 Earthquakes
26 Cold one at a bar
27 Snack cake 
brand named for 
a four-year-old
33 Split up
36 Aired again
37 Immigrants’ subj.
38 Gunk
39 Helen who sang 
“I Am Woman”
40 In good health
41 Post-apartheid 
ruling party: Abbr.
42 With “en,” hot, in 
sports slang
43 Spoils, with “on”
44 Two-level bus
47 __ center: exact 
middle
48 Unaffiliated film 
studios
52 Artist’s flat hat
54 Poker Flat 
chronicler Harte
57 __-dieu: kneeler
58 Antipollution org.
59 Postpone an 
article’s essential 
points ... and a 
hint to 17-, 27- 
and 44-Across
62 Ready-fire link
63 Correct, as text
64 Like Olympic 
pools
65 __ Victor: record 
label
66 Broad valleys
67 Mike who voiced 
Shrek
DOWN
1 Treasure map 
word
2 Love, in Rome3 Pie cuts, 
geometrically
4 Lateral skid
5 Big picture?: 
Abbr.
6 Anti-DWI gp.
7 On the safer 
side, at sea
8 Cleaning cloths
9 Oscar winner 
Lee
10 Washed-up star
11 Sucrose-rich root 
veggie
12 Bridge
13 Irish New Ager
18 Steinbeck’s “__ 
of Eden”
23 World Wide __
25 Sch. near 
Harvard
26 Time for cake 
with candles, 
informally
28 Cornered on a 
limb
29 Flowerpot spot
30 MD meeting an 
ambulance
31 “Cast Away” 
setting
32 Building 
additions
33 “Good grief!”
34 It’s forbidden35 Semifictional film 
genre
39 Felt bad about
40 2006 film about 
crosswords
42 Open-bodied 
truck
43 Animal house
45 Buzzing flier
46 Friends and 
neighbors
49 “Flashdance...
What a Feeling” 
singer Cara50 Down-yielding 
duck
51 Plants-to-be
52 Den denizen
53 “Beowulf,” e.g.
54 Belgian 
composer 
Jacques
55 Hall of Famer 
Sandberg
56 Approx. takeoff 
hours
60 Actress Thurman
61 “Slippery” tree
10/26/2020Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-131For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
2 SIDED T-SHIRT
MAKE AMERICA SANE/NICE AGAIN
White on Blue  - XL  100% Cotton
$13 Pick-up OR $15 I Mail
Call 352-373-9400                         11-2-20-3-10 
The MC Hot-N-Happy Home School 
Supplies for Tools needed for Online 
Learning. Over 1,000 items of cheap sup -
plies. https://www.mchotnhappy.com  
11-23-20-4-10  
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.10 For Sale
answer on page 10
readreadmeme
solution below
answers below
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which of the Great Lakes is 
the largest in surface area?
2. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century novel's 
working title was "Tomorrow Is Another Day"?
3. MEASUREMENTS: What does an an -
emometer measure?
4. TELEVISION: Which 1980s sitcom fea -
tured the characters Mrs. Garrett, Tootie 
and Jo?
5. ENTERTAINERS: Which singer was born 
with the name Stefani Joanne Angelina 
Germanotta?
6. ADVERTISING: Who is the mascot of the 
snack brand Cheetos?
7. ANATOMY: How much blood does the av -
erage human have?
8. MOVIES: What was the name of the 1993 
movie in which actor Tom Hanks plays a 
lawyer with HIV?
9. U.S. STATES: What is the official state 
bird of Minnesota?
10. ASTRONOMY: Which planet in our solar 
system has the largest moon?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  answerTrivia Test  answers1. Lake Superior
2. "Gone With the 
Wind"
3. Wind speed and 
pressure
4. "The Facts of Life"
5. Lady Gaga6. Chester Cheetah
7. 1.2 to 1.5 gallons
8. "Philadelphia"
9. Common loon
10. Jupiter, with the 
moon Ganymede
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
15 Services
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
11..    AAuutthhoorr  
11..    HHeeaavvyysseett  mmaammmmaall55..    ________  ssuurrffaaccee
22..    SSeett  oonn  ffiirree66..    NNoott  tthhoossee    
33..    SSiinncceerree77..    CCooppyy  ________
44..    CCaappttiivvaatteeEERRWWTTRRII
UUAASSWWLLRRAARRLLNNUU
SSHHEETTEE
IIEETTGGIINNDD
SSAARREEEENNTTDDEEIIOORRTT
DDAAEERREENNAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--WWrriitteerr    55AA--LLuunnaarr    66AA--TThheessee    77AA--EEddiittoorr
11DD--WWaallrruuss    22DD--IIggnniitteedd    33DD--EEaarrnneesstt    44DD--EEnnddeeaarr    BB--NNaauuttiilluuss1111--22--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  ffiittnneessss  eeqquuiippmmeenntt  ccoommppaannyy
wwaass  ffoouunnddeedd  iinn  11998866..  
BONUS
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Foley named to Second All-SEC Team following XC Championship
Junior Trevor Foley earned Second All-SEC Team honors after a 13th-place 
finish in the Men’s 8k race at SEC Championships last Friday.
Gators volleyball set a school 
record for blocks in a three-set 
match, recording 19.5 blocks 
against Alabama Saturday 
afternoon. Junior Lauren Dooley 
was responsible for 10 of them.FEATURE
By Michael Hull
Sports Writer
Nervous. That’s how I felt the first time 
I interviewed Joe Pagdin.
Pagdin was in eighth grade at the time 
and was already the No. 1 player on the 
varsity golf team at Trinity Preparatory 
School in Orlando. I was intimidated as a 
freshman about to conduct my first inter -
view for the high school newspaper. Lit -
tle did I know, Pagdin would commit to 
Florida a month later at 13-years-old — the 
youngest golf commit in UF history.  
That was five years ago. Back then, 
Pagdin was the smallest kid on the varsity 
team. 
“I feel when I go to matches, most of the 
time, I feel like the other team is looking 
at me like, ‘Oh, who’s this little kid?’” the 
young, pimple-faced Pagdin said.
Now, Pagdin is the proverbial big man 
on campus as he begins his much-antici -
pated career at UF.  
“For me, it was the right choice and the 
right timing,” Pagdin said of his commit -
ment. “After I committed, the wait seemed 
like it was going to take forever, and it did. 
And then my senior year just flew by, and 
soon enough, I was moving up here.”
Joe’s father, Mark Pagdin, realized his 
son could have a collegiate future in golf 
when he was very young.
“When he was eight, nine, 10 years old, 
he used to win everything on the junior 
level,” Mark said. “People used to say to 
me that ‘You know what? He'll go to a Di -
vision I school, he'll get a top scholarship,’ 
and I was paranoid because I grew up in 
England, so I didn't know the system over 
here.”
Mark said Joe received offers from 
smaller schools when he was 11 or 12. 
When he committed to Florida, Pagdin had 
10 offers on the table.
One of the biggest pieces that drew the 
Pagdins to Gainesville was head coach J.C. 
Deacon. Joe has a long relationship with 
Deacon, having known him for more than 
five years. While Deacon is now considered 
part of Joe’s family, Mark’s meeting with 
Deacon won the Pagdins over for good.
Deacon met Mark at 8 a.m. on a Friday.
“And he walked in, J.C., and he looked 
like shit,” Mark said. “He's got black eyes 
and a beard, and I say 'Jesus.' I said, 'have 
you been up all night drinking?'" 
Deacon had actually been in the hos -
pital all night with Gordon Neale, one of 
his players at the time. Neale had fallen off 
his bike and broken his arm, and since he 
was from California, his parents could not 
make it to the hospital. So Deacon went 
and spent the night with his player.
“(Joe) was also looking seriously at Au -burn,” Mark said. “If anything happens 
like an accident, or something happens, 
you need to be within a couple of hours 
drive rather than eight hours drive.”
Mark said that while Deacon was al -
ways Joe’s first choice, he sealed the deal 
when that happened.
Joe says Deacon is different from most 
college coaches since he’s a competitive 
golfer in his own right and competes in 
individual tournaments. He does all the 
workouts the players do, which Joe says 
inspires the team always to be its best.
“Coach Deacon is more than just my 
golf coach,” Joe said. “For me, looking up, 
J.C. is a role model.”
Joe joined a Gators team looking to meet 
high expectations. This year’s team is full 
of talent, notably young talent: The Gators 
have just four upperclassmen on the 13-
man roster. However, Joe believes the ap -
parent lack of experience won’t hurt them 
as they have multitudes of experience in 
other high-level events. 
Many on the team, including Joe and 
sophomore Ricky Castillo, have played in 
national and international events for years 
now. Castillo played in the U.S. Open, a 
professional major championship, in Sep -
tember. Freshman Tyler Wilkes repre -
sented the U.S. in the 2019 Toyota Junior 
World Cup. Joe played in big team events 
throughout high school, including when 
he represented the Great Britain National 
Team in the Youth Olympics in 2018. 
“I think the standard of our experience 
and our maturity will take over the fact 
that we’re young,” Joe said. “But we’ll see. 
You know, there’s going to be some learn -
ing curves out there. And I’ve got things to 
learn; everyone’s got things to learn.”
While youth defines the roster, lack of 
experience certainly doesn’t. Castillo pos -
sibly has the most experience on the team 
despite being a sophomore. Besides his 
U.S. Open appearance, Castillo also played 
in the 2018 Junior Ryder Cup. Once he 
came to Gainesville, Castillo immediately 
made his name known, winning the 2020 
NCAA Division I Phil Mickelson Outstand -
ing Freshman Award, given to the nation’s 
top college freshman. 
Joe and Castillo have known each oth -
er for a long time. They both committed 
around the same time and used to room to -
gether at amateur events, such as the Sage 
Valley Invitational. They also play practice 
rounds together as often as they can.
“Ricky’s taught me a lot of things, being 
a year older. He’s a great kid,” Joe said. 
“Our friendship and our competitiveness 
will both push us to be better.”
Castillo, Joe and the rest of the Gators 
have embarked on one of the most unusual 
seasons ever. Due to the COVID-19 pan -demic, this season was shortened to just 
three conference-only events per team.
Because of the virus, Joe was unable to 
travel to England to compete in the British 
Amateur this summer as he has done in 
years past. Instead, he golfed with friends, 
enjoying the sport without the pressures of 
intense competition. However, Joe was re -
lieved to get back to competitive golf this 
fall with the Gators.
“All we want to do is play,” Pagdin said. 
“So, we can do anything about that.”
Joe and the Gators began their season 
at the Blessings Collegiate Invitational Oct. 
5-7. The men’s team did not have the start 
they were looking for, finishing 12th out 
of 14 teams. They improved greatly at the 
Vanderbilt Legends Collegiate, finishing in 
a tie for fourth. The team has one tourna -
ment left, the Jerry Pate National Intercol -
legiate, on Nov. 9 and 10. 
This season overall, Joe wants to do two 
things: win and keep his spirits high.
“I’m just looking to go out there and be 
super confident, super positive,” Joe said. 
“I just want to go out every day and play as 
good as I can with the best attitude I can.”
While this season is the priority, Joe has 
his future to consider. He acted and spoke 
like a pro even when he was 13 years old, 
which makes sense considering he has 
been on the PGA Tour radar since before 
then. The current PGA landscape is run 
by young players, such as Viktor Hovland, 
Matthew Wolff and Colin Morikawa. 
Joe sees these players as examples to 
follow. Hovland and Wolff were team -
mates at Oklahoma State University, while Morikawa played at Cal Berkeley. They all 
spent multiple years in college, which Joe 
believes helped them become better pros. 
He thinks that some people who turn pro 
too early lack the discipline to be on their 
own on tour. Joe believes young stars like 
Morikawa have more confidence after stay -
ing in school.
“They’re ruthless, you know? They have 
no fear. They have nothing to lose. And 
that's dangerous for other players,” Joe 
said. “I don’t see the point in rushing it.”
In preparation for the next chapter of his 
career, Joe looked back on all that has hap -
pened since our first interview five years 
ago. The biggest thing he has learned, he 
said, is how to adjust his attitude. 
“I didn't have the best of attitudes when 
I was younger, and I changed that,” Joe 
said. “And now, I go and I enjoy playing 
golf, no matter for what it is. Whether it's 
at 8 p.m., or if it's at 6 in the morning. 
You've got to enjoy what you're doing.”
Five years ago, Joe was just a small 
eighth-grader with dreams of playing col -
legiate golf.
“My goal is to go to college, SEC or 
ACC,” young Joe said. “Four years at col -
lege, then hopefully turn pro.”
Now? He is one of the top freshman 
golfers in the  country, finishing in the top 
30 in each of Florida’s first two fall events, 
and he is well on his way to achieving that 
goal of turning pro. 
 
mhull@alligator.org
@Michael_Hull33Joe Pagdin begins Florida career five years in the making
Courtesy of The Trinity Voice
Joe Pagdin first committed to Florida when he was 13 years old. Now, five years 
later, he is well on his way to making his mark on the UF golf program.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020
Jade Caraway is an excellent Division I softball player.
The now-senior center fielder started her career at NC State, where she led the 
team in batting average (.389) and the ACC in total hits her freshman year. In 
her sophomore season for the Wolfpack, Caraway trumpeted a perfect stolen base 
percentage, finishing 13 for 13 on the season.
She made an immediate impact upon transferring to the SEC. Caraway scored the 
game-winning run for Florida seven times in her first season. Last year, she managed 
a seven-game hit streak in a shortened 27-game season. Luckily for Florida, Caraway 
decided in April to use her extra year of eligibility, granted by the NCAA in response 
to the COVID-19 pandemic, and return to Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium for one last 
season.
But, sure, as her boyfriend and Gators quarterback Kyle Trask said, “She’s got a nice 
little arm.”
Now, I know I can’t speak for Caraway, but I would have smacked my boyfriend 
upside his head if he went in front of 20-something reporters and told them that I write 
“nice little stories for The Alligator.” 
I talk a big game about “supporting women in sports” on social media, and that’s 
usually in the context of sports media specifically. However, I’d be remiss if I didn’t use 
my platform to confront the sexism female athletes face on a day-to-day basis as well.
About six-and-a-half minutes into the third quarter, the SEC Network announcers for 
Saturday night’s game decided to circle back around to this Caraway-Trask narrative.
For some context, the Gators’ COVID-19 outbreak forced them to pause all team-
related activities for two weeks, and that meant no practice. When you’re a Heisman 
candidate, you can’t afford to stop moving and let the rust corrode your momentum. 
Naturally, Trask called on Caraway to help him stay in shape. As a fellow Division I 
athlete and an outfielder, of course she’d be able to hold her own. Same idea — throw, 
catch — different ball.
But Saturday night’s commentators didn’t show similar faith in Caraway. In fact, her 
name was never even mentioned by either man in the booth.
“I mean, Kyle Trask was literally, to keep his arm loose, was throwing to his girl -
friend who’s a center fielder on the softball team,” one announcer said over the laugh 
of another. “I mean, you know, I’m sure she’s a great athlete, but she probably can’t 
catch the velocity of the throws that he likes to throw to his normal receivers.”
Before I get into exactly why these comments were wildly inappropriate, here’s some 
quick science to debunk the claim that Trask throws too fast of a ball for Caraway to 
handle.
Quarterback throws in the NFL typically don’t reach 60 mph, according to USA To -
day Sports. At the NFL Combine, Russell Wilson threw a football 55 mph. Nick Foles’ 
throw reached 57 mph and Kirk Cousins’ topped out at 59. An NFL regulation football 
weighs about 14 to 16 ounces.The average overhand throw in Division I softball clocks in at 
about 57 mph, according to the National Fastpitch Coaches Asso -
ciation. A 12-inch regulation softball weighs 6.25 to seven ounces.
Needless to say, Caraway probably did just fine throwing the 
pigskin around with her boyfriend.
I was texting  my dad after I got a message from one of my edi -
tors explaining what just happened, since I was in the press box 
in The Swamp and unable to hear these remarks live.
“That was weird, right?” my dad asked, rhetorically. “Maybe 
the uniforms threw them off and they forgot what year it was.”
As much as I’d like to believe the throwback uniforms were to 
blame, there are so many blatant examples of women in sports 
being defined by their significant others, their sexuality or some 
other viciously sexist stereotype.
Katinka Hozzu, also known as “The Iron Lady” of the swimming world, destroyed 
the 400-meter individual medley world record in the Rio Olympics four years ago. 
Hozzu just reached the pinnacle, the absolute zenith of her sport, and the camera cut 
to her now-ex husband and coach at the time.
“There’s the man responsible for turning his wife into an entirely new swimmer,” 
NBC commentator Dan Hicks touted.
Not “the man who helped,” but “the man responsible.”
Another heartbreaking example of blatant sexism in sports is the hypersexualization 
of track and bobsled Olympian Lolo Jones.
In the 2008 Olympics, Jones failed to medal in the 100-meter hurdle event after 
tripping over a hurdle during the race. The New York Times published an article, ef -
fectively kicking her, rather hard, while she was down. It claimed that Jones “played 
into the persistent, demeaning notion that women are worthy as athletes only if they 
have sex appeal.”
“Essentially, Jones has decided she will be whatever anyone wants her to be — vix -
en, virgin, victim — to draw attention to herself and the many products she endorses,” 
the article read.
No one would ever write that about a male athlete. Ever. Regardless of how many 
workout videos Jaguars quarterback Garnder Minshew posts in cut up shorts and tank 
tops, no major media outlet has published a story casting such claims on him.
Imagine that you work your whole life for this Olympic moment, falter and then see 
your name in The New York Times explaining that all you are is a sorry excuse for a 
sex symbol.
These all too casual instances of sexism in sports are, frankly, disheartening. I re -
member being so excited when I became one of The Alligator’s softball beat writers last 
spring. Collegiate softball is a women’s sport with lots of deeply moving storylines and 
national attention.
The women I covered on this beat aren’t girlfriends with “nice little arms.” They’re 
commanding athletes in their own right.
And it’s about time they’re referred to as such.So you want to talk about sexism in sports?Remember the Titus
Payton
Titus
Twitter: @petitus25 
Email: ptitus@alligator.org