We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaMONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 81
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -THEY SET UP A MAKESHIFT 
MEMORIAL OUTSIDE 
HEAVENER HALL
Tristan Wood, Natalia Galicza & 
Ariana Aspuru
Alligator Staff Writers
Jamee Johnson. Sandra Bland. Nina Pop. Tony 
McDade. George Floyd. Eric Garner. Ahmaud Ar -
bery. Trayvon Martin. Breonna Taylor. Robert Dent -
mond. David McAtee. Layleen Polanco. Walter 
Scott.
Their names and faces lined a makeshift altar 
filled with flowers and flames atop white wax can -
dles. More than 100 people attended a vigil in hon -
or of black lives outside Heavener Hall on the cor -
ner of University Avenue and 13th Street on June 3.
Volunteers wearing facial coverings and gloves 
distributed water, masks, candles and flowers to 
the crowd filling the street corner. The community 
stood together in wait.
Rain began to drizzle down on the crowd 
around 7:30 p.m., the announced start time. As 
those in attendance shielded themselves from the 
droplets, a voice shouted, “Don’t light your candles 
yet, we’ll be here rain or shine!”
Brandon McKay, a 20-year-old UF biotechnol -
ogy junior, shared a poem he wrote earlier that day.
“Lynching doesn’t always happen with a rope, ” 
he recited. “Sometimes it happens with a knee. ” 
Kiara Laurent, a 21-year-old UF criminology and 
WHITE COATS FOR BLACK 
LIVES BEGAN SIX YEARS AGO
By Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Two UF medical students knelt side by 
side and held their outermost fists in the 
air. As the minutes crept by, their arms be -
gan to tire. They shook out their muscles 
and switched arms when it got too painful. 
Ten minutes is a long time.
It’s about the length of time former Min -
nesota police officer Derek Chauvin knelt 
on George Floyd’s neck, killing him, and the 
length of time more than 100 health care 
workers knelt outside the UF College of 
Nursing June 5, remembering him.
Crowds of health care workers all across 
the country knelt at 1 p.m. Eastern Stan -
dard Time in remembrance of Floyd. No 
patient care was interrupted at UF Health 
Shands Hospital, said Adrian Tyndall, the 
interim dean for the College of Medicine. The sound of nearby cars and soft 
weeping settled over the courtyard. A light 
sprinkle fell. 
Michelle McCraw, 24, and Brittny Ran -
dolph, 30, held a cardboard sign bearing 
the hashtag “#WhiteCoatsForBlackLives, ” a 
grassroots movement started six years ago 
by black medical students to expose struc -
tural racism in medicine. 
Almost unconsciously, McCraw said, the 
two leaned their fists together. Together, 
they reflected, cried and literally supported 
each other until the time was up. Afterward, 
they grabbed one another in an embrace. 
“I think in that moment our fists 
touched, I also felt like it was very pro -
found, ” Randolph said through tears. “I felt 
we, as black people – we cannot do this on 
our own. And the burden and responsibil -
ity to bring about change cannot, we can -
not, it cannot just be ours to bear. ”
Though the White Coats for Black Lives 
movement began years ago, its message is 
Drumming to diversity
Conversations on culture, pg. 5
Black-owned businesses
Self-love and soul food abound, pg. 5Gators signee Johnnie Brown heads to 
JUCO
Rivals reported that the defensive tackle, a fou r-
star signee, will be attending junior college in 
Mississippi. He was the No. 22 defensive tackle 
in his class, according to 247Sports , pg. 8
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news -
THERE MAY BE SMALLER IN-PERSON 
CLASSES AND COVID-19 SCREENING 
FOR STUDENTS 
By Nicole Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer 
The UF Board of Trustees voted to submit 
its Fall reopening plan to the Florida Board of 
Governors in a meeting June 5.
The university will be revising the plan, 
which is due to the Board of Governors by June 
12 and subject to change based on COVID-19 
conditions, Board Chair Mori Hosseini said.
The plan includes COVID-19 safety strategies 
and promises smaller in-person courses, hybrid 
and online options, Hosseini and UF President 
Kent Fuchs said. UF Provost Joe Glover said UF 
and other universities are considering allowing 
students to not return after Thanksgiving break.
During the Trustees’ meeting on June 4, two 
UF Health doctors discussed UF’s Screen Test and Protect program for reopening campus, 
which will survey all students and require “high 
risk” individuals to meet via telehealth and get 
tested for COVID-19. Students will be required 
to socially distance and wear masks on campus.
Under the plan, about 4,500 to 5,000 classes 
must be reformatted by each college, and in-
person classroom capacities will be reduced 
by 75 percent to help students study safely, 
Glover said. Some courses that must meet in-
person will be in the classroom full-time, but 
most will be held in a hybrid format, splitting 
time between online and campus. Fully online 
classes will be available with meeting times or 
self-determined deadlines. 
Courses will be finalized by July 1 to give 
students time to evaluate their new schedules 
and make the necessary adjustments, Glover 
said.
@_nrodriguez99
nrodriguez@alligator.orgUF Board of Trustees moves 
forward with Fall reopening plan Community 
gathers for vigil
REMEMBERING GEORGE FLOYD
Ariana Aspuru / / Alligator Staff
On June 3, a vigil was held on the corner of University Ave and Southwest 13th Street for the Gainesville community to 
pay their respects to George Floyd and other lives lost from the black community. SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 4
SEE WHITE COATS,  PAGE 4UF Health Shands Hospital 
employees kneel for George FloydT oday’s Weather
SUNDAY'S AP HEADLINE
Officials urge Floyd protesters to get 
coronavirus tests 
Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New Y ork 
is urging protesters to get tested for 
COVID-19. New Y ork, which has 
been under quarantine for more than 
two months, has experienced protests 
against police brutality despite the 
shutdown. Gov. Cuomo announced 
that 15 testing facilities would be 
opened specifically for protesters. 
New Y ork has been the U.S. epicenter 
of COVID-19, with black communi -
ties hit the hardest. Other cities, such 
as Seattle, San Francisco and Atlanta, 
have set up free testing for protesters. 
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW 73°
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 81
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chief
Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.org 
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgMarianna Colon, mcolon@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.org
Noah Ram,  nram@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.org
YEAR 2045 
GAINESVILLE METROPOLITAN AREA 
LONG RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN 
NEEDS PLAN 
VIRTUAL PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE
June 22, 2020 at 5:00 p.m. 
Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, Facebook and the 
Alachua County Video on Demand Website [link below] 
https://alachuacounty.us/Pages/AlachuaCounty.aspx
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when prompted use code 670 965 3024 
We need your opinion.  Come share your ideas.
The Gainesville City Commission and the Alachua County Commission  
[sitting together as the Metropolitan Transportation Planning  
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area] are developing  
the Year 2045 Long-Range Transporta tion Plan for the Gainesville  
Metropolitan Area.  The Needs Plan Public Hearing is  
the first of two public hearings in this two-year study.   
This public hearing is your opportunity to provide input  
concerning the future transportation system projects  
to be included in the Year 2045 Long-Range  
Transportation Needs Plan before they are approved 
 by the Metropolitan Transportation Planning  
Organization.  The Metropolitan Transportation Planning  
Organization encourages your pa rticipation in its long-range  
transportation planning process.  Get involved in deciding future  
multimodal [bicycle, pedestrian, road way and transit] transportation  
projects.  Come to this public  hearing and share your ideas. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area w ill meet virtually on June 22, 2020 at 5:00 p.m. 
Visit our Long-Range Transportation Plan website at http://ncfrpc.or g/mtpo/LRTP.html
More detailed information concerning this public hearin g can be obtained in several ways: by visiting the 
website at www.ncfrpc.org  (click Metropolitan Transportation Pla nning); by writing to the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization, 2009 NW 67th Place Gainesville, Florida 32653; or by calling 
352.955.2200.  Public participation is solicited without re gard to race, color, national origin, sex, age, 
disability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation or gender identity.  Any 
person requiring special assistance or accommodation s, under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 
or persons who require translation services (free of ch arge), to participate in this public hearing should 
contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at least 48 hours before the public hearing. 2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020MONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
GEORGE FLOYD
POLICE BRUTALITY IS NOTHING NEW, SAID 
ONE UF LECTURER
By Nicole Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Mackintosh Joachim said he’s sick and tired of being sick and 
tired.
It’s difficult to describe growing up as a black person in Amer -
ica, said the 21-year-old UF political science and women’s studies 
senior. Here, the color of his skin equates to a threat. After the mur -
der of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer on May 25, the 
difficulties only mounted.
Joachim, the president of UF’s NAACP chapter, said he has an 
unshakable fight-or-flight response when he sees the red and 
blue lights of a police car nearby. 
A routine interaction with police shouldn’t be a prison sen -
tence, Joachim said — and for many people, it isn’t. But for black 
Americans, it often is. 
“We are arrested, ” he said. ”Or we end up dead. ” 
Patricia Hilliard-Nunn, a senior lecturer in UF’s African Ameri -
can Studies program who researches lynching of black Americans 
in Alachua County, said today’s justifications of police brutality are 
not much different from those used in the 1900s.
“There’s nothing new going on, ” Hilliard-Nunn said. “It’s re -
ally simply an updated version of what black people have experi -
enced in the United States of America since its inception. ”
Hilliard-Nunn said that television and social media have given 
many people their first glimpse into the mistreatment of African 
American people, and as awareness grows, so does public out -
rage. 
But not enough people are properly educated on white su -
premacy and how it has been used to systemically oppress black 
people, she said. 
“Everybody will get upset, then everybody goes back to 
sleep––then something else happens because they never did 
anything, ” Hilliard-Nunn said. “To do something means that you 
really have to dismantle practices that have been in place for a 
long time.“
 To dismantle those practices, Hilliard-Nunn said, education 
and greater awareness of lynching, killing and false imprisonment 
of black people could help bring about change.
 “People need to unlearn racist beliefs, some of which make 
them see black people as criminals, ” Hilliard-Nunn said. “When a 
person or society does not see your humanity, they have no prob -
lem lying about you, marginalizing, enslaving you, discriminating 
against you, lynching you, etc. ”
 UF’s African American Studies program began as a certifica -
tion but is now moving toward establishing itself as a department. 
Department status will allow the program to hire more employees 
and better educate students at UF, Hilliard-Nunn said.
 UF President Kent Fuchs released a video on Twitter May 29 
condemning Floyd’s murder. He encouraged viewers to reflect on 
their biases and to educate themselves on racial injustice. 
Later, UF Vice President for Student Affairs D’Andra Mull sent 
an email to students that said Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud 
Arbery and Nina Pop were victims of racism and hate. Mull mis -
spelled Taylor and Arbery’s name in the email.
“UF please stop, ” Joachim wrote in a Facebook post, where he 
included a photo of Arbery’s misspelled name. A correction was 
issued, but Joachim said he felt the damage was already done.
Sara Tanner, the UF Student Affairs director of marketing and 
strategic communications, said the misspelling of the two victims’ 
names was an egregious mistake.
“That is very disrespectful, ” Joachim said in a phone call. “It 
shows that UF never cared. What got me is that the student affairs 
vice president is a black woman, and she allowed that to go out. ”Jalyn Hollis, a 19-year-old UF finance sophomore, said that 
while she appreciates the university’s decision to speak out and 
sees it as a step in the right direction, statements on social media 
don’t stop race-related incidents from occurring on campus.
Actions speak louder than words, Hollis said. The university’s 
own history with race and racism make public statements like 
Fuchs’ seem disingenuous, she added. 
UF faced backlash in 2018 after it received an F ranking in a 
University of Southern California Race and Equity Center study 
determining racial representation. The study showed that African 
American students make up only 6.1 percent of UF’s Student Body.
In October 2019, UF Student Government brought Donald 
Trump Jr. to speak on campus. The event was met with protesting 
students chanting “Black Lives Matter” throughout the event.
The following month, a black student was called the N-word by 
a white student in a SNAP van. While UF’s Institute of Black Culture 
opened a day after, many saw the building’s opening as a facade 
that hides the reality that African American students face at UF.
Hollis said she was shocked to hear of the university’s low race 
equity ranking. But she understands that African American stu -
dents often feel that their voices don’t matter, she said.
“Skin color does make it harder, ” Hollis said. “Sometimes, being 
the only black person in the room, I definitely feel like things can 
be difficult when you feel like you’re outnumbered. ”
Nevertheless, she said she supported Fuchs’ message to stu -dents about questioning their judgments and educating them -
selves.
Hilliard-Nunn said citizens must speak up and encourage the 
passage of anti-police brutality policy to ensure that the abuse 
stops. 
 “Unless our nation addresses systemic racism and white su -
premacy, nothing will change, ” she said.
 
@_nrodriguez99
nrodriguez@alligator.org“We are arrested or we end up dead”: UF reacts to police brutality
THE COUNTY IS CONTINUING ITS 50 PERCENT OCCUPANCY 
AND FACE COVERING REQUIREMENTS 
Tristan Wood
Staff Writer 
Bars and movie theaters in Alachua County reopened their doors June 5.
County Spokesperson Mark Sexton said the county will be following Gov. Ron DeSantis’ June 3 emergency order, 
which permitted bars and entertainment businesses, such as movie theaters and auditoriums, to open. Night clubs 
aren’t allowed to reopen.
DeSantis’ order allows reopenings in all Florida counties except Broward, Miami Dade and Palm Beach. Those three 
counties have the highest amount of COVID 19 cases in the state.  
While the county is following some of DeSantis’ opening procedures, Sexton said other restrictions that were lifted 
statewide will remain in effect in Alachua County. 
The county’s 50 percent occupancy limit on businesses, such as retail stores, grocery stores and gyms, will remain 
in place despite being lifted by DeSantis’ order, Sexton said. The 10 person limit on public gathering will also remain, 
although DeSantis’ order expanded to a 50 person limit.
The county’s face mask requirement will also remain in effect, Sexton said. 
@TristanDWood
twood@alligator.orgBars and movie theaters can now 
reopen in Alachua CountyMore information about Black Lives Matter is available at 
https:/ /blacklivesmatter.com/
T o sign petitions related to Black Lives Matter, visit 
https:/ /blacklivesmatter.com/petitions/
For further resources, visit 
https:/ /blacklivesmatter.com/resources/
T o support the goals of the Black Lives Matter movement, 
sign petitions at 
https:/ /www.change.org/
Kate McNamara / / Alligator StaffSam Thomas / / Alligator Staff
Morris McFadden II, a 21-year-old UF telecommunications major and one of the organizers of a protest, hugs Clifford 
Taylor IV, a 21-year-old UF graphic design senior, June 3 during a protest at the intersection of 13th Street and 
University Avenue against police brutality. The two hugged after Taylor spoke to the crowd.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020
still relevant today.
Black people have been dispro -
portionately affected by COVID-19 
and have historically received un -
equal medical treatment, according 
to the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention and The New York 
Times. As a future physician, Ran -
dolph said she feels a greater sense 
of responsibility to understand pa -
tients’ experiences with oppression 
and how that can affect their health.“We have to do a better job at 
educating the doctors that we’re 
producing on health disparities, ra -
cial inequity and creating culturally 
competent physicians, ” she said. 
Solving those problems won’t 
happen tomorrow, Tyndall said. It’s 
going to require understanding the 
underlying social fabric that contrib -
utes to them. 
He said he was touched by how 
many people showed up to kneel. 
“I think the kneeling part, while 
we may not have necessarily under -stood the significance of it, is a very 
long time to snuff out a life, ” Tyndall 
said. “What was captured in such ex -
cruciating detail on a camera is what 
I looked at as a disregard for human 
life. ”
Alex Wood is a resident at Shands. 
While he loves his colleagues, he 
said he doesn’t think they are repre -
sentative of the patients they serve.
“We are at Shands Hospital, for -
merly known as Alachua County 
General, and the safety net hospital 
for our county, which has a mas -sive African American population, ” 
he said. “But if you look at the doc -
tors that serve them, we don’t look 
a thing alike. ” 
Structural racism has largely pre -
vented black students from occupy -
ing health care positions at the same 
rate as white students, Wood said. 
For Randolph, these last few 
weeks have been traumatizing. 
She said that every time she scrolls 
through apps on her phone, she 
sees people that look like her bru -
talized. Black people are constantly 
exposed to this, she said. 
Still, Randolph chooses to remain 
hopeful. She knows that good exists 
and said she feels that she has found an ally in McCraw.
“There aren’t really any words 
to fully encompass the importance 
or the seriousness of people’s lives, ” 
McCraw said. “But the reason I’m 
here today is because I know that 
my black friends matter, my black 
patients matter, my black colleagues 
matter, my black brothers and sisters 
in Christ matter, and that’s not some -
thing I take lightly. ”
Laura San Juan contributed to 
this report.
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.org
sociology senior, stood and spoke to 
the crowd with a colorful backpack 
that contrasted her dark “Dream De -
fenders” shirt. 
“Black Lives Matter doesn’t end 
with the end of police brutality, ” she 
said. “It does not start there, and it 
does not end there. ”
The Black Lives Matter movement 
is more than just a hashtag, she said. 
It’s her life. A wave of snaps followed. 
Laurent also discussed how African 
Americans are underrepresented in 
UF’s faculty, Student Body and cur -
riculum.
“The African American Studies de -
partment is small, ” she said. “My home 
is bigger, and I live in an apartment. ”
The family of Jamee Johnson was present at the vigil. Jamee was 22 
when he was shot and killed by of -
ficers of Jacksonville Police Depart -
ment in December 2019 after being 
stopped for a seatbelt violation.
Jamee’s father, Harvey, spoke to 
the crowd through a megaphone. He 
grieved with his audience about the 
loss of his son over the $35 violation.
The speakers finished, and silence 
followed. The crowd stood still for 
eight minutes—one for each minute 
former Minneapolis police officer Der -
ek Chauvin pressed his knee against 
Floyd’s neck. 
The corner quickly quieted until 
the sound of nearby traffic was all that 
was left. 
Hands rested on neighboring 
slumped shoulders. The wet ground 
grew damper as rain mixed with tears. Friends embraced each other, holding 
tightly.
Some stared into the small but 
bright flame of their candle. Some 
held a strong fist in the air, and others 
bowed their heads in prayer. One man 
held a tight grip on a rose high above 
his head for eight minutes. 
Children sat by their parents’ feet 
and silently played with the grass be -
tween their fingers. 
An organizer then called for the 
crowd to chant, “I believe that we 
will win. ” Within minutes, the crowd 
drowned out the echoing car horns 
with claps, chants and cheers. 
After the chant, vigil organizers 
instructed attendees to walk toward 
the altar to leave flowers and candles 
beneath the names of those they 
came to honor. Participants slowly ap -
proached the memorial to lay down 
their respective tokens of grief.
While rain got heavier, the line of 
people waiting to attend the altar got longer. It stretched under the Bob 
Brockman Gateway and split between 
the sidewalks on University Avenue 
and 13th Street.
By then, the sunlight was gone. 
But the crowd saw through the shad -
ows with the help of two streetlamps 
and the collective light from hundreds 
of candles. 
As the procession continued, the 
crowd sang “This Little Light of Mine, ” 
“Lean on Me” and “Stand by Me. ” The 
rain continued, but the crowd stayed.
After the last person placed their 
flower, a vigil organizer thanked the 
crowd for coming before asking them 
to stand for black lives every day.  In 
response, the crowd’s protruding fists 
and loud cries rose into the air and 
were carried into the night.
The crowd dwindled to about 40 
people by 9:15 p.m. 
Phanesia Pharel, a 20-year-old 
Barnard College urban studies stu -
dent, reflected during the moment of silence on how she lives her life as a 
young black woman in America. She 
said she worries about being in the 
wrong place at the wrong time and 
becoming another victim among 
countless others. 
 “I have to come to terms with the 
fact that death is out of my control 
and any day can be my last day from 
this point on, ” she said. 
The vigil concluded with syn -
chronous singing voices. Footsteps 
receded from the shrine atop brick 
and concrete as people got ready to 
go home. Petals were left behind on 
the wet ground, and flames persisted 
against the rainfall. 
@TristanDWood
twood@alligator.org
@GaliczaNatalia
ngalicza@alligator.org
@Arianaluzzz
aaspuru@alligator.orgWHITE COATS,  from pg.1
VIGIL,  from pg. 1“We have to do a better job. ”
More than a hashtagTAYLOR WOULD HAVE 
TURNED 27 ON JUNE 5
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
Love surrounded her name. The yellow and 
white painted letters scattered across the wall, 
surrounding the purple outline of a heart. Inside, 
love was written sideways, upside down, back -
wards and across, encompassing her name paint -
ed in white: Breonna Taylor.
Taylor would have turned 27 on June 5. But 
she was killed on March 13, when police broke 
down the door to her apartment in an attempted 
drug sting and shot her eight times. UF alumnus 
Renda Writer honored Taylor’s memory June 5 by 
including her name in a mural for the Fifth Ave -
nue Wall at Springhill project put on by the Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department of 
Gainesville and the Urban Revitalization Project. 
The Urban Revitalization Project is a local non -
profit organization that works on seeking out 
community spaces to renovate with art. Its Fifth 
Avenue mural project at Springhill includes 11 
muralists from different backgrounds doing di -
verse work focusing on religious pieces and other 
messages. 
The Cultural Affairs Department in Gainesville 
has other projects like 352walls, whose mission 
is to beautify the urban landscape and boost 
community pride through art, according to the 
352walls project coordinator and consultant for 
the City of Gainesville Cultural Affairs Department 
Raquel Vallejo, who was also at the Fifth Avenue 
project in Springfield.  
According to Vallejo, the muralists are spray 
painting a 220-foot wall divided into 11 spaces on 
Southeast Fifth Avenue and the corner of South -
east Sixth Street. Only two muralists paint per day to maintain social distance. The project began to -
ward the end of May and will likely be done by 
mid June.
Writer applied to be a part of the Fifth Avenue 
project at Springhill and wasn’t originally plan -
ning on doing a mural for Taylor. However, he 
asked organizers if it would be OK if he put Breon -
na’s name in the middle of his mural as a tribute 
for her birthday. They said yes.
Writer, who graduated from UF in 2000, is a 
41-year-old traveling muralist who uses words 
instead of pictures in his art to convey his mes -
sage. His mission is to spread the message of 
world peace, he said, and he has done 75 murals 
in eight different countries. Writer painted a mural 
in honor of George Floyd in Atlanta, Georgia, on 
June 3 and 4.
“I feel like it’s my duty, you know, almost an ob -
ligation to use my art now, ” Writer said. “I think the 
cause right now is pretty obvious, and since today 
is Breonna Taylor’s birthday, I figured this was per -
fect, like a sign I was supposed to be doing this. ”
The Urban Revitalization Project was originally 
supposed to start in March, and it was supposed 
to be a festival, Vallejo said. It was an opportunity 
for 11 artists to come together and build commu -
nity, but this didn’t happen because of COVID-19 
concerns. 
“It’s reflective of the times, and it just so hap -
pened that the timing was just perfect for these 
artists to come together, ”  Vallejo said. 
Vallejo added that there are very few African 
American muralists in the profession and that 
the project is meant to recognize and uplift their 
work. 
One of the black muralists working on the 
Springhill project, 20-year-old MyQueal Lewis, 
painted “Staring MyQueal Lewis. ” The mural is 
filled with vibrant colors in sectioned pieces and 
contains phrases like “dream on. ” Four black men 
are painted across the wall, one being Lewis with no eyes. 
Lewis said he painted himself this way be -
cause he wanted to portray the people he loves 
and admires as his eyes. Surrounding the paint -
ing of Lewis is Spike Lee, Lewis’ favorite director; 
Casey Jones II, his high school best friend; and J. 
Cole, his favorite rapper.
Lewis is a student at Florida A&M University 
and a part-time artist and videographer. He first 
heard about the Urban Revitalization Project on 
social media. He applied with no experience do -
ing murals, but was accepted as one of the 11 
muralists. “I find it very unique and almost crazy to be 
able to find the ability to come out here and paint 
and to be able to continue to pump inspiration 
through this, ” Lewis said. “To also be inspired by 
my friends, who are African American and my 
friends who are white, who are on the side of 
Black Lives Matter, is very crazy, yet unique. ”
 @anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgUF alumnus honors Breonna Taylor in Gainesville mural art project
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Fifth Avenue mural project at Springhill includes 11 muralists from different 
backgrounds doing diverse work, like a piece centered on Breonna Taylor, who died 
March 13 at the hands of police.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
SOUL FOOD, SUGAR SCRUBS 
AND SELF-LOVE
Lonnie Numa
Avenue Staff Writer
After a number of sleepless nights, Adriann 
Jordan found herself standing in the Minneapolis 
rain at the site of George Floyd’s death. The scene 
was adorned with flowers and a mural of Floyd — 
his name memorialized among many others that 
protesters have chanted in the streets. 
Jordan, 35, is the owner of The Soulful Bud -
dha, a local soul food catering company born out 
of love and a lack of soul-food representation in 
Gainesville, she said. The business began when 
COVID-19 hit, and success wouldn’t have been 
possible without Gainesville’s diverse community, 
Jordan said.
Currently, Jordan’s business is a one-woman 
show operating out of her kitchen, but she’s hop -
ing to take things further by acquiring a food truck. 
She’s also looking into teaching cooking classes to 
support wellness in the community through food 
with a plant-based twist, she said.  
“Food brings people together just like music 
— especially in the black community, ” Jordan said. 
“Mealtime is very, very important, but even more 
so now, healthwise. I think that needs to be put 
into our communities and spoken about more 
when it comes to how to eat healthy. ”
In moments like these, maintaining wellness 
through food is important — but can also come from pouring support into local, especially black-
owned, businesses, Jordan said. 
“Pour into them in any type of way that you can 
by supporting their business by protesting and 
standing with them when these injustices come 
about, ” she said. “Having these uncomfortable dis -
cussions with your white children, your coworkers, 
with your family, your parents, your spouse — that 
is how you can support us. ”
For Shānna Gilliard, owner of the Gainesville-
based hand-crafted skincare company Oh Hunni, 
her business came from a similar desire to support 
her family and the black community by creating 
products geared towards their needs.
“I was so passionate about making sure that it 
was right for my family, it kind of transferred over 
to the public, ” Gilliard said.
Oh Hunni, founded in 2019, sells products like 
beard balms and sugar scrubs through open mar -
kets and local sustainable retailer, Life Unplastic, 
Gilliard said. However, due to the  COVID-19 pan -
demic, business has shifted online, she said. 
But as a mother, Gilliard has not had the busi -
ness at the forefront of her mind recently. She is 
now focused on providing knowledge to people 
wanting to educate themselves on practicing 
proper solidarity and allyship to the black commu -
nity, Gilliard said.
“James Baldwin, he has this beautiful quote 
that says, ‘Not everything that is faced can be 
changed, but nothing can be changed until it’s 
faced. ’” Gilliard said. “My role right now is just put -
ting the information out there for them so they can find it and educate themselves. ” 
Darshay Davis, owner of the Gainesville holis -
tic skincare company, NuNubian, also saw a need 
to educate and create wellness products for all 
women, she said. 
As one of eight girls, her mother and grand -
mother inspired her to make products people 
could replicate with ingredients they have at 
home. NuNubian also has products like “wellness” 
and “yoni” bars for women struggling with en -
dometriosis and infertility, especially in the black 
community, she said. 
“Of course, black women alone, we are affect -
ed very heavily right now, ” Davis said. “There’s a lot 
of disparities in the healthcare field, so we have 
went back to ancient practices. ”
As a UF alumna, Davis strives to support the 
community through campus groups, sororities 
and the Pace Center for Girls Alachua, she said. 
“We do a lot of talking about just self-love, 
because our biggest thing is to affirm while you 
lather, ” Davis said. “We’re really big on using affir -
mations and speaking kindly to yourself — em -
powering women to know that they’re divine. ”NuNubian operates through its website and 
social media platforms like Facebook and Ins -
tagram, and a lot of its ingredients are locally 
sourced from black farmers, Davis said. 
As a black business owner in the current state 
of the world, Davis feels lucky to be busier than 
ever, she said. As NuNubian has donated back to 
different funds and has given away stress relief 
oils, there’s been a reciprocation from all types of 
communities, Davis said.
Gainesville, a cultural melting pot of its own 
creation, has been no exception, Davis said. See -
ing people from all over town brought together 
through solidarity was enlightening, she said.
One message Davis wants to spread as a mem -
ber of the black community to those grieving and 
traumatized — is that it’s okay to take a moment 
to process your emotions. 
“Fight for change, but don’t let fear consume 
you, ” Davis said. “Be present, but take care of your -
self. ” 
@lonaald
lnuma@alligator.org
Former Gators wideout Donald “Reche” Caldwell 
was killed in Tampa Saturday night
Caldwell spent three seasons in Gainesville, he was 41, pg. 8OSUBI CRAIG TALKS INCLUSION, 
ART AND GROWING UP BLACK
Katie Delk
Avenue Staff Writer
Osubi Craig cannot remember a time when he 
did not pound djembe, conga and batá drums.
Named after a town in southern Nigeria, his 
heritage is deeply embedded in him, he said. 
“Cultural identity was something that was so 
important inside of my household, ” he said. Grow -
ing up, he never considered being ashamed of his 
cultural identity. “That’s just who I am. It’s not like 
this other separate part of me. ”
As director of the Center for the Arts, Migra -
tion and Entrepreneurship, and the chair of the 
working group on Access, Equity and Inclusion as 
Functional Catalysts in the College of the Arts at UF, 
Craig said his goal is to evoke conversations about 
culture among heterogeneous groups.
“It’s not just a matter of having diversity in the 
room, ” he said “It’s also a matter of having equity 
in the room...to engage in conversation and have 
that be a welcome part of the thing. ”
He said that the College of the Arts aims to solve 
the issues in our country and to better the world. 
Craig hopes to create “a place that is inclusive 
for black faculty members and Latinx faculty mem -
bers and LGBTQ+ faculty, to have people come together and create experiences and opportuni -
ties for students that are going to be impactful, ”  he 
said.
Even still, Craig believes students need a taste 
of home to not feel isolated or like the only one.
“I think that that balance of security of being 
able to connect with people in your culture, to be 
reminded that there’s also support, ”  he said.
One such cultural group at UF is the Pazeni 
Sauti Africa Choir. 
Choir Director Elijah Adongo said that students 
in the choir work with African Studies, eat African 
dishes and wear Dashikis. By grasping the back -
ground of songs, Adongo said the students learn 
the ways of life of Africans.
“If you only know what you know, you might 
think what you know is the only thing that exists, ” 
Adongo said. “So they get to know things that are 
different from what they have experienced before. ” 
Growing up in Brooklyn, New York, in the ‘80s, 
Craig only saw white children on television. Even 
though he lived in a bubble, he said, Craig was al -
ways acutely aware of racial tensions in New York 
and that he was perceived differently.
Before people speak with him, Craig said that 
he faces immediate judgment because of his 
name.
“No matter what, there are people who are go -
ing to see me as just another black man in America, ” 
he said. “And so there’s an entire narrative that’s go -ing to come and preconceived notions about who 
I am, why I am in a specific place, that’s a reality. ”
Craig has been targeted in a store, by a cop and 
in his everyday life due to his race, he said. Despite 
his degrees and accolades, he said he is still under -
mined.
“There is no person I know of in my circles who 
have not had some experience at some point in 
their lives where they are definitely prejudged and 
put in some type of negative interaction simply be -
cause of the color of their skin, ” he said.
Craig said that his black colleagues are not sur -
prised that people are protesting police brutality 
and racism worldwide.
“No one is shocked by the conversations that 
are going on, ” he said. “No one is like, ‘I can’t believe this is happening. ’ Like in many ways, people are 
sick that we are still having to have these conver -
sations and disappointed that yet again, another 
person has lost their life. ” 
Craig said that these protests feel different than 
previous ones. 
“I have a lot of faith and hope of this generation 
of young people who are being selfless enough to 
continue to push on this issue, ” he said. “I think that 
there’s an energy that exists in this generation of 
young people who are like, we can’t allow this to 
be the case anymore. ”
Now, he hopes that the movement does not 
dissipate.
“I hope that the conversation has a sustaining 
power and also moves to a space where we can 
have things shift to being actually better, ” he said.
@katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.orgUF administrator drumming his way to diversity
THEATER & ARTTHEATER & ART
Carley Noll / / Alligator Staff
The stories on this page are part of an Avenue series called “The Voices of 
Gainesville” meant to spotlight black-owned businesses, black artists and 
black musicians in Gainesville. For more stories visit alligator.org/the_avenue.
Black-owned Gainesville 
businesses promote wellness
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
7-13-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     7-13-43-10
HOMEOWNERS WANTED! Kayak Pools 
looking for Demo Homesites to display new 
maintenance free Kayak Pools. Save thou-
sands of $$. Unique opportunity! 100% financ-
ing available. 1-888-788-5464        5-18-18-10
Public Online Auctions of seized cars & 
vessels on behalf of U.S. Customs & Border 
Protection, U.S. Treasury, U.S. Marshals 
Service. www.appleauctioneeringco.com. 
Auctioneer Kevin C. Scully, FL#AU4328      
5-18-1-10
HOMEOWNERS WANTED! Kayak Pools 
looking for Demo Homesites to display new 
maintenance free Kayak Pools. Save thou-
sands of $$. Unique opportunity! 100% fi-
nancing available. 1-888-788-5464 6-1-1-10
Real-time Online Auction
NSM Florida Enterprises, LLC. d/b/a Natural Stone Motif
Tues, June 16, 2020 at 10AM
Live-stream auction event consisting of 
Stone Countertop Fabrication and Installation 
Equipment, Large inventory of Stone, 
Marble, Travertine and Quartz, Warehouse 
equipment, Vehicles, Office Furniture, Store 
Displays, Forklifts and much more! Featured 
lots: Baca Robo Sawjet, Contour Breton 
NC300-K26 Machine, Marmo Meccanica 
LCV Magnum 8082 Polishing Machine. Full 
catalog available on our website.
Pick-up/removal: Sanford, FL.
Preview: 06/15 by appointment. Call for de-
tails (954) 252-2887.
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditor 
Case No. 2020-CA-000474
(800) 840-BIDS AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rub
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap! 373-FIND
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
7-13-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
7-13-20-24-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
7-13-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders 
and cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. 
Convenient. Certified Professionals.  
Call 312-634-6652 or visit 
RefrigerantFinders.com                 6-1-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  7-13-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    7-13-20-43-14
Software Engineer II (SharpSpring 
Technologies, Inc - Gainesville, FL),Analyze 
features, build components required in 
React Frontend Design; develop, maintain 
backend codebase. Plan, develop new app 
features, run tests. MS Comp. Sci. + 2 yrs 
exp. incl.creating automation tools, test suits 
req. Email resume to obs@sharpspring.com   
6-8-1-14  1For Rent
furnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
7-13-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       7-13-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
Lake view condo for rent at Bivens North. 
2BR 2BA 1,760 sq ft. W/D water included. 
2514 SW 14th Dr. $1,400 per month Contact 
Rosemary 352-372-6576.     6-15-20-2-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of pos-
sible buyers!
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
7-14-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Kurt Krauss
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/08/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/08/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, June 8, 2020
ACROSS
1 Dada pioneer 
Jean
4 Closes
9 Newborn horses
14 Keep out of, with 
“from”
15 Basic belief
16 Boutros-Ghali’s 
U.N. successor 
Kofi __
17 *Plot of a movie, 
say
19 Sam of “Jurassic 
Park”
20 Animated film 
mermaid
21 Give it a shot
23 Docs’ org. with a 
noted journal
24 Pennsylvanie, par 
exemple
25 *Single-layer 
dessert
28 Gridiron pitchout
31 Caught, as a 
butterfly
32 Kingston Trio 
hit with the lyric 
“Fight the fare 
increase!”
33 Supreme Norse 
god
35 Equals on a jury
36 *Stock buying or 
selling directive 
with a specified 
price
39 Bingo-like game
42 Dressed in
43 Freshly painted
46 Glue brand
48 London’s theatre 
district
50 *Nintendo income 
source
53 Feed bag bits
54 Pince-__  
glasses
55 Gangster’s gun
56 Penniless
58 Playful swimmer
60 Temporary ... and 
how both ends 
of the answers 
to starred 
clues might be 
described
63 Half-and-half half
64 Giggle sound
65 “The Matrix” hero66 Fruity desserts
67 Casino lineup
68 ’80s missile prog.
DOWN
1 Stomach 
muscles, briefly
2 Machine gun 
sound
3 Like a fair share
4 Eye affliction
5 Satan’s realm
6 Prefix with cycle
7 First extra inning
8 Cubic meter
9 Devotee
10 Play sans 
intermission
11 Bring to life
12 Calif. NBAer
13 NBC’s “Weekend 
Update” show
18 Confirmation, e.g.
22 Japanese money
24 Stately tree
25 “Freudian” oops
26 Flap-doored 
homes
27 Masthead list, 
briefly
29 Helicopter parts
30 Big fuss
34 “This minute!”36 Pooh-pooh
37 Lettered theater 
locations
38 Dr. of rap
39 Plead with
40 Hyundai sedan
41 Electrical 
measuring 
device
43 Loses strength
44 Went in
45 NFL six-pointers
47 Droop49 Friendly honk
51 Endures
52 Six-decade 
actress 
Barrymore
56 Writer Harte
57 Rd. map lines
58 Fall mo.
59 Real estate ad 
abbr.
61 “Caught you!”
62 Miss Piggy 
catchword
By Debbie Ellerin
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/02/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/02/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 2, 2020
ACROSS
1 Thumb one’s 
nose (at)
6 Type of lamp with 
a volcanic name
10 Magazine for 
docs
14 Linney of “Ozark”
15 Sign above a 
door
16 Bullfight shouts
17 *The “bush” type 
is the largest 
living land animal
20 “For sure!”
21 Tots’ sport with 
bases
22 Listless feeling
23 Fa-la link
24 Eve’s second son
26 *Dorothy’s female 
caretaker
31 Majors in golf and 
tennis?
34 __ as a peacock
35 Self-centered
37 __ slaw
39 Teen anti-DWI 
gp.
40 “Ghost Hunters” 
channel 
suggested by 
the answers to 
starred clues
41 “Sadly ... ”
42 Big name in 
cosmetics
43 Really excited 
about
44 Ear-to-ear smiles
45 It’s taken by a 
witness, with 
“the”
47 *Sasha Fierce, 
for Beyoncé
49 Narc’s coup
51 Binary digit
52 Cast a spell on
55 Up and about
58 Waze display
61 *Cardio workout
64 Baltic capital
65 Coastal recess
66 Greek column 
type
67 Poke
68 Not new
69 Salon dos
DOWN
1 Leave rolling in 
the aisles
2 Barista employer
3 Shared  
between us4 “TGIF!” time: 
Abbr.
5 Piece of trivia
6 Dunham of 
“Girls”
7 Ice skating feat
8 Fancy residence
9 Enjoyed the 
buffet
10 “Tinker Tailor 
Soldier Spy” 
author
11 The first “A” in 
A.A. Milne
12 List of options
13 Italian wine hub
18 Start of a classic 
palindrome
19 Tiny bird call
23 Emulate an 
American 
attending the 
Sorbonne, say
25 Humerus, for one
26 Lhasa __: small 
dog
27 Eurasian border 
range
28 Greet silently
29 “Dear __ 
Hansen”: 2017 
Best Musical
30 Ray of the 
tropics
32 “It’s the truth!”33 Urban Dictionary 
focus
36 Pop star
38 Canadian tank 
filler
40 Gives a hand
44 No-name, as a 
brand
46 Unfeeling
48 Drag on a joint
50 Food truck fare
52 Complain
53 Designated 
survivor54 Golden Fleece 
ship
56 “__ Only 
Just Begun”: 
Carpenters hit
57 Canceled 
abruptly
58 Prefix with bar 
or car
59 “In your dreams!”
60 They’re above 
the abs
62 Post-op stop
63 Dove’s call
06/01/2020
answer on page 7
NOTICE OF VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces avirtual public meeting via 
communications media technology to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE AND TIME: June 22, 2020 at 5:00 p.m.
PLACE: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, 
Facebook and the Alachua County Video on 
Demand. Website [link below]
https://alachuacounty.us/Pages/
AlachuaCounty.aspx
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when 
prompted use code 670 965 3024
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area. A copy of the agenda may be obtained 
by visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org 
(click Metropolitan Transportation Planning) 
or may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th 
Place, Gainesville, Florida one week prior to 
the meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a virtual meet-
ing via communications media technology 
The meeting is a virtual public meeting, as 
permitted by Florida Governor’s Executive 
Order No. 2020-69. The public may submit 
comments to the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area through email (escalante@
ncfrpc.org) or by calling into the public 
comment message line when prompted to 
call during the meeting. Public comment 
will be taken by telephone for all non-min -
isterial items on which the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area votes. Once 
public comment is opened for an item under 
discussion, please call the public comment
telephone number and follow the instruc-
tions to leave your recorded message for 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area. Callers should leave their name and 
limit comments to two minutes. In addition, 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization will open telephone lines 
for one 30 minute public comment ses-
sion for the public to discuss items not on 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area agenda. Public comment during the 
public comment session will be limited to 
two minutes per each caller. The public is 
encouraged to submit any written or photo-
graphic documents prior to the meeting to 
escalante@ncfrpc.org.
Any questions regarding participation should be di-
rected to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area Office 
at 352.955.2200., extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard to race, 
color, national origin, sex, age, disability, familial sta-
tus, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, 
or gender identity. Persons who require special ac-
commodations under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation services 
(free of charge) should contact Michael Escalante at 
352.955.2200, extension 114, at least 48 hours prior 
to the public meeting.                                  6-8-20-1-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
7-27-20-14
Homework coach wanted for bright but un-
motivated ADHD student. He is 16 yrs old. 
Hrs/Days flexible. 3 hrs 2 X week to help 
complete assignments for this school year 
thru summer. e-mail qualifications to ss-
mills@hotmail.com                      7-6-20-5-14
Looking for individual to cook 4 days per 
week and light house cleaning 3-4 days a 
week. Specifically looking for Carribbean/
Latin American healthy and popular cuisine. 
please call Lisa at 352-870-1545    6-8-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   7-13-
20-43-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
FDA approved brand name medications for 
$49/month per medication. Apply online at 
prescriptioncare.com/fl or call Prescription 
Care at 866-399-5352. 6-1-1-16
20 Events/Notices
BUSINESS OWNERS-GET CASH 
NOW!! GET YOUR PAYMENT CARD 
CLASS ACTION SETTLEMENT MONEY 
IMMEDIATELY. CLAIMS ACQUISITIONS 
GROUP WILL PURCHASE YOUR RIGHTS 
FOR IMMEDIATE CASH. CONTACT CLAIMS 
ACQUISITIONS GROUP TODAY.  800-327-
7821 www.claimsacquisitionsgroup.com   
6-1-1-2114 Help Wanted1. The Goodwill Games.
2. Jeff Hostetler.
3. Mariano Rivera.
4. "Slap Shot."
5. The Minnesota Vikings.
6. Jean van de Velde.
7. The Milwaukee Brewers.Sports Quiz  answers
ScrabbleGrams  solution Sudoku  solution
pass BOOK mark; soap STONE washed;
kin FOLK tale; woman HOOD winkStickelers  answersolution below
solution  below
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
answers below1. What international sports competition, 
created by media mogul Ted Turner, was first 
held in Moscow in 1986?
2. Name the quarterback who took over for 
the injured Phil Simms in 1990 and led the 
New York Giants to a win in Super Bowl XXV.
3. In 2019, who became the first player ever to 
be enshrined in the National Baseball Hall of 
Fame with a unanimous vote?
4. What 1977 sports comedy film featured 
the three boorish, brawling Hanson brothers 
playing for the Charlestown Chiefs?
5. In one of the most lopsided transactions in 
NFL history, the Dallas Cowboys traded running 
back Herschel Walker to what team in 1989? 
6. What golfer suffered one of the most di -
sastrous collapses in a major tournament by 
scoring a triple-bogey and losing the lead on 
the final hole of the 1999 Open Championship 
at Carnoustie Golf Links?
7. What Major League Baseball team cel -
ebrates a home run with mascot Bernie taking 
a plunge down a winding slide?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
20 Events/Notices
1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
MONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 VIRTUAL COMMUNITY TRANSPORTATION MEETING 
June 22, 2020 at 5:00 p.m. 
Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, Facebook and the Alac hua County Video on Demand Website [link below] 
https://alachuacounty.us/Pages/AlachuaCounty.aspx
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when prompted use code 670 965 3024 
PURPOSE: The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area has 
scheduled a public meeting to receive input concerni ng the proposed Transportation Improvement Program 
for Fiscal Years 2020-21 to 2024-25.  The Transporta tion Improvement Program is a staged implementation 
program of transportation projects consistent, to th e maximum extent feasible, with the Alachua County and 
City of Gainesville comprehensive plans.  
Projects in the proposed Transportation Improvement Program are also consistent with the Gainesville Metropolitan Area Year 204 0 Long-
Range Transportation Plan. This plan identifies transportation system modifications expected to be needed to serve projected vo lumes and 
patterns of traffic through the Year 2040.  A final decision regarding all projects contained in the Transportation Improvement  Program will 
be forwarded to the Florida Department of Transportation by the adoption of this Transportation Improvement Program document.
Public notice of public involvement activities and time established for public review and comme nts on the Transportation Improv ement
Program will satisfy the Program of Projects. 
The Federal Obligations Reports are included in Appendix B of th e Transportation Improvement Program.  These Reports show the 
expenditure of federal funds within the Gainesville Metropolitan Area from Oc tober 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019. 
This map only shows some of the transportation projects schedule d during the next five years.  The proposed Transportation Impr ovement 
Program includes transportation projects such as: bicycle; pede strian; project development and en vironmental studies; resurfaci ng/ 
repaving; school safety concern; transportation alternatives; and transit projects, including tr ansportation disadvantaged proj ects. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency,  the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area w ill meet virtually on June 22, 2020 at 5:00 p.m. 
Copies of the meeting agenda and more detailed information concer ning the Federal Obligations Report and proposed Transportatio n
Improvement Program can be obtained by writing to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urb anized 
Area, c/o North Central Florida Regional Planning Council, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653, at the www.ncfrpc.or g/mtpo 
website, or by calling 352.955.2200.   Copies of the meeting agenda will also be po sted at the above address.  All persons are a dvised that, 
if they decide to contest any de cision made at this public meeting, they will need a record of the proceedings and, for such pu rpose, they 
may need to ensure that a verbatim record of the proceedings is made, which record includes the testimony and evidence upon whi ch it is 
to be based.  All interested persons are invited to attend and be  heard.  Public participation is solicited without regard to r ace, color, 
national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, religious status, disability, familial status or gender identity .  Persons who 
require special accommodations under the American with Disabilities Act, or persons who require translation services (free of c harge), 
should contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extensio n 114, at least 48 hours before the public meeting. 
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area consists of the Gainesville City Commi ssion, the 
Alachua County Commission and nonvoting advisors of the University  of Florida, the Florida Depart ment of Transpor tation and a r ural 
community advisor.  The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area is responsible for  the 
continuing, comprehensive and cooperative urban transportation pl anning program for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  This pl anning 
program is required in order to receive federa l and state funds for transportation projects. 
VIRTUAL COMMUNITY TRANSPORTATION MEETING 
June 22, 2020 at 5:00 p.m. 
Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, Facebook and the Alac hua County Video on Demand Website [link below] 
https://alachuacounty.us/Pages/AlachuaCounty.aspx
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when prompted use code 670 965 3024 
PURPOSE: The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area has 
scheduled a public meeting to receive input concerni ng the proposed Transportation Improvement Program 
for Fiscal Years 2020-21 to 2024-25.  The Transporta tion Improvement Program is a staged implementation 
program of transportation projects consistent, to th e maximum extent feasible, with the Alachua County and 
City of Gainesville comprehensive plans.  
Projects in the proposed Transportation Improvement Program are also consistent with the Gainesville Metropolitan Area Year 204 0 Long-
Range Transportation Plan. This plan identifies transportation system modifications expected to be needed to serve projected vo lumes and 
patterns of traffic through the Year 2040.  A final decision regarding all projects contained in the Transportation Improvement  Program will 
be forwarded to the Florida Department of Transportation by the adoption of this Transportation Improvement Program document.
Public notice of public involvement activities and time established for public review and comme nts on the Transportation Improv ement
Program will satisfy the Program of Projects. 
The Federal Obligations Reports are included in Appendix B of th e Transportation Improvement Program.  These Reports show the 
expenditure of federal funds within the Gainesville Metropolitan Area from Oc tober 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019. 
This map only shows some of the transportation projects schedule d during the next five years.  The proposed Transportation Impr ovement 
Program includes transportation projects such as: bicycle; pede strian; project development and en vironmental studies; resurfaci ng/ 
repaving; school safety concern; transportation alternatives; and transit projects, including tr ansportation disadvantaged proj ects. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency,  the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area w ill meet virtually on June 22, 2020 at 5:00 p.m. 
Copies of the meeting agenda and more detailed information concer ning the Federal Obligations Report and proposed Transportatio n
Improvement Program can be obtained by writing to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urb anized 
Area, c/o North Central Florida Regional Planning Council, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653, at the www.ncfrpc.or g/mtpo 
website, or by calling 352.955.2200.   Copies of the meeting agenda will also be po sted at the above address.  All persons are a dvised that, 
if they decide to contest any de cision made at this public meeting, they will need a record of the proceedings and, for such pu rpose, they 
may need to ensure that a verbatim record of the proceedings is made, which record includes the testimony and evidence upon whi ch it is 
to be based.  All interested persons are invited to attend and be  heard.  Public participation is solicited without regard to r ace, color, 
national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, religious status, disability, familial status or gender identity .  Persons who 
require special accommodations under the American with Disabilities Act, or persons who require translation services (free of c harge), 
should contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extensio n 114, at least 48 hours before the public meeting. 
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area consists of the Gainesville City Commi ssion, the 
Alachua County Commission and nonvoting advisors of the University  of Florida, the Florida Depart ment of Transpor tation and a r ural 
community advisor.  The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area is responsible for  the 
continuing, comprehensive and cooperative urban transportation pl anning program for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  This pl anning 
program is required in order to receive federa l and state funds for transportation projects. 
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
NOW OPEN WEEKENDS 9am - 2pm
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation and 
treatment for:
• Respiratory Illness, Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Mon-Fri 8:00am-5:00pm, Sat-Sun 9:00am - 2:00pm
SIMEDHealth.com
Tyree Appleby blazed a path to Gainesville
Read the story online at alligator.com/sports by 
scanning the QR code.
Rivals reported that Johnnie 
Brown, a four-star signee, will 
be attending junior college in 
Mississippi. He was the No. 22 
defensive tackle in his class, 
according to 247Sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JUNE 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
OBITUARY
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 Former UF wideout Donald “Reche” Caldwell 
was killed in his hometown of Tampa Saturday 
night.
Caldwell, who played six seasons in the NFL 
after leaving UF, was assaulted by “a couple of 
people” outside of his apartment, according to 
his mother. Tampa police found him outside of 
his apartment with a gunshot wound around 
11 p.m. and took him to a hospital where he was 
pronounced dead, according to TMZ. He was 41 
years old.Police have not made any arrests as of Sunday 
night but said in a statement that the incident 
“did not appear to be a random act. ”
Caldwell attended Thomas Jefferson High 
School in Tampa. He played quarterback on the 
football team and was the Class 5A Player of the 
Year as a junior. He also played center fielder on 
the baseball team. Caldwell was drafted by the 
Cincinnati Reds in the 1998 MLB Draft but opted 
to go to UF to play college football as a wide re -
ceiver.  
At Florida, Caldwell won an SEC championship 
in 2000 when the Gators defeated Auburn 28-6. 
He had his best season with UF in 2001 as a ju -nior, when he was named second-team All-SEC, 
an Honorable Mention All-American and was a 
semifinalist for the Fred Biletnikoff Award, which 
is given annually to the nation’s best collegiate re -
ceiver. In his junior year, he had 65 receptions for 
1,059 yards and 10 touchdowns.
Caldwell finished his career at Florida with 141 
receptions, 2,088 yards and 18 touchdowns.
He was drafted with the 48th pick in the sec -
ond round of the 2002 NFL Draft by the San Diego 
Chargers. His best season in San Diego was 2004, 
when he caught 18 passes for 310 yards and three 
touchdowns in six games due to an injury. His 
best NFL season, however, came in 2006, when he signed with the Patriots as a free agent.
Caldwell started 14 games and caught 61 
passes for 760 yards and four touchdowns. He 
ended his NFL career with the Washington Red -
skins, where he appeared in eight games and 
caught 15 passes for 141 yards.
Former NFL and UF players reacted to 
Caldwell’s death on social media. Some of 
Caldwell’s former teams, including Florida and 
Thomas Jefferson High School, also made tribute 
posts.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgFormer Gators and Patriots wide receiver Reche Caldwell killed in Tampa