We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperEarthquake shakes Caribbean
A 7.7 magnitude earthquake hit  near Cuba and Jamaica, pg. 3
As the smoke clears
Here’s how local vape shops are losing business, pg. 5UF continues to rely on its
underclassmen for scoring
The trio of Lavender Briggs, Ariel Johnson and Nina 
Rickards will be key Thursday night against LSU.
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 52
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
Lily Strickland // Alligator Staff
Barrett Miller, 2, laughs while being swung by his mom, Hannah Miller, 24, at Depot Park on Tuesday.MEN’S BASKETBALLFLORIDA   71 MISSISSIPPI ST.   78
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Coach Mike White has 
stressed that his team has 
played better offensively than 
defensively recently, and it was 
on full display during his team’s 
second-half collapse against 
Mississippi State on Tuesday.
Midway through the contest, 
it seemed as if the Gators were 
on cruise control en route to 
their ﬁ  fth conference win.
But an offense that went cold 
in the second half and a defense 
that couldn’t stop a nosebleed 
for much of the night turned 
the cruising into a tailspin, then 
to a head-on collision with the 
guardrail.
A 16-point lead in the ﬁ  rst 
half was not enough to prevent 
Florida from snatching defeat 
from the jaws of victory.
The Gators were outscored 
43-26 and failed to make a three-pointer on seven attempts 
in the second half in a 78-71 loss 
to the Bulldogs. Just 10 days af-
ter seemingly righting the ship 
with a big home upset against 
then-No. 4 Auburn, UF has lost 
three games in a row.
“We were, in the ﬁ  rst 20 
(minutes) as good as we’ve 
played probably offensively, 
downhill in transition, sprint-
ing up and down the court,” 
White said. “Second half, ﬁ  rst 
ﬁ  ve minutes of the second half, 
I had a pit in my stomach be-
cause our level of energy wasn’t 
close to what it was in the ﬁ  rst 
half, it just wasn’t.
“We’re jogging back in tran-
sition, getting dunked on, and 
they’re scoring on us and we’re 
walking the ball up the court.”
At ﬁ  rst, facing Mississippi 
State’s defense after doing the 
basketball equivalent of head-UF collapses in second half
SEE MEN’S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 12
SEE CORONAVIRUS,  PAGE 3By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Sen. Zach Amrose (Inspire, 
UF College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences) resigned Monday. He 
said he is overwhelmed.
“I have already stepped away 
from being the President of In-
spire Party and I am stepping 
away from Senate as I struggle 
with balancing the weight of 
serving constituents in Student 
Government with completing 
classwork and preparing for a 
post-graduation life,” Amrose 
wrote in an email.
Amroses’s resignation comes 
about two weeks after Inspire 
Party’s ﬁ  rst president and long-
time leader Ben Lima resigned 
to focus on his grades and ex-
ams. Amrose resigned the same day the SG Rules and Ethics 
Committee scheduled a hearing 
to discuss claims that he unlaw-
fully tampered with public re-
cords and failed to comply with 
lawful public records requests. 
SG Rules and Ethics Committee 
Chairwoman Abigail Morris said 
that because Amrose resigned, 
the hearing is canceled.
Amrose said he helped found 
Inspire Party and worked in ﬁ  ve 
SG campaigns. He was a senator 
from Spring 2019 until his resig-
nation on Monday. He’s known 
for redrafting a resolution — a 
written statement with no legis-
lative weight — advocating for 
blue lights over the Summer.
Inspire Party President Kris-
ten Jackson said Amrose was a  
student who noticed that there 
were no blue lights on fraternity row and took 
some initia-
tive. She said 
she was hon-
ored to work 
with him.
“I am 
extremely  
proud of the 
work Zach-
ary did for 
the Student Body by advocat-
ing for a more accountable Stu-
dent Government and improved 
campus safety,” Jackson wrote 
in a statement. “I’m happy to 
see that he is taking his own 
well-being into account and is 
doing what is best for him.”
Inspire Student Body presi-
dential candidate Matthew Diaz 
said he supports Amrose. 
“I support his decision and 
whatever he feels he needs to 
do for his own health and his 
own well-being,” Diaz said. 
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgFOUR PEOPLE HAVE 
RECENTL Y TRAVELED 
FROM CHINA TO 
GAINESVILLE
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
Chinese ofﬁ  cials quarantined 
Wuhan, China, Thursday, but not 
before 5 million travelers left the 
city, Mayor Zhou Xianwang re-
ported. 
The UF Student Healthcare Cen-
ter received word Sunday that a 
student’s family member traveled 
from China to Gainesville before 
the coronavirus quarantine took ef-
fect. 
UF Health directors of clinical 
operations are aware of and moni-
toring the students who were in 
contact with the family member, 
said Cecilia Luna, a spokeswoman 
at the UF Student Health Care Cen-
ter.“As far as we know, none of the 
students are displaying any symp-
toms of coronavirus,” Luna said. 
“We will not be concerned until we 
know there’s a conﬁ  rmed case.”
At this point, the threat level is 
still relatively low, she said. There 
is no conﬁ  rmed case of the corona-
virus in Alachua County, she said.
The rumor someone traveled 
from China to Gainesville reached 
students through a popular Chi-
nese social media app, WeChat, 
Thursday — the day the quarantine 
took effect. 
A translation of the message 
read: “Friends in Florida, note that 
a UF parent ﬂ  ew over from Wuhan 
for the Chinese New Year. Please 
be careful. Wear a mask and carry 
hand sanitizer. If an outbreak oc-
curs, report it.” 
Wuhan, the capital of Hubei 
province, is where the new corona-
virus outbreak was ﬁ  rst reported, Senator resigns during election seasonUF watches coronavirus
Amrose
He said he resigned 
because of school work
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
TEETER TODDLERT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  68° LOW  49°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WEDNESDAY
Santa Fe River Paddle
Where: The Santa Fe River 
When: 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
What: The Alachua Conservation 
Trust will host a paddle on the 
Santa Fe River to help inform 
residents about efforts to 
permanently protect the area. 
Space is limited, and participants 
need to pay $15. The money will 
be donated to support the Santa 
Fe Springs Project. Event-goers 
are responsible for their own 
watercraft.
THURSDAY
Science on Tap: Mosquitoes
Where: Cypress & Grove 
Brewing Co., located at 1001 NW 
Fourth St.
When: 6:30-8:30 p.m.
What: The Florida Museum 
of Natural History and the 
UF Thompson Earth Systems 
Institute will host “Science on 
Tap: Mosquitoes” at Cypress & 
Grove Brewing Co. The free event 
will be led by Lawrence Reeves, an entomologist at the Florida 
Medical Entomology Laboratory. 
The event is part of the museum’s 
series, “Is Florida Trying to Kill 
Me?” Food and drinks can be 
purchased there. 
“The Committee” with Author 
Sterling Branson
Where: Matheson History 
Museum, located at 513 East 
University Ave.
When: 7-8:30 p.m.
What: Author Sterling Branson 
brings “The Committee,” a novel 
set in Gainesville during the 
1950s. The novel pits protagonist 
Tom Stall, a scholarly and 
ambitious man rising in his world 
of teaching and administration, 
against a colleague, a university 
president and an old friend 
turned deadly enemy. A book 
signing will follow Watson’s 
presentation.
Catherine Russell
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts, located at 3201 
Hull Road
When: 7-10:30 p.m.
What: Catherine Russell is back after her show, Jazz at 
Lincoln Center Orchestra: Big 
Band Holiday in 2017. Russel is 
known for her booming, brassy 
vocal power and "honeyed 
smoothness." Before launching 
her solo career, Russell was 
a backup singer and multi-
instrumentalist with artists such 
as David Bowie, Steely Dan, 
Cyndi Lauper and Paul Simon. 
She draws inspiration from 
her mother Carline Ray, a jazz 
pioneer, and her father Luis 
Russel, a longtime bandleader for 
Louis Armstrong. Tickets are $50 
for general admission and $10 for 
UF students.
FRIDAY
Southern Culture on the Skids, 
Rick Ryan Band
Where: The High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave.
When: 7 p.m.
What: Southern Culture on the 
Skids has recorded and toured 
around the world since it started 
in 1983, and the current lineup, 
with Dave Hartman on drums, 
Mary Huff on bass and vocals and 
Rick Miller on guitar and vocals, 
has played together for more 
than 30 years. The band’s music 
has been featured in movies and 
TV, and their live shows are 
a testament to the therapeutic 
powers of foot-stomping, butt-
shaking rock ’n’ roll. Tickets are 
$15 in advance and $18 the day 
of the show. Event-goers must be 
over 18 unless accompanied by a 
legal guardian. There is a $3 fee 
charged at the door for everyone 
under 21.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 52
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Manny ReaMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Annie HassanEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 By Michael Weissenstei
Associated Press
HAVANA (AP) — A powerful 
magnitude 7.7 earthquake struck in 
the Caribbean Sea between Jamaica 
and eastern Cuba on Tuesday, shak-
ing a vast area from Mexico to Florida 
and beyond, but there were no re-
ports of casualties or heavy damage. 
The quake was centered 139 ki-
lometers (86 miles) northwest of 
Montego Bay, Jamaica, and 140 kilo-
meters (87 miles) west-southwest of 
Niquero, Cuba, according to the U.S. 
Geological Survey. It hit at 2:10 p.m. 
(1910 GMT) and the epicenter was 
a relatively shallow 10 kilometers (6 miles) beneath the surface.
Dr. Enrique Arango Arias, head 
of Cuba’s National Seismological Ser-
vice, told state media that there had 
been no serious damage or injuries 
reported on the island.
The Cayman Islands were rocked 
by several of the strong aftershocks 
that followed in the area, including 
one measured at magnitude 6.1. Wa-
ter was cut off to much of Grand Cay-
man Island, and public schools were 
canceled for Wednesday 
Gov. Carlos Joaquín González of 
Mexico’s Quintana Roo state, which 
is home to Cancun, Tulum and other 
popular beach resorts, said the earth-
quake was felt in multiple parts of the low-lying Caribbean state but there 
were no reports of damage or injuries. 
The Pacific Tsunami Warning 
Center initially warned that the quake 
could generate waves 1 to 3 feet 
above normal in Cuba, Jamaica, the 
Cayman Islands, Honduras, Mexico 
and Belize, but issued a later message 
saying the danger had passed. 
The quake was felt strongly in 
Santiago, the largest city in eastern 
Cuba, said Belkis Guerrero, who 
works in a Roman Catholic cultural 
center in the center of Santiago
“We were all sitting and we felt 
the chairs move,” she said. “We 
heard the noise of everything moving 
around.”She said there was no apparent 
damage in the heart of the colonial 
city.
“It felt very strong but it doesn’t 
look like anything happened,’’ she 
told The Associated Press. 
It was also felt a little farther east 
at the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, on the southeastern coast 
of the island. There were no imme-
diate reports of injuries or damages, 
said J. Overton, a spokesman for the 
installation, which has a total popula-
tion of about 6,000 people. 
Several South Florida buildings 
were evacuated as a precaution, ac-
cording to city of Miami and Miami-
Dade County officials. No injuries or road closures were reported. No 
shaking was felt at the Hard Rock sta-
dium in Miami Gardens, which will 
host the Super Bowl on Sunday. 
In the Cayman Islands, the quake 
left cracked roads and what appeared 
to be sewage spilling from cracked 
mains. There were no reports of in-
juries or more severe damage, said 
Kevin Morales, editor-in-chief of the 
Cayman Compass newspaper. 
The islands experience so few 
earthquakes that newsroom staff 
were puzzled when it hit, he said. 
“It was just like a big dump truck 
was rolling past,” Morales said. “Then 
it continued and got more intense.” 
THE PROTESTS AIM TO GIVE ATTENTION TO 
SURVIVORS OF SEXUAL VIOLENCE
By Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
About 30 protesters dressed in black chanted in the 
courtyard at the UF Levin College of Law Tuesday to ob-
ject to the arrival of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence 
Thomas on UF’s campus. 
Protestors shouted “One in three, believe me,” in refer-
ence to rates of sexual assault on UF’s campus while bran-
dishing signs. Anita Hill’s testimony was projected onto 
the wall of the courtyard. A moment of silence in solidar-
ity with victims of sexual violence followed.
Thomas is co-teaching a two-week course titled, “Reli-
gious Clauses of the First Amendment,” alongside UF Law 
alum Kathryn Kimball Mizelle, who is the first UF alum to 
clerk for the U.S. Supreme Court, according to a statement 
by Laura Rosenbury, the law school’s dean.
Thomas was nominated to the Supreme Court by Presi-
dent George H.W. Bush in 1991. He was accused of sexual 
harassment during his 1991 confirmation hearings by Anita 
Hill, who had worked for him at the Department of Educa-
tion and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 
Thomas denied the allegations, claiming that they were 
fabricated by Hill and her supporters to prevent a black, 
conservative judge from sitting on the Supreme Court. He 
referred to the hearings as a “high-tech lynching.”
Law students received the announcement of the course in an email from Rosenbury Oct. 3. The announcement 
sparked the creation of a group called UF Law Believes 
Survivors by eight law students who felt that Thomas’ 
presence on campus shows a lack of accountability and a 
lack of acknowledgement of the pain experienced by sur-
vivors of sexual violence, said 24-year-old second-year UF 
law student Dalia Sigueredo.
The group has organized a series of events in response 
to Thomas’ arrival on campus this week. Sloan Henry, a 
29-year-old third-year UF law student who spoke at the 
protest, said his arrival had been downplayed by the law 
school. 
Rosenbury wrote in a statement that, “We recognize 
and respect all viewpoints and encourage our students to 
express their views as part of the marketplace of ideas that 
is academia.”
When questioned about how much Thomas would be 
paid, Associate Dean Whitney Smith referred The Alligator 
to the Supreme Court’s public information office. 
Angela Frank, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Supreme 
Court, said that Thomas was not being compensated for 
the position and that there was no written contract be-
tween Thomas and UF. Any travel and accommodation 
expenses provided by the school would be reported on his 
annual financial disclosure report.
Concerns for Thomas’ security have prompted an in-
crease in police presence in the area, and law students 
have to swipe their Gator 1 Cards to get into the building, 
Henry said. 
Both Sigueredo and Henry said the group has produc-tive goals that they hope to work on after Thomas leaves 
campus to reduce the number of sexual assault cases, such 
as instituting the Green Dot program fully at UF.
“We don’t want to just be noise,” Henry said. “We 
want to create some change and create dialogue.”
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.orgMag 7.7 quake hits between Cuba and Jamaica, but no injuries
Students protest Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas’ arrival
Kaelyn Cassidy // Alligator Staff
UF law students Anne Marie T amburro and Brenna 
Cameron stand for a moment of silence in solidarity with 
victims of sexual violence at the protest against Supreme 
Court Justice Clarence Thomas on Tuesday. 
Hannah Phillips // Alligator Staff
Minghung Yu, a 30-year-old UF computer science master’s student (left), and Li Xiaobai, a 
25-year-old UF computer science master’s student (right), wear face masks while studying 
in Marston Library Tuesday as an extra precaution against the new coronavirus. The two 
heard rumors that a parent traveled from Wuhan to Gainesville before the quarantine 
took effect. 
according to the Centers 
for Disease Control and 
Prevention. On Wednes-
day, Chinese officials 
said the death toll rose to 
more than 130 people. 
The UF International 
Center has identified four 
people who traveled from 
China to Gainesville with-
in the last two weeks, 
said UF spokesman Steve 
Orlando. 
None of them traveled 
from Wuhan, Orlando 
said.
“There’s no guaran-
tee that that’s everybody 
because there are many 
people who travel any-
where in the world who 
don’t register with the 
international center,” he said. “But we know of 
four.”
The center will pro-
vide the travelers with re-
sources and information 
regarding the virus, he 
said, as well as those who 
are registered to travel to 
China in the near future.
Though there is cur-
rently no vaccine against 
the virus, health officials 
can diagnose it, accord-
ing to the CDC. The Mi-
ami International Airport 
is one of 20 airports na-
tionwide that will test 
travelers for the new 
coronavirus in a quaran-
tine station. 
The Chinese Student 
Association has post-
poned its Spring Festi-val out of concern that 
the virus could reach 
Gainesville, said Jiabin 
Du, the president of the 
Chinese Student Associa-
tion.
“Especially right after 
winter break, a lot of us 
went to China and came 
back,” Du said.
The gala, originally 
scheduled for Sunday, is 
the organization’s big-
gest event of the year, Du 
said. She has spent the 
last four months planning 
the night and anticipated 
a crowd of more than 
1,000 people.
Still, the organiza-
tion’s members were re-
lieved to hear it was post-
poned, Du said. 
“Having a lot of peo-
ple in one place is kind of 
a risk,” she said. “We just 
want to be safe.”CORONAVIRUS,  from pg. 1None came from Wuhan4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
By  Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
While Lucky’s Market plans to close nearly all its Flor-
ida stores Feb. 12, recent reports indicate a potential new 
fate for the chain’s Gainesville location. 
According to a WCJB article, recent court filings show 
that Aldi’s Discount Grocers will purchase six Lucky’s 
Market stores, including the Gainesville location. An Aldi 
store currently sits at 3773 NW 13th St., about a mile 
away from the supermarket’s current location.
Lucky’s Gainesville store director Bill Muccio said he 
knows nothing about Aldi purchasing the store. As far as he’s aware, no one from the company has mentioned 
anything about it. 
“Nobody in our company is going to say anything, but 
Aldi may tell,” Muccio said.
But according to The Tallahassee Democrat, Dan 
Gavin, the vice president for the National Real Estate 
of Aldi U.S., confirmed that the company “is acquiring 
several Lucky’s Market locations in Florida,” but wasn’t 
specific about where. 
Lucky’s filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection 
Monday, according to bankruptcy filing documents. 
However, The Alligator was unable to find court filings 
that show Aldi has already purchased the store’s lease. The Alligator reached out to Aldi representatives 
through email but were unable to get in touch as of pub-
lication Tuesday evening.
The store’s front-end supervisor, Eric Cheek, said he’s 
skeptical about the recent WCJB report. 
“I don’t think Aldi is moving,” Cheek said. “I don’t see 
any reason why they would want to move into that place. 
They have a brand new store location.”
Aldi opened its first store in Butler North in October 
2016.
Lucky’s employees were notified of the store’s closure 
in an early morning staff meeting Jan. 21, Cheek said. On 
Sunday, they received notification of their termination 
dates. 
Cheek said that as of now, about 80 employees work-
ing at Lucky’s will lose their jobs. They will be gradually 
released from their positions until the store closes Feb. 
12.
Like many others recently laid off by Lucky’s, Cheek 
is currently trying to find a new job somewhere in town. 
“I’ve got three or four applications out at the mo-
ment,” Cheek said. “Today’s my day off. I’m just sitting 
around waiting to hear from somebody.”
Muccio is currently working with the local Whole 
Foods Market, Fresh Market, Winn-Dixie and Publix 
stores to set up recruiting tables at Lucky’s for recently 
laid-off employees. The day of tabling has yet to be de-
termined, he said. 
As for the speculation regarding the fate of the store, 
Muccio said he knows as much as anyone else. 
“Personally, I really don’t care, ‘cause we’re all out of 
jobs by Feb. 12,” Muccio said. 
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgFuture of Gainesville Lucky’s Market remains unclear
Lia D’Agostino // Courtesy to The Alligator
The shelves of Lucky’s Market, located at 1459 NW 23rd Ave., became bare after the 
store announced that it would close Feb. 12.
The supermarket chain iled for Chapter 11 
bankruptcy on MondayLucky’s still open around the country:
• Traverse City, Michigan
• Cleveland, Ohio
• Columbus, Ohio
• Columbia, Missouri
• Melbourne, Florida
• North Boulder, Colorado
• Fort Collins, ColoradoWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Jared Johnsen and
 Anna Wilder
Alligator Contributing Writer and 
Alligator Staff Writer
In December, Donald Trump 
signed a bill that raised the na-
tional age requirement for buying 
tobacco and electronic cigarette 
products to 21. 
But Alachua County did it 
first. 
On Oct. 22, the county signed a 
similar ordinance that is now hit-
ting local vape shops hard. Many report lower sales and lower em-
ployee pay, and they aren’t sure 
how to weather out the change. 
Mary Ewing, who opened Es-
cape 2 Vape smoke shop with 
her husband in June 2015, said 
about 30 percent of their cus-
tomers were between 18 and 20 
years old and had been vaping 
since they were 18. Many began 
to drive out of the county to buy 
vape products, which took busi-
ness elsewhere. 
“If you were to eat Draino you 
would probably die, but we’re 
not banning eating,” Mary Ewing said. “It [the new vaping law] is 
not gonna stop getting kids from 
getting their hands on it.” 
The new law is meant to stop 
teen vaping and help prevent 
vape-related illnesses. As of Jan. 
21, the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention announced a 
total of 2,711 vape-related hospi-
talizations resulting in lung in-
jury. 
Thirty-seven percent of people 
hospitalized were from ages 18 to 
24. The Food and Drug Adminis-
tration said that more than 5 mil-
lion U.S. teens in middle and high 
schools were vaping last year.
The Ewings were long-time 
smokers until vaping helped their 
addictions, they said. Mary Ewing 
said they have both not smoked 
in 17 years and want to use their 
experience to help other smokers 
get off of cigarettes. Greg said he has been thanked by the custom-
ers that they have gotten to quit 
smoking.
“The only reason I got into 
this business is because I had 
lost half my family to cigarettes,” 
Greg said. “I don’t want anyone 
to go through that.”
Kyle Manning, a 22-year-old 
employee of Grab Bag Co., said 
that the store he works at lost 
about 10 to 20 percent of their 
customers after the law was 
passed. He believes that people 
who are currently between 18 to 
20 years old should be exempt 
from the law. 
“For someone like me, I quit 
cigarettes because of vaping,” 
Manning said. “So I could see if 
someone was 18 before the law 
passed, and it was helping them 
quit smoking, it would be a sud-
den change.” Brewsters Smoke-n-Brew 
vape shop has lost about 30 to 
40 percent of their business in 
the last year, the store’s 21-year-
old cashier Skye Graves said. He 
doesn’t think that the business 
will close, but it’s definitely feel-
ing the loss of customers, he said. 
The store is trying to run a ra-
dio ad to increase business, but 
Graves isn’t optimistic. He said 
they have to get used to the low-
er numbers — otherwise, they’re 
just expecting something that 
isn’t going to happen.
“I find it ridiculous if you can 
go fight and kill for your govern-
ment and not be able to smoke,” 
Graves said. “If they want it, 
they’re gonna get it.”
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.org Local vape shops lose profits due to recent tobacco law STUDENTS ARE REQUIRED TO 
SIGN UP FOR IT BY THE END OF 
SPRING SEMESTER
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students will soon have to undergo 
extra steps to access school accounts.
Starting at the end of Spring semester, 
UF staff, students and faculty must enroll 
in two-factor authentication to protect their 
Gatorlink accounts from cybercrime, ac-
cording to an email sent to students Jan. 21.
Two-factor authentication prevents users 
who might know a student’s Gatorlink user-
name and password from getting into the 
account without access to their smartphone as well, according to the email.
The two-step authentication process will 
use the application Duo, which allows stu-
dents to choose between three methods of 
validating each login attempt. Students who 
enroll can receive a passcode, a phone call 
or an authentication request through the 
app. 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said two-
factor authentication is becoming more 
common as cyber threats increase. A study 
from the University of Maryland found that 
hackers attack computers every 39 seconds 
on average. 
“There’s increasing risk out there on this 
on almost a daily basis from people who are 
trying to compromise people’s accounts ev-
erywhere,” Orlando said. Cybercriminals will send links to stu-
dents with job scams and fake messages 
from the UF Computing Help Desk in a 
common method called phishing, according 
to the email. Phishing scams allow cyber-
criminals to obtain student credentials and 
UF data. 
Julia McKay, a 19-year-old UF computer 
science sophomore, said she receives one or 
two phishing emails a week that ask her to 
put in her Gatorlink credentials. 
“Two-factor authentication is a really 
important step that a lot of people need to 
be adopting,” she said. “People are getting 
smarter and smarter every day with finding 
new ways to attack.”
ainzinna@alligator.orgUF implements two-factor authentication to combat cybercrime
NEW JERSEY POLICE WERE TOLD 
TO STOP USING IT
By  Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville Police Department is using 
a highly-criticized facial recognition program 
that New Jersey’s attorney general ordered the 
state’s police to stop using due to privacy con-
cerns.  
The program, Clearview AI, works by using 
profiles and partial images of faces to explore 
online databases such as social media, mug-
shots and other websites to identify subjects, 
said GPD spokesman Jorge Campos.
The system contains more than three billion 
images that Clearview claims to have scraped 
from Facebook, Youtube, Venmo and millions 
of other websites, according to The New York 
Times.
More than 600 law enforcement agencies 
have used the software in the past year, as first reported by The Times. Clearview AI denied 
providing a list of these agencies to The Times.  
The technology has been used to investi-
gate and solve cases of identity theft, shoplift-
ing, credit card fraud, murder and child sexual 
exploitation, according to the article. 
A $10,000 annual Clearview AI license was 
bought by GPD in September, Campos said. 
The police department discovered Clearview 
AI through CrimeDex, an online network used 
by law enforcement and investigators to pre-
vent various types of crime. 
GPD has already conducted more than 
2,000 searches using Clearview AI since the 
department started a free trial in July. GPD said 
13 people have access to the program, Campos 
said. 
Campos declined to state who the 13 indi-
viduals are. 
“Every inquiry that [the 13 people] make is 
logged and categorized so they have to have 
an active case that they’re working in order to 
use it,” Campos said. “All the accounts are pro-
tected through username or password.”
GPD Sgt. Nick Ferrera told The Gainesville 
Sun that he’s worked with other police depart-
ments to share hits obtained from Clearview 
AI. 
April Smiddy, a detective of the Springfield, 
Illinois Police Department, asked Ferrera in an 
email if she should state on an arrest report 
whether or not a photo match was made using 
Clearview AI.
Smiddy wrote the following message to Fer-
rera:
“I wasn’t sure if there were any issues with trying to keep the information away from sus-
pects about how we got their information.”
“You can keep it general and say ‘through 
the use of investigative techniques.’ It’s not go-
ing to be totally wrong if you mention it,” Fer-
rera wrote back. 
Despite having discussed GPD’s use of the 
technology with The Gainesville Sun and The 
New York Times, Ferrera declined to comment 
to The Alligator, stating that all media requests 
must go through Campos first. 
Clearview AI is not the first facial recogni-
tion system to be used by GPD. The depart-
ment previously relied on Florida’s FACES sys-
tem, Campos said, which uses photos that are 
taken head-on, unlike Clearview AI that uses 
profiles and partial photos. 
Ferrera told The Gainesville Sun that the 
software is “extremely useful” and GPD has 
established safeguards to prohibit any unau-
thorized searches, or searches unrelated to ac-
tive cases.
Each search using Clearview AI creates a 
log that notes which device the inquiry was 
made on, ensuring that any unauthorized us-
age is tracked, Campos said. No unauthorized 
usage has been reported as of yet.
Campos said he has conducted a number 
of internet investigation presentations over the 
years, and any time a person uploads, submits, 
or transmits a picture or information on the 
internet, they’ve immediately “lost control of 
access to the data or picture.”
“Anybody that puts anything on Facebook 
and makes it public and has an expectation 
of privacy has a false expectation of privacy,” Campos said.
While social media is a helpful tool for deal-
ing with cases involving children who other-
wise wouldn’t be identified online, Campos 
said only 5 to 8 percent of matches made by 
GPD are from social media websites. 
More than 90 percent of matches are ob-
tained through jail and sexual offender photo-
graphs, he said.
“It is very uncommon for us to get a social 
media hit,” Campos said.
Campos said it’s simply too early in the de-
velopment of laws regarding facial recognition 
to conclude that any wrong is being done. As 
far as he’s aware, no rights have been violated 
through use of the Clearview AI. 
“The Gainesville Police Department be-
lieves that if any of that [information collected 
by Clearview AI] is obtained legally and has 
been made ready to the public, then we stand 
by that use,” Campos said.
Despite the backlash its received, GPD 
plans to continue using the technology. Cam-
pos said at the end of the day, police must “do 
their due diligence to ensure safety through the 
use of any legal tool available.” 
“Crime knows no jurisdictional boundar-
ies,” Campos said. “So, to limit access to cer-
tain things in that manner severely hampers 
law enforcement’s ability to detect and identify 
offenders.”
@SLagmis
slagmis@alligator.orgGPD continues use of highly-criticized facial recognition program Five tips to protect your account 
from hackers*
• Don’t open any links or download any 
images in a suspicious email
• Check and research the domain of the 
sender’s email address
• Don’t use real words in your passwords 
— many hacking tools search through 
dictionaries until a match is found
• Use different passwords on different 
accounts 
• Only use encrypted Wi-Fi networks 
*Information courtesy of Norton Security 
Clearview AI 
reach & efficiency:
• More than 600 law enforcement agencies 
used Clearview AI in the year
• The company said the program has a 75 
percent match rate
• The company claims 98.6 percent 
accuracyYou now have to be 21 to 
purchase tobacco products 
nationwide SINCE JUL Y, MORE THAN 16 MILLION ACRES 
HAVE GONE UP IN FLAMES
By Jessica Green
Avenue Contributing Writer
As fires continued to rage across her home country, the feel-
ing of “impending doom” became more and more familiar to 
Kristina Moore.
Since Australia’s fire season began in July, more than 16 mil-
lion acres have gone up in flames in New South Wales and Vic-
toria, two Australian states. Caused by a combination of high 
temperatures, a record-setting drought and lightning strikes, the 
fires, which have spread across the country, have killed mil-
lions of wildlife and destroyed more than 2,500 homes, accord-
ing to the New York Times. 
Moore, a 20-year-old sport management sophomore from 
Sydney, is just one of several UF students feeling the impacts of 
the Australian wildfires more than 9,000 miles away. 
She said during the past few months, she was never quite 
sure if, or when, the fires would infringe on the lives of her 
family and friends. 
“It was more just a waiting game to see if anything would 
ever personally affect me,” Moore said. “But then there’s that 
devastation of seeing your favorite places just burn.”
Hoping to lend a hand to her home country, Moore, a small 
forward and guard on the Florida women’s basketball team, 
chose to dedicate four games of the season to the Australian 
wildfires — donating $1 for every point the UF team scored.
Out of the four games, the team scored 220 points in to-
tal. However, Moore rounded up to donate $300 between two 
Australia-based organizations, Port Macquarie Koala Hospital 
and Drought Angels, which work to rehabilitate wildlife and 
support rural farmers. 
Though she hasn’t returned to Australia since the fires be-
gan, her parents’ plans to visit her in Gainesville during winter 
break were delayed due to the hazardous smoke.
Moore said she was saddened to see how long it took for 
people to start talking about the Australian wildfires. She felt 
as though the damage was already done by the time the world 
took notice.
“Americans really don’t understand the true impact this had 
on our country as a whole,” Moore said. 
Steve Johnson, a UF associate professor in wildlife ecology 
and conservation, was a visiting scholar at James Cook Univer-
sity in Townsville, Queensland, Australia during his sabbatical 
in 2013 to 2014.
There, he focused on learning more about the conservation history in order to coordinate the UF in Australia: Wildlife Bio-
diversity study abroad program. He later guided study abroad 
trips in Northern Queensland in 2015, 2017 and 2019.
Johnson said just as the recent fires have devastated count-
less wildlife, their after-effects could also cause death to plants 
and animals, indirectly, from lack of food and resources.
He specifically raised concern about koalas, who mainly 
eat eucalyptus leaves, given that many eucalyptus forests have 
been damaged from the fires. 
The eucalyptus forests have volatile compounds that allow 
them to burn easily, Johnson said.
Johnson estimates it will be “years or decades” before peo-
ple know the magnitude of ecological damage from the fires. 
Queensland native Caitlin McQuilkin-Bell, a 22-year-old UF 
family, youth and community sciences and health education 
and behavior double-major senior, feels similarly disappointed 
the wildfires took so long to hit international news, given they 
started in summer. 
“Why did it take so long for other people to actually realize 
we need help?” McQuilkin-Bell said. McQuilkin-Bell’s family was on evacuation watch from late 
September to early January as fires burned across her road and 
property. Queensland Fire and Emergency Services issued a 
warning in November for residents to evacuate the Scenic Rim 
region, which includes her hometown. 
While her family didn’t need to evacuate, her friends in 
Sarabah, a locality 18 miles south of her home in Tamborine, 
Queensland, were forced to. 
“Close family friends, who we ride horses with, live on a 
farm, and their house was taken over by fire,” McQuilkin-Bell 
said. “Their farm was taken over by fire, and they had to evacu-
ate all their horses.” 
She said the devastating impacts of the fires have made her 
want to return to her hometown Tamborine to help protect her 
family and home.
“I feel more proud to be Australian because I know now we 
can bounce back,” McQuilkin-Bell said. “ Sounds weird, but it 
makes me love my country even more and want to be home.”6   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
Courtesy to The Alligator
Most of the UF Sailing T eam’s equipment suffered damage on Lake 
Wauburg from high winds. 
THE TEAM IS 
FUNDRAISING THROUGH 
STAND UP & HOLLER: 
GATOR NATION 
GIVING DAY FEB. 20.
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Lake Wauburg suffered dam-
ages to its north shore Dec. 14 be-
cause of high winds, which also 
damaged most of the UF Sailing 
Team’s equipment.
Their fleet was severely bat-
tered, with eight of their boats 
totaled and two suffering minor 
damages, said Nate Keyes, the sail-
ing team’s vice president.
Keyes, a 20-year-old UF me-
chanical engineering sophomore, 
joined the team his freshman year. 
He said that the team’s goal this 
year is to make nationals, despite 
the loss.
Since all their boats are unus-
able this semester, they are work-
ing on purchasing newer vessels, 
which will cost up to $100,000, 
said Meredith McIntosh, the team’s treasurer. 
McIntosh, a 21-year-old UF me-
chanical engineering junior, who 
also joined the team her freshman 
year said that she hopes they can 
get everything fixed and replaced.
“This was a pretty devastating 
blow by mother nature,” McIntosh 
said. “It was pretty heartbreaking, 
but I think we’ll make it through 
as a team.”
All of their masts, which are 
large poles that hold sails, are ir-
reparable, and the dock where 
they secured their boats was oblit-
erated, McIntosh said. However, 
the boathouse and their sails were 
spared. 
The team is fundraising on 
GoFundMe and selling team mer-
chandise such as T-shirts to pur-
chase new equipment, he said. 
Their main method of raising 
money is through the team’s alum-
ni, McIntosh said. They hope that 
alumni will spread the word of the 
damage on social media and do-
nate during the Stand Up & Holler: 
Gator Nation Giving Day Feb. 20. 
“It’s just going to be a really 
big task to fundraise all this mon-ey, but I think that we can do it,” 
Keyes said.
They plan to continue practic-
ing with other teams, Keyes said. 
The team has practiced at Jackson-
ville University before, and they 
might in the future, Keyes said.
They might also practice with 
the Lake Eustis Junior Sailing Team 
at Lake Eustis, which is about an 
hour and a half away from UF, Mc-
Intosh said. 
The team planned on hosting 
two home regattas, a series of boat 
races, but they will be moved to 
other schools. Yet they still plan on 
attending all other regattas, Keyes 
said. They typically attend six to 
seven in the spring, and more if 
they make championships and na-
tionals.
“After we just barely missed 
nationals last spring, we were re-
ally looking forward to practicing 
this semester,” Keyes said. “It was 
a really big hit to us to not be able 
to practice.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org  UF Sailing Team’s equipment damaged by high winds 
AP Photo // Noah Berger
Firefighters battle the Morton Fire as it burns a home near Bundanoon, New South Wales, Australia, on Thursday, 
Jan. 23, 2020.
UF students feel impacts of Australian wildfiresWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
High Dive to host Gainesville Food Truck 
Rally Saturday
The event, which starts at 5 p.m.,  will beneﬁ  t the UF 
Mobile Outreach Clinic.Women’s softball navigates post-Barnhill era
This marks the ﬁ  rst time in more than ten years that Florida has 
not had a returning All-American pitcher in its lineup. pg, 11By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
They’re back and ready to party 
— local indie rock band The Forum 
will be hosting their ﬁ  rst double-sin-
gle release in Gainesville this Friday.
The show at High Dive, which is 
the band’s ﬁ  rst hometown release 
party since 2017, will recognize the 
release of The Forum’s two new sin-
gles “When Did Everything Fade?” 
and “Wounds.” The songs are anx-
iously awaited by fans who have 
been hearing them playing live for 
up to a year and a half.
Lead vocalist Michael Higgins 
said the decision to ﬁ  nally record the 
two tracks and release them simul-
taneously was a way for the band to 
try something new.
“We wanted to release something 
in a manner that we hadn’t done be-
fore,” he said. “Every time that we 
would announce another single, it 
was kind of like, ‘OK, well how is 
that different than last time?’ So, we 
kind of wanted to look at what we 
could do differently.”
The track “When Did Everything 
Fade?” started with lead guitarist 
Nick Wheeler who said the song began as an idea he introduced to 
the rest of the band. The lyrics stem 
from his personal life and the recent 
changes he has experienced.
“I think, for better or for worse, 
lyrically the song is kind of a reﬂ  ec-
tion of how my life has actually been 
lately,” he said. “Job changes, career 
changes, relationship changes, kind 
of everything I’ve been experiencing, 
and our beautiful, brilliant lyricists 
just came up with this really cool 
concept.”
The song features a heavy, ener-
getic guitar presence, while the lyrics 
are much more reﬂ  ective, asking the 
titular question in a way that fans at 
the live shows continue to enjoy.
“Wounds” is a trendier, more 
pop-centric indie track, which Hig-
gins said refers to the metaphorical 
wounds left on both parties after a 
fractured relationship.
“It’s kind of like me realizing that 
if you go through something inter-
personally with somebody, whether 
it’s a friendship or relationship, and 
it kind of phases out, that as you’re 
agonizing over it and looking back 
on it, things in life aren’t one-sided,” 
he said. “Another person’s also gon-
na feel the effects of that fallout.”
The band said they can’t say for certain what will come next as far as 
new music, but plans are deﬁ  nitely 
in the making.
The release party at High Dive 
will begin at 9 p.m., with doors 
opening at 8. 
The band said they are looking 
forward to ﬁ  nally celebrating in their 
hometown again, and that while 
Gainesville is always changing, they 
look forward to seeing new faces as 
well as old ones.
“Gainesville will always be home 
to us,” Jacob Farell, the band’s bass-
ist, said. “That’s where we started; 
that’s where we cut our teeth.” 
“I think it’s always interesting to 
go back and see who we’re going to 
see the next time out,” Higgins said. 
“A lot of the people that we started 
with in Gainesville when we were, 
you know, just playing to our friends 
have all graduated and moved. So, 
it’s kind of an interesting challenge 
to keep a base in a college town.”
Tickets for the release party are 
$8 in advance and $10 at the door. 
The Forum can be streamed on Spo-
tify now.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.org
THE 92ND ACADEMY AWARDS 
WILL TAKE PLACE FEB. 9 
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
Oscar nominations have always made 
for great conversation and friendship-end-
ing debates. Some cling to masters of cin-
ema including Martin Scorsese and Quen-
tin Tarantino, since they are a safe bet to 
prove you know “good cinema.” Others 
choose the underdogs who might surprise 
viewers such as “Moonlight,” the unimagi-
nable but miraculous win for Best Picture 
in 2017. 
This year, Scorsese’s gangster epic: 
“The Irishman,” Noah Baumbach’s touch-
ing “Marriage Story,” Tarantino’s homage 
to Los Angeles: “Once Upon A Time in 
Hollywood,” Sam Mendes’ “1917,” Todd 
Phillips’ “Joker,” Gretta Gerwig’s “Little 
Women” and Bong Joon Ho’s “Parasite,” 
along with others are competing for Best 
Picture. 
“Joker” made headlines earlier this 
year, initially with a wave of controversy, 
then by becoming the highest-grossing R-rated ﬁ  lm of all time and nabbing 11 Oscar 
nominations. Bong Joon Ho’s “Parasite” 
became the ﬁ  rst Korean ﬁ  lm to be nomi-
nated for Best Picture and won the Cannes 
ﬁ  lm festival’s top prize, the Palme d’Or.
What do UF students make of all this 
hype — hate or indifference?
Sebastian Georgiev, a 20-year-old UF 
ﬁ  lm and media studies junior and presi-
dent of the University Film Society, says 
the Oscars are struggling to ﬁ  nd an iden-
tity. 
“I was pretty upset by the lack of A24 
presence in the Oscars,” he said. 
A24 is a New York City production 
company responsible for distributing 2019 
movies such as “The Lighthouse,” “The 
Farewell,” “Uncut Gems,” “Midsommar,” 
and “The Last Black Man in San Francis-
co.”
Georgiev said he loves watching the 
Oscars because it validates the amount of 
time he spends watching ﬁ  lms each year, 
and it acts as a period of reﬂ  ection, looking 
over the previous years’ movies. 
“It is basically my alternate Super 
Bowl,” he said.
Georgiev would like “Parasite” to win Best Picture, but says it will most likely 
go to “1917” based on what he knows the 
Academy leans towards. He would like to 
see the stars of “Marriage Story,” Adam 
Driver and Scarlett Johansson, win Actor 
and Actress in a Leading Role, respectively. 
Katelyn Wahl, a 20-year-old UF bio-
medical engineering sophomore, was sur-
prised at how many snubs there were. She 
said Lupita Nyong’o, Awkwaﬁ  na, “The 
Last Black Man in San Francisco,” and 
“The Farewell,” all deserved nominations.   
Wahl said more women need to be rec-
ognized by the Academy, especially in the 
category of Directing. She pointed to exam-
ples including Olivia Wilde’s “Booksmart,” 
Lulu Wang’s “The Farewell,” and Greta 
Gerwig’s “Little Women.”
“There are so many women that could 
have gotten recognized and didn’t,” she 
said.
Vote which ﬁ  lms, directors and actors 
you think should be recognized on The Av-
enue webpage. 
This is a shortlist of the 92nd Academy 
Award nominations. 
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgGainesville band The Forum celebrates ﬁ  rst double release
The Oscars in the eyes of UF students
MUSIC
MOVIESCourtesy of Cami Arana
“When Did Everything Fade?” and “Wounds” will be available 
on streaming platforms Friday, Jan. 31. 
Best Picture:
“Ford v Ferrari”
“The Irishman” 
“Jojo Rabbit”
“Joker”
“Little Women”
“Marriage Story” 
“1917”
“Once Upon a Time in Hollywood”
“Parasite”
Actor in a Leading Role:
Antonio Banderas, “Pain and Glory” 
Leonardo DiCaprio, “Once Upon a Time in 
Hollywood”
Joaquin Phoenix, “Joker”
Jonathan Pryce, “The Two Popes”
Actress in a Leading Role: 
Cynthia Erivo, “Harriet”
Scarlett Johansson, “Marriage Story”
Saoirse Ronan, “Little Women”
Charlize Theron, “Bombshell”
Renée Zellweger, “Judy” 
Directing:
Martin Scorsese, “The Irishman”
Todd Phillips, “Joker”
Sam Mendes, “1917”
Quentin Tarantino, “Once Upon a Time in 
Hollywood”
Bong Joon-ho, “Parasite”The release party will take 
place Jan. 31 at High Dive8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
RUSH BOWLS TO BE 
OPENED 
THIS SUMMER
By Chloe Greenberg
Alligator Staff Writer
This summer is bringing 
something sweet along with 
the annual Gainesville heat 
this year.
Rush Bowls, an acai bowl 
and health foods restaurant, 
has a new Gainesville location 
in the works, said franchise 
owner Sean Byers.
Rush Bowls is an all-natu-
ral smoothies and acai bowl 
chain founded in Boulder, Col-
orado, in 2004 as a healthy al-
ternative for college students. Byers hopes to bring the 
chain’s focus on health and 
wellness to Gainesville. He 
also hopes to open up jobs 
for students and get involved 
with UF student life.
According to its website, 
Rush Bowls offers 17 all-nat-
ural smoothies and 21 acai 
bowl combinations. The res-
taurant offers add-on toppings 
and supplements, and boasts 
no artiﬁ  cial sweeteners, addi-
tives, preservatives or MSG. 
Rush Bowls also makes 
its bowls and smoothies with 
dietary restrictions in mind. 
It offers vegetarian, vegan, 
wheat-free, dairy-free, nut-free 
and soy-free options. A single 
bowl can have up to ﬁ  ve serv-
ings of fruits and vegetables and up to 40 grams of protein. 
“It [an acai bowl] provides 
a really healthy, low-calorie 
alternative,” Byers said. “It’s a 
quick meal on the run.”
Being a Gainesville na-
tive, Byers wants to use Rush 
Bowls to give back to the com-
munity and UF as much as 
possible, he said. He plans to 
get involved with school orga-
nizations, fraternity and soror-
ity organizations and student 
athletics for different fundrais-
ing or catering events. Eventu-
ally, he wants Rush Bowls to 
be a food truck in Gainesville.
“After a tennis match or 
a volleyball match, you can 
give your players something 
healthy to re-energize them-
selves,” he said.Sydney Schmidt, a 21-year-
old UF political science senior, 
thinks Rush Bowls is making a 
good move.
“I deﬁ  nitely think there’s 
a market for more acai bowl 
places because they’re so in 
right now,” she said. “They’re 
such a good source of fruit; 
acai is a superfood.”
While they haven’t dis-
closed an ofﬁ  cial location, the 
Rush Bowls team is looking to 
open along University Avenue 
in Summer 2020. 
cgreenberg@alligator.org
@_chloegreenberg
THE EXHIBIT TOOK A 
DEEP DIVE INTO THE 
JOHNS COMMITTEE 
FROM THE 1950S.
By Julia Collins
Avenue Staff Writer
Standing in the back room 
of the Matheson History Mu-
seum, eyes closed, you’d feel 
the warmth of the sunlight 
pouring in through the arched 
windows, hearing nothing but 
the soft patter of people’s foot-
steps, you would be at peace. 
When you open your eyes, 
the content of “The McCarthy 
Moment” exhibit displayed on 
the walls is the opposite. This 
exhibit, which focuses on the 
Johns Committee, is the ﬁ  rst  
local collection of LGBTQ+ 
history from the museum.
The exhibit was curated by Kaitlyn Hof-Mahoney and is 
free to the public until Satur-
day from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
“I think it’s really going to 
open people’s eyes, and there 
are very few people who know 
this happened in Gainesville, 
besides the people it impact-
ed,” she said.
According to the exhibit, 
the Johns Committee was 
originally formed to target 
black students and faculty at 
UF. After failing to get legis-
lative support, the committee 
turned its attention to the LG-
BTQ+ community. About 15 
professors and more than 50 
students left UF due interroga-
tion and intimidation from the 
committee. 
“I was in Tallahassee for 
one day and photographed 
everything they had on the 
Johns Committee for about 
eight hours,” Hof-Mahoney 
said. “There were about 1,500 pages of records to go through. 
The challenge was trying to 
condense it for the public.”
“The McCarthy Moment” 
exhibit artfully and accurately 
portrays what it was like to be 
persecuted by the Johns Com-
mittee. The exhibit features 
texts pulled from the archives 
in Tallahassee and Gainesville 
and a recreation of the inter-
rogation room the committee 
used. The exhibit reminds 
attendees that freedom of ex-
pression at UF were not al-
ways guaranteed.
“It’s kind of horrifying,” 
Helen Fogarty, who attended 
the exhibit, said. “Disrespect-
ing a lot of people and ﬁ  ring 
teachers just because they’re 
different from you ... To me, 
it’s a lack of courage.”
@JuliaAnnCollins
juliacollins@uﬂ  .edu
By Alyssa Archard
Avenue Staff Writer
What comes to mind when you hear the term “are we 
or aren’t we” in a relationship? For many college students, 
it’s widely understood. Even your humble columnist has 
been involved in this gray area, which can be messy to 
navigate. Are we friends? Are we more? What does it mean 
that I’ve slept at your house for three days straight now? 
Merely bringing up the conversation can be excruciating; 
no one wants to do it, yet everyone wants the answer. 
When asked about “are we or aren’t we” relationships, 
Leslie Cevallos, a 20-year-old UF wildlife ecology junior, 
said most college relationships fall under this category. 
Fortunately for Cevallos, she knows how to evade these disappointing relationship ﬁ  ssures.
“I know how to lock it down,” she said.
Not all of us are as lucky, and some of us ﬁ  nd our-
selves in relationships on unequal footing. Harry Barnikel, 
a 20-year-old UF business administration junior, currently 
ﬁ  nds himself in this situation.
“I’m happy, but obviously sometimes when two people 
are hooking up and they’re not in a relationship, one of 
the people can get attached too easily,” he said.
His current situation is ﬁ  lled with tension as the two 
parties seem to feel different about one another. This 
problem is common in the ambiguous dating scene young 
people face.
“You just gotta be upfront and super open to that per-
son about what you want and what they want,” he said. “You’ve got to respect each other.”
Seems easy enough, right? What if you add distance?
Angela George, a 22-year-old UF Spanish and English 
double major senior, is in a long term relationship. George 
and her boyfriend met in his small, New York hometown 
when she visited for the summer. For them, it got to the 
point where they had to ask each other, “Well… are we 
or aren’t we?” 
“Neither of us wanted to say we wanted to be together 
because it seemed, like, stupid,” she explained. But even 
with miles between you, what happens when conversation 
and feelings grow each passing day?
“We kept talking and we were like ‘we don’t want this 
to end.’”
Can you say “awwwww”?
Simply stated, the moral of the story is to communicate. 
Who knows, it could end up leading to something great. 
If you’re confused about the status of your relationship, 
just ask your partner the question — are we or aren’t we?
alyssaarchard@uﬂ  .edu
@Alyssa_ArchardPlans for new acai bowl destination in Gainesville
Matheson History Museum Opens New LGBTQ+ Exhibit
Orange & Boo: Are we or aren’t we?
FOOD
DOWNTOWN
LOVE & SEXCourtesy of Rush Bowls
The health food chain is expected to open  along 
University Avenue. 
Courtesy of Julia Collins
The exhibit takes a look at the dark history  of the Johns Committee.
What does it mean that I’ve slept at your 
house for three days straight now?BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2bd/2bth fully furnished townhouse, SW 
Gainesville, stone's throw from Haile Town 
Center, front garden, back porch face woods, 
high ceiling, utilities & wifi included, $350/
wk. No pets. Email: vchow331@yahoo.com    
2-10-20-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in 
the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
SEASONED OAK FIREWOOD
Split & delivered. $120 for 1/2 cord.
Call James 386-292-5219        1-29-20-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist. BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info                                    
1-29-20-5-141For Rent
furnished8 Electronics 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By John Guzzetta
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/29/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/29/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, January 29, 2020
ACROSS
1 Like much desert 
terrain
5 Constructed
10 Modeling 
material
14 Latina toon 
explorer
15 Bay of Bengal 
nation
16 Ceviche flavoring
17 Exclusive place 
for tennis
19 Slavic John
20 Come next
21 Tizzy
22 Keyboard slips
25 Unpredictable leg 
joint
29 Cleaver 
nickname
30 Rapper __ Rida
31 Balls in coin-op 
machines, say
32 Throat condition
34 Ed who plays 
Santa in “Elf”
36 Con’s opposite
37 Skeet enthusiast
40 Salary
42 Game console 
button
43 Mary, Queen 
of __
46 Air quality 
watchdog: Abbr.
47 Poem of praise
48 “The thing is ... ”
49 Big Apple power 
company
53 Big and strong
54 Roman who 
wrote “The 
History of Rome”
55 Puzzle-solving 
asset
57 Unconscious 
state
58 Gridiron 
infraction, and 
a hint to 17-, 
25-, 37- and 
49-Across
63 Quaint oath
64 Otherworldly
65 Rooms to Go 
rival
66 Singer Lovett
67 One with piece 
offerings?
68 Sleep in a tent
DOWN
1 Yalta Conf. 
attendee
2 Mauna __ 
Observatory3 Rainbow shape
4 Corporate 
acquisition
5 Drill parts
6 Like some 
directors’ editions
7 Car waiting at the 
airport, maybe
8 Lucy who voices 
Master Viper in 
the “Kung Fu 
Panda” films
9 It might be 
opened in a bar
10 Sound of toasts
11 Walking, talking 
example
12 Hobbyist
13 Urge
18 USCG rank
21 Hybrid apparel
22 “Miracle 
Workers” (2019) 
network
23 “Is it soup __?”
24 Fun-loving type
26 On the other 
hand
27 Geppetto’s 
goldfish
28 Angsty rock 
genre
33 Send-up
34 Burros
35 “That’s all __ 
wrote”38 Spa treatment, 
for short
39 Drawn from 
various sources
40 Upper-bod 
muscle
41 Words of regret
44 Tyke on a trike
45 Where 
thunderheads 
form
50 Get away from
51 Skateboard 
stunt52 Circus clown’s 
collection
53 “__ Dark 
Materials”: HBO 
fantasy series
56 Code carrier
57 Animation frame
58 Distant
59 SweetWater 
Georgia Brown, 
e.g.
60 Alias letters
61 Sleep cycle
62 Put to use
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/28/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/28/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, January 28, 2020
ACROSS
1 Sister’s attire
6 Transmits, as 
a text
11 Young guy
14 2019 Australian 
Open winner 
Naomi
15 Get used (to)
16 King Kong or 
Donkey Kong
17 Corporate 
acquisition offer
19 Pampering place
20 “You should 
leave now”
21 Studio stand
23 Crew team’s 
blade
24 Unfair hiring 
practice
27 Nixon’s older 
daughter
30 Belfast’s province
31 Coil of yarn
32 Geometry 
product
34 Marquee actor’s 
honor
39 “Close 
Encounters” 
hoverers, briefly
40 Arrange loosely
43 Christie of 
mystery
47 Without exception
48 Life-changing 
incident for Peter 
Parker
51 “Yada, yada, 
yada” letters
52 Link to the 
internet
53 Has an easy 
catch with
56 Soufflé need
57 One batting 
cleanup who 
gets a lot of the 
stat hidden in 
17-, 24-, 34- and 
48-Across
60 Big name in jeans
61 Airport shuttles
62 “__ Jacques”
63 Give permission 
to
64 Final authority
65 Fork-tailed 
seabirds
DOWN
1 Family-style 
Asian dishes
2 Just for fun3 Bear claw 
makers
4 DIY furniture 
store
5 Art community 
NNE of  
Santa Fe
6 Prolonged  
battle
7 Scandal-plagued 
energy giant
8 Well-worn pencil
9 Soft & __: 
deodorant
10 Matzo meals
11 Collie of old TV
12 Become visible
13 Handshake 
events
18 “Tom’s Diner” 
singer Suzanne
22 NYC dance 
company
25 Dramatic  
one-on-ones
26 Airline that 
doesn’t fly on 
Shabbat
28 Op. __: footnote 
abbr.
29 __ flash: quickly
32 Britcom starring 
Jennifer 
Saunders
33 __ Grande35 Industrial area 
of western 
Germany
36 Words of 
commitment
37 Agency under 
FDR
38 Casino regular
41 Dressmaker’s 
guide
42 Concert extras
43 Orbital high point
44 1959 Sandra 
Dee title role45 Drink suffix
46 Dangles a carrot 
in front of
47 New Age pianist 
John
48 Get a whiff of
49 Market express 
lane units
50 Sculpted form
54 Sort (through)
55 Basic French verb
58 Man-mouse 
connector
59 Method
01/27/2010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
Is your business, club or organization having 
an event? Do you have a special announce-
ment? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET 
IT NOTICED!
Watch TV, Share It, Get Paid.  Easy
Check Out This New Streaming TV Service
www.freedomtimemoney.com
2-3-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an 
ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange -
ments or show off your bus and shuttle 
service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
Tutor-needed to help perform high energy cal-
culations for the universe. Energy of Inflation, 
Energy of Big Bang, black hole energy with a 
caveat. Grad or Dr. student with open mind. 
Contact Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-5-
20-7-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 60 y.o. MALE
Spinal Cord Injury with Quadriplegia 
Safe Central Gainesville Location 
6 AM to 10:30 AM - 12 to 16 hours weekly 
$17 to $20 hour - CNA or Equivalent
Details Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net    
2-3-20-5-14
Small country church near Gainesville is 
seeking part time worship/song leader 
for Sunday morning services. Contact D. 
Cousino 352-389-4081; email:
 dcousino1987@gmail.com.        2-3-20-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.14 Help Wanted 20 Events/Notices
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the acronym SETI 
mean to the scientific community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Latin prefix "sub-" 
mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the only president 
to serve two nonconsecutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century movie star 
penned the autobiography "Me: Stories of My Life"?
6. HISTORY: What was the first National Monument 
proclaimed in the United States?7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the island of Luzon lo -
cated?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has the tagline, "Re -
ality is a thing of the past"?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What was the name 
of the United States' first nuclear-powered subma -
rine? 
10. GAMES: What are the four railroad properties 
in Monopoly?
answers below
answers below
answers below
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
Even Exchange  answers Sudoku solution1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intel -
ligence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. "The Matrix"
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Reading 
and B&OTrivia Test  answers1.     Twirl, Twill
2.     Summer, Simmer
3.     Waltz, Walts
4.     Notice, Novice
5.     Heart, Heard6.     Rhine, Shine
7.     Pardon, Parton
8.     Ledge, Lodge
9.     Bottle, Battle
10.   Sloop, Scoop
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
UF sophomore Trinity Thomas 
was named SEC Gymnast 
of the Week for the second 
time this season following her 
performance and perfect 10 in 
the win against LSU last week.Future Gators well-represented in T op247 rankings
Three Florida 2020 recruits were ranked in 247Sports' ﬁ  nal class rankings, led 
by ﬁ  ve-star defensive tackle Gervon Dexter, the No. 6 player in the class. Dex-
ter is coach Dan Mullen's ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve-star signee at Florida. Four-star linebacker 
Derek Wingo (36) and receiver Xzavier Henderson (59) are both in the top 100.With February forcing its way into our lives this weekend, it brings with it 
one of the most momentous occasions in the sport of football. The XFL 
returns on Feb. 8.
This is owner Vince McMahon’s second attempt at creating the league, 
but this iteration will be nothing like 2001’s one-hit wonder. This isn’t 
the loud, brash league that tried to turn football into a wrestling match. This isn’t 
presenting viewers with a bastardized version of the sport. For McMahon, this is his 
attempt to prove that football can be attractive after the Super Bowl. 
Last year, the Alliance of American Football failed before its ﬁ  rst season ended 
but was doomed from the beginning. Most teams were located in small markets while the league 
struggled to pay its creditors. In fact, no other league has ever succeeded against the NFL. 
But McMahon is prepared to usher in an improved league to American homes. It starts with a 
$500 million investment — all out of his wallet. To lead the league, McMahon hired Oliver Luck, 
who served as the president and general manager of the MLS’ Houston Dynamos and is a former 
NCAA executive. 
The eight teams are located in Los Angeles, Houston, New York, Dallas, Seattle, Washington 
D.C., Tampa and St. Louis, and each roster has 52 players. 
For obvious reasons, this league will lack the star power of the NFL, unless you’re a fan of 
Marc Trestman, Bob Stoops, Cardale Jones, Landry Jones and Matt McGloin. It’s hard to imagine 
front ofﬁ  ces convincing Dak Prescott to take a substantial pay cut to play in their league. But 
they’re not expecting to do so. Rather, they’re hoping their current crop of players can produce 
attractive football while they wait for younger players to trickle into their league over time. That’s because they’re in no rush to create eligibility rules, which opens up the 
possibility of high school and college athletes to play. With fully guaranteed con-
tracts, the XFL 2.0 could be a viable option for athletes who want to prepare for the 
NFL while earning a paycheck. Though the $55,000 average salary is far less than the 
NFL, it’s 55,000 reasons to forgo spending three years unpaid. 
The XFL will breathe new life into the sport. The NFL has not been short of 
complaints by fans over its length of play and rules, and that’s where Luck hopes to 
attract his league’s fanbase. 
Teams won’t ﬂ  ip a coin for their ﬁ  rst possession, the home team will decide 
whether they want to receive or kick the ball. Coaches won’t be able to challenge 
plays, multiple players will have headsets in their helmets to limit huddles, there is a 
dedicated ball-spotter, the play clock is 25 seconds and there will be a running game 
clock; all to keep the games’ lengths under the NFL’s average of 3 hours. 
It will allow double-forward passes in an effort to promote scoring. Speaking of scoring, teams 
can go for 1, 2 or 3 points after a touchdown. Overtime will be a best of ﬁ  ve, where teams have 
one chance from their opponents’ ﬁ  ve-yard line to score — no games end in ties and both teams 
have a chance to touch the ball. 
Lastly, they simpliﬁ  ed the rule for a catch. For a catch to be ruled complete, a player has to: 
secure control of a live ball before the ball touches the ground, touch the ground in bounds with 
any part of his body and lastly maintain control of the ball long enough to perform an act com-
mon to the game. Finally providing clarity for fans and Dez Bryant. 
The XFL is not just a billionaire’s spending spree. Luck used the word gesamtkunstwerk 
(meaning “total work of art”) to describe the league, and he’s not completely delusional in doing 
so. It’s football that’s been streamlined to produce an attractive product for viewers that remains 
familiar. God, (please) bless the XFLEverybody Hates Chris
By Christian Ortega
Twitter: unofﬁ  cialchris
cortega@alligator.orgSOFTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
As the 2020 season approaches, 
many questions surround Florida’s 
softball team. One glaring question, in 
particular, looms hauntingly over Ka-
tie Seashole Pressly Stadium: Who will 
stand in the circle for the Gators?
Moving forward without the 2017 
ESPY Female College Athlete of the 
Year, Kelly Barnhill, marks the ﬁ  rst 
time in over 10 years (2008) that Flor-
ida has not had a returning All-Ameri-
can pitcher in the circle. 
While coach Tim Walton still does 
not have an ace in mind, he is conﬁ  -
dent in the skill and depth of the pitch-
ers he has at his disposal.
“I don’t think we have a number 
one (pitcher), to be honest with you,” 
Walton said. “We had Natalie Lugo 
and Rylee Trlicek probably had the two best falls...We’re just gonna go with 
what’s going, and (you) might see ﬁ  ve 
pitchers in every game this season.”
Last year also marked the ﬁ  nal cam-
paigns of outﬁ  elders Alex Voss and 
Amanda Lorenz sporting orange and 
blue. The three seniors demonstrated 
leadership on the ﬁ  eld and in the dug-
out, Walton said. They led Florida to 
three straight Women’s College World 
Series, including last season, where it 
was eliminated by Alabama.
Michigan State transfer Charla 
Echols (third baseman) will help ﬁ  ll 
the hitting hole left by Lorenz. Walton 
predicts that Echols will hit more for 
contact than power unlike her prede-
cessor did, but he sees the same ﬁ  re 
in the Newnan, Georgia, native that he 
did in Lorenz. 
“She has the red in her eyes that 
wants to kill you in the game that 
Amanda Lorenz had,” Walton said of the sophomore.
With so many personnel changes, 
(including senior Kendyl Lindaman 
making the move from catcher to ﬁ  rst 
base) adaptating to a new style of 
play will be pivotal to the Gators’ suc-
cess. In recent years, Florida has been 
known for its strength on the mound 
and defense. This season, hitting and 
offensive playmaking will be the focus. 
Florida softball will look much dif-
ferent this season than in the past, but 
that doesn’t faze the Gators, who begin 
their campaign Feb. 7 in Tampa at the 
USF-Rawlings Invitational against Illi-
nois State.
“(Walton) Tells us all the time, 'It’ll 
be a different type of game,'” Linda-
man said. “But that doesn’t mean 
we’re out of the game.” 
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgNew decade, new look for Florida in post-Barnhill era
Alligator File Photo
Junior inﬁ  elder Hannah Adams hit .276 in 2018 and made 
the All-SEC Defensive team with a 1.000 ﬁ  elding percentage.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Even Kobe had off days.
Florida guard Scottie Lewis was all over the 
court in Florida’s 78-71 loss to Mississippi State 
on Tuesday.
Whether it was knocking down spot-up 
jumpers or in-your-face perimeter defense, the 
former ﬁ  ve-star recruit showed he was worth 
the hype.
The New Jersey native made a point to start 
the game off hot.
Lewis — who hadn’t started a game since 
Jan. 7 — began the game shooting 4 for 4 from the ﬁ  eld in the opening minutes and ended the 
half with 13 points.
He pointed to the rafters at least once after 
one of his jump shots connected in his early 
onslaught, as if he was gesturing to the late 
great Kobe Bryant.
The former NBA star died in a helicopter 
crash on Sunday, along with his daughter Gi-
anna and seven others in Calabasas, California.
Lewis took to social media to thank him for 
his inspiration and to make a vow.
“Thank you for what you have done for the 
game and thank you for what you have done 
for me,” Lewis said in an Instagram post on 
Sunday. “My dream of meeting you and get-ting a chance to pick you(r) brain may never 
be accomplished, but I promise my generation 
and the generations after me will lead on your 
name and your legacy.”
Lewis’ tenacity and constant chatter on the 
court with his teammates would have made 
any basketball fanatic in any generation proud.
His season average was 8.1 points per game 
before Tuesday’s matchup and his career-high 
was 15.
He reached 15 points in the opening min-
ute out of halftime after an under-the-basket 
layup but ultimately struggled in the second 
half, shooting 1 of 4 from the ﬂ  oor and totaling 
17 points.
Lewis was 3 for 5 from behind the arc and 
had three steals in Tuesday’s loss as well.
Until then, Lewis had been coming off the bench, but coach Mike White decided to mix 
things up and put him in the starting rotation 
instead of forward Omar Payne.
Although Lewis’ efforts might have been in 
vain and dropped off considerably in the sec-
ond half, his passion on both sides of the court 
came from his attempt to make his “superhe-
ro” proud of him.
“Growing up for me, Kobe Bryant was su-
per impactful in my life as far as my mindset, 
the passion that I play with and how hard I 
work off the ﬂ  oor,” Lewis said. “This game 
was for him really...obviously we didn’t win, 
he’d probably (be) mad at me if he talked to 
me about that.”
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.orgLewis starts fast, fades late12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2020
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - close“PITCH”er Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
with Karaoke!WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Florida’s women’s basketball team 
has struggled this season against top op-
ponents. Through six matchups against 
ranked teams this year, the Gators have 
lost them all, and that includes their last 
four contests. Fortunately for coach Cam 
Newbauer’s squad, its next game comes 
against unranked LSU on Thursday at 
the O’Connell Center. For this game, UF 
will continue to rely on its young players.
Florida leads the conference in total 
minutes played (2,644) by underclass-
men. 
All of the main contributors for this 
team, other than guard Kiara Smith and 
forward Zada Williams, are underclass-
men. The inexperience of this team has 
been evident at times, such as the 93-47 
embarrassment against Mississippi State, 
which is now the No. 9 team in the coun-
try. 
“When you’ve got freshman guards 
playing as many minutes as they are, 
there’s experiences they have to grow 
through and learn from,” Newbauer said.
However, even with so much con-tribution coming from freshmen and 
sophomores, this team is unquestion-
ably better than it was a season ago. Last 
season’s team only won eight games all 
year, this team already has more than 
that with 11, and it has nine more games 
to go.
And of those games, most of them 
present an easier opponent than any of 
the previous four, as all were ranked 
in the top 25. So, with more winnable 
games ahead, it is an excellent opportu-
nity for growth in the young players that 
Newbauer already relies on. Here are 
three essential ones: 
Lavender Briggs
The freshman guard is not only the 
best underclassman for UF, but she is ar-
guably the best player on the entire team. 
At 13.8 points per game, she leads the 
team in scoring and has scored in dou-
ble ﬁ  gures in 17 of her 19 contests this 
year. Besides the ﬁ  rst win of the season 
against Grambling State, the Gators have 
not won another game this year without 
Briggs scoring 10 or more points. 
Ariel Johnson
Sophomore guard/forward Ariel 
Johnson’s season has been up and down. When she is up, typically so is 
Florida, and vice versa. In the Missis-
sippi State game, the Gators’ worst loss 
of the season, Johnson didn’t score. But 
her highest scoring game of the year, 
where she had 16 points against David-
son, which helped UF narrowly win 55-
50. Her second-highest scoring game of 
the season was against Samford, where 
her 15 points helped Florida dismantle 
the Bulldogs 84-48. 
Nina Rickards
Like Johnson, freshman guard Nina 
Rickards has had an inconsistent season. 
But her versatility helps the Gators tre-
mendously when she plays well. At only 
5-foot-9, Rickards hauled in 12 rebounds 
against Longwood. She also had ﬁ  ve as-
sists against Xavier and 13 points against 
Auburn. All three of those games result-
ed in Florida wins, with Longwood and 
Auburn both coming by double digits. 
The youth is the backbone of this 
group, and that won’t change against 
LSU. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgGators to rely on youth against LSU
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
UF guard Lavender Briggs has scored in double digits in 17 
of her 19 games this season and averages 13.8 per game.
butting a wall over and over against Baylor 
on Saturday was like going up to bat after 
warming up with a weighted donut. Shots 
that weren’t open on Saturday suddenly 
were, and Florida (12-8, 4-3 SEC) made the 
Bulldogs (13-7, 4-3 SEC) pay early. 
Freshman Scottie Lewis quickly con-
verted on four ﬁ  eld goals within the ﬁ  rst 
four minutes for 10 of UF’s 12 points. He 
had a season- and team-high 17 points in 
the game, while guard Andrew Nembhard 
and forward Keyontae Johnson both had 
10. 
Following a made jumper by MSU guard Nick Weatherspoon to make it 9-7 in favor 
of Florida with 16:37 to go in the ﬁ  rst half, 
the Gators outscored the Bulldogs 22-9 to 
take a 31-16 lead. UF ended up leading by 
as much as 16 before going into halftime 
up 45-35.
Hidden behind Florida’s sterling per-
formance behind the arc in the ﬁ  rst half, 
however, was a struggling defense — a 
continuing trend for this team. MSU shot 
48 percent from the ﬁ  eld in the ﬁ  rst half, 
and once the threes stopped falling for the 
Gators, the Bulldogs inched their way back 
into the contest.
MSU scored on seven of its ﬁ  rst 11 shots 
from the ﬁ  eld in the second half and tied the game at 52.
Eventually, Mississippi State pulled 
away with an offense that couldn’t miss 
late. In total, the Bulldogs shot 61 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld in the second half and scored 
on three of their ﬁ  ve attempts from three, 
while Florida failed to make one.
MSU forward Reggie Perry and guard 
Tyson Carter did much of the damage in 
the second half, combining for 22 points. 
Perry led the Bulldogs with 27 points to-
tal, while three others hit double digits. No 
Florida player scored more than six points 
in the second half. 
“Our level of pride defensively is differ-
ent than every other team that I’ve had,” White said. “Our numbers are not very 
pretty, and they’re getting uglier every day 
and it’s being communicated very clearly.”
The only good news on the horizon is 
that the schedule thins signiﬁ  cantly until 
a showdown with No. 13 Kentucky on the 
road Feb. 22. Texas A&M is the only op-
ponent that Florida will face in that span 
that is in the top half of the SEC standings. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgMEN’S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 1