We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperYoho versus AOC
District 3 candidates react to Ted Yoho’s comments, pg. 5
Students and teachers respond to 
ACPS reopening plan
Face masks will be required,  pg. 5Gameday during a pandemic
Officials are hopeful that the Gators could 
have limited attendance at football games 
this year, but there are risks, pg. 8
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JULY 27, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 87
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville psychic mediums Gabriella Miller, Bernadette King and Rev. Sunemaura O’Brien (left  
to right) have experienced an increase in business during the pandemic.
SPIRITUAL ADVISERS SAY 
THE FUTURE LOOKS BRIGHT 
FOR THEIR PROFESSION
By Avery Lotz
Alligator Staff Writer
The Tower Card tarot card looks 
terrifying. 
Flames lap through the windows 
of a gray tower on the background 
of an ominous sky. Two people can 
be seen jumping from the building 
toward the icy ground. 
One may imagine the Tower 
Card as a sign of immediate doom, 
but it’s quite the opposite, said 
evidential psychic medium Berna -
dette King. 
“That card is about true disas -
ter, ” she said. “It’s like the saying, 
‘If you’re going through hell, keep 
going, ’ so once you get through 
the hell, on the other side of it is 
a deeper spiritual understanding, 
a better sense of self, solid confi -
dence, understanding and clarity 
of one’s purpose. ”  
In the era of COVID-19, many 
psychics, like King, have experi -
enced increases in business.
“I’ve seen a humongous spike 
— but not for the reasons you 
think, ” she added.
Most readings have been about 
adapting to change and power -
ing through dark times instead of 
giving up in the face of challenges 
— much like the Tower Card, King 
said. Over the hundreds of virtual 
readings King has performed since 
the pandemic hit Gainesville, she 
said she witnessed clients making 
positive, life-changing decisions. 
“People are being triggered to step into that, and they’re doing it, ”  
she said. “They’re finding the cour -
age and the way. It’s a beautiful 
thing to be witness to. ”  
King has provided psychic ser -
vices to the Gainesville community 
since 2006. Despite her years of 
experience, her clients’ response to 
COVID-19 shocked her. 
The reason, King believes, is sci -
entific. 
“I think that people respond to 
the energy around them, ” she said. 
“When fear starts at one end of the 
room, your amygdala starts to pick 
that up because it’s an ancient and 
still true survival technique. ”
When the amygdala, the part of 
the brain that processes fear, picks 
up on mass societal change, one 
could revert to craziness or adapt 
to the change, she said. By large, 
her clients have adapted — wheth -
er it be to new jobs, relationships 
or intrinsic self-realizations. 
Virtual readings aren’t new for 
King. King said she was one of the 
first psychics to harness the power 
of Skype and Facebook Messenger 
video calls more than 10 years ago. 
King said she closed her office 
last year and began to conduct 
all of her appointments virtually. 
However, she said she remains con -
nected to her clients’ energies de -
spite the distance. 
“Energy is energy, and electric -
ity is electricity, ” King stated.  “It 
doesn’t matter where it generates 
from — really my job is very easy. I 
just have to be like a bloodhound. 
I have to get on the scent of some -
body’s electrical field and the rest AS AUG. 1 APPROACHES, 
TENANTS WHO ARE 
STRUGGLING FINANCIALLY 
ARE WORRIED
By Serra Sowers
Alligator Staff Writer
One-in-five Americans lost their 
jobs during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Holly Anne Gammons was one of 
them. 
Gammons, a 31-year-old north -east Gainesville resident, filed for 
unemployment for the first time 
Monday, days after she lost her job as 
a medical coder. Money is tight, and 
one of her sons was recently diag -
nosed as deaf. 
Medical bills and doctors appoint -
ments are among her concerns, too. 
“I am worried about how we will 
pay rent in the future, though my 
landlord is understanding right now, ” 
she said. “I know there are people 
worse off than me and I would hate 
to think about what is happening to them. ”
While evictions in Florida remain 
on hold since April 2, they are set to 
resume on Aug. 1. Tenants who are 
still struggling financially say they are 
worried as August approaches.
For 30-year-old Bianca Stewart, a 
licenced esthetician who does mas -
sages and facials, the national shut -
down meant her workplace had to 
close. Stewart said she never received 
unemployment or a stimulus check 
after filing in March and trying again 
ACSO DISCOVERED FENTANYL-LACED 
PILLS CIRCULATING THROUGHOUT 
THE COUNTY
By Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
Two months ago, Mimi Culpepper learned 
that one of her patients died from a fentanyl-
related overdose. 
As an interim clinical supervisor at Meta -
morphosis, a long-term residential treatment 
program for adults with substance dependence, Culpepper noticed an increase in patients as 
well as relapses. 
“It’s a tremendous loss anytime that you lose 
somebody that you work with on such an inti -
mate level, ” Culpepper said. 
Alachua County has witnessed an increase 
in opioid-related drug overdoses in the past 
few weeks, said Alachua County Sheriff’s Of -
fice Spokesperson Art Forgey. According to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a 
nationwide opioid epidemic has resulted in sig -
nificant increases in overdose deaths involving 
synthetic opioids like fentanyl. Gainesville Police noticed an increase in fen -
tanyl-laced drug overdoses in Alachua County, 
too, according to GPD Spokesperson Graham 
Glover. 
Since mid-March, Alachua County’s fentanyl-
laced drug overdoses — not limited to oxyco -
done — have almost doubled, he said. There 
were about 30 fentanyl-laced drug overdoses in 
March and April. Cases increased to between 70 
and 80 in June and July. 
ACSO recently received information that fen -
tanyl-laced oxycodone pills were being moved 
throughout the county, Forgey said. Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid that is 50 to 100 times more 
powerful than morphine. It is typically used to 
treat patients with severe post-surgery pain, ac -
cording to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. 
Fentanyl binds to the brain’s opioid recep -
tors, which are in the areas of the brain that 
control pain and emotion, according to the 
NIDA. An overdose on fentanyl results in slowed 
or stopped breathing, causing hypoxia, a de -
creased amount of oxygen reaching the brain. 
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgCrystal balls and Zoom calls: 
Psychics during COVID-19
Gainesville residents brace for eviction
Fentanyl-laced drug overdoses in Alachua County nearly doubled since MarchSEE EVICTIONS,  PAGE 3SEE PSYCHICS,  PAGE 3PSYCHICS SEE SUCCESST oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW 72°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 27, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Sunday's Top AP Headlines
Florida has more than 9,300 new 
virus cases, 78 new deaths
Florida reported more than 
9,300 new COVID-19 cases and 
78 new deaths. As of Sunday, 
Florida has 423,855 positive 
cases and 5,972 deaths. The 
number of new cases was lower 
than other days last week, but 
caseloads released on Sundays 
tend to be smaller because of 
the lack of workers entering 
data or in labs testing samples. 
The statewide median age of 
COVID-19 patients in Florida 
was 40, the health department 
said. The Florida Department 
of Health said that 3.4 million 
Floridians have been tested for 
COVID-19. New deaths were 
reported in Alachua, Broward, 
Dade, Duval, Escambia, 
Hardee, Hendry, Hernando, 
Hillsborough, Indian River, Lake, 
Marion, Martin, Palm Beach, 
Pasco, Pinellas, Polk, Seminole, 
St. Lucie, Volusia and Walton 
counties.
Florida’s top regulator looking 
at how to open bars safely
Florida’s top business regulator, 
Halsey Beshears, said that he 
planned to set up meetings with 
bar owners to discuss how they 
can reopen their businesses 
again safely, as Florida exceeded 
New York in positive COVID-19 
cases. Beshears, secretary of the 
Florida Department of Business 
and Professional Regulation, 
said he planned to start setting 
up meetings with owners of 
bars and breweries across the 
state later this week to discuss 
how they can reopen without 
spreading the virus. Late last 
month, Florida banned alcohol 
consumption at its bars, for 
the second time this year, 
in response to a spike in the 
number of coronavirus cases. 
Last week, members of Florida’s 
craft brewing industry sent a 
letter to Beshears and Gov. Ron 
DeSantis, warning that almost a 
third of the 320 craft breweries 
in Florida could be forced to go 
out of business in the upcoming weeks if the restriction on on-
site consumption continues.
Police declare riot at Seattle 
protests, make arrests
Seattle police declared a 
riot Saturday following large 
demonstrations in the city’s 
Capitol Hill neighborhood 
and deployed flash bangs and 
pepper spray to try to clear an 
area near where weeks earlier 
people had set up an “occupied 
protest zone” that stretched for 
several blocks. Via Twitter, police 
said they had made more than 
two dozen arrests for assault on 
officers, obstruction and failure 
to disperse. They also said they 
were “investigating a possible 
explosive damage” to the walls 
of the city’s East Precinct police 
station. Authorities said rocks, 
bottles, fireworks and mortars 
were thrown at officers as they 
attempted to clear the area 
over the course of several hours 
stretching into Saturday night. 
One officer was hospitalized 
with a leg injury caused by an 
explosive. Earlier, protesters 
in Seattle broke through a 
fence where a youth detention 
facility was being built, with 
some people setting a fire and 
damaging a portable trailer, 
authorities said. Thousands of 
protesters had initially gathered 
peacefully near downtown in a 
show of solidarity with fellow 
demonstrators in Portland, 
Oregon, where tensions with 
federal law enforcement have 
boiled over during protests 
stemming from the killing of 
George Floyd in Minneapolis. 
Initially there was no sign of law 
enforcement near the Seattle 
march. Later, Seattle Police 
said via Twitter that about a 
dozen people breached the 
construction site for the King 
County youth detention facility. 
Also, police said protesters 
broke windows at a King County 
court facility.
Olivia de Havilland, Oscar-
winning actress, dies at 104
Olivia de Havilland, a two-time 
Oscar winner and an off-screen fighter who challenged and 
unchained Hollywood’s contract 
system, died Sunday at her home 
in Paris. She was 104. Havilland, 
the sister of fellow Oscar 
winner Joan Fontaine, died 
peacefully of natural causes, 
said New York-based publicist 
Lisa Goldberg. De Havilland was 
among the last of the top screen 
performers from the studio 
era, and the last surviving lead 
from “Gone With the Wind, ” an 
irony, she once noted, since the 
fragile, self-sacrificing Wilkes 
was the only major character to 
die in the film. The 1939 epic, 
based on Margaret Mitchell’s 
best-selling Civil War novel and 
winner of 10 Academy Awards, 
is often ranked as Hollywood’s 
box office champion (adjusting 
for inflation), although it is 
now widely condemned for its 
glorified portrait of slavery and 
antebellum life. During a career 
that spanned six decades, de 
Havilland also took on roles 
ranging from an unwed mother 
to a psychiatric inmate in “The 
Snake Pit, ” a personal favorite. 
The dark-haired de Havilland 
projected both a gentle, glowing 
warmth and a sense of resilience 
and mischief that made her 
uncommonly appealing, 
leading critic James Agee to 
confess he was “vulnerable to 
Olivia de Havilland in every part 
of my being except the ulnar 
nerve. ”
Body of civil rights icon John 
Lewis crosses Selma bridge
The late U.S. Rep. John Lewis 
crossed the Edmund Pettus 
Bridge in Selma, Alabama, 
for the final time Sunday as 
remembrances continue for 
the civil rights icon. The bridge 
became a landmark in the fight 
for racial justice when Lewis 
and other civil rights marchers 
were beaten there 55 years 
ago on “Bloody Sunday, ” a key 
event that helped galvanize 
support for the passage of 
the Voting Rights Act. Lewis 
returned to Selma each March 
in commemoration. As the black 
wagon pulled by a team of dark-
colored horses approached the 
bridge, members of the crowd 
shouted “Thank you, John 
Lewis!” and “Good trouble!” , 
the phrase Lewis used to 
describe his tangles with white 
authorities during the civil 
rights movement. Some crowd 
members sang the gospel song 
“Woke Up This Morning With 
My Mind Stayed on Jesus. ”  
Later, some onlookers sang the 
civil rights anthem “We Shall 
Overcome” and other gospel 
tunes.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 87
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
El Caimán Editors
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chief
Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgMarianna Colon, mcolon@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.org
Noah Ram,  nram@alligator.org
Gabriella Guez,  gguez@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.orgMONDAY, JULY 27, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
What will gameday look like in the Fall?
Experts warn about the risks that are involved with hosting 
large events like football games, pg. 8
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
A GLIMPSE INTO THE ABRIDGED 
ASPIRATIONS OF SINGERS 
AT UF AMID COVID-19 
Lonnie Numa
Avenue Staff Writer
Riding the high of a fine-tuned, beatbox-
filled performance at the Orlando International 
Championship of Collegiate A Cappella, Mad -
die Crowley expected to resume preparation 
for an upcoming showcase after Spring Break. She never imagined the next time her a cappel -
la group met, they’d be saying their goodbyes.  
As the president of UF-based No Southern 
Accent, Crowley, a 21-year-old UF linguistics 
and education sciences senior, had to consider 
the effect the COVID-19 pandemic would have 
on the group’s dynamic, she said. It was her job 
to ensure the wellbeing of the group — even if 
it meant being blunt about canceled plans and 
indefinite hiatus, she said. 
“We’re a pretty diverse group of individuals 
across gender identities, sexual orientations, 
class — so I was already preparing myself to respond to their needs, ” Crowley said. “I like to 
think that I recognized the moment and tried 
to show up for my group as best as possible. ” 
Over the summer, Crowley has been able 
to connect virtually with others in the group, 
finalizing the positions of the current executive 
board while reminiscing over simpler times, 
she said. With Fall semester approaching, the 
hottest topic surrounding the group is its fu -
ture — which, as of right now, does not include 
holding auditions for new members, Crowley 
said. 
“We didn’t think it’d be conducive to the 
growth of our group, taking new members and 
not being able to spend time with them, or 
make music with them in person, ” Crowley said. 
“It just ends up being not very feasible. ” 
No Southern Accent’s plan moving forward 
currently entails sharing a general interest form 
to see what its future prospects may look like, 
Crowley said. It’s frustrating, but the group’s 
current virtual status is starkly different to it’s 
usual intensity — allotting 15 to 20 hours for 
practice per week at times, she said. 
In a cappella, the blending of each indi -
vidual voice into one unified sound isn’t some -
thing that can be easily orchestrated by editing 
multiple recordings together, Crowley said. 
Lagging on Zoom, or even the absence of one 
member lowers the quality of a sound they’ve 
spent years honing, she said. 
“Arts students are so reliant on our ability 
to connect with each other and be in contact 
with each other, ” Crowley said. “Our ability to be 
a group relies on being able to see each other 
in person. ” 
For Madison Barrett, a 20-year-old UF vocal 
performance senior, considering the logistics 
of a virtual opera has proven to have its difficul -
ties — but she isn’t willing to take any chances 
with her health.As a vocalist, even the notion of contracting 
COVID-19 induces stress, she said. The ability 
to sing is linked to something deep inside you, 
and a disease like COVID-19 that overwhelms 
the lungs could be devastating to someone 
whose voice is their instrument, she said. 
“Being able to feel the physical happenings 
of the breath moving through your body, how 
you articulate words and being able to be so 
precise with that, ” Barrett said. “You don’t want 
to take any chances, especially when it can di -
rectly impact your career. ” 
Barrett has found more creative indepen -
dence in her online lessons, but the lack of op -
portunities to perform has made preparation 
for her upcoming senior recital more difficult, 
she said. Practicing with a set recording is far 
more restrictive than collaborating with anoth -
er musician, Barrett said.
“It’s hard to express what you want from the 
music, ” Barrett said. “It’s very different from in-
person where you’re connected with your ac -
companist, and you can change things based 
on how you feel in the moment. ”
Though her choir class is currently arranged 
to have hybrid meetings this Fall, Barrett hopes 
there’ll be an option to move things online, she 
said. It’ll have an impact on the quality of her 
education, but she’s positive that her profes -
sors’ zest for teaching will keep her engaged in 
the material, she said. 
“As a student, I’m constantly learning and 
constantly growing, ” Barrett said. “Whenever 
a professor shows me their passion, that just 
makes me want to give them my time. ” 
@lonaald
lnuma@alligator.org
RECORDED IN THEIR HOMES, 
TWO ACTORS RETELL THE 
STORY OF FLORENCE FOSTER 
JENKINS AND 
COSME MCMOON
Katie Delk
Avenue Staff Writer
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
leads the scene as one of the first re -
gional theaters to host a virtual show 
in the Actor’s Equity Association. 
With double-breasted suits and 
short ties, jazz and glamour, “Souvenir” 
transports the viewers to early 1900s 
New York. But in a surprising twist, the 
musical comedy is intentionally unmu -
sical.
“Souvenir” tells the true story of the 
socialite soprano Florence Foster Jen -kins and her pianist Cosme McMoon. 
In the show, actress Kelly Atkins repli -
cates Jenkins’s shrill voice and uncanny 
confidence. Malcolm Gets plays the 
dapper gentleman Cosme McMoon.
Despite their annoyance with each 
other, McMoon develops affection for 
Jenkins. Their endearing pairing ties 
the show together.
“They’re not two-dimensional char -
acters, they are two people, ” Gets said. 
“There’s a lot of heart to it. I think they 
really love each other in their own way. ”
Rather than on stage, because the 
Actor’s Equity Association said it was 
unsafe, the actors practiced and pre -
recorded the show in their homes with 
two borrowed cameras, artistic direc -
tor Stephanie Lynge said. Instead of 
loud laughter from an audience, the 
actors only heard a few giggles during 
performances, including from Lynge. 
Even though Zoom lagged during their rehearsals, Gets calculated the 
time distance and played on the piano 
two beats ahead of Atkins so the tim -
ing was right for her, he said.
When performing, Atkins and Gets 
both had microphones. Bob Robins, 
who designed the lights, set them up 
in their rooms and pinpointed a place 
for the actors to stand, Lynge said. Ad -
ditionally, traditional theater workers 
compiled and edited the scenes into 
a video.
While the form is similar to a film, 
the focus was on the actor’s words and 
costumes, while their backgrounds 
remained stationary. Their tones were 
also more dramatic than in movies.
Even though the team could not 
meet in person or at the theater, they 
said they still felt thankful to create art 
again.
“Especially right now, during the 
time of the virus, which has been so devastating and very challenging to 
so many theater artists, I just felt like 
I had to relish every single day of re -
hearsal on Zoom and every day of our 
filmmaking, ” Atkins said. “It was a really 
special experience and something that 
I will always remember. ”
The Hippodrome has partnered 
with distributors to offer more mov -
ies online, according to a press release. 
They aim to return to live showings 
later in the summer and begin a new 
season in late August or September. 
Although the plans are tentative, the 
shows must go on,  they say.
Overall Rating: 7/10
@katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.orgVocalists at UF harmonize on the difficulties of virtual collaboration
Review: Hippodrome Theatre hosts first virtual show ‘Souvenir’
MUSICMUSIC
ART & THEATREART & THEATRECarley Noll / / Alligator Staff
When they would typically be performing, competing and meeting in person, 
the UF a cappella group No Southern Accent has had to make the switch to 
virtual interactions.
Get in the studying 
groove with the 
Avenue’s favorite study 
music.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFYMONDAY, JULY 27, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
THE HILL REPORTS THAT 
YOHO REFERRED TO AOC 
WITH PROFANE REMARKS
By Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
In a hotly debated but decidedly 
abrupt conversation, Rep. Ted Yoho, 
R-FL., reportedly called Rep. Alexandria 
Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., a “f***ing bi**h” 
on the steps of the Capitol Monday 
morning, The Hill reported.
Yoho, who represents Florida’s 3rd 
Congressional District, which includes 
the counties of Alachua, Clay, Putnam, 
Bradford and Union as well as parts of 
Marion County, reportedly called the 
congresswoman “disgusting” because 
of her statements about poverty driv -
ing up crime rates in New York City, ac -
cording to an article by The Hill. 
Yoho is not running for reelection 
this year, and instead voters will choose 
between three Democratic candidates 
and 10 Republican candidates to take 
his place. The Alligator reached out to 
each candidate for their thoughts on 
the situation.
The Republicans
Judson Sapp, who currently has the second most campaign contributions 
in the race and lost to Yoho in the 2018 
Republican primary for the District 3 
seat, said in an email to The Alligator 
that he doesn’t believe Ocasio-Cortez’s 
account of what happened.
“Congressman Yoho is passion -
ate about our Republic. No doubt he 
and AOC disagree on most issues, ” he 
wrote. “The two may have had a spir -
ited exchange. However, Ted is an hon -
orable man, if he says he did not say 
something, then he didn’t. ”
Ryan Chamberlin, seventh in cam -
paign contributions, also doubted 
Ocasio-Cortez’s account.
“I’m glad Ted Yoho is willing to 
speak up. Most of us share his frustra -
tion with AOC’s socialist agenda. She is 
unpatriotic and should be disqualified 
from serving in Congress because she 
hates the very document she swore to 
uphold, ” he added.
Gavin Rollins, a UF graduate and 
Clay County commissioner, said he’s 
known Yoho for a decade and said he’s 
sure the congressman had a heated ex -
change with the congresswoman, but 
doesn’t think there’s anything wrong 
with disagreements over policy. He’s 
supportive of Yoho’s efforts to help 
people through conservative policies, he said.
Joe Dallas Millado, who is running 
for office for the first time, said he 
found the exchange concerning and 
questioned why it wasn’t considered 
bullying. 
“Respectfully, if this were Game of 
Thrones, I’d vote to send him to ‘the 
Wall, ’” Millado wrote in an email. “Work -
ing with others is critical to putting 
America first. ”
David Theus, who is right behind 
Democratic candidate Adam Chris -
tensen in campaign contributions, said 
that by nature, debate is going to occur 
in Congress.
“Those conversations can, at times, 
be fueled with passion and conviction, 
however, we are charged to maintain 
professionalism and civility, ” Theus 
said. “I look forward to having those 
conversations while serving the inter -
ests of the folks from Florida’s 3rd Con -
gressional District. ”
Despite multiple attempts to con -
tact them, Republican candidates 
James St. George, Amy Pope Wells, Bill 
Engelbrecht, Todd Chase and Kat Cam -
mack did not respond in time for pub -
lication. Cammack is a former Deputy 
Chief of Staff for Ted Yoho and has the 
third most campaign contributions in the race.
However, St. George, who has the 
most campaign contributions in the 
race, tweeted a link to the article by The 
Hill, and wrote “Well… he ain’t wrong, 
but I would also add ‘communist. ’”
The Democrats 
Philip Dodds is currently leading in 
campaign contributions for the Demo -
cratic candidates and was a candidate 
in the 2012 election for the same seat. 
He called the exchange unacceptable, 
and said that as a husband and father, 
he’s disappointed. The day before 
Yoho’s statement on the House floor, 
Dodds called for Yoho to recant and 
apologize.
“His word choice shows it was not 
just that he disagreed with her, but 
that she is a woman who deserves to 
be belittled, ” Dodds wrote in an email. 
“Further, in the age of Trump, demoni -
zation of women and those with differ -
ent perspectives has become so com -
monplace that Rep. Yoho felt he could 
address Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a way his 
mother would not approve. ”
Tom Wells, who lost in the 2018 
Democratic primary to Yvonne Hayes 
Hinson, said he’s known and debated 
Yoho for four years. The two have al -
ways treated each other respectfully. He said he thinks the stresses of the 
Republican caucus and staying on the 
president’s good side for fear of a Twit -
ter attack are the reason for the con -
frontation.
“Members of the R Caucus are 
in grief, realizing that they have tied 
themselves to the mast of a sinking 
ship. Moving from denial to anger, ” 
Wells wrote in an email. “But what are 
they grieving for? They are grieving for 
themselves, for their loss Office!  Noth -
ing more. ”
Adam Christensen, the youngest 
candidate in the race at 26, acknowl -
edged that not everyone has the 
same opinion, but that there is often 
room for cooperation that can lead to 
growth when handled professionally. 
He said he felt this was something the 
Congressman was lacking. 
“And as your future Congressman, 
I know I would handle the situation a 
lot like AOC did: she remained calm 
and went back to work to fight for the 
people, for us, ” Christensen wrote in an 
email.
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.org
STUDENTS MAY CHOOSE 
TO RETURN TO SCHOOL 
OR LEARN DIGITALLY
By Avery Lotz
Alligator Staff Writer
Kaayana Sharma, 10, spent recess 
playing Ga-Ga Ball with her friends 
— a popular pastime of students at 
Stephen Foster Elementary School. 
Then, the COVID-19 pandemic erupt -
ed, and Kaayana’s fourth grade expe -
rience was cut short. 
Now, she may return to school for 
the first time since March, but she 
has to wear a face mask.
“We were afraid that if we actually 
do go back, then each time some -body passes the ball in Ga-Ga Ball, 
we’ll have to stop the game and sani -
tize it, ” Kaayana said. 
The Alachua County School Board 
will require the use of face masks 
when Alachua County Public Schools 
start Aug. 24. While classes are set 
to start two weeks later than ini -
tially scheduled, many students and 
teachers believe the plan didn’t con -
sider their safety.
Students and families can choose 
to return to brick-and-mortar schools 
or learn digitally. 
While Kaayana said she will miss 
recess, she and her family decided 
that online classes were the safest 
option. Kaayana’s third grade teacher 
at Stephen Foster Elementary School, 
Stephanie Anderson, doesn’t have the option to teach remotely. 
While some students are opting 
to learn in-person, district teachers 
must return to work. According to a 
state mandate issued July 6, Florida 
schools must reopen.
“There’s nothing I want more than 
to be in the classroom with the stu -
dents, ” she said. “But I don’t think it’s 
safe for the community to go back 
right now because there will be an 
outbreak. ”
When she pictures the return to 
school, she said she imagines stu -
dents hugging in the hallways, re -
moving their masks and touching 
their faces. 
For students learning virtually, 
Anderson said she is planning morn -
ing meetings where students can discuss their day and ask goofy ques -
tions. While they may be behind lap -
top screens, she wants to bond with 
new students and encourage them 
to join in conversations.
In the spring, Anderson sent “miss 
you mail” to each of her students to 
put a smile on their mask-covered 
faces.
“It will be a community, and it’s 
not ideal, but to keep people safe, it 
is what it is, ” she said. “Kids are resil -
ient, and kids are adaptable. ” 
Like Anderson, Shelley MacLean, 
a math teacher at Eastside High 
School, is concerned. 
The students who return to school 
will come from two groups: those 
who don’t have access to the internet 
or computers and those whose par -ents don’t believe in the severity of 
COVID-19, MacLean said. 
As a child, MacLean missed two 
months of school due to an injury, 
she said, adding that it didn’t hin -
der her because she still graduated 
at the top of her class and became a 
teacher. 
“Put education on hold for a min -
ute and just keep people safe enough 
that we can bring them back, ” she 
said. “Things will be delayed, it’ll be 
unfortunate, but I’d rather that than 
go to school every single day worried 
about whether I’m bringing some -
thing home to someone I love. ” 
@ajlotz8 
alotz@alligator.orgDistrict 3 candidates react to Yoho’s confrontation with AOC
‘Kids are resilient’: Students and teachers respond to ACPS reopening planBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 27, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
7-13-20-24-12
We Buy Junk Cars 
For Cash up to $500  
for complete vehicles. 
Free pick up. 352-771-6191         8-31-20-4-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-31-48-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-31-20-48-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-31-20-48-14
 Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
7-27-20-14Looking for individuals to join our 
summer carpet cleaning team!
This is a temporary position great for college 
students. Must have good drivers license, 
and clean criminal background. Will be re-
quired to drive. Must be in good physical 
condition. This is a physically demanding 
job. Must be able to work long or variable 
hours and weekends. Starting pay $12 an 
hour. brad@professionalcarpetsystemsfl.
com   352-494-3464                 8-3-20-14-14
Interested in earning in extra money while 
still being involved in the sports you enjoy? 
Big Eight Sports Officials Association in 
Gainesville is looking for volleyball and soft -
ball officials to work games throughout the 
area. Training is provided, no experience 
necessary. Please contact Barry Adams at 
904-796-7373 for more information.    
8-3-20-4-14 
Our small office is searching for for some-
one sharp, self-motivated and interested in 
the legal field. The successful applicant is 
detail-oriented, requires minimal supervision, 
multi-task capable and LOVES TO LEARN. 
Prior experience with Microsoft Office highly 
preferred. Healthy lifestyle a must. PT/FT 
$12.50/hour+. Resume with references to: 
contact@rothsteinforjustice.com. 
8-24-20-3-14
Help wanted for food truck.
Need server & short order cook.
PT, weekends.
Perfect for student or vet.
Call 352-470-4821                         8-31-20-4-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-31-20-45-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Legal
DIAGNOSED WITH LUNG CANCER? You 
may qualify for a substantial cash award - 
even with smoking history. NO obligation! 
We've recovered millions. Let us help!! Call 
24/7, 844-960-0085                          7-27-1-161For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-31-48-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-31-20-45-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
2BR/1.5BA Condo $950/Mo 
Incl Water/Internet
2BR/1BA Single Family 
w/Private Porch $950/Mo
3BR/2BA 2 Story Townhouse 
w/Pvt Back Patio $1200/Mo
Call Shawn 352-494-3277   
8-3-20-3-2
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 1BR in a 4BR & 1 & 2BR 
units. Rent includes utilities & wi-fi. Shared 
W/D on-site. Call Brenda 352-672-8657 
8-31-20-4-2
5 Real Estate
Land Auction                           
8/8/20 1:00 PM
16 One - three acre lots. Gated communities 
Haywood County, North Carolina, 151 acre 
mountain trac springs, lake sites. 3/2 home. 
ERA Sunburst Realty www.sunburstauc -
tions.net NCALCo# 10376 Randy Flanigan 
NCAL6421NCRE274318
Phone: 706-207-2436                        7-27-1-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-31-20-48-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-31-20-48-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-31-48-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-31-48-12
Friends don’t let friends 
catch COVID-19.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 27, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Matt McKinley
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/27/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/27/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, July 27, 2020
ACROSS
1 Really easy task
6 Serious cut
10 Sect. on a 
concert ticket
14 In flames
15 Brink
16 Dodgers or Cubs
17 Chicago-based 
improv group, 
with “The”
19 Semester
20 Bit of memorabilia
21 Bee secretion
22 Camera type, for 
short
23 Imagined barrier 
between actor 
and audience
28 Old fast fliers
30 Dallas region 
inset on a Texas 
atlas page, e.g.
31 Really tiny
32 Photographed
33 Fingers in a 
lineup
34 Beethoven’s 
“Pastoral” or 
Tchaikovsky’s 
“Pathétique”
38 Philip of “Kung Fu”
39 Regrets
40 Barely make, with 
“out”
41 Pool stick 
protector
43 Lat. and Ukr., 
formerly
45 Musical symbol 
also called a 
quaver
47 Hoopla
50 Fairway position
51 Mattress you can 
“float” on
54 Fellow, to a Brit
56 When Buster 
Douglas knocked 
out Mike Tyson, 
in a classic 1990 
bout
58 Fastening device
59 “Not a __”: “No 
idea”
60 Pasta sauce herb
61 Online craft shop
62 Conks on the 
head
63 Outlaw, to a 
sheriffDOWN
1 Oak containers
2 “It’s my  
opinion ... ”
3 More kind
4 Farm yield
5 Farm cluckers
6 Lizards like the 
Geico mascot
7 French farewell
8 Cpl.’s superior
9 “Psst!”
10 Canada’s  
capital
11 Check out  
again, as a 
patient
12 Train unit
13 “I’m thinking”
18 Bonkers
21 If
24 Obama chief of 
staff Emanuel
25 Stadium in  
St. Pete, with 
“The”
26 Gaga or Godiva
27 Record albums, 
briefly
28 Census datum
29 Unvarying fee
31 Cabernet holder
32 NES part: Abbr.34 Feng __
35 “Quiet!”
36 Observed
37 Approves
38 Royal flush card
42 Marked by 
contentiousness, 
as a game
43 Idaho and Iowa
44 Actor Rogen
46 Admit (to)
47 Seriously overdo, 
as a privilege48 Dungarees  
fabric
49 “Strange to  
say ... ”
52 Kathryn of “Law 
& Order: C.I.”
53 Equine hue
54 Michael of  
“SNL”
55 Stetson __
56 Getting the job 
done, initially
57 “Xanadu” rock gp.
By Ed Sessa
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/15/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/15/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, July 15, 2020
ACROSS
1 Esau’s twin
6 Latticework piece
10 Anew 
Skinvincible 
maker
14 Act 
unceremoniously?
15 Boo-boo
16 Start to suction?
17 Improvised 
container for 
roses
19 Aspiring DA’s 
exam
20 Sweets in an 
edible bouquet
22 Urgent PD call
25 Sport-__
26 Deceives
27 Birth of a baby
31 Hanukkah 
pancake
32 Chance
33 Mosquito-eating 
critter
36 DIY website
37 Seafood boil 
staple
39 Wait patiently
40 Singer Orbison
41 Tallow source
42 Dealership 
inventory
43 Government 
bonds are part 
of it
46 Italian fashion 
giant
49 Fashioned  
after
50 “Big Eyes”  
singer Lana  
Del __
51 Like some 
conventional 
romances, as 
illustrated by 
each set of 
circled letters
55 Wile E. Coyote’s 
supplier
56 Hardware store 
gadget that 
creates the 
perfect color
60 Cardamom-
flavored Indian 
tea
61 She asked Sam 
to play “As Time 
Goes By”
62 Writer Zola
63 Mild-mannered 
Clark64 Vaping device, 
casually
65 Jeans material
DOWN
1 Moses, for one
2 Boxing legend
3 Hornswoggle
4 Crude gp.?
5 “__ I said so!”
6 __ it over: ruled
7 Off in the 
distance
8 Small spat
9 Like gravity 
wedges
10 Full of baloney
11 Woodshop 
grippers
12 Reality-bending 
paintings
13 “You’re  
mistaken”
18 Feed the kitty
21 Trough grunt
22 More proficient
23 “Allegory of 
the cave” 
philosopher
24 “Breaking Bad” 
actress Brandt
28 Star-spangled 
expanse
29 Muse for poets
30 Vigor’s partner33 Dog to beware
34 Sun-dried brick
35 Out of sorts
37 Cupcake
38 Wreath of 
plumeria 
blossoms
39 Chum
41 Sensible
42 Protected from 
burglars
43 “Your call”
44 “Stop reminding 
me!”45 Touched down
46 Taken __
47 Tamiflu producer
48 “Bro!”
52 Soft mineral
53 Spanish ayes
54 Mojito fruit
57 Mark, as a survey 
square
58 Manning who 
announced his 
retirement in 
2020
59 Sleep cycle
07/20/2020
answer on page 7
12 Autos
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
REAL HEROES
WEAR MASKS
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.21 EntertainmentMONDAY, JULY 27, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
11..    RRoommaann  ________
11..    GGeett  mmaarrrriieedd  sseeccrreettllyy  55..    EEnncciirrccllee  
22..    IIssssuuee66..    ________  bbeeaauuttyy  
33..    HHaallll,,  ggaalllleerryy  77..    PPaassssaaggee
44..    CCuutt,,  ppeerrffoorraattee  IIEEEEMMPPRR
EEOODDEEPPLLRRIITTOOBB
NNIIRRNNEE
SSUULLHHBBIIPP
AADDOONNRRTTUUAASSPPEEHHRR
EECCPPIIRREEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--EEmmppiirree    55AA--OOrrbbiitt    66AA--IInnnneerr    77AA--PPhhrraassee
11DD--EEllooppeedd    22DD--PPuubblliisshh    33DD--RRoottuunnddaa    44DD--PPiieerrccee    BB--BBeellll  ppeeppppeerrss88--1133--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  aarree  nnaattiivvee  ttoo  MMeexxiiccoo,,  CCeennttrraall  
AAmmeerriiccaa,,  aanndd  nnoorrtthheerrnn  SSoouutthh  AAmmeerriiccaa..  
BONUS
solution below answers below
1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the 
birthstone traditionally associated with the 
month of July?
2. MOVIES: What was the name of the arti -
ficial intelligence system in "The Termina -
tor" movie series?
3. CHEMISTRY: Which element has the 
chemical symbol Pt?
4. HISTORY: Which two boxers were 
matched in 1974's "The Rumble in the 
Jungle" contest in Zaire?
5. ANATOMY: What is the common name for 
the hallux?
6. AD SLOGANS: Which product is featured 
in the advertising slogan "Obey your thirst"?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Which four U.S. states start 
with the letter "I"?
8. TELEVISION: What city was the setting 
for the 1990s sitcom "Home Improvement"?
9. MUSIC: Which female singer had a No. 1 hit 
in the 1970s with the song "You're No Good"?
10. MEASUREMENTS: How many table -
spoons are in 1/4 cup?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  answerSports Quiz  answers1. Ruby
2. Skynet
3. Platinum
4. Muhammad Ali (winner) and George 
Foreman
5. Big toe6. Sprite
7. Idaho, Illinois, Indiana and Iowa
8. Detroit
9. Linda Ronstadt
10. Fourwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
alligatoralligator
classifiedsclassifieds
Visit Visit alligatoralligator .org/classifieds.org/classifieds   
and submit your ad to one of and submit your ad to one of 
the following categories today!the following categories today!
1:   For Rent (furnished)1:   For Rent (furnished)
2:   For Rent (unfurnished)2:   For Rent (unfurnished)
3:   Sublease3:   Sublease
4:   Roommates4:   Roommates
5:   Real Estate5:   Real Estate
6:   Furnishings6:   Furnishings
7:   Computers7:   Computers
8:   Electronics8:   Electronics
9:   Bicycles9:   Bicycles
10: For Sale10: For Sale
11: Motorcycles/Mopeds11: Motorcycles/Mopeds
12: Autos12: Autos
13: Wanted13: Wanted
14: Help Wanted14: Help Wanted
15: Services15: Services
16: Health Services16: Health Services
17: Typing17: Typing
18: Personals18: Personals
19: Connections19: Connections
20: Events/Notices20: Events/Notices
21: Entertainment21: Entertainment
22: Tickets22: Tickets
23: Rides23: Rides
24: Pets24: Pets
25: Lost & Found25: Lost & FoundThe word is
"TOPOGRAPHICALLY"Gators quarterback Kyle Trask is 
on the watch list for the Maxwell 
Award, which is awarded every 
year to the best player in college 
football. Trask threw for 2,941 yards 
and 25 touchdowns last season.Gators face uphill battle replacing receivers
Read Brendan Farrell's analytical deep dive on the Gators' depth at wide 
receiver at alligator.org/sports,  pg. 8Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JULY 27, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
COVID-19
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Football gamedays in the Fall are an important 
part of Gainesville’s culture. The tailgating, the sea 
of orange and blue, the rowdy fans and the spec -
tacle of watching football with 90,000 other fans 
are all part of the college football experience. 
However, with the COVID-19 pandemic affect -
ing people around the world, it’s guaranteed that 
won’t happen this year. At least, not at full capac -
ity. 
Last week, Scott Stricklin, UF’s athletic director, 
mentioned in a Zoom conference the possibility 
of having fans in the stands. 
“My guess is if you were looking at a strictly 
six-foot social distancing scenario with fans in 
The Swamp you're looking at 15-20,000, ” he said. 
“Maybe you can get close to 25,000 fans, but it's 
a much different number than what we're accus -
tomed to."
Schools like Texas, Ohio State and Iowa State 
have announced their plans to hold games in 
front of reduced crowds. 
But with Florida having over 75,000 cases of 
COVID-19 in the last week according to the Cen -
ters for Disease Control and Prevention — the 
most out of any state in the country — there are 
questions about safety and public health that 
come with hosting large events during a pan -
demic in Alachua County. 
Joshua Weitz, a professor in the School of Bio -
logical Sciences at Georgia Tech, and his team cre -
ated the COVID-19 Event Risk Assessment Tool, 
which estimates the odds of at least one person at 
an event having COVID-19. Currently, there’s a 98 
percent chance that at least one person has the 
virus at a 100-person event. 
“Although outdoor events are generally less 
risky than indoor events, fans must access their 
outdoors seats via indoor spaces, leading to 
crowding, extended periods indoors, many op -
portunities for touching the same surface, etc., ” 
Weitz wrote in an email. “The failure to control 
COVID-19 levels and the fact that Florida is a 
hotspot for infection means that planning a mas -
sive sports event now is a terrible idea. ”
Stricklin didn’t elaborate on how attendance would work in regards to how tickets would be 
dispersedor what guidelines would be in place. 
The UAA is still working on various models for 
different scenarios in the Fall, according to UAA 
spokesperson Steve McClain. 
Aside from the sheer volume of people in one 
area, there are also concerns surrounding social 
distancing, travel and how people can still end up 
in crowded areas, such as entering and exiting the 
stadium. While social distancing is usually under -
stood to be six feet, some might say that might 
not be enough in this case.
“Given that people tend to believe that these 
kind of viruses are airborne and also in sports 
events like a football game, where people will be 
excited and maybe cheering or yelling, I would 
just say that six feet is a little bit of a concern, ” 
Yang Yang, an associate professor in UF’s depart -
ment of biostatistics, said. “If you wanted me to 
give you a number, I would say either nine feet 
or above. Or, six feet may be okay, but wearing a 
mask is probably a must. ”
Yang said that the mask requirement could 
be difficult because wearing them for long peri -
ods of time — college football games are usually 
about 3.5 hours—could be uncomfortable, espe -
cially in the Florida heat. 
Natalie Dean, associate professor in UF’s de -
partment of biostatistics, echoed Yang’s concerns 
about possible transmission during a game. 
“My concern is with people yelling because 
football involves a lot of cheering from the fans, ” 
Dean said. “It’s lower risk outside, but it’s higher 
risk because you’re yelling. ”
Another issue that Yang brought up was the 
issue of traveling fans. Fans could either unknow -
ingly spread it to others in attendance or catch it 
at the game and bring it home. Games could also 
expose students to the virus as well. 
Yang recommended that the entering and 
exiting processes be extremely streamlined and 
guided by staff to ensure that they are done care -
fully to avoid crowding. 
Problems can also arise from other ways that 
fans could come into contact with each other, pri -
marily in areas like concessions and bathrooms, 
according to Dean. She added that, ultimately, she’s more con -
cerned about needs that are more important 
than hosting football games because of the re -
cent increase in cases. 
“Given the state of the epidemic in Florida 
right now, it’s hard for me to imagine how this 
could be done safely, ” she said. “We have a lot of 
big things we need to deal with to get the num -
bers under control. ”
There are ways to minimize the risk of trans -
mission as much as possible in addition to the 
mask requirement and social distancing, with 
Dean suggesting that fans stay home if they feel 
any symptoms. 
But she pointed out that that could be difficult 
because fans could still spread it to others as an 
asymptomatic carrier or lie about not having any 
symptoms. 
“It’s difficult because you’re going to tell peo -
ple not to come if they’re feeling any symptoms, ” 
Dean said. “But then there becomes this sort of 
perverse incentive then for people to not reveal 
that maybe they have a sore throat because they want to go to a football game. ”
But UF and other schools might not have 
a choice when it comes to admitting fans for 
games if they happen. Schools across the country 
are cutting some of their sports teams in order to 
avoid losing more money, such as when Stanford 
announced earlier this month they would cut 11 
of its 36 teams after the 2020-21 academic year. 
Athletic departments across the country may be 
forced to have fans regardless of the risk involved 
in order to recoup revenue. 
“If we don’t have to do this, I would suggest 
not doing this, ” Yang said. “If we have to do this 
or the university decides to do this, I think it’s 
important to have rules for how this is going be 
arranged and have something ready to facilitate 
contact tracing if people are identified with cases 
later. ”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgGainesville’s current COVID-19 situation makes it difficult to have fans in the Fall
BASEBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Grab your peanuts and cracker 
jacks: America’s pastime is back.
And although no one will be 
“taken out to the crowd” due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, MLB teams 
are still sending their best to the 
diamond for a shortened 60-game 
season — a group that boasts more 
UF representation than any school. 
While many are veterans who have seen their fair share of MLB action, 
some Gators are making their first 
appearance in the bigs.
One of the more notable rook -
ies is former Florida pitcher Brady 
Singer, who made his debut with 
the Kansas City Royals on Saturday. 
Singer, the former First Team All-
American and winner of the Dick 
Howser Trophy (given annually 
to college baseball’s best player), 
pitched five innings and gave up 
three hits and two earned runs. He struck out seven, however, and 
finds himself in the major leagues 
after just one season in the minors.
New York Mets first baseman 
Pete Alonso, last year’s Home Run 
Derby Champion and NL Rookie of 
the Year, has struggled so far. In his 
eight at-bats since the beginning of 
the season, he’s only managed one 
hit and has struck out four times. 
He’s only played in two games, but 
Alonso will certainly look to im -
prove his .125 batting average as the season progresses.
Gators have made their mark on 
the league as well. St. Louis Cardi -
nals center fielder Harrison Bader, 
who left Florida in 2014, has yet 
to get a hit in five at-bats but has 
scored two runs and stolen a base. 
Darren O’Day pitched an inning in 
his Braves debut where he struck 
out two batters. Former UF pitcher 
Shaun Anderson, who made his 
MLB debut last year with the San 
Francisco Giants, also pitched an 
inning and struck out three batters.
Two Florida players who were 
set to play this season suffered in -
juries that will keep them sidelined. Baltimore Orioles shortstop Richie 
Martin, who batted .208 last year, 
had surgery on his wrist that will 
sideline him for the 2020 season. 
Oakland A’s pitcher A.J Puk will 
likely see action this year, but he 
was placed on the Injured List with 
shoulder inflammation, and his 
2020 debut is likely to be far off, ac -
cording to A’s manager Bob Melvin.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGators in the MLB: Opening DayEleanore Brown & Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
