We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperMeet the City Commission candidates
There are eight people running for the Gainesville City 
Commission. Some are familiar faces, pg. 6-7
How else can you get into UF?
Transferring is an option, pg. 5Top-10 showdown at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium
Sixth-ranked Gators softball opens up three-
game series tonight at 6 p.m. against No. 10 
Louisiana-Lafayette , pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 65
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
PIED IN THE FACE
Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
Sebastian Sevilla, an 18-year-old UF chemical engineering freshman, smiles after getting pied in the 
face on Turlington Plaza Thursday afternoon. The UF Member Leadership Program charged $2 for one 
pie and $5 for three pies to raise money for the club.THE COMPANY WAS    
ACCUSED OF WAGE 
THEFT AND LOW PA Y 
By Stephany Matat
Alligator Staff Writer
After spending his last day 
working for Aramark on Tues-
day, Lucas Mello said he has 
never been happier.
When the 21-year-old UF his-
tory junior was hired to work at 
the Reitz Union Starbucks owned 
by Aramark, he said he was not 
paid for training or overtime. But 
he said he was supposed to be. 
Customers weren’t allowed to 
tip.
Nobody taught him to sepa-
rate milk types such as soy and 
dairy in different blenders like 
when he worked at a corporate 
Starbucks in Miami Springs, he 
said, leaving students purchas-
ing drinks vulnerable to allergens 
and contaminants.
Aramark is a food service gi-
ant with a stock value of $7.8 
billion, according to Forbes. It 
caters to school districts, correc-tional facilities, workplaces and 
universities nationwide. UF is 
one of the universities it is part-
nered with, and all food service 
locations on campus — exclud-
ing Krishna — are owned and 
operated by Aramark.
But allergens aren’t the only 
thing students have to worry 
about. Employees have ﬁ  led 
complaints against Aramark 
for wage theft and withholding 
beneﬁ  ts from employees, said 
Jeremiah Tattersall, a ﬁ  eld rep-
resentative from North Central 
Florida’s American Federation of 
Labor and Congress of Industrial 
Organizations.
The Alligator tried getting in 
touch with at least 15 Aramark 
workers for comment, but they 
did not speak out for fear of be-
ing ﬁ  red. 
Problems with Aramark’s 
dining experience
Zona Ahmed felt like a fool for 
purchasing a meal plan.
While browsing through the 
vegetarian options at the Fresh 
HE’S THE FOUNDER OF 
BARSTOOL SPORTS
By Joseph Salvador
Alligator Staff Writer
The Accent Speakers Bureau announced 
via social media Wednesday that Dave Port-noy, the founder of the blog Barstool Sports, 
will be its next speaker. The show will take 
place on April 1 at the University Audito-
rium. 
Portnoy is known for his satirical come-
dy and has a history of misogyny, according 
to a Daily Beast article published in 2018. It 
was reported that Portnoy has — on mul-
tiple occasions — used insensitive remarks toward women.
In 2017, Samantha Ponder, an NFL 
Countdown on ESPN host, shared screen-
shots of a 2014 Barstool Sports blog post 
where Portnoy was accused of writing that 
her primary job was to “make men hard.” 
Henry Fair, the bureau’s chairperson, did 
not respond to comment after two phone 
calls, two text messages and one email. He said he was at work.
This is the second speaker event Accent 
has hosted this school year. The ﬁ  rst, Don-
ald Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle, also 
spoke at the University Auditorium in the 
fall. 
Trump Jr.’s visit was also met with con-
STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
WILL RETURN BY MARCH 
By Sarah Mandile and        
Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writers
The continued spread of corona-
virus has resulted in the cancellation 
of a UF study abroad program.
UF announced Thursday it will cancel The Vicenza Institute of Ar-
chitecture program in Vicenza, Italy, 
said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
The university is currently working 
to bring faculty and students home 
for the remainder of the Spring se-
mester, he said. 
Students and faculty are expected 
to return to Gainesville by March 9, 
Orlando said. 
The program, located in north-
ern Italy, currently hosts 41 UF students and two faculty members, 
Orlando said. He said the decision 
was reached out of “an abundance 
of caution.” 
There were 650 conﬁ  rmed cases 
of coronavirus in Italy as of Thurs-
day afternoon. In response, the U.S. 
State Department announced a Level 
2 travel advisory, which asks U.S. 
citizens to “exercise increased cau-
tion.”
No coronavirus cases have been conﬁ  rmed in Vicenza as of Wednes-
day.
UF’s chief epidemiologist, Nicole 
Iovine, is in support of the decision 
to cancel the program, Orlando said.  
Orlando received a petition from 
students in Vicenza requesting to 
remain abroad. The students will re-
ceive a refund based on the time lost 
in Vicenza, but Orlando wasn’t sure 
of what the exact amount would be 
when asked Thursday evening. “The safety and health of our stu-
dents and faculty are of the utmost 
importance,” Orlando said. 
On Thursday evening, cases of 
the virus were present in 48 coun-
tries. China, Japan, South Korea and 
Italy currently have the most cases 
of infection.
According to the Vicenza pro-
gram’s website, seven architecture Digging deeper into 
UF and Aramark
Dave Portnoy will be next Accent speaker at UF
Coronavirus concerns cause UF to cancel Italy study abroad programSEE BARSTOOL,  PAGE 4
SEE ITALY,  PAGE 4SEE ARAMARK,  PAGE 3FEATURE FRIDAYT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  61° LOW  39°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.BLACK HISTORY MONTH
LGBTQ+ Affairs Celebrates 
Black History Month
Where: LGBTQ+ Affairs at UF, 
located at the Reitz Union Room 
2210 
When: Twice a week throughout 
February at 1 p.m.
What: LGBTQ+ Affairs will 
showcase ﬁ  lms that depict black 
queerness such as “I Am Not Your 
Negro,” “Moonlight,” “Brother 
Outsider” and “Paris is Burning.” 
Trigger and content warnings will 
be placed throughout the viewing 
area. Event run times may vary.
Chef Empowerment’s Black 
History Month Pop-Up 
Restaurant
Where: Working Food, located at 
219 NW 10th Ave.
When: Feb. 28 from 5:30-8:30 
p.m.
What: Chef Empowerment’s 
Underground Kitchen partners 
with Working Food to host an 
all-you-can-eat Southern buffet 
in collaboration with local black-
owned businesses. Tickets are $20. 
GENERAL EVENTS
SATURDAY
Gainesville Hip Hop Night
Where: High Dive, located at 210 
SW Second Ave.
When: 8 p.m.
What: Gainesville Hip Hop Night 
is a showcase of Gainesville’s 
up-and-coming hip-hop artists, 
including Marley the Messenger 
and Dorian James, QO, Young 
Citizen, Quinten Flanders and 
more. If you are interested in 
performing at the show, email 
HighDiveGville@gmail.com. 
Tickets are $6 in advance and $8 
night of show. Must be 18 or older 
unless accompanied by a legal 
parent or guardian. Anyone under 
21 must pay a $3 cover at the door. UF MBA Spring Open House
Where: UF Hough Hall, located at 
1404 Union Road
When: 4-7 p.m.
What: UF MBA’s Spring Open 
House is an opportunity to learn 
about the Warrington College of 
Business’ nine program options 
through an information session 
that will feature deans, staff and 
current students. It will begin 
with an optional campus tour and 
will include discussions with the 
admissions team and Business 
Career Services. Friends and family 
members are encouraged to attend 
as well. This event is free to attend. 
Bed Race To End Child 
Homelessness
Where: Trinity United Methodist 
Church, located at 4000 NW 53rd 
Ave.
When: 9:30 a.m. to noon 
What: Trinity United Methodist 
Church presents its sixth annual 
Bed Race to end childhood 
homelessness. The event consists 
of a 100-yard dash of beds-on-
wheels and is intended to showcase 
the work the church does and 
what families without housing go 
through every week. This year’s 
teams will compete for various 
events in the Bed Race, such as 
the fastest time, the funniest bed 
design and the highest fundraising 
team. The event is free to attend 
and includes children’s activities 
including face painting and a 
bounce house.
Cocktails and Classics: 
Rashomon
Where: The Hippodrome Theatre, 
located at 25 SE Second Place
When: 8-10 p.m.
What: The Hippodrome Theatre 
presents a showing of Akira 
Kurosawa’s “Rashomon," a 
Japanese-language thriller that 
was a major force in introducing 
Japanese cinema to the Western 
world. The $20 ticket will cover 
the movie, a specialty cocktail 
from the Hippodrome bar and hors 
d’oeuvres before the show begins.Leap Year Mandala Workshop 
Where: MindSpace Collective, 
located at 834 E. University Ave.
When: 1-3 p.m.
What: The MindSpace Collective 
holds a $10 art workshop on 
mandala, an art style that 
features geometric symbols. The 
workshop will be based around 
the leap year and the signiﬁ  cance 
of the number 29 to create leap 
year mandalas. Art supplies and 
refreshments such as tea, coffee 
and hot cocoa will be provided. 
Community ID Drive
Where: Highlands Presbyterian 
Church, located at 1001 NE 16th 
Ave.
When: 4-8 p.m.
What: The Human Rights 
Coalition of Alachua County holds 
a community ID drive for those 
who do not have a government-
issued ID. The coalition is 
partnering with businesses, the 
city and county governments and 
the school system to accept the ID 
cards issued. Photo identiﬁ  cation, 
proof of address and proof of age is 
required to receive an ID. The IDs 
cost $10. For more information, 
call (352) 660-7020 for more 
information.
CORRECTIONS
In the Avenue section of 
Wednesday’s paper, a story on 
local Gainesville band Driveaway 
was updated online to reﬂ  ect 
that the group currently has three 
members, not four.
A story on Valentine’s Day 
spending from our Feb. 14 issue 
was updated online to reﬂ  ect the 
correct spelling of Randy Senti's 
name. 
In a story about the construction of 
the Herbert Wertheim Laboratory 
of Engineering Excellence from 
Wednesday’s paper, the article 
was updated online to reﬂ  ect 
that UF Planning, Design and 
Construction, not the College 
of Design, Construction and 
Planning, coordinates construction 
on campus.
In a story about a rally in front of 
UF President Kent Fuchs' ofﬁ  ce 
in Monday's paper, the article 
was updated online to reﬂ  ect 
the correct name of the Young 
Democratic Socialists of America.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 65
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
the Avenue Digital EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Marianna Colon, Diane Hernandez, 
Lonnie NumaEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.org
Nora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Katelynn Joyner, kjoyner@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 Food Company during Preview, 
the biology freshman said she felt 
safe getting a meal plan because 
she thought there were options to  
accommodate her dietary restric-
tion.
At first Ahmed, 19, said every-
thing was fine. But a month into 
her first semester, she said the 
vegan options stopped showing up 
as often in the dining hall.
“I’ve been eating out more of-
ten, even with the dining plan,” 
she said. “It’s not really what it 
seems.”
Gator Dining’s cheapest resi-
dential meal plan cost $1,765 for 
a semester that includes 10 meals 
per week, which is what Ahmed 
has. The most expensive residen-
tial meal plan cost $2,300 per se-
mester for unlimited meals every 
week and extra Flex Bucks. 
Tattersall, who has helped 
many Aramark workers file their 
complaints to the Florida Depart-
ment of Labor, said the food pro-
vided on campus also isn’t fresh. 
The 2019 Food Service Master 
Plan conducted last Spring through 
Brailsford & Dunlavey and Pe-
tit Consulting LLC confirmed the 
same. The two services exist to 
evaluate critical problems on col-
lege campuses and offer solutions 
to fix them.
The report read that 81 percent 
of UF students with residential 
meal plans were dissatisfied be-
cause of the low food quality, and 
69 percent said the disappointment 
was due to the low food variety — 
a problem for those with dietary 
restrictions.
This is why 52 percent of the 
meals went unused in Fall 2018, 
the report read. 
Student satisfaction with Gator 
Dining is 62 percent, which is be-
low the national benchmark of 71 
percent identified by the National 
Association of College and Uni-
versity Food Services, the report 
read. It suggested that UF provides 
healthier food options on campus. After analyzing this callout 
from the report, Aramark might 
not be the food service provider 
anymore, said Curtis Reynolds, the 
vice president of UF Business Af-
fairs. He did not name what com-
pany may replace it. 
The university renewed its 10-
year contract with Aramark, which 
began in July 2009, to December 
2020, Reynolds said. It gives UF 
about 10 percent of gross revenues 
and control over meal prices. 
But the contract doesn’t give UF 
a chance to control Aramark’s food 
quality, according to the food ser-
vice master plan report. 
Reynolds said UF wants to have 
higher food quality and will in-
clude that in future negotiations. 
When The Alligator asked if UF 
plans to negotiate more control 
over the programs and operations 
of its food service provider, Reyn-
olds did not give a direct answer, 
yelled into the phone and hung up 
on the reporter.
Problems with wages and 
labor practices
Tattersall said the clients he has 
met with from Aramark said they 
were initially told they would work 
30 to 35 hours a week. Instead, 
they work overtime and are not 
paid for the extra hours, according 
to complaints Tattersall has pro-
cessed. 
The U.S. Department of Labor 
mandates that employees who 
work more than 40 hours a week 
must be given time and a half pay. 
Otherwise, the company is com-
mitting wage theft.
Wage theft coincides with hour 
manipulation, in which managers 
document fewer hours than the 
employee actually worked that 
week, Tattersall said. 
Good Jobs First is a national 
policy resource center that col-
lected data of Aramark’s offense 
types. It reported that Aramark 
had 24 records of wage and hour 
violations with a total penalty of 
more than $9 million and 40 re-
cords of labor relations violations 
with a total penalty of $967,042 since 2000.
The workers who do not re-
ceive benefits struggle to maintain 
families or even their own lives, 
Tattersall said. About a dozen Ara-
mark workers he spoke to depend 
on a food pantry to eat.
Reynolds said UF has no more 
than 1,350 employees under Ara-
mark. 
Tattersall said that since UF is 
going to go into negotiations with 
new food service companies, there 
is an opportunity for change.
“Aramark’s allowed to do what-
ever they want,” he said. “Now we 
have the opportunity to say: We’re 
going to be a top-five institution, 
we need a top-five dining experi-
ence, which means that workers 
need a living wage.”
Rally at President Fuchs’ 
office
Last Friday, workers and stu-
dents decided they were fed up. 
Nearly 50 people showed up out-
side President Kent Fuchs’ office 
— and although many different 
groups were involved, everyone 
had one thing in common. 
No one was a fan of Aramark.
The rally brought together 
Aramark employees, members 
of Graduate Students United, the 
Young Democratic Socialists of 
America, United Faculty of Florida, 
the Alachua County Labor Coali-
tion and North Central Florida’s 
American Federation of Labor and 
Congress of Industrial Organiza-
tions.
Ashley Nguyen, the coordina-
tor for the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition, said she emailed Fuchs 
twice to set up a meeting to discuss 
the possibility of a living wage and 
once more to invite him to the 
rally.
“It would not be appropriate 
for me to meet with the Alachua 
County Labor Coalition,” Fuchs 
wrote in an email reply. He did not 
respond to The Alligator’s emails, 
and UF spokesperson Steve Orlan-
do said he had no comment. 
Charles Karcher, a 19-year-old 
UF international studies and Eng-
lish sophomore, said he believes 
that it is unfair that Aramark work-
ers get such low wages.“It’s important for us as stu-
dents who aren’t threatened by 
Aramark as a company to stand 
up and try to improve the condi-
tions of the people that are work-
ing for Aramark on our campus,” 
Karcher, the co-chair of the Young 
Democratic Socialists of America, 
said.
However, the rally last Friday 
was meant to support the living 
wage campaign and to advocate 
for Aramark workers on campus 
receiving fair pay depending on 
the calculation from the MIT calcu-
lator for Alachua County, Nguyen 
said.
The MIT calculator determines 
a living wage based on factors like 
how many adults are in the house-
hold, who is working and whether 
or not they have children.
“For the living wage as a cam-
paign as a whole, you shouldn’t 
operate without paying your em-
ployees a wage that will help 
them survive without struggling,” 
Nguyen, a 22-year-old UF interna-
tional studies and political science 
senior, said.
Negotiating for a living wage 
is possible. Aramark at the Uni-
versity of Virginia, as reported by 
The Cavalier Daily, originally paid 
its employees an hourly wage of 
$10.65 — but the university nego-
tiated for Aramark’s employees to 
earn a living hourly wage of $15 this year. 
What’s next?
The food service master plan 
recommends for UF to have local 
vendors for fresher food.
Reynolds said that UF will be-
gin advertising in late June for 
food service vendors and should 
start negotiations by this Fall. 
UF should close out the existing 
operator agreement by next Spring 
and have a new contract with a 
new food service provider start-
ing next Summer, the food service 
master plan report read. 
Marcus Milani, a 19-year-old UF 
political science and biology soph-
omore, said that while he works 
with the Young Democratic Social-
ists of America, he will continue 
to hand out flyers to students, 
promote the cause on Turlington 
Plaza and reach out to other orga-
nizations to partner in advocating 
for the living wage campaign. 
“The university is aspiring to 
be a top-five public institution,” 
Milani said. “I don’t think that’s 
possible without having contracts 
with companies who run fair and 
ethical practices — which is not 
Aramark.”
@StephanyMatat
smatat@alligator.org
J   B FAIR
SIMEDHealth is hiring for FULL TIME, PART TIME, and PRN positions for our 
Gainesville, Ocala, Chiefland, and Lady Lake / The Villages locations.
When:   Saturday, February 29, 2020
              9:00am - 12:00pm   
Where:  SIMEDHealth Building - Atrium
              4343 W. Newberry Road
              Gainesville, FL 32607
RSVP:   (352) 224-2401 or email 
              jobs@simedhealth.com
SIMEDHealth.com• Accounts Receivable
• Clinic Assistant (Front Desk)
• Medical Assistant
• Medical Billing & Coding
• Medical Records
• Pharmacy T ech• Phlebotomist
• Radiology T ech (PRN)
• Shuttle Drivers (PRN)
• Sleep T ech (PRN)
• T elephone Operators
• Ultrasound T ech (PRN)
Pre-register to guarantee your interview time.  Visit               
SIMEDHealth.com for more info & a complete list of opportunities.
352.373.6760
625 E. Univ ersity A ve.sweetwa terinn.com
•Lodg ing •Events •Catering
Join us for W ine & Cheese Hour
Wine and Cheese? Y es Plea se!
(reser vations onl y)
FEATURE FRIDAY
Hope Dean // Alligator Staff
An employee prepares a cheeseburger at The Fresh Food Company. 
The 2019 Food Service Master Plan by Brailsford & Dunlavey and 
Petit Consulting said that Aramark’s food in the UF dining halls 
isn’t fresh. 
ARAMARK,  from pg. 1It’s worth $7.8 billion4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020
Jewish
UF Hillel 
All are welcome!
Reform & Conservative Friday 
Evening Services: 6pm
Free Shabbat Dinner: 7 pm
Join us for services, 
dinner, or both
2020 W. University Ave.
ufhillel.org
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.org
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482    |    advertising @alligator.org
HE SAID HE HAS WORKED 
ON LEGISLATION FOR 
THE STATE
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
After nearly no legislation was 
passed in Fall, the Senate elected a 
president Tuesday who has never 
written legislation for UF.
Sen. Kyle Garner (District C) and 
former Budget and Appropriations 
Chair Sen. Cooper Brown (CALS) 
were elected as the new Senate 
president and president pro-tempore 
respectively. Both senators are afﬁ  li-
ated with Gator Party. 
When asked why he hasn’t au-
thored legislation, Garner said he 
believed his time was better served in other ways.
“I believed that with my experi-
ence as the former Agricultural and 
Life Sciences College Council Trea-
surer and a member of the Budget 
& Appropriations Committee, my 
talents would be more beneﬁ  cial in 
the area of funding and the Student 
Government budget process,” Gar-
ner wrote in an email.
Garner said he worked with state 
legislators when he was state presi-
dent of the Florida Future Farmers of 
America on a bill that would contrib-
ute $2.28 million to agriculture edu-
cation programs. It took effect and 
provided $250,000, according to the 
Florida Senate site. 
He also intends to start a program 
to meet with Student Government 
authors after they submit bills to cre-
ate a plan to follow through. Garner beat 
Sen. Zachariah 
Chou (Murphree 
Area) for presi-
dent, 55-29.
“My vision for 
the chamber is to 
help foster an en-
vironment where 
we are pushing 
each other to become the best ver-
sions of ourselves, and to ultimately 
serve the student body at our fullest 
potential,” Brown wrote in a text. 
“I’m very excited to get to know 
each Senator and build genuine re-
lationships that will extend beyond 
the Senate Chamber.”
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.org
SOME STUDENTS CHOOSE 
TO WEAR THEM NOW
By AJ Bafer and 
Stephany Matat
Alligator Contributing and Staff Writers
All Changhwa Hong wanted was to 
see his friends and family this summer. 
He daydreamed about exploring his 
hometown of Seoul, South Korea. 
But that changed with the coronavi-
rus. 
When Hong, a 26-year-old UF math-
ematics, statistics and computer science 
senior, found out all the face masks in 
South Korea are being shipped to China 
from a news story he read, he made a 
split-second decision to sell his car. He 
plans to buy more than 500 masks with 
the $2,800.
“No one is walking in the street be-
cause they’re so scared about coronavi-
rus, which is really sad,” he said. 
And Hong isn’t the only one who’s 
worried. All over Gainesville, students and residents are tracking the news to see 
where the illness is spreading. UF Health 
Shands Hospital is preparing for a possi-
ble local outbreak and experts are offering 
tips on how to avoid the illness.
Gainesville stores have been depleted 
of masks, according to John Lednicky, a 
research professor at UF’s environmental 
and global health department. He said it 
is not a bad idea to have masks on hand 
but does not recommend using them yet, 
so they can be available in case of an out-
break.
UF Health is prepared for any contin-
gencies regarding an outbreak, and UF 
follows the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention and state department rec-
ommendations, Lednicky added. 
Lednicky has seen many students 
wearing masks with patterns that are 
often made of ﬂ  imsy material. He said 
thicker ones, like the N95 mask, are more 
effective. 
“You think you’re doing yourself a fa-
vor by buying some of these products,” 
he said, “but they’re not really helpful.”
Lednicky said many people on cam-
pus are using their masks incorrectly; it should cover the nose and ﬁ  t the face 
properly — anything else is risky.
There are no conﬁ  rmed coronavirus 
cases in Florida, Lednicky said. 
Luke Han, an 18-year old UF nursing 
freshman, has stocked up on masks. He 
said he bought them after seeing how fast 
the coronavirus was spreading. 
Many Asian American communities 
are concerned about coronavirus because 
they, like him, have family in China, Han 
said. His mother came back from a busi-
ness trip in the country three weeks ago, 
urging him to wash his hands and stay 
away from sick people.
Han said he has been washing his 
hands more and sanitizes keyboards and 
tables. He said he feels like UF is watching 
the coronavirus, but could have a better 
plan to control it if it comes to Florida. He’s 
concerned that hand sanitizer dispensers 
and wipes aren’t always stocked when he 
studies at Marston Science Library. 
“I just wish the university would do a 
better job stepping up on sanitation,” Han 
said.
@StephanyMatat
smatat@alligator.orgSenate president hasn’t written SG legislation
Face masks running out in GainesvilleGarner
classes are offered over a 12 week 
period. During this time, students 
travel to Italy and receive instruc-
tion from local educators and ar-
chitects. 
On Feb 17., UF study abroad 
programs to China were ofﬁ  cially 
canceled. 
All students with approved 
or pending applications for a UF 
summer study abroad program 
received an email from Jill Ranai-
voson, assistant director of UF’s 
study abroad programs on Thurs-
day, advising them to purchase trip 
cancellation insurance along with 
their airline tickets.
One of the UF students in the 
Vincenza program, Jazmin Malac-
zewski, told The Alligator in an 
email Thursday that news of the 
cancellation came suddenly. 
Malaczewski, a 21-year-old ar-chitecture senior, said she was sur-
prised that UF made the decision 
without consulting students ﬁ  rst. 
She said she’s “extremely dis-
tressed about having to come back 
mid-semester,” and that the refund 
offered by UF would not be enough 
to help students afford food and 
housing while ﬁ  nishing the semes-
ter in Gainesville.
“We have voiced that we want-
ed a choice whether or not to stay,” 
she wrote in an email to The Al-
ligator, “and regardless, the Uni-
versity of Florida decided to can-
cel our program, that many of us 
have been looking forward to for 4 
years.”
@sarahmandile
@SammyChery4276
smandile@alligator.org
schery@alligator.orgITALY,  from pg. 1
troversy. Besides the protest-
ers that demonstrated at the 
UF before the speech, emails 
eventually revealed that a 
Trump reelection campaign 
ofﬁ  cial personally asked UF 
Student Body President Mi-
chael Murphy in September 
to host Trump Jr. and Guil-
foyle.
Any attempt to suppress 
Portnoy’s voice and him ap-
pearing at UF may backﬁ  re 
and promote the behavior 
he’s known for, said Ana Di-
eng, 18. 
“It will be pretty enter-
taining, and I think it’s ﬁ  t-
ting to some extent,” Dieng, 
a UF biomedical engineer-
ing freshman, said. “Making light of the situation and just 
having a speaker who can 
have a sense of humor and 
try and be relatable I think 
might be a more beneﬁ  cial 
way to look at him coming.”
Tim Guerriero, a 22-year-
old UF chemistry senior, is 
unopposed to Portnoy’s ap-
pearance. 
“Unless he’s coming here 
for a political speech or 
something like that, I don’t 
think someone’s opinions 
should be necessarily pro-
tested against,” Guerriero 
said.
Alyssa Feliciano contrib-
uted to this report.
@JosephSalvador_
jsalvador@alligator.orgBARSTOOL,  from pg. 1He’ll speak April 1FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE ACT PASSED 410-4 IN U. S. 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
By Alex DeLuca and 
Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writers
U.S. Rep. Ted Yoho, a representative for 
North Central Florida’s 3rd congressional dis-
trict, was one of few opponents to a historic bill 
passed Wednesday that would make lynching a 
federal crime. 
With an overwhelming vote of 410-4, the 
U.S. House of Representatives passed the Em-
mett Till Antilynching Act, which is named after 
the 14-year-old black teenager who was lynched 
in Mississippi in 1955. The bill now awaits the 
approval of President Donald Trump, who is 
likely to sign the measure into law. 
Yoho told CNN Wednesday that he voted 
against the legislation because it’s an “over-
reach of the federal government and tramples 
on states’ rights.”
Yoho couldn’t be reached for comment after 
three phone calls and an email. 
In December, the congressman announced that he wouldn’t run for reelection. Yoho’s for-
mer deputy chief and campaign manager Kat 
Cammack, who is one of several candidates 
running for his seat, couldn’t be reached for 
comment after being messaged through Face-
book and by email. 
Other candidates include North Central Flor-
ida doctor James St. George and Ocala Mayor 
Kent Guinn. The seat will be contested Aug. 18 
in a primary election and final candidates will 
compete in the Nov. 3 general election.
Members of the U.S. House and Senate have 
been pushing for this law to be passed since 
the 1900s. Until now, the bills were constantly 
blocked or put aside. 
The legislation mirrors the city and county’s 
reconciliation efforts for lynching victims.
In January 2018, the Alachua County Histor-
ical Commission reported more than 40 known 
lynching cases in the county between 1867 and 
1926 — the highest number of extrajudicial 
lynchings in Florida, which means without a 
trial. Although legal executions existed in the 
U.S. during this period, many were poorly in-
vestigated and there was often evidence that the 
victim was innocent.
The historical commission has recently col-laborated with UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program to work on a 10-step plan for the coun-
ty’s Truth and Reconciliation Project. The proj-
ect’s mission is to research the county’s lynch-
ing history in order to educate the community. 
On Feb. 7, Alachua County hosted a memo-
rial service for its lynching victims at Mount 
Pleasant United Methodist Church. 
Lizzie Robinson Jenkins, the founder and 
CEO of The Real Rosewood Foundation Inc., 
was disappointed to hear about Yoho’s deci-
sion. 
Jenkins’ Archer-based organization focuses 
on the education and preservation of history 
regarding the 1923 Rosewood Massacre, an at-
tack where Klu Klux Klan members killed more 
than 100 people in the predominantly black 
town of Rosewood, about an hour drive from 
Gainesville. 
On July 25, Yoho recognized Jenkins’ work 
and goals with the foundation on the floor of 
the U.S. House and discussed the importance of 
memorializing such events.
“Her goal, and ours, is for individuals to re-
member and to never forget the hatred, the rac-
ism of the past,” he said in his speech. “And to 
honor those who suffered in the past, so future generations do not re-
peat the pain, suffering, 
and mistakes…”
Jenkins’ said she 
was shocked because, 
in early February, Yoho 
and Rep. Clovis Wat-
son Jr. signed a proc-
lamation recognizing 
Jan. 1 as “Rosewood 
Day.” Yoho presented 
the framed document 
to her in his Gainesville 
office, she said. 
She plans to eventually build a Rosewood 
Museum, an “ultimate goal” of hers, and hang 
the proclamation up there, she said. 
“He can be partisan, but that doesn’t make 
history partisan,” Jenkins said. “History is his-
tory. We cannot change it.” 
@AlexLDeLuca
@SammyChery4276
adeluca@alligator.org
schery@alligator.org 
POTENTIAL UF STUDENTS HAVE 
OPPORTUNITIES TO TRANSFER
By Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Today, thousands of applicants will get 
their admission decision from UF. Some 
will start buying all things orange and blue. 
But for others, the day will be somber. 
For those who are accepted to UF, con-
gratulations are in order. For those who 
aren’t, UF admissions suggests applicants, 
“take the weekend to do something [they] 
enjoy with positive company,” and look for 
other opportunities to join UF’s campus. 
In order to transfer to UF, students must 
have 60 transferable credit hours or an as-
sociate’s degree from an accredited institu-
tion. Last year, UF accepted about 46 per-
cent of transfer applicants according to the 
office of admissions annual report. Brittany Wise, a UF spokesperson, 
wrote in an email that a student can trans-
fer from any accredited college or universi-
ty. UF does not have a preference. UF does 
have a partnership with Santa Fe College, 
however, and the 2017 enrollment report 
by the UF Office of Admissions states that 
UF admits the majority of its transfer stu-
dents from there. 
From 2012-2018, 88 percent of Santa Fe 
honors students who applied to UF were 
enrolled, said Bobby Hom, the honor pro-
grams coordinator at Santa Fe. The stu-
dents in the honors program have similar 
SAT scores and GPAs to UF freshmen. 
“Students who come here are just as 
well prepared as UF students, but for some 
reason just didn’t get accepted,” he said. 
Alexa Withey, a 19-year-old transfer 
student from Santa Fe who got her accep-
tance a few days ago for Fall 2020, said 
she’s excited, but worries about how much bigger UF’s campus is. She said being ad-
mitted feels like her hard work from the 
past two years paid off. 
Some students are involved in one of 
two programs: Gator Engineering at Santa 
Fe or Gator Design and Construction at 
Santa Fe. These students are accepted into 
UF, but they are asked to start with classes 
at Santa Fe before being admitted to UF. 
High school seniors cannot apply to 
these programs. They must apply to UF 
and then are selected by UF admissions to 
participate. 
Other universities have more secure re-
lationships with state colleges. Students 
who obtain an associate’s degree from the 
College of Central Florida are guaranteed 
admission to the University of Central Flor-
ida and the University of South Florida. St. 
Johns River State College has partnerships 
with Embry–Riddle Aeronautical Univer-
sity and the University of North Florida that guarantee acceptance to students who 
enroll in their transfer programs early on. 
David Mohler, a 21-year-old UF fam-
ily, youth and community sciences senior, 
went to Florida State College at Jackson-
ville after high school, transferred to Santa 
Fe College and then transferred to UF last 
Spring. He said he chose Santa Fe over 
other Florida colleges because he could get 
his bachelor’s degree and still feel it was 
from a recognizable Florida school, if he 
had decided not to transfer to a university. 
“It was less about ‘How do I get to UF?’ 
and more about finding where I wanted to 
be,” he said.
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.orgDR. SCOTT RIVKEES HAS BEEN INVESTIGATED 
FOR SEXUAL AND FINANCIAL MISCONDUCT 
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
Dr. Scott Rivkees has been the subject of investigations into 
sexual harassment and financial misconduct during his time at 
UF. Now, he is awaiting confirmation as the state surgeon gen-
eral, where he could oversee the Florida Department of Health and 
more than 100 state health operations.
A former colleague of Rivkees, Dr. Satyanarayan Hegde, told 
The Alligator that Rivkees is unfit for the position because of his 
retaliatory nature and history of professional misconduct. 
Eight more of Rivkees’ colleagues anonymously raised similar 
concerns, the Miami Herald and the Tampa Bay Times reported 
Wednesday. 
“I’m actually quite worried about the public health of Florida,” 
Hegde said. 
Rivkees will continue his employment with the university as 
well as the state’s health department if confirmed. He did not re-
spond to two emails and four phone calls from The Alligator.
Two years after Rivkees began working as physician-in-chief at 
UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital, he was accused of making 
sexually suggestive remarks to staff, according to an investigation. “If we can’t agree on this, we’ll all have to get naked in a hot 
tub and work it out,” Rivkees allegedly told staff members, accord-
ing to the report.
Rivkees was also accused of saying inappropriate remarks to 
veterinary students, which he later denied, according to the inves-
tigation. 
“We have something in common,” Rivkees was accused of say-
ing, “Neither one of us can have sex with our patients.”
Upon learning of several complaints against Rivkees, the for-
mer dean of the UF College of Medicine, Dr. Michael Good, told 
investigators he “counseled” Rivkees, according to the report. 
There is no documentation of the counseling, the report read. 
Good resigned from his position at UF in 2018 and could not be 
reached for comment. It’s unclear if disciplinary action was taken. 
Rivkees was the subject of an additional investigation the same 
year after an anonymous person contacted the UF Office of Internal 
Audit and accused Rivkees of withholding information from his 
financial disclosures. 
The chief audit executive found the claims to be true, according 
to the investigation. Rivkees did not disclose his consulting firm, 
Scott Rivkees Consulting, to the university. 
This was determined to be an oversight on Rivkees’ part, and 
he corrected his financial disclosures, the report said. 
In spite of multiple allegations against him, Rivkees has ad-
vanced through the college to become chair of the Department of Pediatrics, physician-in-chief of UF Health Shands Children’s Hos-
pital and a member of the UF Health Shands Board of Directors 
during his eight years at the university. 
In a 2016 deposition against the UF Board of Trustees, former 
UF pediatric neurology division chief Dr. Paul Carney described a 
toxic work environment under Rivkees. 
Favoritism, nepotism and retaliation overtook the workplace, 
Carney said during his testimony. Coworkers like Dr. William Slay-
ton felt powerless to react as they saw their salaries drop. 
“He (Slayton) said, ‘I’m afraid. I’m not going against this Chair. 
I’m afraid.’” Carney said. “I remember that.” 
Meanwhile, people who didn’t have the necessary credentials 
or experience were appointed to high-paying positions, he testified. 
Rivkees later sued Carney for defamation and settled. Carney 
told The Alligator that he signed a non-disparagement agreement 
and said he is no longer at liberty to speak about Rivkees.
Instead, he spoke about the failure of university officials. They 
flaunt the fact that they’re a top 10 university, he said, but they 
didn’t act to protect him and his coworkers. 
“What does this say about how they protect diversity and vul-
nerable groups and women?” Carney asked. “The university did 
very little to address that. The whole thing is sad and unfortunate.”
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgRepublican Congressman Ted Yoho votes ‘No’ to Antilynching Act 
There’s more than one way to become a UF studentPotential surgeon general investigated for misconduct at UFYoho
6  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020
Meet the City Commission candidates
Running for reelection for the 
District 3 City Commission seat
Youngest person to be elected to 
the Commission
Born and raised in Gainesville
First-generation American with 
Mexican roots
Bachelor’s in political science from 
Flagler College, master’s in business 
administration from St. Leo University 
Contributions: $9,441.5
Running for District 3 City 
Commission seat
Former 2019 candidate for mayor
Born and raised in Gainesville
Mother of two kids aged 2 and 
5; partner is an ofﬁ  cer for the 
Gainesville Police Department. 
Bachelor’s degree in legal studies 
at Keiser University
Contributions: $545Running for At-Large City 
Commission seat
Former District 1 City 
Commissioner from 2006 to 2012; 
Mayoral candidate in 2013
Born and raised in Gainesville
Retired UF senior biological 
scientist in 2014
Contributions: $8,152
Running for At-Large City 
Commission seat
Former owner of bridal shop 
from 1987 to 2012; charged with 
theft of state funds in 2013
Served in the Navy for four years
Bachelor’s in business 
management from UF
Contributions: $2,225
Running for At-Large City 
Commission seat
From Cuba
Bachelor’s in English literature 
and Russian from the University of 
South Florida, master’s in Russian 
from the University of Michigan at 
Ann Arbor, law degree from the 
University of Florida 
Contributions: $12,026.97What are highlights of Arreola’s term?   
He has pushed for funding of programs like the Gainesville 
Community Resource Paramedic program, which asks para-
medics to follow up with frequent 911 callers to uncover the 
cause of the recurrent medical emergencies.  
Arreola introduced the idea of pursuing 100 percent re-
newable energy by 2045, a resolution that was passed unani-
mously in 2018. When discussed, 28 percent of Gainesville’s 
energy was renewable. 
Residents who didn’t have access to government IDs 
or drivers licenses can now use community IDs because of 
Arreola’s advocacy as a city commissioner. Accepted by the 
Gainesville Police Department, they can be used when some-
one is stopped by police or at a doctor’s ofﬁ  ce.
He also voted to end the city’s prison labor contract in 
January 2019.What are ideas Arreola has, if reelected?
Arreola hopes to prepare Gainesville for the changes the 
state will face with climate change. He said in order to accom-
modate people who will eventually move from other parts of 
the state, the city must invest in infrastructure and housing.  
He also believes there should be an expansion of micro-
transit systems in District 3 to service those with a lack of 
access to other forms of public transportation. 
Speciﬁ  cally, he said including a microtransit station at 
Butler Plaza would service residents of southwest Gainesville 
and other communities outside the city.
In the long term, Arreola wants to establish a center for 
arts and job training in east Gainesville. 
What are ideas Reid has, if elected?
Reid said her main focus is on affordability and ac-
countability for Gainesville residents. There are people 
who attend city commission meetings upset because they 
can no longer afford their Gainesville Regional Utility bills, 
and others who feel they’re being heard, but not fully lis-
tened to.
To her, the race isn’t just about City Commission, but 
it is also about bringing attention back to the community’s 
concerns. Instead of the big ideas, like plastic bans and 
self-driving buses, Reid said the city should begin to focus 
more on its people. 
Reid understands that technology is the future, but 
she said her work, if elected, would be for the people of 
Gainesville.What does Reid think is the biggest issue 
Gainesville faces?
Since her childhood, Reid said she remembers the city 
being divided between East Gainesville and Gainesville. 
“We look great in the headlines because we’ve got self-
driving buses,” Reid said, “but if they really were to stay 
here, they would see that we’re so divided.” 
The division that Reid sees is between the globally ori-
ented policies the city passes and the focus on residents. 
While the city organization chart shows citizens at the top, 
residents aren’t feeling that way, she said. 
Reid, a mother to two boys, said her experience as a 
mom has parallels to city government. 
If she pays attention to her older son, her younger son 
gets frustrated — similar to how residents feel when the 
commission doesn’t prioritize their needs.What are highlights of Henry’s former terms?
As an East Gainesville representative for six years, Henry 
said he was one of the ﬁ  rst voices in support of the Wild 
Spaces and Public Places initiative. The program allowed the 
city to invest in recreational facilities and green spaces. 
Depot Park was one of the ﬁ  rst projects under this initia-
tive, he said. 
Henry later pushed for Fred Cone Park in east Gainesville. 
With the Alachua County Commission, Henry also 
worked on the development of the Cone Park Branch li-
brary. Before the establishment of the library, the closest one 
for East Gainesville residents was in downtown.
Developing the Community Reinvestment Area in East 
Gainesville was a message to the residents, he said, letting 
them know the city has not forgotten them. What are ideas Henry has, if elected?
 Henry plans to continue his work of revitalizing East 
Gainesville. He believes the area has many business devel-
opment opportunities to offer and that its residents “have 
not gotten the value from the city of Gainesville for their tax 
dollars.”  
The problem with East Gainesville runs deep — it is 
viewed as the “poorest side of town,” Henry said. 
Investing in skilled Gainesville residents who have not 
found sufﬁ  cient jobs is essential, he said, adding that on the 
same stride, the city must also invest in residents with little 
to no skills. 
“Our residents that desire to be able to live a better qual-
ity of life for their family, to earn a better living for their fami-
lies, must have the opportunity to do so,” he said.
What are ideas Rhodenizer has, if elected?
The City Commission needs to be more receptive to 
ideas of the citizens, Rhodenizer said. He believes in be-
ing more open and transparent by listening to Gainesville 
residents when they share their ideas and concerns.
Homelessnesses is a problem, he said, which has 
“panhandlers on every street corner.” If elected, Rhoden-
izer would encourage the homeless to use services like 
the St. Francis House downtown, he said. 
Rhodenizer said services like St. Francis House are 
equipped to provide overnight housing “to get them out 
of the cold and on the right track.” Group housing pro-
grams with trained professionals, he said, would “get the 
homeless people off the street and get them into a more 
safe environment.”What does Rhodenizer think is the biggest issue 
Gainesville faces?
Rhodenizer believes the contract with Gainesville Re-
gional Utilities was not ﬁ  nancially sound. The debt bur-
den of GRU impacts every resident because of the deci-
sion the city government made, he said. 
“The utility rates are regressive, and they hurt the 
poorest people the most,” Rhodenizer said. 
Gainesville needs to ﬁ  nd ways to reduce the GRU 
rates for its residents, he said, by inviting experts and 
consultants to analyze the utility’s ﬁ  nances and help 
come up with solutions within the contract. 
Rhodenizer believes the answer may be to close the 
biomass plant. He said it was built in hope to reduce 
rates, but rates remain the highest in the state. 
What are ideas Saco has, if elected?
Saco has a vision for the future of city hall: she wants 
to see a cultural shift. 
Saco said attorneys often use community lawyering, 
a tool to help clients solve problems and achieve their 
goals. She said she wants the city commission to do the 
same — to work with citizen-led advocacy groups.  
Saco previously worked with the Alachua County La-
bor Coalition on the Safe & Healthy Housing for All plan, 
which includes lower rent rates and utility bills, disclo-
sure of units’ safety and efﬁ  ciency ratings and protec-
tions against discrimination. She wants to follow through 
on the housing initiatives proposed to the commission. 
Community safety is a priority for Saco. She hopes 
to improve lighting in bus stops and streets and develop 
wider sidewalks to accommodate pedestrians. What does Saco think is the biggest issue 
Gainesville faces?
To Saco, housing is an area of concern in Gainesville 
given the inﬂ  ux of expensive, luxury apartments being 
built, which she said only targets a speciﬁ  c demograph-
ic.
“That’s not housing for faculty,” she said. “That’s 
not housing for a mom with two kids or an elderly cou-
ple or a person who lives alone.”
The city needs to do more to ensure that develop-
ments are sustainable to the community, she said. One 
way it can do this, she said, is to set limits on develop-
ments that are not affordable for residents.
David Arreola, 29
District 3 City Commissioner since 2017
Jennifer Reid, 34
Realtor with T eam Dynamo
Scherwin Henry, 67
Former District 1 City Commssioner
Paul Rhodenizer, 73
Former bridal shop owner, retired
Reina Saco, 29
AttorneyBy Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff WriterFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
Calvin Martin, MD
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation 
and treatment for:
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• Abrasions & Lacerations
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Monday - Friday 7:00am - 6:00pm
SIMEDHealth.comDownload the FREE
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
Na#onal	Alliance	on	Mental	Illness	
Support	Groups	
Training	Courses	
Advocacy	&	Support	
www.namigainesville.org
352	320-0457	
Meet the City Commission candidates
Running for reelection for District 2 City 
Commission
Born and raised in Gainesville
Worked 10 years as a fundraiser for WUFT 
at UF
Bachelor’s in public relations at UF
Campaign contributions: $18,751.09Running for the At-Large City 
Commission seat
Disbarred in Florida in 2016 for continuing 
to practice law after being suspended by 
the Florida Supreme Court in 2014. 
Raised in New York
Bachelor’s in journalism from University 
of Wisconsin; law degree from New York 
University
Contributions: $0
What are highlights of 
Ward’s term?
During his term, city lead-
ers banned conversion thera-
py for minors in Gainesville 
and won the approval of 
Gainesville residents to 
move city elections to fall, 
Ward said. He also worked 
with Veterans for Peace to 
designate a part of NW 8th 
Avenue as Memorial Mile to 
commemorate armed forces 
members who died in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, he said. 
He’s proud of the city 
commission’s plan to make 
Gainesville energy 100 per-cent renewable by 2045 and 
believes it will happen a lot 
sooner. Gainesville’s initia-
tives are already leading the 
state in renewable energy, 
he said.
What are ideas Ward 
has, if reelected?
Ward said he will contin-
ue improving and expand-
ing the community parks 
and public spaces across 
Gainesville. His goal is to 
ensure they are available to 
all people.
He aims to address the 
nearly 2,000 septic tanks that connects to Gainesville 
Regional Utilities waste wa-
ter resources, he said. Ward 
wants to address this issue 
because as the septic tanks 
age, they can leak into the 
creek system that runs 
through the city. 
Ward believes poverty is-
sues in Gainesville are ulti-
mately linked to transporta-
tion. Improving the Regional 
Transit System, he said, will 
help transport people to 
their jobs and to services 
they need to go about their 
daily lives.What are ideas 
Kaimowitz has, if elected?
“I am not running to win,” 
Kaimowitz said, adding that 
he is only running for the at-
large seat to make Gainesville 
a butterﬂ  y city. He wants to 
promote the butterﬂ  y rainfor-
est at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History and expand 
butterﬂ  y gardens to every 
public school. 
Kaimowitz has been the 
coordinator for the Butterﬂ  y 
Education Project since 2007. 
“Those recognitions are 
great image builders,” he 
said, referring to Gainesville’s 
recent distinction as a tree 
city. What does Kaimowitz 
think is the biggest issue 
Gainesville faces?
Kaimowitz’s sole focus is 
making Gainesville a butter-
ﬂ  y city. He hopes to create 
a sister city partnership with 
Hull, a city in the U.K., which 
became the ﬁ  rst butterﬂ  y city 
in the U.K. 
However, Kaimowitz has 
been vocal about his distaste 
for the Gainesville City Com-
mission. 
In various emails sent to 
The Alligator, his opponents 
and others, Kaimowitz has 
referred to Commissioner Da-
vid Arreola and Commission-
er Harvey Ward as “Chicano Muchacho” and “Psycho 
Ward”. 
He has also made claims 
that his opponent, Reina 
Saco, is anti-Semitic because 
she was involved in Students 
for Justice in Palestine dur-
ing her time in law school. 
He also referred to Scherwin 
Henry, a former city commis-
sioner, as the “token black in 
the race.” 
Although given a plat-
form, he believes everyone is 
against him.
“That’s why I have prob-
lems with you ... with every-
one in the city,” he said. “I’m 
in a third world country here, 
Ms. Aguila,” he said. 
Harvey Ward Jr., 52
District 2 City Commissioner since 2017
Gabe Kaimowitz, 84
Disbarred attorney
Running for District 2 City 
Commission seat
Grew up in Palm Beach County
Moved to Gainesville to study 
at  UF  
Completing an open enrollment 
program at Edinburgh Business 
School
Contributions: $8,469.91What are ideas Walle has, if 
elected?
Walle believes the City Commis-
sion needs to begin handling issues 
such as natural resources, infrastruc-
ture, pollution, housing and home-
lessness in a “more practical, prag-
matic manner.”
While he said everyone deserves 
to be treated with respect and their 
civil rights ought to be respected, he 
believes Gainesville has a major is-
sue when it comes to panhandling.
He said panhandlers can get ag-
gressive with residents, which he said could be problematic because 
it “could be a young, single mother 
with a couple of kids” just trying to 
make her way to the grocery store.
Walle, who has experience work-
ing in economic development and 
housing, said affordable housing is a 
prevalent issue in the city that can 
only be addressed by advocating for 
more reasonable policies.
He believes the city should allow 
experts to build without the amount 
of restrictions currently in place for 
them to create more housing options 
and lower rent rates.What does Walle think is the 
biggest issue Gainesville faces?
The City Commission needs to 
prepare for the prospect of 45,000 
people moving into this area by 
2045, Walle said. 
To Walle, that means preparing 
so the growth doesn’t drive up the 
cost of housing among established 
residents in Gainesville.
“The challenge is managing 
growth, accommodating those will 
be moving here, while maintaining 
the quality of life that we all desire 
so much,” Walle said.
David Walle, 55
Member of Alachua County Economic 
Development Advisory CommitteeBy Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff WriterBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in 
the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
3-13-20-12-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      3-13-
20-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
May 1-July 31 Summer Sublease
Lexington Crossing
3700 SW 27th St. Apt. D-101
Gainesville, FL 32608
1b/1b within 4b/4b with 3 male roommates 
$600/month
Furnished, In-room laundry, Free parking
Please call (352) 213-7121      3-13-20-4-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
answers on page 9
By Mark MacLachlan
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/28/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/28/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, February 28, 2020
ACROSS
1 Big divides
7 Vat sediment
11 Swindler
14 Aid, as a fallen 
teammate
15 Munch Museum 
city
16 Crazy Eights 
relative
17 Connected
18 Power of a 
Hummer?
20 Greek group
22 Discreetly, in 
slang
23 Enormous card 
revealed at end 
of magician’s 
routine?
27 Form fig.
28 Fictional anchor 
Nessman
29 Goes apace
33 “Your point 
being?”
34 __ 51
36 The slightest bit
38 Tattoo depicting 
the last woolly 
mammoth?
41 Avoids
42 Muslim leader
43 Carol  
contraction
44 Immobilize with a 
charge
45 “Moby-Dick” 
setting
46 Bullring bravo
47 Avian mascot 
on a refueling 
vessel?
53 Three on a 
match, they say
56 Ikea purchase
57 Hotel employee 
who only works 
one day a 
month?
59 Acted greenly?
63 It usually needs 
breaking
64 1968 self-named 
folk album
65 Stands in a 
studio
66 Wrap up
67 Changes to 
green, say
68 Subject of a 
2016 U.K. 
referendum, and 
a hint to five 
puzzle answersDOWN
1 Comic Margaret
2 Egg producer
3 The lot
4 Calvin’s 
spaceman alter 
ego, in comics
5 Literature 
Nobelist Alice
6 Weapon for 
Goliath
7 Teammate of 
Babe
8 Legally prevents
9 Justice Kagan
10 Cymbal sound?
11 “Friday I’m in 
Love” band, with 
“The”
12 Saved, in a way
13 Holiday song
19 “Ah, I see what 
you meant”
21 Household 
cleaning brand
23 Give a hand
24 Dolphins Hall of 
Famer Larry
25 Japanese 
mushrooms
26 More  
substantial
30 “Will this work for 
you?”
31 French star32 Longtime breath 
freshener
34 Back to a mate
35 Dorm, briefly
36 Gasteyer of 
“SNL” (1996-
2002)
37 Network for film 
buffs
39 Chocolatey Post 
cereal
40 Apple models
45 Declining due 
to age48 “Grr!”
49 Comic Denis
50 Biblical mount
51 “The bad news 
is ... ”
52 It might have a 
champion
53 Sound __
54 Score after deuce
55 Monopoly card
58 Mexican pair
60 __ roles
61 Inventor Whitney
62 Summer hrs.
By Debra Hamel
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/27/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/27/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, February 27, 2020
ACROSS
1 Ottoman bigwigs
5 Wildly
9 Peaks
14 At hand
15 Animated explorer
16 Patterned fabric
17 Authentic piece of 
a holy relic?
19 Comedian Izzard
20 Sound 
investments?
21 Like some 
deliveries
23 Indy guide
25 She walked into 
Rick’s gin joint
26 Disastrous
29 Comedian 
Garofalo
31 Folk legend Phil
32 __ Jose
33 Connects with
36 Arles article
37 __ West Records: 
Nashville label
38 Rosy-fingered 
goddess who 
rises in the east
39 AirPod spot
40 Get back in 
business
42 Product prefix 
that evokes 
winter
43 Die down
44 Herbie, in Disney 
films
46 Outset
47 They don’t last
49 Part of Curaçao
51 Rather
53 Apparel brand 
with a spinnaker 
logo
57 Mesh
58 Biblical pronouns 
read by James 
Earl Jones?
60 Red-pencil
61 December 24 
and 31
62 “At Last” singer 
James
63 Georgia team, in 
sports headlines
64 Take a chance
65 Hoarse laugh
DOWN
1 Tiny colonists
2 Structural 
engineering piece3 Chills and fever
4 Tibetan leaders
5 Specially formed
6 Saskatchewan 
city with a 34-foot 
animal statue 
named Mac at its 
tourist info center
7 NHL great 
Bobby
8 Dodge City 
native
9 “Up and __!”
10 Cough medicine 
ingredient
11 Place reserved 
for one 
reconciling a 
dispute?
12 Inventor Howe
13 “Peace out”
18 Marsh duck
22 Schoolyard 
retort
24 U.S. neighbor to 
the north
26 One of two in 
Hank Aaron’s 
uniform number
27 Proactiv+ target
28 Unwelcome 
leftovers?
30 First words in an 
alphabet book32 Largest of New 
York’s Finger 
Lakes
34 Tart taste
35 Mega Stuf 
cookie
37 Great Basin st.
38 One may be civil
41 Message board 
item
42 South, in Avignon
43 Local news 
segment45 Settled in for the 
night, with “down”
46 Surfeit
47 Fluted on the 
march
48 Jungian inner self
50 Momentary error
52 Fades to black
54 Bit
55 Stops shooting
56 “Stat!”
59 Gabor of “Green 
Acres”
02/26/20
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Ginnie Springs Outdoors Hiring
Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-18-20-10-14
Job Fair! Wednesday, March 4th 2020
10am-2pm 4300 SW 13th Street. Food, 
Raffle & On-the-Spot interviews!
Many opportunities available including 
entry level, Bachelor’s/Master's level 
counseling, nursing, & more!
Be sure to bring a copy
of your resume. Meridian Healthcare.
2-28-20-4-14
LOOKING FOR MALES  & FEMALES TO 
WORK WITH PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
Must have HS diploma, vehicle, w/ license 
& registration. Call 352-745-2665      3-13-
20-6-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring Summer Camp, After-School, 
Gymnastics, Dance, Ninja Zone and more. 
Join our team. Apply now:
suncountrysports.com/jobs      3-20-20-9-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hir-
ing deli counter and bar help. No exp need-
ed. Day/Night shifts available. Come to 2327 
N W 13th Street to apply. Must be depend-
able and have reliable trans.      3-13-20-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees18 Personals 14 Help Wanted
ScrabbleGrams solution Hitori solution1. Which Beatle was knighted by Queen 
Elizabeth in 1997?
2. What Ricky Nelson song was intro-
duced to him because of a broken-
down car?
3. Which group started out with the 
name Smile?
4. What No. 1 song by Paper Lace was 
inspired by the Saint Valentine's Day 
Massacre?
5. Name the song that contains this 
lyric: "Like a fool I went and stayed too 
long, Now I'm wondering if your love's 
still strong."1. Paul McCartney, for his "services to music." In 
1965, all four Beatles were given MBE (Member of the 
British Empire) medals. 
2. "Poor Little Fool." It was written by a teenage girl, 
Sharon Sheeley, who decided the only way to present it 
to Nelson was to show up at his house and claim her car 
had broken down.
3. Queen. They came up with Smile as part of a col-
lege project. When Freddie Mercury joined the group, 
he changed the name to Queen. He also designed their 
logo, with the members' astrological signs.
4. "The Night Chicago Died," in 1974.
5. "Signed, Sealed, Delivered, I'm Yours," by Stevie Wonder 
in 1970. Wonder credited his mother for coming up with the 
title and chorus while he was dabbling with the melody. FlashBack answers
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
1. Name The Who guitarist who 
is known for smashing his guitars 
during performances. How did that 
get started?
2. Why did Bob Dylan stop touring 
between 1966 and 1973?
3. What was Wicked Lester?
4. The Polka Tulk Blues Band ended 
up as what band?
5. Name the television show that 
used these lyrics in the theme song: 
“Just sit right back and you’ll hear a 
tale, A tale of a fateful trip.”
Answers
1. Peter Townsend. He accidentally 
broke the head off a guitar during a 
show and afterward continued break-
ing guitars (albeit cheaper ones).
2. He was seriously injured in a 
motorcycle accident, crashing his Tri-
umph Tiger 100SS. Later, however, he 
was quoted as saying he’d wanted to 
get out of the rat race.
3. The original name of Kiss, with a 
short period (1970-1971) being called 
Rainbow. Look for a 1972 bootleg 
album called “The Original Wicked 
Lester Sessions.”
4. Black Sabbath.
5. “Gilligan’s Island,” which aired 
for three seasons from 1964-67, a 
total of 98 episodes. The first season 
was in black and white. The storyline 
tells of castaways who ran aground on 
an island during a storm while on the 
charter boat SS Minnow.
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
January 27, 2020
answers below answers below
1.  Small carnivore
1.  First-place finisher 5.  Optic ____
2.  ____ to safety 6.  Nepal neighbor
3.  Corrected 7.  ____ apartment 
4.  Small countryAWLEES
IWENRNERNEV
IDANI
FIRATIL
DMEENDEDOSUTI
CAMOONANSWERS: 1A-Weasel  5A-Nerve  6A-India  7A-Studio
1D-Winner  2D-Airlift  3D-Emended  4D-Monaco  B-Tennessee2-28-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ became the 16th U.S. 
State on June 1, 1796.
BONUS
"C" is the die with the incorrect face. The three dots should be 
aligned diagonally between the other two corners of that face.Stickelers answer
Wednesday
solution belowFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020
www.alligator.org/sportsCleveland and Swain run the 40 at the NFL Combine
Former Gators receiver Tyrie Cleveland ran a 4.46 official 40-yard dash 
Thursday night at the NFL Combine. Swain, another former Gators wideout, 
also ran a 4.46. They are among four draft eligile pass catchers from last sea-
son's team along with Van Jefferson and Josh Hammond.Former UF receiver Van Jefferson has a 
fracture in his right foot, per ESPN's Adam 
Schefter. The injury was not detected until 
his scouting combine physical on Thursday. 
He is expected to be out 6-8 weeks and is a 
projected mid-round pick.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Mikiah Herbert Harrigan stood alone with the 
ball at the top of the key.
The senior South Carolina forward had 
missed three of her first four shots to start the 
game, but by late in the second quarter against 
the Gators, she had found her groove. After hit-
ting five consecutive shots, she made it six by 
burying the three.
Like Herbert Harrigan, USC struggled early 
on, trading buckets and leads with Florida in the 
first quarter.
But also like their third-leading scorer (who 
finished with a team-high 18 points), the Game-
cocks’ talent advantage showed itself, and the 
floodgates opened. The No. 1 team in the country 
flexed its muscles down the stretch, eventually overpowering Florida in an impressive 100-67 
victory in the O’Connell Center.
“That’s the No. 1 team in the country,” coach 
Cam Newbauer said after the game. “I think 
(coach Dawn Staley’s) team is better this year 
than the national championship team.”
The Gators (15-13, 6-9 SEC) were competitive 
with the nation’s top team in the first quarter. 
Both Florida and South Carolina (28-1, 15-0 SEC) 
shot above 50 percent (UF at 59 percent and USC 
at 68 percent).
The period saw three lead changes and six 
ties, and at one point UF even led by four. But 
Florida turned the ball over five times and the 
Gamecocks capitalized, ending the frame on an 
11-3 run, leading by 10.
South Carolina looked the part of the premier 
team in the country in the second quarter. It con-
tinued to shoot at a high level, knocking down 56.3 percent of its shots. But for the Gators, the 
shooting dropped off markedly. They hit just four 
of their 16 shots from the field in the period and 
had two lengthy scoring droughts. The second 
lasted more than three minutes and only ended 
with a jumper from freshman guard Lavender 
Briggs with 20 seconds to play in the half.
South Carolina, meanwhile, ended the half 
on a 12-2 run, stretching its lead to 24 heading 
into the locker room, though it led by as much 
as 26 in a dominant second quarter in which it 
outscored the Gators 23-9.
“We talked at halftime about at halftime just 
having the discipline and toughness to keep com-
peting regardless of the score,” Newbauer said.
Read the rest online at alligator.org/sports
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgNo. 1 South Carolina steamrolls Florida in home finale
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Contributor
Lavender Briggs scored 15 points in the loss to 
South Carolina, the second-most on the team.
TRACK AND FIELD
By Declan Walsh 
Alligator Staff Writer
With championship season approaching for 
the indoor track season, an SEC championship 
is the expectation this weekend for the Florida 
men’s team in College Station, Texas.
As defending champions of the Southeast-
ern Conference, the Gators have certainly 
looked the part this season, turning in im-
pressive performances and scoring nationally-
ranking times on a weekly basis. This stellar 
campaign has seen the Gators ascend to third 
in the USTFCCCA Track and Field Rating Index 
ahead of this weekend’s SEC Championships.
This index also demonstrates the fierce 
competition awaiting UF on Friday and Satur-
day. LSU (2nd), Georgia (6th), Tennessee (8th) 
and Arkansas (10th) all feature in the top ten. The Gator’s will be helped by their experience, 
as Clayton Brown, Jack Guyton, Justin Pacifico 
and Thomas Mardal are all returning medalists 
from last season’s team.
After medaling in the distance medley relay 
last year, senior Jack Guyton will compete in 
the mile along with fellow Gator Hugh Britten-
ham. Guyton competed in the mile at the Tiger 
Paw Invitational last time out, clocking in at 
4:07.53 and earning a first place finish.
Senior Raymond Ekevwo, the headlining 
act for the Gators, will follow. The top ranked 
60 meter runner in the country will look to 
earn his first SEC indoor medal, which he is on 
pace to do after a dominant season. The Nige-
rian will also look to break the school record 
for the 60 meters. Grant Holloway's 6.50 is the 
current record.
Despite having only competed in one meet this year, Thomas Mardal serves as one of the 
most experienced and prolific members of the 
Gators’ throwing team. The junior won in the 
weight throw at the Tiger Paw Invitational, 
and looks to be one of the favorites in the same 
event tomorrow
Senior Justin Pacifico will compete in the 
800 meters along with freshman Jacob Miley. 
Pacifico will look for his first solo medal this 
weekend after winning the 800 meters last 
time out at the Camel City Invitational. 
Lastly, senior Clayton Brown will compete 
in the high jump. The Jamaican has not com-
peted in nearly a month, but was victorious 
last time out at the Razorback invitational. 
On the women’s side, the SEC is a particu-
larly daunting conference, with five of the top 
six ranked teams hailing from the conference. 
However, a power vacuum may be emerging, as the Arkansas Razorbacks, who have won 
five consecutive conference titles, rank third 
thus far this season. 
The most notable performers on the wom-
en’s side are sophomore Doneisha Anderson 
and senior Taylor Manson. Anderson leads the 
country in the 400 meters after registering a 
52.06 second time last meet at Clemson. The 
Bahamian has experience in this competition 
as well, anchoring a bronze-medal 4x400 me-
ter relay last year. Manson will compete in the 
same event, looking to win her first 400m of 
the year. 
Both days will be streamed on SEC Net-
work+, starting at 6:10 p.m. on Friday and 
4:55 p.m. on Saturday.
@dawalsh_UF
dwalsh@alligator.orgGators looking to repeat at SEC Championships in Texas
LACROSSE
By Christian Ortega
Sports Writer
It was a week of highs and lows for the 
Gators. 
Last Saturday, they were swamped by a 
dominant Loyola-Maryland team that’s rose 
to the fifth-ranked team in the country, losing 
17-6. They took out their frustrations against 
Kennesaw State on Wednesday, winning 21-
6.
Saturday, No. 8 Florida will have its sec-
ond top-five matchup of the season as No. 3 
Stony Brook travels to Donald R. Dizney Sta-
dium. The game starts at noon. 
Last March, the then-No. 16 Gators had 
the upper hand, beating the then No. 17 Sea-
wolves 11-10 in New York.Following the game, coach Amanda 
O’Leary credited the team’s stout perfor-
mance on defense for their win. Florida held 
Stony Brook to 10 of 31 shooting.
It’s going to need a similar performance 
this weekend, as the team’s defense will be 
tasked with slowing down senior midfielder 
Ally Kennedy, who before the season was 
ranked the sixth-best player in the nation, 
man or woman, by Inside Lacrosse. This year 
she has 12 points off eight goals and four as-
sists and is scoring at an 80 percent shooting 
percentage.
Florida currently sits at 49th in the na-
tion for scoring defense, allowing 11.75 goals 
per game. It’s 106th in caused turnovers per 
game.
Much like last year, senior defender Cara Trombetta will lead the team’s defensive 
front, in the hopes of stopping Stony Brook’s 
No. 5 scoring offense that averages 18.5 goals 
per game. With her 10 saves per game, red-
shirt freshman goalie Sarah Reznick will most 
likely need to replicate the 14-save perfor-
mance she had against then-No. 2 Maryland 
earlier this season to ensure the team’s win.
Offensively, the team will face off against a 
Stony Brook defense that is 45th in the coun-
try in scoring defense, allowing 11.5 goals per 
game.
Last March, Grace Haus led UF in scoring 
against the Seawolves with four goals. Now 
the junior attacker will be the team’s focal 
point on offense, alongside junior middie 
Shannon Kavanagh. Kavanagh is currently 
averaging 4.25 goals per game, eleventh in the country and though she’s only appeared 
twice this season, Haus’ six goals rank her 
third on the team. 
But the X-factor heading into Saturday’s 
matchup is redshirt junior midfielder Brianna 
Harris. Against the Greyhounds, she scored a 
season-low two goals. The team’s leader in 
points (19) has scored or assisted on 26 per-
cent of the team’s points. 
Stony Brook presents a tough challenge. 
On paper, this year’s SBU team has improved 
compared to last year’s. Florida finds itself 
facing the toughest test of its young season; 
to pass, the team will need to replicate the 
same all-around performance it had when it 
beat Maryland two weeks ago.
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.orgAfter a mid-week rout, No. 8 UF awaits another ranked opponentFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11  
MEN’S TENNIS
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Florida is trying to prove last year’s Final 
Four run wasn’t a fluke.
The Gators took a step toward accomplish-
ing that when they went 2-1 at the Intercol-
legiate Tennis Association National Team In-
door Championships in Madison, Wisconsin, 
on Feb. 14-16. It was their best finish at the 
event since 2010.
Following the event, UF (11-2) dropped to 
No. 6 after being ranked No. 3 heading into 
the tournament.
Coach Shelton said he believes Florida is 
capable of repeating last year’s success.
“I think we can make a serious title run,” 
Shelton said during media availability last 
week. “It just starts with preparing each day 
the right way and focusing on doing the right 
things.”
It started at the Indoor Championships, 
knocking off then-No. 9 Columbia 4-0 in the 
first round. Next, against then-No. 5 North Carolina, the Gators snapped their eight-
match winning streak when it lost 4-0 and fell 
to the consolation bracket. In UF’s final game, 
it defeated then-No. 6 Wake Forest 4-1. 
Shelton said he was pleased with his 
team’s performance in Wisconsin. 
He also added that he was proud of their 
response against the Demon Deacons, follow-
ing the Tarheels’ dismantling of the Gators.
“(We) learned a lot about how resilient we 
were to bounce back against Wake Forest, the 
way that we did,” he said. “It was really the 
best match of our season so far.”
Last year’s squad didn’t fare as well, going 
1-2 in the Indoor Championships.
Before its defeat this year versus UNC, the 
Gators had won 11-straight doubles points.
But, they wouldn’t be able to recover dur-
ing singles on Saturday.
They didn’t falter after losing the doubles 
point the next day against Wake Forest. Flor-
ida didn’t allow the Deacons to score another 
point in singles on Sunday.
Shelton said it was the players, not the coaches, who took accountability to ensure 
the team didn’t break after doubles again.
He said the players held a meeting before 
singles where they talked about being resil-
ient and jumping out early in singles to retake 
control of the match.
Their message clearly worked because UF 
grabbed the first set on five out of six courts 
and went on to win the match.
After playing five teams currently ranked 
in the top 20 of the ITA rankings to start the 
season, the schedule doesn’t get any easier for 
the Gators in SEC play.
The conference is home to nine teams in 
the top 50 of the ITA team rankings, and Flor-
ida is slated to play all of them, including No. 
10 Tennessee, No. 13 Texas A&M and No. 14 
Ole Miss. 
UF kicks off the SEC portion of their sched-
ule today when it takes on No. 27 Alabama 
(9-3) at 5 p.m. at the Alfred A. Ring Tennis 
Complex. 
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgCoach Shelton believes UF could make a title run this year
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Sam Riffice is ranked No. 4 nationally in singles.
BASEBALL
By Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
The Sunshine State hasn’t lived up to its 
name for the Gators recently.
Florida had games against Florida A&M 
and Stetson postponed due to rain on Tues-
day and Wednesday. Because of the inclem-
ent weather, the undefeated Gators (8-0) will 
play ball for the first time in a week against 
Troy (8-1) over the weekend at Alfred A. 
McKethan Stadium on Friday at 6:30 p.m.
The canceled games put the Gators in 
danger of cooling off, but their pitching gives 
them a good chance to keep the furnace 
burning against the Trojans.
UF’s weekend rotation has fanned both 
the flames and opposing hitters regularly to 
start the season. It’s a main reason why Flor-ida sits atop the college baseball world at No. 
1. Friday starter Tommy Mace (1-0) has been 
the heartbeat of the pitching staff.
The right-hander has given up just three 
earned runs in two starts to kick off his ju-
nior campaign. A major reason for his early-
season dominance has been his ability to get 
out of jams with the strikeout. He has 14 K’s 
through 13 frames.
Jack Leftwich (1-0) will be on the hill 
Saturday, and Hunter Barco (1-0) will close 
out the series on Sunday for Florida. Barco, a 
freshman, earned the weekend gig after pick-
ing up a win in his first-career start against 
Miami last time out.
Challenging Mace will be Trojans ace 
pitcher Levi Thomas (2-0), who has yet to 
surrender a run.
Thomas gave up just two hits in his first start of the year on Feb. 14 against Northern 
Kentucky and followed that stellar perfor-
mance with a no-hitter through six innings 
against Louisiana Tech on Feb. 21.
Trojans pitchers Orlando Ortiz (1-0) and 
Tyson Ellis (0-0) will follow Thomas to com-
plete Troy’s rotation against Florida.
While the Trojans present a formidable 
challenge for the Gators’ bats, Florida hitters 
should be able to push right back.
The Gators’ 85 hits through eight games 
ranks 10th in the country, and their 11 home 
runs on the year are good for 6th.
Much of their offensive success can be 
credited to two men in particular: Jud Fabian 
and Josh Rivera.
Fabian has been a force for Florida. The 
sophomore center fielder leads the team in 
hits (13), RBI (nine), homeruns (three) and runs (10).
Right on the tail of his offensive pro-
duction is the freshman Rivera. The reign-
ing co-SEC Freshman of the Week has the 
second-highest batting average of the Gators’ 
everyday starters (.360). He’s ridden that 
batting average to nine hits, two home runs, 
seven RBI and six runs.
Opposing pitching has been kind to Troy 
hitters so far this season. The Trojans, as a 
team, are batting .344 from the plate in their 
nine games.
Their most dangerous hitter is Caleb Bar-
tolero. The sophomore catcher has 17 hits, 
16 RBI, two home runs and 11 runs scored 
this year
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgNo. 1 Gators look to continue their hot start against Troy
SOFTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
A different kind of March madness 
is set for this weekend in Gainesville. 
The month of March marks the be-
ginning of series play for the Gators. 
Three days, three games versus the 
same opponents. Unlike in tourna-
ments, each team sees everything 
the other has to offer. There are no 
secrets. 
No. 6 Florida’s (16-2) first series 
of the season starts tonight in Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium against No. 
10 Louisiana-Lafayette.
Earlier this week, the Ragin’ Ca-
juns (12-4) split two games with No. 
3 Texas in Austin,Texas. Though 
Summer Ellyson was tabbed as one of 
the best returning collegiate pitchers 
in the preseason, it was senior Megan 
Kleist that led Louisiana-Lafayette to 
a 3-2 win over the Longhorns.
“They’ve got some very veteran-
like pitchers,” said coach Tim Walton about Louisiana-Lafayette’s staff.
Texas leads the country in team 
batting average with a .404, but Kleis 
managed to hold its lineup to a .214 
average in the first game. On the sea-
son, she has registered 52 strikeouts 
in 50 innings of work.
But should Kleis not start in the 
circle, Ellyson could pose a similar 
threat to Florida’s offense. Last year, 
she led the NCAA with 39 wins, av-
eraging 9.1 strikeouts through seven 
innings and an ERA of 1.11.
As a team, the Ragin’ Cajuns 
have the 10th lowest ERA in college 
softball (1.43) this season. The only 
other team the Gators have faced in 
the top 10 of that category is UCLA in 
fourth at 1.19.
The Gators are 3-2 against ranked 
opponents this season, but 7-3 all 
time against Louisiana-Lafayette.
Florida’s offense has been a point 
of improvement this year, however. 
Its personnel changes have allowed 
Walton to rely more on his lineup and its ability to facilitate offensive 
playmaking.
“The depth of our lineup puts our 
better hitters in position to be up in 
some big, crucial situations. And I 
think that’s what you’ve been able to 
see,” Walton said. “The depth of our 
lineup, the number (of runners) on 
base, the on base percentage...it re-
ally stretches the lineup.”
Florida is ninth in the country in 
on-base percentage and will be only 
the second top-10 team Louisiana-
Lafayette has seen this season.
The Cajuns’ defense will face the 
one-two punch of Kendyl Lindaman 
— who is on a -game hit streak — and 
Charla Echols, who is tied for eighth 
in the nation in home runs with six.
The first pitch of the series is set to 
be thrown tonight at 6 p.m.
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgFlorida set for a top-10 clash with the Ragin’ Cajuns
Alligator File Photo
Redshirt senior Sophia Reynoso is hitting .257 this year and has five RBI.
12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2020
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
NIGHT  9 pm-12 am
$2 Double Wells
$2 Rolling Rock Cans
$2 Pink Whitney Shots
LIVE DJ
(DOWNSTAIRS)
FRIDAYS
on theROOFNEW!MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
After a Wednesday night 
game where the once-reeling 
Gators convincingly defeated 
LSU 81-66, it’s apparent that 
UF is approaching the end of 
the regular season on a high 
note.
Florida is 6-2 in its last 
eight games, and forward 
Keyontae Johnson has found 
the formula to his offense. 
The sophomore is averaging 
almost 23 points per game in his last three and has scored 
double digits in 11 straight 
games.
After breaking his career 
high for the second time in 
the same week, Johnson be-
lieves that the game is slow-
ing down for him.
“(I’m) just playing at my 
pace, playing with conﬁ  -
dence, shooting with conﬁ  -
dence and just playing the 
game,” he said after the LSU 
win. “Like coach says, just 
stay in the moment and let 
the game come to me.”
Guard Scottie Lewis also set a career high after scor-
ing 18 points against LSU, 
and the freshman also cited 
one of coach Mike White’s 
mantras in attribution to the 
team’s recent success.
“He (White) wants us to 
have our individual conﬁ  -
dence and our conﬁ  dence 
as a team,” Lewis said. “But 
his coaching mindset is a ‘do 
your job’ mindset. He’s so fo-
cused…not necessarily (on) 
everything we do wrong but 
things we can get better at.”
The celebration won’t last 
long for White and company, he is already looking to the 
next challenge in the Tennes-
see Volunteers.
“We got a bunch of guys 
who don’t understand how 
difﬁ  cult it is to beat Tennes-
see, especially at Tennessee,” 
White said. “They’re going 
to be prepared, they’re go-
ing to guard the heck out of 
you, they’re disciplined, it’s a 
high-level program.”
The Volunteers boast a 
10-5 home record and UF has 
struggled on the road at 3-6.
Still, there is blood in the 
water when the Gators look at this SEC matchup. UT (15-
13, 7-8) is 3-7 in its last 10 
games and is currently on a 
two-game slide.
UF (18-10, 10-5) hasn’t 
played the Volunteers this 
season but needs to be famil-
iar with its roster that has ﬁ  ve 
different players who average 
double ﬁ  gure points.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/sports
@JosephSalvador_
jsalvador@alligator.orgFlorida is hitting its stride ahead of Tennessee game
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Scottie Lewis scored a career-high 18 
points in the win over LSU Wednesday.
GYMNASTICS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
This season has been an incred-
ibly successful one for Florida.
It is 8-0 and has beaten three 
teams ranked in the top 10.
And most importantly, it won 
the SEC regular season title for the 
second year in a row.
Now as the Gators approach 
the home stretch of their schedule, 
there is one more box for the or-
ange and blue to check: exacting 
revenge on its most bitter rival.
Last season, No. 7 Georgia came 
into Gainesville and shocked No. 3 
Florida, giving it its only home loss 
of the season.
Tonight is the rematch as the 
Gators travel to Athens, Georgia, to 
battle UGA. Action from a sold-out 
Stegeman Coliseum will begin at 7 
p.m. and can be seen on the SEC 
Network.
The idea of retaliation certainly has crossed the mind of the team.
“For half the team, this will be 
our ﬁ  rst trip to Georgia and I’m so 
excited to come out and make their 
arena our own,” sophomore Leah 
Clapper said
Florida also has the opportunity 
against Georgia to clinch its ﬁ  rst 
undefeated SEC regular season ti-
tle. In 2007, the team ﬁ  nished with 
no losses, but did ﬁ  nish with a tie.
Junior Alyssa Baumann said 
she isn’t shocked with the team’s 
success, given its motivation and 
a change in preparation from last 
season.
“Last season, I feel like we 
peaked at a really early time,” Bau-
mann said. “And this year, we are 
slowly building through the sea-
son.”
This meet has added meaning 
for Baumann whose sister, Rachel, 
plays for the Dawgs. The junior 
said she expects to have a lot of family in attendance.
“Any time me and my sister get 
to compete it’s a lot of fun,” she 
said. “To have all my family there 
and watch me is super exciting.”
This season hasn’t been as kind 
to No. 10 Georgia as last season. 
The Bulldogs enter 8-5 (2-2 SEC), 
but have won their last two meets.
UF is coming off its second-
highest score of the season (198.05) 
against No. 8 Alabama last Friday 
night. In that meet, senior Sierra 
Alexander and Clapper set new ca-
reer-highs – Alexander with a 9.95 
in vault and Clapper with a 9.975 
on beam.
“It was an amazing feeling. The 
second I started my series, I knew 
it would go great,” Clapper said. “I 
was happy to just do what I do in 
practice.”
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgGators wrap up SEC regular season in Athens, Georgia
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Trinity Thomas won her sixth SEC Gymnast of the Week award of the season this 
past week for her performance against Alabama.
