We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperNavigating dating apps in the time of COVID-19
UF freshmen are figuring out how to safely meet friends and 
potential partners through a screen — and a mask, pg. 2
UF community comes together to support Honduras
The Central American country was hit by Hurricane Eta last 
week. UF students fundraised to support those affected, pg. 4Trask for Heisman
Gators quarterback Kyle Trask is doing his due 
diligence to bring the Heisman Trophy back to UF and 
become the fourth Florida quarterback with a bronze 
statue of himself in front of The Swamp,  pg. 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 12
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Jerome, 5, leans on the coin pusher at the Oaks Mall Carnival on Saturday, Nov. 7, 2020.
CWC FUNDING CRITICISMS 
HAVE COMPOUNDED 
AS STUDENTS EXPRESS 
DISSATISFACTION WITH THE 
STATE OF THE PROGRAM
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s note: This article 
contains a reference to suicidal 
thoughts. Students were granted 
anonymity for reasons including 
the sensitivity of the topic and 
their ongoing interactions with 
the CWC.
“U Matter, We Care” is the slo -
gan adopted by UF’s Counseling 
& Wellness Center. It feels like an 
empty gesture to some students 
who have sought out the center’s 
services. 
Students’ experiences vary, 
with accounts of long wait times, 
feelings of being brushed off by 
CWC counselors and a lack of 
transparency about UF’s available 
resources. The CWC director said 
he feels confident in the center’s 
ability to help students but cites its 
tight budget as an obstacle — one 
that it is starting to overcome. 
Despite a larger staff than previ -
ous semesters, shorter wait times 
and an increase in state funding, 
CWC appointment numbers have 
plateaued after a previously steady 
increase since 2016.
The center has conducted 8,891 
appointments through the week 
of Nov. 2 this semester. This is a 
decrease of 1% from the same 10-
week mark in Fall 2019, CWC di -
rector Ernesto Escoto said. 
This number of student clients 
fell from 5,800 students in the 
2018-19 year to 5,395 in 2019-20, 
a decrease of 7%.
The COVID-19 pandemic creat -
ed more obstacles for the center in 
the Spring. The CWC closed after 
classes went online in early March. 
Students said they either continued 
counseling virtually, were dropped 
by their counselor or gave up on 
getting one. 
The center trained employees 
in tele-mental health counseling, 
which relies on connecting virtu -
ally with patients, and reopened in 
a new online format in two and a 
half weeks.Escoto said program directors 
began researching virtual counsel -
ing alternatives, setting up technol -
ogy and training staff to jumpstart 
their tele-mental health services as 
soon as UF moved online. The cen -
ter dipped into its savings to pay 
for these unforeseen expenses.
He expects that remote CWC 
services are not just a temporary 
solution to the challenges of the 
pandemic.
“We’re kind of surprised that it 
actually works,” Escoto said. “It’s 
been pretty effective in a lot of 
spaces. And so, there is no reason 
for us to go back to fully providing 
everything in person.”
He said he expects to see a hy -
brid option developed, when it is 
safe to do so in light of the pan -
demic, with the hope it provides 
better flexibility for students. 
After being on the waitlist for 
two weeks, a 19-year-old UF astro -
physics sophomore said she saw 
a CWC counselor for four months 
before the pandemic hit. It was 
then that she said her counselor 
informed her that she couldn’t see 
her anymore because campus was 
shutting down due to increasing 
COVID-19 cases. 
“I never heard from her again,” 
the student said.
She didn’t receive any follow-
ups from the CWC about tele-
health visits, which would begin 
two and a half weeks after UF 
moved online.
She visited the CWC during 
Fall 2019. She said she had severe 
depression and anxiety symptoms 
that kept her in bed some days.
One day, when she had enough 
energy, she said she met with a 
CWC counselor for a crisis walk-
in, where students in need of im -
mediate support can speak with a 
counselor.
“She basically told me ‘Your 
problems seem way too complex 
for us to address here,’” the stu -
dent said.
She said she was given the local 
and national suicide hotline num -
bers and sent on her way. 
She later discovered the In -
structor Notification process, 
which informs professors about 
an emergency a student is dealing 
with; medical withdrawal, which Is it enough? UF students ask for 
more mental health services
NATE DOUGLAS WON 49% 
OF THE VOTE AFTER LEADING 
A CAMPAIGN FOCUSED 
ON SUSTAINABILITY AND 
CLIMATE CHANGE
By Avery Lotz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nate Douglas shuffled into his 
family’s kitchen one morning in 
2008 to greet his mother and father.
The then-8-year-old said he 
found them standing still at the counter. The three didn’t talk but in -
stead communicated through stares. 
He followed the invisible line from 
their forlorn gazes to a stack of un -
opened envelopes in front of them. 
The tower of paper grew every 
day, taunting the family of five sup -
ported by the salaries of a teacher 
and a landscaper. The memories of 
the Great Recession still motivate 
the now 19-year-old Douglas. They 
even pushed him to run — and win 
— elected office. 
Douglas, an Orlando native and 
UF economics junior, became Or -ange County’s Soil and Water Con -
servation District 1 supervisor-elect 
on Nov. 3, defeating two opponents 
— both of whom are more than a 
decade his senior. Douglas won 
49% of the vote after leading a cam -
paign focused on sustainability and 
climate change. 
He’s the youngest person in Or -
ange County history to hold the po -
sition and the youngest elected of -
ficial in Florida. Douglas will serve a 
four-year-term as a nonpartisan su -‘Be bold’: UF student becomes 
youngest elected official in Florida
SEE NATE DOUGLAS,  PAGE 3SEE CWC,  PAGE 6T oday’s Weather
ISSN 0889-24232   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 12
STUDENTS GO ON DATES AND MAKE 
NEW CONNECTIONS WITH ONE ANOTHER 
DURING THE PANDEMIC
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF freshmen have found themselves craving intimacy 
amid physical distancing requirements — but swiping 
right on potential partners has taken on an entirely new 
meaning in 2020.
Medical professionals agree that online dating is a safe 
alternative during the pandemic to meeting new people at 
bars, restaurants and other gathering places. With chang -
ing COVID-19 guidelines, the number of smartphone dat -
ing app users in the U.S. will reach 26.6 million in 2020 
— an 18.4% increase from last year.
Before going on a date, Lilly Swanson, an 18-year-
old UF anthropology freshman, said she tries to gauge 
whether a potential partner has been following COVID-19 
guidelines by bringing it up in initial conversation over 
text messages. 
Once she deems they have been cautious, she prefers 
to go on dates with her Tinder and Bumble matches with -
out masks and not practice social distancing.
“I did go on a date once with someone who mentioned 
that he and his friends go clubbing and aren’t very safe,” 
Swanson said. “I left the date very quickly after that be -
cause it made me uncomfortable.”
Many of her friends new to Gainesville have used dat -
ing apps to connect with other students to make friends 
rather than just go on dates, she said. Swanson said she 
will continue to go on in-person dates.
Dating apps often feed into what is known as hookup 
culture, or brief, uncommitted sexual encounters, accord -
ing to professors at Michigan State University. However, 
sexual activity is more risky during the pandemic because 
it increases the likelihood of COVID-19 transmission.
Experts believe potential partners should have a con -
versation setting boundaries and discussing their COV -
ID-19 status, the same way they would when discussing 
their sexually transmitted infection status. 
Alison Garland, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, 
has found that dating apps, such as Bumble and Tinder, 
can be helpful to meet other students as friends. As a 
freshman who currently doesn’t participate in nightlife or 
Greek life, she said it’s been a challenge to connect with 
other students face-to-face. 
To Garland, the safest option when meeting someone 
in person is to wear face masks and respect social distanc -
ing. 
She said she’s used these apps to become friends with 
other students, often switching her profile to Bumble’s 
“BFF” setting to signal to others that she’s looking for 
friends rather than romance. Since starting to use it on 
campus, she said she’s made a friend that she regularly 
studies with. 
“It is a lot harder because you don’t meet anyone who 
can diversify the immediate community around you,” she 
said. “Dating apps can be helpful to make friends — you 
never know who you could meet.” Bumble saw a 70% increase in video calls during the 
week of May 1 compared to the week of March 13, when 
a U.S. state of emergency was called, a Bumble spokesper -
son wrote in an email. The company believes the video 
call feature allows potential partners to spend time getting 
to know each other through video “pre-dates.” 
They also released new virtual dating tools to help 
spark conversations between potential partners by al -
lowing them to choose what type of dates they’re most 
comfortable with: virtual, socially distanced or socially dis -
tanced with a mask, a Bumble spokesperson wrote. 
Nehemie Cyriaque, an 18-year-old UF environmental 
science freshman, agrees that face masks and social dis -
tancing can be restrictive. While she doesn’t wear a mask 
on every date, she makes sure to ask how her dates follow 
health guidelines before agreeing to meet up with them.
Cyriaque said the pandemic has made potential part -
ners more accessible and responsive as students crave hu -
man connection. 
She said she goes on dates with people who she may 
not have been interested in otherwise because of how 
hard it is to make meaningful connections during the pan -
demic.
“I would straight up call it desperate, yeah,” she 
quipped. “I don’t feel like I have a normal social part of 
my life right now, so I turn to dating apps to try and gain 
an intimate connection with other people.” 
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinions Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett MullenaxNew to Gainesville, UF freshmen seek 
love and friendship through dating apps  
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$15 Haircut with Student ID
pervisor, replacing lawyer and incumbent Mi -
chael Barber, who wasn’t seeking reelection.
Douglas was leaning on the same kitchen 
table 12 years after the 2008 financial crisis. 
He watched the Orange County election re -
sults roll in on his laptop while CNN’s presi -
dential election coverage played in the back -
ground.
When he saw the results coming in on the 
local news, he said he laughed.
“I saw 49%, and I thought there was a mis -
take,” he said. “So I was just pacing around 
and waiting for them to update the website — and that never happened.” 
Social media was the backbone of Doug -
las’ campaign, he said. When he decided to 
run, he only had $1,700 for the election — just 
enough for signs and T-shirts. 
His desire to mitigate the fast-growing 
threat of climate change came before his in -
terest in politics, he added. He’s involved in 
the Sunrise Movement, an initiative that aims 
to slow down climate change while creating 
green jobs. 
He said he realized there was a place for 
progressives in politics the day Alexandria 
Ocasio-Cortez, a former waitress from New 
York, won a seat in the U.S. House of Repre -
sentatives. With her nomination, Douglas saw a normal person could become a politician.
His first step to push for a greener Orange 
County will be to better communicate with 
city and county commissioners, Douglas said. 
He also wants to improve community educa -
tion efforts and update the office’s social me -
dia.
He added that he wishes to create resolu -
tions and coalitions with environmental activ -
ism and community groups, such as Sierra 
Club, a grassroots climate action organization 
that endorsed him on Oct. 20. 
Seminole County’s board, which has been 
touted as superior to Orange County’s in the 
past, has focused on forming relationships 
with community organizations, local schools 
and researchers for its conservation efforts. 
Douglas credits his election to his experi -
ence in debate at Apopka High School. It also 
connected him to his mentor, Cathy Brown. 
Brown, a 56-year-old English teacher, said 
she was impressed by Douglas from the mo -
ment she met him his freshman year of high 
school. She always believed he would achieve 
a spot as an elected official, but she said she 
didn’t imagine his moment would come so 
soon. 
“He is very open minded, and he embraces 
everyone he meets,” Brown said. “He is will -
ing to listen, no matter what.”
When Douglas won, he texted her a screen -
shot of the results, and Brown shared the pic -
ture with her peers in the debate community. 
His success helped her set an example for her 
current students of young people using their 
voices. 
Despite criticism over his age, Douglas said 
he believes he has vital insight that other poli -
ticians tend to ignore. 
“People who are around my age under -
stand that climate change is something that is 
going to be impacting us the most,” he said.
Tim Veigle, a 41-year-old realtor, ran 
against Douglas — fighting for a dream he 
has had since he was a University of Central Florida marketing student. He currently serves 
as the President of the Casselberry Chamber 
of Commerce, but he wanted to use the skills 
he learned in the position to revamp Orange 
County.
Veigle said he ran because the soil and 
water conservation board is in dire need of 
leadership, with Orange County citizens even 
nicknaming it the “do-nothing board.”
While he’s not concerned about Douglas’ 
ability to handle the job, he has some reserva -
tions about his lack of experience. 
“This is a tough position to run for because 
there really aren’t any rules,” he said. “No one 
really knows what the soil and water conser -
vation supervisor is.”
When he first heard he was running against 
a UF student, Veigle said he thought little 
about Douglas. Instead, he put his main focus 
on his other rival, Bobby Agagnina. Agagnina, 
a high school teacher, was a candidate in the 
2018 Seminole County School Board race.
According to his website, Agagnina consid -
ered himself a fighter for progressive causes.
While most politicians don’t have to wor -
ry about balancing meetings with midterms, 
Douglas said he’s up for the challenge.
“That’s definitely going to be tough,” he 
said. “I’m still a college student — I am no 
stranger to procrastinating in college.”
Douglas said he wants people to realize 
he’s a normal, relatable 19-year-old college 
student who stresses about economics exams, 
texts his friends and stays up until the sun 
creeps to the edge of the horizon. 
He added that he wants young people to 
realize that politicians don’t have to be the 
richest or the smartest person in the room — 
they just have to be willing to speak up for 
their communities.
“Be bold,” Douglas said. “You’re going to 
feel like it’s either too much on your plate or 
you’re too young, but at this age, this is the 
time to have so much on your plate. So go 
for it.”MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
all new
Late nightLate night
FRIDAYS!
$1 Wells
start@11pm!
rooftoprooftop
@@ 11 11amam
SundaySunday
 brunchbrunch
DOORS DOORS @ @ 9:30 AM9:30 AM
THIS SATURDAYTHIS SATURDAY
Courtesy to The Alligator
Nate Douglas, 19, made history Nov. 3 in the Orange County Soil and Water 
Conservation District 1 supervisor race.
NATE DOUGLAS,  from pg. 1Douglas’ term is four years4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
ALLIGATOR ALUMNUS MATT 
MARRIOTT REMEMBERED 
AS A FEARLESS AND GIFTED 
PHOTOGRAPHER BY HIS 
FRIENDS AND FAMILY
By Kalia Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
Matt Marriott’s energy filled a room. He 
had a large stature and a beard with its own 
zip code. But above all, he’s remembered for 
his sense of humor and talent, photographing 
above and below the sea.
Photographer, Alligator alumnus, Emmy-
winning cinematographer and father Matt 
Marriott died suddenly on Oct. 27 at 46 years 
old. 
Marriott had a unique gift behind the lens 
and photography was his lifelong passion, his 
brother Justin Marriott, 49, wrote in an email. 
He hopes that young photographers will use 
their camera to capture the beauty within life as 
his brother once did. 
“The legacy of Matt will forever be 
remembered in his artistic endeavors that his 
family will always treasure,” he wrote.
Marriott attended UF in 2002, after serving 
four years in the Navy and worked as the photo 
editor for The Independent Florida Alligator 
throughout his college career. He graduated 
with a bachelor’s in journalism in 2006 and 
went on to work at publications such as the 
Associated Press and Sports Illustrated, as well 
as amusement parks like SeaWorld and Busch 
Gardens. 
He later formed Matt Marriott Photography 
in 2013, an independent photography business, 
and worked with clients like USA Today, 
Madame Tussauds and the Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers. 
At home, Marriott was a father to his children, 
Mila and Van, and a godfather to his brother’s 
kids. Marriott’s 8-year-old stepdaughter, Mila, 
doesn’t remember life before Marriott, said his 
partner, Alli Cox said.
“From the second that they met, they were 
best pals,” Cox said. 
Mila would schedule waffle and mini-
golf dates with him regularly, she said. Mila 
requested he tuck her in bed every night where 
they’d lay down and talk for hours, she said, 
asking questions and cracking inside jokes. 
Raising Van, on the other hand, was new 
territory, Cox said. Despite the trials and tribulations, she only fell further in love with 
Marriott. 
“The first time he ever strapped Van into a 
car seat by himself,” she said, “it was so wrong 
and it was so cute.”
The Florida Keys were his favorite place 
to go, Cox said, and he visited Tiger Beach in 
the Bahamas, known for its tiger sharks, twice 
a year spending a week at sea. On the water, 
Marriott photographed sea turtles nibbling on 
jelly fishes and schools of fish darting through 
coral. He cage dived with great whites and 
swam a finger’s length from hammerheads, sea 
turtles and dolphins.
Marriott was always a little eccentric and 
outrageous, Cox said, and took her to Disney on 
their first date. Throughout their relationship, 
Cox got certified to scuba dive and over 
quarantine cooked and photographed 65 meals 
as the “Covid Cooking Couple.” From Kentucky 
Derby Pie to shrimp and alligator cheesecake, 
Cox said her favorite dish was lamb tagine, a 
lamb stew served in an earthenware pot.
“When I’m looking at videos of Matt, that’s 
the night that I remember,” she said.
With Marriott gone, she has had good and 
bad days but is taking it day by day. 
“It’ll be a struggle, but the thing is I’m gonna 
keep going for Matt,” she said.
John Freeman, a UF journalism professor, 
had Marriott as a student in his classes in 
the early 2000s. He had a go-getter spirit and 
eagerness to learn new techniques, Freeman 
said. 
“I knew he didn’t want to settle down and 
do small town photojournalism,” Freeman said. 
“He wanted something bigger out of life.”
Throughout his career, Mariott photographed 
whale sharks the size of school buses, chased 
restaurants on wheels for Food Network and 
stood in the sidelines capturing the excitement 
of March Madness every year for the NCAA. 
Sarah Anderson, a 36-year-old UF Class of 
2005 alumna, was an opinions editor at The 
Alligator while Marriott was a photo editor. She 
sat a desk away from him, in an office the size 
of a dining room secluded from the chaos of the 
newsroom, she said.
The now non-profit consultant vividly 
remembers Marriott’s Great Dane, Sadie, who 
would sprawl herself across the full length of 
the couch and follow him around the office like 
“two peas in a pod,” she said.
Anderson followed Marriott’s work on social 
media and said he always stayed true to himself 
and let nothing stand in his way of getting a good picture. She felt a real loss for the Gator 
and photography community and is devastated 
to know he is no longer here.
“I always remember he had such a keen 
photographic eye,” she said. “And a fearlessness 
about going out and getting the right image to 
tell the story.”
As free trade Miami protestors were shot 
with rubber bullets and hosed with pepper 
spray in 2003, Alligator alumni Nick West 
and Daron Dean were there in gas masks with 
Marriott capturing the moment. Through those 
experiences, West said, he made a friend for life. 
“He’s truly a captivating storyteller,” said 
West, a 39-year-old UF Class of 2005 alumnus. 
“I was fortunate to know somebody like that.”
Marriott worked as a photo ambassador for 
The Shark Conservation Fund from at least 2018 
to 2020, a philanthropy organization aiming to 
reduce the overexploitation and extinction of 
sharks and rays. He spoke at grade schools and 
universities on the importance of protecting the 
world’s coral reefs and wildlife when he wasn’t 
underwater photographing them.
“I was blown away,” West said. “Either on 
land or underwater, he’s very talented, and he 
can pull amazing images.” When Hurricane Irma rocked trees, 
kidnapped road signs and chucked roof tiles 
from St. Petersburg homes in 2017, Marriott and 
Dean, a UF journalism adjunct professor, drove 
through the littered streets for whatever they 
could capture. Dean was hoping to get photos to 
publish in Reuters, while Marriott tagged along 
for the adventure.
While driving, a cut power line slung through 
Marriott’s window. It could’ve killed him, Dean, 
41, said, but he dodged it and laughed it off. 
That was Matt: If it was dangerous, he 
jumped to cover it, Dean said. 
“Even if the story didn’t prove to be great or 
exciting, it was always worth it,”  Dean said. 
“Because we had a blast together.”
Marriott got to wake up every day and do 
what he loved; he was a renaissance man in 
his eyes, Dean said. For the nearly two decades 
Dean knew Marriott, Dean said he felt like a 
brother to him.
“We always looked out for each other and 
watched each other’s backs,” Dean said. “He 
was someone I was proud to be friends with.”
@kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.org
UF STUDENTS GATHER 
DONATIONS TO SHIP 
TO HONDURAS IN 
THE AFTERMATH OF 
HURRICANE ETA
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students banded together to 
provide relief to Honduras in the 
aftermath of Hurricane Eta. UF 
Eta Relief, a student-led donation 
drive with four locations including 
in Gainesville and Tampa, began 
last week and will be collecting 
water, toiletries, clothes and more 
until Nov. 20.
The storm made landfall in 
Honduras on Nov. 4, causing 
flooding that destroyed rural areas 
of the country. The Red Cross es -
timates that 520,279 families and 
2,712,772 people were affected by 
Eta, as of Nov. 11. The Honduras 
death toll is 58 people.Hurricane Iota is headed to -
ward Honduras and projected to 
make landfall as a Category 4 hur -
ricane as of Sunday night. 
UF canceled classes Thursday 
as Eta passed over Gainesville, 
though the storm had little impact 
on the area.
Paulina Trujillo, a 20-year-old 
UF marketing sophomore, was 
home in Port St. Lucie the week -
end that Hurricane Eta hit her 
home country of Honduras. 
She, her two sisters, her friend 
and her mother collected $300 in 
monetary donations from friends 
and neighbors. They also gathered 
supplies like toiletries, sleeping 
bags and even medical equipment 
— a family friend dropped off a 
box of stethoscopes. 
“We collected so many things 
that we had to get a U-Haul to take 
them to Miami,” Trujillo said.
Her father steered the truck 
down I-95 on Nov. 8 towards Ser -
Cargo Express, a Miami shipping company that is transporting and 
distributing aid, as Eta shook the 
23 boxes of supplies.
The success of Trujillo’s drive, 
organized over a weekend, led 
her to help mobilize UF students 
for another relief effort. Those in 
Gainesville can drop off donations 
to either Fifield Hall or the Animal 
Science Department building on 
UF’s campus before Nov. 20.
She and others helping out are 
fundraising to buy supplies, rather 
than accepting donations. This al -
lows them to focus on getting es -
sentials like toiletries and bedding 
to those affected by the storm.
As of Sunday, they raised more 
than $100 and are still collecting 
donations until Wednesday to buy 
relief supplies.
Trujillo said word spread fast 
among the UF Latin American stu -
dent community.
Trujillo plans to send the col -
lected donations to David Moreira, 
a UF nematology master’s student working at the UF Gulf Coast Re -
search in Education Center.
Moriera runs @eta_relief_uf, 
an Instagram page that acts as the 
face of UF student relief efforts. 
His infographics list donation drop 
off locations in Gainesville and 
Tampa, as well as updates on the 
damages in Honduras.
UF drop off sites are located at 
Fifield Hall and the Animal Sci -
ence Department building, which 
UF department heads opened up 
to the alumni association.
Moreira lived through Hurri -
cane Mitch, a storm that caused 
similar destruction to Honduras in 
1998.
“It’s going to take a little while 
to recover from all of this, espe -
cially because there’s so many 
poor people in Honduras,” he 
said. “The pandemic has driven a 
huge blow in the economy.”
The collection drive is running 
until Nov. 20, when Moreira and 
his team will begin packing up supplies into two U-Haul trucks 
and drive to Fort Lauderdale the 
next morning.
The 30 alumni are pooling $438 
of their own money to rent the 
trucks, which Moreira and a friend 
have volunteered to drive. 
Donations are then being 
shipped by CO. Honducafé, a 
company that ships bananas to the 
U.S. from Honduras. The company 
will empty its cargo of bananas in 
Fort Lauderdale and hold the con -
tainer until Nov. 21, when Moreira 
will meet them to load up the col -
lected relief supplies to be sent to 
Honduras. Honducafé will also 
help distribute the donations once 
they arrive in Honduras.
“There’s so many other people 
that have been affected that we 
could pitch in to a bigger effort,” 
Moreira said.
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.orgRemembering Alligator alumnus and photographer Matt Marriott
UF students lead Hurricane Eta relief efforts for HondurasShannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenueSee how the Gators fared in their SEC Tournament match 
against the Missouri Tigers , pg. 10
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE THRIFT STORE HAS 
EXPERIENCED A WAVE OF 
TRAFFIC DESPITE 
PANDEMIC RESTRICTIONS
By AJ Bafer
Avenue Staff Writer
Walking into Flashbacks 
Recycled Fashions is like stepping 
through the trendiest time 
machine.
Between the hum of songs like 
“Two of Hearts” by Stacey Q and 
“Physical” by Olivia Newton-John, 
it’s a surprise the surrounding 
scene isn’t a ’70s-era roller skating 
rink.
Instead, at 220 NW 8th Ave., 
shoppers are met with row after row 
of painstakingly labeled garments 
peeking out of closets and hanging 
from the ceiling. People can find 
anything from the basics to a pair 
of fake-blood stained overalls from 
a ‘90s Mudvayne show. 
The store’s oddities are 
abounding. Surprisingly, as a retail 
store during a pandemic, so are its 
customers.
It became clear to owner Steve Nichtberger early in the year that 
many local students would not 
return to Gainesville in the near 
future. He wondered whether 
the 34-year-old business would 
struggle. 
But the 61-year-old said the 
store has benefited from strangely 
high traffic. Normally unsurprising 
around this time of year, the 
boost occurring in the middle of a 
pandemic — with closed dressing 
rooms and a mask requirement — 
is enough to turn heads.
Afflicted with the pandemic 
blues, people are more apt now 
to go out and make themselves 
feel better through “shopping 
therapy,” he said. 
For most of the store’s history, 
a majority of its customers have 
been students. This year, however, 
it has seen an influx of people 
within the greater Gainesville area 
return to pick up a piece of the 
past.
One of the store’s best 
components is its distinctness 
and willingness to break from the 
mainstream, he said.
“I love pushing the edges,” 
he said. “That’s what my life has been.”
Before starting Flashbacks, he 
realized it was a model that could 
create nothing while destroying 
nothing. The low-impact nature 
of the store keeps it ahead of the 
curve — during bad times, there’s 
always a need for cheap clothes, 
he said. During good times, 
“awesome stuff pours in.”
For the first time since the store 
has been open, Nichtberger said 
there’s interest in every decade 
because of styles circulating 
instantaneously through social 
media.
Thrifting went from being 
just for “punks” and “hippies” to 
mainstream overnight, he said, and 
the internet only made secondhand 
shopping more universal.
He said he likes to think he’s 
held onto a Gainesville business as 
long as he has because of his own 
intelligence, but he doesn’t owe it 
to that. 
“It’s mostly luck and love,” he 
said.
Tatum Nichtberger, the 
30-year-old store manager and 
Nichtberger’s daughter, said she’s 
thankful for recent traffic because, for the first time in the store’s 
history, they thought they might 
not make it. The resurgence has 
been a reassurance.
Having spent her time climbing 
through Flashbacks’ racks as a kid, 
she started working there in high 
school. After a break and a few 
other jobs, she came back about 
nine years ago. 
Even though Flashbacks 
resides at its fifth location — her 
favorite — Tatum said the store 
consistently welcomes committed 
regulars from both in- and out-of-
town.
Shoppers have told her the store 
is an escape during the pandemic, 
she said. Having grown up in it, 
she appreciates and envies the 
point-of-view.
“I wish I could see this place 
from an outside perspective,” she 
said.
Elise Trankina, a 20-year-old UF 
nursing junior, recently returned 
to the store after the move from 
its previous location on University 
Avenue. 
Even between moving locations 
— and though she couldn’t quite 
put her finger on it — she said it’s the novel, singular vibe of 
Flashbacks that makes it stand 
out.
“I don’t know exactly what 
draws me to it,” she said. “I prefer 
thrift store shopping at a place like 
this.”
@ajbafer
abafer@alligator.org
STUDENTS DISCUSS CHANGES IN 
LISTENING HABITS AND MUSICAL 
INTERESTS
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
 
For many, music pre-pandemic functioned 
partly as background noise in restaurants and 
grocery stores or the soundtrack to the daily 
commute. 
Now, with in-person classes canceled, 
businesses limited and the public left mostly 
house-bound, the role of music in many’s day-
to-day routines has shifted. Listening to music 
has become less of a passive experience and 
more of an intentional activity.
Megan Haley, a 20-year-old UF music 
sophomore, said with less to do and fewer 
reasons to leave the house, her music 
consumption dropped. 
“Now that I don’t drive as much, I don’t 
listen to music as much,” she said.
Data from Spotify reflects this phenomenon, 
with a dip in earnings reported at the end 
of April. The company cited the change in 
morning habits (namely, the lack of them) as a 
primary factor for the decrease in activity. 
Music no longer helped people get ready for 
the day because people weren’t getting ready 
for the day at all.
 But, overall, use of the platform has risen. 
Spotify charted a 32% increase in users from the fourth quarter of 2019 to the first quarter 
of 2020.
 This uptick in usage could be attributed 
to increased interest in playlisting, something 
Rachel Alexander, a 19-year-old UF music and natural resource conservation sophomore, 
developed a penchant for over the COVID-
induced quiet time.
 “When quarantine started, I was super into 
making playlists for different moods,” she said.
“My favorite was ‘social dizzztancing’ 
because I was always exhausted back in March 
and April.”
 Though music’s place in the day-to-day 
has deteriorated, some have turned to leisurely 
listening to fill the extra time on their hands.
 “During quarantine, I definitely spent more 
hours listening to music than usual,” said 
Saachi Konjalwar, an 18-year-old UF business 
administraion studies freshman.
 The decrease in social plans provided a 
prime opportunity to listen to more music, 
and the specifics of what kind of music people 
were listening to varied significantly. Listeners 
seemed to gravitate toward one of two options: 
expand their tastes with new artists and genres 
or frequent old favorites.
 For Alexander, it was the former.
 “I’ve gotten into some new genres like rap 
and experimental and have focused on listening 
to a lot more BIPOC artists and branching out 
in my tastes,” she said. 
 But for others, like Haley and Konjalwar, 
the latter was more appealing.
 Konjalwar said the familiarity of artists like 
Taylor Swift and the Beatles, whose music was 
a major presence throughout her childhood, 
brought a sense of comfort and stability the 
pandemic had stripped. Haley, meanwhile, picked up her old pop-
punk catalog, especially when studying at 
home. She said it functioned as something to 
play in the background.
 But even if the music wasn’t new, both 
said they experienced an added novelty in their 
listening endeavors.
Konjalwar dove deeper into her favorite 
artists, digging into the entire discographies of 
favorites like Joni Mitchell and James Taylor.
 “I was discovering old music in a different 
way,” she said.
Music has been proven to impact the psyche 
in various capacities, and many have turned 
to it to cope with the chaos of the pandemic. 
Whether it’s metal music for an energy boost 
in the middle of a slow workday, smooth jazz 
to calm down after watching the news or a 
trusted favorite to bring a sense of familiarity, 
one thing is clear: Music affects mentality.
 “It’s my personal therapy,” Konjulwar said. 
 COVID-19 has been the source of a 
whirlwind of change, with new protocols and 
precautions constantly incorporated into daily 
routines. But through the turbulence, music 
remains.
 “Music – whether playing or listening to 
it – always helps me ground myself and know 
that things are temporary,” Alexander said.
 
 @hgrizzl
 hbushman@alligator.orgFlashbacks Recycled Fashions is stayin’ alive after 34 years
Music listening takes on new meaning in pandemic
FASHIONFASHION
MUSICMUSICRelax and cool down after 
an eventful week with the 
Avenue’s “After the Storm” 
playlist.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
Whether picking up old favorites, making 
new discoveries or halting listening 
altogether, many music lovers have 
altered their listening habits during the 
COVID-19 pandemic and the lifestyle 
changes that came with it.
allows students to withdraw from classes due 
to a health emergency; and Disability Resource 
Center accomodations. 
The student said she returned to the CWC 
a month later after beginning the medical drop 
process for Spring 2020. She found the coun -
selor who she had briefly met with to ask for 
a letter. 
She said the counselor realized then how 
severe her problems were and offered to put 
her on a waiting list to see someone weekly 
at the CWC.
“Well, you could have done that when I 
told you I wanted to kill myself,” the student 
said.
CWC director Escoto said he suspects more 
students were lost in the shuffle when moving 
to online counseling. He encouraged students 
who were disconnected from CWC services to 
call the center and ask to be reconnected.
The center operates on fees charged to on-
campus students. PaCE and online students 
can choose to opt in to the fees.
Escoto called the center’s health fee fund -
ing unpredictable – he doesn’t know what the 
budget will look like for the next semester until 
a few weeks into the current one. 
Drop/add week also makes an impact. 
Credit hours could be higher at the beginning 
of the semester and decrease as the semester 
continues, decreasing the center’s potential 
budget.
Escoto says this funding has not increased 
per student in the five years he has been direc -
tor.
The proposed 2020-21 budget is projected 
at about $7.5 million, Escoto said.
The center is still waiting to see what UF decides to do in the Spring before resuming in-
person counseling options, he said. UF plans 
to offer at least as many in-person class sec -
tions in the Spring as were offered in Spring 
2020.
A 20-year-old UF finance junior waited a 
month to see someone at the CWC. She had 
been suffering from frequent panic attacks, 
sometimes many times per day.
The student said she was told by a counsel -
or to download a breathing app on her phone. 
No follow-up appointment was scheduled. 
The student was told the CWC could not help 
her, as her treatment would require more than 
the six counseling sessions it could offer at the 
time.
“There are good resources there,” she 
said. “I just think that there’s not enough, and 
sometimes, it doesn’t match the severity of the 
issue.”
She was referred to another mental health 
professional in Gainesville by the center. 
In the meantime, she attended group ther -
apy sessions provided by the CWC, which she 
said was a helpful part-time solution. 
Escoto said this referral process is a stan -
dard operating procedure for the CWC.
“There might be some experiences or con -
ditions that we may not have somebody in 
our team qualified to provide care for,” Escoto 
said.
CWC assistant director Rosa West, who 
oversees the center’s outreach efforts, is aware 
of criticism the CWC has received from stu -
dents. 
The most recent outreach push was aimed 
at Reddit, a site that hosts forums for a variety 
of topics, including one dedicated to UF stu -
dent life. The center hosted an “Ask Me Any -
thing” on Oct. 19 that focused on improving the CWC’s relationship with students, West 
said.
She said the event’s announcement was 
met with backlash, but there were no negative 
comments during the Q&A session.
West said she wanted to inform students of 
the changes the center has made, especially its 
reduced wait times and that most poor expe -
riences with the center date back one or two 
years.
“What they may have experienced is not 
necessarily what our center looks like today,” 
West said.
In response to long wait times, Escoto said 
only about 6% of the 5,800 students who 
reached out to the CWC during the 2018-19 
year were waitlisted for two weeks on average.
“In the context of the academic experience 
of a student, two weeks feels like a lot of time 
to wait for an appointment,” he said.
Escoto said he has been asked by UF to pre -
pare for a state budget cut between 10% and 
20%, about $1.3 million.  
The center is in the midst of what Escoto 
calls a “hiring freeze,” which is why these po -
sitions remain unfilled. 
An 18-year-old UF nursing sophomore said 
she visited the CWC last Spring semester. She 
told the counselor she experienced anxiety.
She said the CWC was unable to provide 
regular, one-on-one meetings with a coun -
selor. 
Instead, she was offered sessions with a dif -
ferent case manager each week. After two or 
three sessions, she said she became frustrated 
and stopped going back.
“They were trying to help me, but it was 
clear that they didn’t know how to,” she said.
Budget allocation for staff salaries has 
steadily increased. The CWC received an ad -
ditional $800,000 in state funding over the 
past three years through the UF Provost Office, 
which was spent on 12 new counselors.
The center added 10 new counselors this year for a consultation and assessment referral 
team, totaling more than 20 new hires in three 
years, Escoto said. The funding to create this 
new team was from money carried over from 
previous years’ budgets.
These positions funded by the provost have 
been guaranteed for the next two years, but 
Escoto said he hopes to secure more funding 
from UF to permanently support these salaries.
The center’s grant money has disappeared 
in recent years. Escoto said that after grants 
expired in the 2015-16 fiscal year, the CWC did 
not allocate resources – both time and money 
– to applying for more grants.
He said most grants are research-based, but 
the center provides a service. Searching for 
grants applicable to the CWC would require 
a position dedicated to just this cause. Esco -
to sees this as resources that could be spent 
counseling students.
“It would really work against the mission,” 
he said.
A 21-year-old UF electrical engineering ju -
nior scheduled a triage appointment, where 
a counselor conducts a benchmark session 
with a new patient in order to create a treat -
ment plan, during Fall 2019 at the CWC. She 
found herself spacing out, whether it be during 
school work or talking to friends, and wanted 
to see whether her symptoms needed treat -
ment. 
The CWC employee told her that her class -
es may just be too difficult and referred her to 
a UF study tip workshop at the Reitz Union.
“She basically said, ‘Oh, well it’s highly un -
likely that you would have this if you made it 
to UF,’ as if somebody couldn’t make it to UF 
if they have mental issues,” the student said.
The junior said she feels as if UF, and what 
she called its negligence of the service, is 
where the real problems lie.
“Even though they say we care about your 
mental health, or your health in general, half 
the time it really does not seem that way,” the 
student said.
She said the counselor accused her of look -
ing for a drug prescription.
Escoto said the CWC does not prescribe 
drugs to students, but counselors make refer -
rals to UF Psychiatry services, located in the 
Student Health Care Center on Radio Road.
Dr. Kishan Nallapula, the head of UF tele-
mental health treatment, said if a student is 
requesting medical treatment, they should see 
a counselor who is able to refer them to the 
appropriate resource.
“It’s not like just because somebody is ask -
ing for medicine that they don’t get it,” he said.
A 19-year-old UF psychology and English 
sophomore also made an appointment at the 
CWC in Spring 2020, after returning from 
Winter Break and having trouble readjusting 
to college. 
She said there was only one therapist avail -
able and the weekly appointment conflicted 
with her class schedule. She said she was not 
offered to be put on a waitlist for individual 
sessions but was offered CWC group therapy 
and given papers to fill out to find a therapist 
in Gainesville.
She said she felt overwhelmed by this 
and decided it wasn’t worth it. She found a 
therapist online during the summer and said 
it worked out. 
“I haven’t yet met anyone that has had a 
good experience with the CWC,” she said. “I 
don’t trust them both because of the experi -
ence I had early this year and because I feel 
that they have not accomplished their goal of 
spreading mental health awareness across the 
UF campus.”
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.org6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
Rosmery Izaguirre / / Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
CWC,  from pg. 1Student clients decreased 7% since 2018-19EditorialMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinionsThe University of Florida needs mandatory COVID-19 testing
There’s a teaching tech known as HyFlex
And it’s what UF plans to do next.
If this tech is used well,
Things can go really swell.
If used poorly, instruction is hexed.
Why watch students’ backs filmed from a room
When you’d see all their faces on Zoom?
Like the teacher, they’re masked —
So the questions they ask
Will sound muffled. Discussion is doomed.
Can remote students feel they’re included
When HyFlex makes them further secluded?
Do we read chat on Zoom?
Talk to those in the room?
Might the Spring HyFlex Plan be deluded?
Marsha Bryant is a UF English professor.The Spring HyFlex 
Plan LimericksOp-Ed Limericks
Students are still partying and spreading COVID-19. 
We think it’s safe to say many students don’t give 
a damn about the pandemic or the warning emails 
sent by our Vice President of Student Affairs.
With the push for a limited return of in-
person classes next semester, course registration opening 
and UF even closing down a residence hall to make for 
more quarantine space, we wanted to address the topic 
of mandatory testing. UF President Kent Fuchs, in an 
interview with The Alligator, said he was considering 
mandatory testing for high risk groups such as students 
in labs and Greek life. With the increased number of 
in-person sections next semester, we think it is only 
reasonable for UF to further step up its testing capabilities.
It is a lot easier to get a test than it was at the beginning 
of the school year. UF Screen, Test & Protect can pat itself 
on the back for that.
However, one issue with the current testing system is 
that it still depends on people’s goodwill to come in and 
voluntarily get tested. How are we supposed to be catching 
asymptomatic cases if people don’t feel a need to schedule 
a test? What about all those people partying at bars?
If those students have the gall to rampage all over the 
streets of Gainesville in spite of public health guidance, 
UF administrators should at least respond with the same 
energy in mandating the partying students get tested.
Let us put this in terms Tigert Hall will understand by 
talking about the various levels of mandatory testing done 
by public universities ranked better than UF by U.S. News 
& World Report.
At UCLA, weekly testing is required for “all students 
living in university housing or participating in on-site or 
hybrid classes, as well as for faculty, staff or teaching 
assistants involved in teaching on site.” That’s what the No. 1 public university in the country is doing.
Next is UC Berkeley, where students in residence halls 
are required to be tested twice a week.
At the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, mandatory 
testing was utilized as a response to clusters in residence 
halls.
At the University of Virginia, all students were required 
to take a test in order to return to campus and there is now 
mandatory testing to catch asymptomatic cases.
The University of California, Santa Barbara, has weekly 
required testing for those “living in campus housing, 
working on campus or attending in-person instruction.”
Every school ranked higher than UF has had some sort 
of mandatory testing at one point or another, with the 
notable exception of the University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill, which was nationally humiliated for its failure 
to control the virus. UNC will have mandatory testing as it 
also returns to in-person classes in the Spring.
Let us not forget that 20% of our national ranking is 
calculated from the opinions of our peers. Compared to 
our peers, UF is not adequately taking care of its students, 
faculty, staff and the surrounding community — and given 
the embarrassing COVID-19 outbreak within our football 
team, how are our peer institutions supposed to think 
highly of us?
Experts theorize that 10% of infected people are 
responsible for 80% of new infections. UF needs to further 
step up its testing game: We need some sort of mandatory 
testing. Asymptomatic cases are slipping by right under 
our noses. We need to do better.
The Editorial Board is made up of the Editor-in-Chief, 
Digital Managing Editor, Engagement Managing Editor, 
News Managing Editor and Opinions Editor.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to 
fact-check and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also 
welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Come see for yourself why CAMPUS is better than a bank!As a not-for-profit financial co-op, owned by our members, it’s in our DNA 
to support the community and the organizations that support them.
campuscu.com/community-ad (Promo code: UF150)
 Visit us online to learn how to open a Free Checking Account1 and earn up to $150!2
Your non-profit or student organization ad HERE.
Visit campuscu.com/community-ad to learn more.
Membership is open to students, faculty and staff of the University of Florida, UF Health, and all residents of Alachua County!3 
One bonus per household. Offer not available to members with an existing CAMPUS checking account. 1. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member 
must elect to receive eDocuments.  2. Credit approval required. Offer subject to change without notice. May not be combined with any other offer. Member must elect to 
receive eDocuments and deposit over $200, per month, for the first 3 months. If the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will 
be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT 3. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required.
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Seeking to hire a graphic artist for childrenís 
book publication series. Candidates will 
need to demonstrate proficiency in Adobe 
Illustrator and/or Photoshop and ideally 
have exemplary art talent. Primary tasks will 
be to continue the artwork designs for ìThe 
Adventures of Ralph and Elmer.î Pay DOE. 
Interested candidates should contact Dr. A.W. 
Strickland at awstrickland2600@gmail.com.             
11-16-20-1-14
Construction Project Manager
Established commercial construction com-
pany based in Tallahassee Florida is ac-
cepting resumes from qualified applicants 
for an entry level Project Manager position. 
Applicants must be proficient with project 
scheduling, estimating, and job costing. Must 
have experience with scope & bid packag -
ing, management of subcontractors, and ma-
terials procurement. Minimum requirements 
are a Bachelors degree in construction 
related field, and/or PM or PE construction 
experience. Salary range is 50k to 75k and 
will be based on experience and/or qualifi -
cations. Company offers 401K company 
matching and partial paid medical insurance. 
Interested applicants should submit a re-
sume to sendresume850@gmail.com     
11-16-20-1-14
HELP WITH ERRANDS
Pick-up & Drop-off. Retired prof.
Car, computer & skills needed.
2 mi from UF. References required. Leave 
brief mssg w/phone number, betw 4 & 6pm 
only 352-378-9771 
11-16-20-1-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         11-16-7-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES - NOW 
HIRING bartenders and sandwich makers. 
Day and night shifts available. Friendly and 
Fast Paced. Reliable transportation required. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.   
12-7-20-2-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist.
BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info
12-7-20-5-141For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
The MC Hot-N-Happy Home School 
Supplies for Tools needed for Online 
Learning. Over 1,000 items of cheap sup -
plies. https://www.mchotnhappy.com  
11-30-20-4-10  
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.10 For Sale
readreadmeme
By Mark McClain
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/16/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/16/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, November 16, 2020
ACROSS
1 Wedding party 
escort
6 Witch’s 
incantation
11 Image file suffix
14 Garden-guarding 
spirit
15 Free-for-all
16 Poetic “before”
17 “Fingers crossed!”
19 Golf starting point
20 Cattle identifier
21 Puts dressing in, 
as a turkey
23 Painter or 
sculptor
24 American 
addition to 
Chinese cuisine
26 Face cover
27 Hawaii’s  
Mauna __
28 Watch over
29 Shakespearean 
rumpus
30 Sad on the 
Seine?
32 Migratory salmon
34 Vessel carrying 
soldiers
36 Directs (to), as a 
specialist
39 Fibbed
40 __ moment: 
revelation
43 Yemeni port
44 Bumped into
45 Hoity-toity sort
46 Steph Curry 
hoops specialty
49 Draw idly
51 College grounds
52 Lighthearted 
banter
53 See 53-Down
54 Earth-friendly 
retailer ... and a 
hint to the circled 
letters
57 Consumed
58 Stay away from
59 Offends the nose
60 “Spot on!”
61 Dots on a map
62 Doctrinal belief
DOWN
1 “This tastes 
awful!”
2 Smiled with 
disdain
3 Fictional captain 
Hornblower
4 “Bam!” chef5 Takes ten
6 Air quality issue
7 __ talk: team 
motivator
8 “Happy Endings” 
actress Cuthbert
9 Largo relative
10 Assistance, with 
“a”
11 Propellant for a 
flying fighter
12 Roll call 
response
13 “Who knew?”
18 __ trick: hockey 
player’s three 
goals in a game
22 SLR setting
23 “Selma” director 
DuVernay
24 Rhyming pair
25 NFL stats
27 Zodiac feline
30 “Turn on the 
heat!”
31 __ Angeles
32 “... __ loves me 
not”
33 Prefix with night
34 Local news hr.
35 Obedience 
school command
36 Friend of TV’s 
Sheldon and 
Leonard37 Provide 
schooling for
38 Ewes and does
40 “Subsequently ... ”
41 Mount __: oldest 
Seven Sisters 
college
42 Civil War prez
44 Red Square  
city
45 “It’s pretty 
obvious”
47 Nursery rhyme 
dieter48 Spanish  
omelet  
ingredient
49 Joe Biden’s st.
50 Unconcealed
52 Certain TV 
screens
53 With 53-Across, 
money transfer 
app
55 Yang’s 
counterpart
56 Wash. winter 
hours
By Jerry Edelstein
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/10/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/10/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 10, 2020
ACROSS
1 Church seating
4 The boy who 
cried wolf, e.g.
8 Hint of hunger
12 Señora Perón
13 Soften the effect 
of, as words
14 Pen name
16 Carrier to Cork 
and Shannon
18 Release
19 Streamlined, as a 
sports car
20 Miner’s find
21 Kitchen protector 
with strings
22 She played Ika in 
“Quest for Fire”
25 Tiered Eastern 
temple
28 “Definitely”
29 “Really?”
33 Chomped
36 Graduating 
group
37 Letters before a 
pen name
38 Back of a hit 45 
record
40 Rocky crest
41 Best Actor 
nominee for “The 
Crying Game”
43 Slippery, as a 
winter road
45 Colossus island
46 Ignore, with “to”
52 Chinese, for 
example
53 Baton Rouge sch.
54 Snake secretion
58 Italian sauce with 
pine nuts
59 Period preceding 
Reagan’s 
presidency
61 Tavern mug
62 Killed time
63 Boomer’s kid
64 Change for a ten
65 Prescribed 
medication 
amount
66 Mattel product
DOWN
1 “Split” veggies
2 Daredevil 
Robbie’s dad
3 Suffix with hard 
or soft4 “Hamilton” creator 
__-Manuel 
Miranda
5 “__ We Trust”: 
U.S. motto
6 Luxury Honda
7 Fix with thread
8 Regal abode
9 Hebrew A’s
10 Part of TNT
11 Be unable to 
swallow
13 Onetime 
Japanese 
emperors
15 Neil Diamond 
work
17 Composer 
Anderson and 
Jim Croce’s 
“Bad, Bad” 
Brown
23 Nice water?
24 “Science Guy” 
Bill
25 Agreement
26 Woody’s son
27 Camping 
equipment
30 Grabbed a chair
31 Luau strings
32 Eminem genre
33 Cardinal or oriole34 Cannes concept
35 Black or green 
beverages
38 Acted properly
39 Noisy napper
41 Australian airport 
code
42 Charlemagne’s 
realm: Abbr.
43 How football 
games rarely end
44 EOS cameras, 
e.g.46 Brewpub lineup
47 Was of __: helped
48 Up
49 Legendary 
Spanish hero
50 South American 
grilled meat dish
51 Rolls up, as a flag
55 Deli counter call
56 Early Hydrox rival
57 Contrary girl of 
rhyme
60 Golf ball holder
11/09/2020
solution on page 9
answers below
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many table -
spoons are in 1/2 cup?
2. TELEVISION: Which 1990s sitcom 
featured the theme song "I'll Be There 
for You"?
3. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the city of 
Timbuktu located?
4. GAMES: How much money does each 
Monopoly player get at the start of the 
classic game?
5. SCIENCE: How much of the Earth's 
surface is covered with water?
6. MOVIES: Which 2004 animated 
movie featured the character Edna 
Mode?
7. U.S. STATES: What is the capital of 
Michigan?
8. COMICS: Which comic character's 
favorite exclamation is "Good grief!"?
9. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is repre -
sented in the phobia cynophobia?
10. ANATOMY: What is the condition of 
"pes planus" more commonly called?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Trivia Test  answersMega Maze  solution
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
11..    TTrraaffffiicc  ________
11..    WWiitthhoouutt  aa  ddoouubbtt55..    GGoovveerrnneedd
22..    TTyyppee  ooff  hhoorrssee66..    ________  cciirrccllee
33..    AAppppeennddiixxeess77..    HHoorrrriiffiieedd
44..    ________,,  LLeebbaannoonn  AAGGIISSNNLL
RRLLYYEESSUUDDEERRLLUU
NNIIRREENN
DDEENNGGLLGGII
AAEEDDNNDDAADDHHAAAAGGTTSS
RREETTBBUUIIAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSiiggnnaall    55AA--RRuulleedd    66AA--IInnnneerr    77AA--AAgghhaasstt
11DD--SSuurreellyy    22DD--GGeellddiinngg    33DD--AAddddeennddaa    44DD--BBeeiirruutt    BB--HHuunnggaarryy1111--1166--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  ccoouunnttrryy’’ss  nnaattiioonnaall  
ssppoorrtt  iiss  wwaatteerr  ppoolloo..
BONUS
1. Eight
2. "Friends"
3. Mali in west Africa
4. $1,500
5. About 71%6. "The Incredibles"
7 . Lansing
8. Charlie Brown in "Peanuts"
9. Fear of dogs
10. Flat feetMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators golf alumnus Billy 
Horschel shot 1-under-par 
overall last week at The 
Masters to tie for 38th and 
make the cut.Gators open as 31-point favorite over Vanderbilt
Florida leads its all-time series with the Commodores 41-10-2. Circa Sports 
has the Gators winning by 31 points in Nashville, Tennessee, on Nov. 21.FOOTBALL
SOCCERBy Payton Titus
Sports Writer
There are three bronze statues outside Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium near the skybox entrance: 
one for each Heisman Trophy winner at the 
University of Florida. Three statues made to 
scale yet somehow larger than life. 
This Mount Rushmore of Gators football 
was erected with private donor money in 2011 
and has been beguiling recruits ever since.
After a long and arduous nine years for 
Florida fans, it’s looking like another quarter -
back could be joining Steve Spurrier, Danny Wuerffel and Tim Tebow after all.
Kyle Trask, a non-starter from Manvel, 
Texas, population 11,535, has been dazzling 
crowds bigger than his hometown at the Di -
vision I level for more than a year. After fill -
ing in for Florida’s then-starter Feleipe Franks 
when he broke his ankle against Kentucky in 
2019, Trask secured the starting job and com -
manded the national spotlight.
His performances against all SEC oppo -
nents this season have only turned up the 
brightness. Trask’s name, already in lights, 
glows more fervently than before with every 
program and conference record he claims.Last week against Georgia, Trask became 
the first SEC quarterback to throw at least 
four touchdowns in five consecutive games. 
This week against Arkansas, Trask threw for 
six touchdowns, five of which came in the 
first half. He broke Heisman finalist Tua Ta -
govailoa’s conference record for touchdown 
passes through the season’s first six games. 
With a schedule that included non-conference 
opponents like Duke, Southern Miss and New 
Mexico State, Tagovailoa had 27 touchdown 
passes. Trask has notched 28 against exclu -
sively SEC competition.
That number puts him in good Gators 
company as well. Saturday night’s perfor -
mance saw Trask join Wuerffel and Tebow 
as the only UF quarterbacks to have multiple 
seasons with 25 touchdown passes.
The only Heisman-winning quarterback in 
the last 30 years that Trask is chasing in this 
statistic is Lamar Jackson, who threw and ran 
for 30 touchdowns in the first six games of his 
2016 campaign with the Louisville Cardinals.
“I don’t know if he’s the frontrunner; I 
don’t get to vote, so,” coach Dan Mullen told 
the media about Trask’s place in the Heisman 
Trophy standings. “You can say, I think you 
have a vote, so if you want to say that, that’s 
awesome.
“We’ve been around this before. I think 
he’s a mature kid. The numbers stand.”
In that same vein, Trask (2,171 passing 
yards) only trails former BYU quarterback Ty 
Detmer (2,513) in passing yards through six 
games among Heisman-winning quarterbacks 
since 1990. Trask even surpassed former LSU 
quarterback and first overall pick Joe Burrow, 
who had 2,157 at this point last season.
The Gators’ remaining opponents include 
Vanderbilt, Kentucky, Tennessee and LSU. 
The Commodores are 0-6. The Wildcats are 
just shy of .500 (3-4), with their only wins 
from Vanderbilt, Tennessee and Mississippi 
State. The Volunteers are 2-4 and have lost their last three games. And finally, the reign -
ing national champion Tigers are a measly 
2-3.
It feels safe to say there’s nothing but 
smooth sailing left for the Gators until their 
presumptive SEC Championship game match -
up with No. 1 Alabama. These next four 
games could serve as a fine opportunity for 
Trask to pad his Heisman resume come the 
award’s finalists announcement on Dec. 24. 
When the final whistle blows and the sun 
sets on the Gators’ regular season, it might be 
time for Trask to break out the powder blue 
suit, jot down a victory speech and fire up his 
computer to accept the 2020 Heisman Trophy 
award virtually. But Anthony Richardson, one 
of Florida’s backup quarterbacks, doesn’t see 
the point in waiting until then.
“Aye I’m not supposed to be on my 
phone,” Richardson tweeted at halftime on 
Saturday. “But somebody tell them to give 
Kyle (Trask) the Heisman Trophy already!”
Trask, on the other hand, sang the same 
old tune Saturday night after the game. He’s 
worried about tallying W’s, not collecting 
bronze souvenirs.
When asked if he heard the crowd chant -
ing “Trask for Heisman” under the glow of 
the stadium lights, Trask replied “Uhh, yeah I 
heard it, obviously. But, you know like I said, 
we're just focused on winning games here.”
While he might not be paying the numbers 
or the accolades any mind, the rest of college 
football, its fans and the media are. His pro -
ductivity under center dumbfounds them.
The stats speak for themselves, and they 
say Trask is well on his way to lighting up cele -
bratory cigars with the likes of Joe “Burreaux” 
and the rest of the Heisman house. 
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.org
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida’s Susi Espinoza gave her team 
a fighting chance against Missouri in the 
second round of the SEC Tournament on 
Sunday.
In a must-win game, the redshirt se -
nior keeper recorded a season-high seven 
saves, but the Gators offense wasn’t up to 
par. Thirteenth-seeded UF was eliminated 
from the conference tournament after fall -
ing 2-1 to the fifth-seeded Tigers at the Or -
ange Beach Sportsplex in Alabama.
The Gators played into the wind in the 
first half, which affected their possession 
in the game’s early stages. Instead of play -
ing balls over the top, Florida resorted to 
short passes on the ground to penetrate 
Missouri’s 3-4-3 shape.
Mizzou countered with a high press 
that flustered UF coming out of the back. 
In the 17th minute, the Tigers took advan -
tage. With none of her teammates check -
ing in for a pass, Florida defender Taylor 
Baksay tried forcing the ball through the 
middle of the park. Missouri’s Bella Alessi 
was there to steal possession, though, and 
she charged right at the Gators until find -
ing midfielder Macy Trujillo at the edge 
of the box.
Trujillo’s awkward first touch almost 
let her down, but the senior remained 
composed in front of UF’s net to give the 
Tigers a 1-0 lead.
Florida answered back just four min -
utes later when forward Alivia Gonzalez 
threaded the ball into Cassidy Lindley, 
who made a surging run past Mizzou’s 
back line.
Lindley squandered a one-on-one op -
portunity in Florida’s 6-5 overtime victory 
against Kentucky but didn’t let a similar 
chance go to waste this time around. The 
junior forward dribbled around Tigers 
keeper Isabella Alessio and tapped the 
ball home for the equalizer.Although the game was tied at 1-1 go -
ing into the break, Missouri held the up -
per hand offensively through the opening 
45 minutes.
The Tigers registered 13 shots in the 
first half, with five of those hitting the 
target. Florida, meanwhile, shot just four 
times, and only two of those were on 
frame.
It was more of the same in the second 
half, as Missouri peppered Espinoza’s net, 
searching for the game-winning goal.
Mizzou finally broke through in the 
72nd minute when Alessi stuck out her 
foot to steer the ball under Espinoza’s 
flailing limbs.
The Gators pushed players forward in 
hopes of forcing overtime for the second-
straight game. However, Florida’s 26th 
season came to an anticlimactic end with 
Sunday night’s defeat to the Tigers.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgJoe, Shmoe: Move over Burrow, there’s a new Heisman in town
Florida bounced from SEC Tournament after loss to Missouri Courtesy to The Alligator
Gators quarterback Kyle Trask winds up to throw the football during Florida’s 
game versus Arkansas at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Nov. 14. After Saturday 
night’s performance, many media members and Gators fans see Trask as the 
frontrunner for the 2020 Heisman Trophy award.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Goalkeeper Susi Espinoza dives for a save in the opening 
game of the SEC Tournament on Friday. After winning 6-5 
in overtime on Nov. 13, the Gators tournament hopes 
were dashed Sunday night when they lost to Missouri.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11 
FOOTBALL SWIMMING
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
“Kyle to Kyle” has been the talk of the 
town in Gainesville ever since tight end Kyle 
Pitts’ breakout year in 2019 with Kyle Trask 
under center. 
However, with Pitts out for the foresee -
able future with a concussion and nose sur -
gery, there were questions about what the 
Gators’ offense would look like, especially 
after only scoring six points against Georgia 
in the second half last week. 
Consider those questions answered. 
Trask tossed six touchdown passes for 
the second time this season, and 10 differ -
ent players combined for 27 catches for 385 
yards in No. 6 Florida’s 63-35 win over Ar -
kansas. 
“We’ve known this ever since fall camp 
about how many different weapons we 
have,” Trask said.  “Even when we had Pitts 
in there, a lot of people like to double team 
and try to shut him down and leave other 
guys one-on-one. But this week, everybody 
did a great job stepping up, beating their 
matchups, and making plays on the ball.”
Sophomore Keon Zipperer filled in at 
tight end for Pitts, and he performed admi -
rably. Zipperer hauled in three passes for 47 
yards and two touchdowns. 
“You’re down Kyle Pitts, great playmak -
er, but (Kemore) Gamble and Zipperer step 
up and have really good games,”  coach Dan 
Mullen said. “The wideouts did a really nice 
job and Kyle Trask did a really good job dis -
tributing the ball, not getting panicky, taking 
what they were going to give us all night.”
Senior wideout Trevon Grimes led all 
Florida receivers with a season-high 109 
yards and a couple of touchdowns. Saturday 
was the first time Grimes eclipsed the 100-yard mark since totaling 118 against FSU in 
2018. 
It was a good night for UF’s younger re -
ceivers as well. Redshirt sophomores Justin 
Shorter and Jacob Copeland each caught a 
touchdown pass. Freshman Xzavier Hender -
son caught his first touchdown as a Gator 
and had 62 receiving yards. 
Florida’s ability to distribute the ball to 
a wide range of targets wasn’t unique to 
Saturday, either. The Gators have 12 play -
ers who have caught at least five passes this 
season, and eight of them have at least 100 
receiving yards. That group includes four 
wideouts, two running backs and two tight 
ends. 
In other words, Florida has a multitude of 
ways to beat opposing defenses. Mullen and 
offensive coordinator Brian Johnson have a 
seemingly endless number of different skill 
sets at their disposal to create mismatches. 
Even without Pitts, the Gators still have 
Shorter (6-foot-5) and Grimes (6-foot-4) who 
can be big targets for Trask and win jump 
balls. Senior Kadarius Toney has a team-
high 36 catches and is lethal in the open 
field. They have a pair of running backs in 
redshirt junior Malik Davis (267 yards) and 
redshirt freshman Nay’Quan Wright (134) 
who can be dangerous in the passing game 
when matched against linebackers. 
“Credit to Florida,” Arkansas defensive 
coordinator Barry Odom, who was Arkan -
sas’ acting head coach after coach Sam Pit -
tman tested positive for COVID-19, said. 
“They’re really, really explosive and an ex -
perienced team, and they probably deserve 
every accolade and ranking that they’ve got -
ten.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgBy Sara Kate Dyson
Sports Writer
The Gators shined at the U.S. Open, 
racking up eight medals by the end of the 
three-day meet. 
Eighteen current and five former Gators 
swimmers traveled to Sarasota, Florida, to 
compete in the 2020 Toyota U.S. Open on 
Thursday. 
Due to concerns regarding COVID-19 
and travel, this year’s U.S. Open looked 
different than usual. Rather than holding 
the competition in one location, the meet 
was broken up into nine different regions 
around the country. The Gators dominated 
in the Sarasota region. 
Thursday brought the first day of com -
petition, which only featured the 800-me -
ter freestyle event. The Gators took the 
top-three spots in the regional competition 
while four swimmers notched Olympic 
Trial cut times. Robert Finke took the win, 
while Kieran Smith and Alfonso Mestre fol -
lowed closely in second and third. Both 
Smith, who finished second, and Mestre, 
who finished third, set personal records in 
the event. 
On Friday, the Gators picked up six 
regional wins out of eight events. Smith 
earned the top time in both the 200- and 
400-meter free. Finke picked up another 
win in the 400-meter individual medley, 
and Clark Beach got his first event win in 
the 100-meter backstroke.
Former Gators Ryan Lochte and Enzo 
Martinez-Scarpe also notched wins. Lochte 
got the top spot in the 200-meter individual 
medley, and Martinez-Scarpe got it in the 
50-meter freestyle. 
The final day of competition kicked off 
with another Finke regional win, this time 
in the 1,500-meter freestyle. He finished 
26 seconds ahead of the next swimmer, 
earning another Olympic Trial cut. Beach 
earned one more win alongside an Olympic 
Trial cut in the 200-meter backstroke. 
Eric Friese and Miguel Cancel picked up wins on Saturday. Friese beat out Smith by 
.02 seconds to take the win in the 100-me -
ter freestyle. Cancel closed out the compe -
tition with a win in the 200-meter butterfly. 
With the competition being broken up 
into nine regional meets, the official results 
of the U.S. Open were not decided until all 
regions finished their events. After that, 
the times from each were compared and 
compiled to determine who would medal 
in each event. 
In the end, Finke earned the gold in the 
1,500-meter freestyle with a final time of 
15:09.14 and the silver in both the 800-me -
ter freestyle (7:53.05) and 400-meter indi -
vidual medley (4:18.08). Smith picked up 
two gold medals in the 200-meter freestyle 
(1:47.29) and 400-meter freestyle (3:48.78) 
events and bronze in the 800-meter free -
style (8:00.05). Beach earned the silver in 
the 200-meter backstroke (2:00.21), and 
Lochte took the bronze in the 200-meter 
individual medley (2:01.05).
The men will be back in action on Nov. 
18 for another three-day competition at the 
Auburn Invitational.
@sarakatedyson
skatedyson@alligator.orgGators prove offense is  
more than just “Kyle to Kyle”Current and former UF swimmers 
made a splash in the 2020 U.S. Open
Florida soccer’s 6-5 comeback victory over Kentucky on Friday quelled 
pleas to fire head coach Becky Burleigh in favor of adoration toward the 
team’s performance.
However, unless UF becomes the first 12-seed to win the SEC Tour -
nament, it will end the season on the heels of its worst campaign in 
program history, followed by a long offseason for Burleigh’s seat to simmer for 
the first time in her tenure.
Pillars of Florida’s online fandom, InAllKindsOfWeather.com and RayGa -
tor’s Swamp Gas, have called for a new manager, and many on Gators Twitter 
have criticized UF performances this season. 
Alhough the Gators lost to Missouri on Sunday, calls to sack Burleigh are 
short-sighted and ludicrous.
2020 and the pandemic don’t invalidate criticism of Burleigh, and I have plenty of 
issues with her management this season. I believe Florida was tactically stubborn this 
season, taking far too long adjusting to a more direct, progressive style of play. Set-piece 
defending was atrocious, with UF’s opponents consistently finding gaps in its zonal mark -
ing. 
Through her goal-scoring prowess and technical ability, senior Parker Roberts has 
demonstrated over the last three games she should have played in a more advanced role. 
But the tribulations UF faced this season are ones no manager could prepare for, and 
too much stock placed in this campaign undermines this staff’s consistent excellence in 
Gainesville. 
In September, the program’s positive tests canceled its first game against Missouri, 
and the Gators were largely unable to practice for two weeks. Given the elite fitness and 
skill required to play soccer, a fortnight away from the game is devastating. 
Positive cases and injuries meant Florida missed seven players in its loss against South 
Carolina, five against Tennessee and two against Kentucky. These absences, coupled with the staff’s decision to play a weakened squad for the final game against 
Missouri, meant UF was at full strength for just half of the regular season. 
Florida couldn’t be expected to lose its most potent offensive player and 
midfield fulcrum, Deanne Rose and Carina Baltrip-Reyes, and continue the 
season at an identical level. 
The team competed fiercely without these core contributors, losing by one 
goal on three occasions, including a gut-wrenching double-overtime loss to 
Vanderbilt. 
And while UF’s results in the last few seasons haven’t quite matched Bur -
leigh’s lofty expectations, notions that she hasn’t lived up to the “Gator stan -
dard” are more indicative of an entitled fan base than Burleigh’s supposed 
failures. 
The Gators were 11-9-1 in 2019, but it’s important to note four of Florida’s losses came 
against top-10 opponents. UF finished fourth in the SEC, and its loss in the NCAA Tourna -
ment came against a ranked USF team. Even in 2018,  the program’s worst season to that 
point, Burleigh finished .500 in the SEC and led the Gators to a conference championship 
game. 
In the 23 years prior Burleigh has presided over Florida, she has served as the pinnacle 
of consistency and excellence, posting a winning record in the SEC every season by a 
comfortable margin and consistently dancing deep into the NCAA Tournament. 
With the resources and support UF sports receive, relative to the rest of the country, 
Gators fans are fully justified in having high expectations. 
But it’s important to prevent recency bias from clouding their judgments and throwing 
gold, or in this case, a coach who is sixth all time in win percentage, in the trash. A sea -
son doesn’t make a manager, and while this year has been unacceptable, that shouldn’t 
discount the decades of elite soccer provided by Burleigh.Firing Becky Burleigh would be a ridiculous overreactionSuite Life on Declan
Declan Walsh
Twitter: @dawalsh_UF
Email: dwalsh@alligator.orgCourtesy to The Alligator
Gators swimmer Kieran Smith comes up 
to breathe while swimming breaststroke. 
Smith medaled in three events at the 
2020 U.S. Open this weekend.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020
Stream your 
favorite movies, 
TV shows, and 
Amazon Originals.
Start your 6-month trial,
no cost to you
amazon.com/UofFlorida