We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperStudents stay in Gainesville for Thanksgiving for work, safety
UF and Santa Fe students worry for their at-risk family members 
and opt to stay put,  pg. 4
UF plans to provide free vaccines for students, faculty
When the COVID-19 vaccine is available for distribution, UF 
Health plans to distribute it free of charge , pg. 6How are the Gators using Emory Jones?
Sports writer Brendan Farrell breaks down 
how UF has used quarterback Emory Jones 
this year after he threw a touchdown pass 
against Vanderbilt,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 13
U.S. REPORTS OVER 1.1 MILLION 
COVID-19 CASES THIS WEEK, 
FLORIDA REPORTS OVER 55,000
By Thomas Weber
Alligator Staff Writer
The risks of traveling home 
for Thanksgiving are far deadlier 
this year than spats with relatives 
over mashed potatoes and roasted 
turkey.
The COVID-19 pandemic is 
the worst it’s ever been in the 
U.S., with over 1.1 million cases 
reported in the past week. The CDC 
has warned against traveling this 
year, pleading with Americans to 
celebrate Thanksgiving virtually. 
Despite this, at least thousands 
of UF students are traveling home 
for the holiday and hundreds 
partied in groups over the 
weekend. A group of UF Health 
doctors staged a demonstration 
to pass out masks and raise 
awareness of the dangers of 
COVID-19 to bargoers.
The university asked students 
living in residence halls to 
complete a survey about their 
travel plans before and after break. 
UF estimates 87% of students who 
live in residence halls will leave campus for Thanksgiving Break, 
which begins Wednesday, said UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando.
This means about 5,000 of 
the 5,707 students currently 
living in on-campus residence 
halls plan to travel this week. Of 
those traveling, about 40% plan 
to return to campus afterward 
— despite classes moving online 
after break — and 24% were 
undecided, Orlando said.
Travel plans for the tens of 
thousands of students who live 
off campus are unclear, because 
the survey targeted students on 
campus. 
UF’s COVID-19 cases have 
risen consistently throughout 
November. From Nov. 14 through 
Nov. 20, the seven-day average 
was about 35 positive cases a day, 
and there are 799 students and 
staff quarantined as of Sunday, 
according to the university’s 
COVID-19 dashboard.
If people choose to travel, the 
safest way is by quarantining for 
14 days beforehand, and only 
spending time with people within 
the household, said Dr. Kartik 
Cherabuddi, epidemiologist and 
RICKEY DAVIS IS THE 
SECOND ACPS BUS DRIVER 
TO DIE FROM COVID-19 
SINCE AUGUST 
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
Editor’s note: Some bus 
drivers were granted 
anonymity because they 
feared repercussions, such as 
losing their jobs. 
Bus drivers are in crisis across 
Alachua County Public Schools. 
Many of the 126 drivers have lik -
ened their signature yellow ve -
hicles to germ-filled tin cans in a 
time when close contact is a safety 
concern.
ACPS bus drivers feel over -
looked and stressed after two co -
workers’ died as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Some ques -
tion if their jobs are worth risking 
their lives. Now, drivers want more 
protections and hazard pay, an ad -
ditional payment for performing 
dangerous work. 
The district doesn’t have any -
thing to hide, ACPS transportation 
director Reginald Thomas said.
In August, a 57-year-old ACPS 
bus driver, Troyanna Hamm, died 
from COVID-19. Hamm was be -
loved by family, friends, coworkers 
and students for her loving legacy 
as “the mother of school bus driv -
ers.” Hamm’s son said, at the time, 
she wasn’t warned she was ex -
posed to the virus. Rickey Davis, 
a 60-year-old ACPS driver of six 
years, died on Oct. 23, also from 
COVID-19. 
This isn’t a problem isolated to 
Alachua County. School bus driv -
ers from Clay and Miami-Dade STUDENTS WILL BE TESTED 
EVERY OTHER WEEK
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff Writer
UF announced Tuesday it will implement 
mandatory COVID-19 testing in Spring for 
students taking in-person classes along with 
those who live on campus.
Students will be tested every other week 
for free as they return to campus in January 
for the start of the Spring semester. All test -
ing must be done through UF Health’s testing 
sites, UF Provost Joseph Glover said at a Fac -
ulty Senate meeting last week. 
Testing will also be mandatory for students 
in sororities and fraternities who have a meal 
plan through their Greek house and students 
in UF’s Reserve Officer Training Corps.
“UF Health Screen, Test and Protect has not been able to detect any transmission of 
the virus in an academic setting,” Glover 
said. “To their knowledge, there has been no 
transmission of COVID in classrooms.”
Students who do not get tested within 48 
hours of their appointment will not be cleared 
for campus, Glover said. 
Students refusing to be tested could lose 
UF privileges or face potential suspension 
or expulsion, UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email.
Students who do not meet the conditions 
for mandatory testing can still obtain a CO -
VID-19 test voluntarily, as can UF faculty 
and staff. Students who have tested positive 
within a 90-day period are also exempt from 
testing though will be re-enrolled in it once 
that period ends.
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.orgThousands of UF students travel home for Thanksgiving, doctors warn of the consequences
School bus drivers feel endangered 
working during the pandemicUF mandates COVID-19 testing in Spring for 
in-person classes, Greek life and on-campus residentsShannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
 SEE THANKSGIVING,  PAGE 4
SEE BUS DRIVERS,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather
ISSN 0889-24232   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 13
THE MCAT, LSAT, GMAT AND MORE 
ARE LOOMING OVER THE HEADS OF 
PROSPECTIVE GRAD STUDENTS
By Rachel Slay
Alligator Staff Writer
The world looks different during COVID-19, but the 
daunting task of studying for post-graduate entrance 
exams is still weighing on students’ minds. 
Medical and law school testing formats made 
accommodations for the limiting circumstances presented 
by COVID-19. Students are working hard to prepare for 
the exams while balancing mental health, online class 
loads and living at home. 
The most common grad school entrance exams are the 
Law School Admission Test, Medical College Admission 
Test and Graduate Record Examination General Test. 
The Medical College Admission Test is the 
standardized test for prospective medical students in the 
U.S., and it covers key concepts and prerequisites for 
studying medicine. 
Students will still take the MCAT in person on the 
date they register for in socially distanced testing rooms, 
according to the Association of American Medical 
Colleges website. If an examinee tests positive or is 
exposed to COVID-19 within 14 days of taking the test, 
there is no fee to cancel or reschedule the exam. 
Students can apply for accommodations like extra 
time and additional breaks if they have a disability or 
medical condition that would require these. Supporting 
documentation must be provided. 
The emotional and mental exhaustion of test prep will 
have been worth it for Adebayo Olaoye, a 20-year-old UF 
biology and psychology junior, if he gets a good score. 
He is spending more time at home due to online classes 
and COVID-19 but wishes he could interact with others 
also preparing for the MCAT. 
Olaoye prefers to study in groups so he can bounce 
ideas off other people and figure out which topics he 
hasn’t paid attention to, he said. He hasn’t been able to 
do that recently. 
“It’s important to get other points of view,” Olaoye 
said. “Maybe you’re missing something or maybe you’re 
butting heads on a certain topic.”
Olaoye hopes to attend the University of Texas for 
medical school. He plans on studying neuroscience and 
becoming a neurosurgeon in the future, he said. 
Michael Contu, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, said 
he has a love-hate relationship with studying for the 
MCAT. 
Contu planned to take the MCAT in September and 
started studying for it in May. When COVID-19 caused 
mass quarantine, he moved his test date to January 2021 
so he could focus on his mental health and wellbeing. 
“I feel like I’m constantly climbing this mountain,” 
Contu said. “That is the most challenging part, reminding myself that it’s one step a day.” 
Kimberly Hall, a 21-year-old UF marketing junior, had 
the option to take the GRE or the Graduate Management 
Admission Test for her graduate business school 
application. Because the GMAT is only used to apply 
to business school, she thought it better to focus her 
attention on that test, she said. 
Hall took the GMAT in August, after studying for 
about two months. She began studying in June to prevent 
having to cram before the test, she said. 
“I was able to go through the entire thing without 
having to stress about not having enough time to finish 
it all,” Hall said. 
Hall spent hours researching whether she should take 
the exam in person or online and ultimately decided to 
take it at home, she said. 
“I was able to study in that environment, which 
allowed me to remember easier,” Hall said. “It's a lot 
easier when I'm studying in the same place that I'm 
taking an exam.”
On her first try, Hall earned a score within the range 
required to get into UF’s combined degree program for 
international business. This program allows a student 
to take graduate school courses while finishing their 
undergraduate degree. She applied for the program in 
August and will find out if she is admitted in December, 
she said. 
The Law School Admission Test assesses the skills 
necessary for success in the first year of law school, 
according to the Law School Admission Council’s 
website. In response to COVID-19, all tests taken from 
November to April 2021 will be an online, proctored 
version of the test, called LSAT-Flex.
Rhodes Evans, a 21-year-old UF psychology and 
political science senior, took the test in August and will 
take it again in the Spring. She thinks of it as a game — 
you get better with practice. She studied at home during 
the summer, where she was quarantined with her three 
loud siblings, she said. 
“Living, eating, studying and existing all within the 
same space can be really hard,” Evans said.
As Evans approaches her second test date, she spends 
about 20 hours a week studying material. She tries to 
take weekends off to let her mind breathe, she said. 
“It just sometimes makes your personal experiences 
feel so small when the state of the world is chaotic,” 
Evans said.
@racheljslay
rslay@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the News Media 
Alliance, National Newspaper Association, 
Florida Press Association and Southern 
University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinions Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett MullenaxGraduate school prep made 
more difficult by pandemic
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Laure Deliscar, 20, a UF biology junior, studies on the second floor of Library West on Friday, Sept. 
11, 2020. Deliscar said she appreciates how mindful they are about social distancing in the library.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
#orangeandbluesubTry the Orange & Blue sub, made with chicken tenders and topped with  
buffalo sauce and blue cheese dressing. Save time before class.  
Order ahead for in-store pickup at publix.com/orangeandblue . A taste  
of school spirit .4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
MORE THAN 20% OF 
APPLICATIONS WERE 
SUBMITTED ON DAY OF 
THE DEADLINE
By Rachel Slay & Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writers
The number of UF applicants 
didn’t go down this year, students 
just procrastinated. 
UF received 48,066 
applications, the most ever, in the 
midst of a pandemic. More than 
11,000 were received on the day 
of the deadline, and UF doesn’t 
have an answer for why.
 “None of us has been through 
an application cycle during a 
pandemic,” said UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando. “So, we’re really 
not sure what factors were at 
work here.”
Applicant numbers appeared grim early in the cycle, and the 
deadline was extended from Nov. 
1 to Nov. 16. President Fuchs 
said applications were down 
23% at an Oct. 15 Faculty Senate 
meeting.
 It is normal for application 
numbers to fluctuate daily, UF 
director of communications 
Brittany Wise wrote in an email. 
She said 21,500 applications were 
received in the three days before 
the deadline during last year’s 
Fall 2020 application cycle.
 Days after Fuch’s calculation, 
more applications rolled in. Wise 
calculated a 14% decrease by Oct. 
19.
Orlando said UF doesn’t know 
why application numbers went 
through a lull before surpassing 
last year’s record by nearly 2,000 
applicants.
He said that the university’s admission standards did not 
undergo any changes this year. 
This means UF was looking 
for the same GPA and test scores 
of applicants as it had initially 
planned. The UF 2020 freshman 
profile lists the middle 50% 
of accepted students scoring 
between 30 and 33 on the ACT 
and between 1320 and 1460 on 
the SAT. 
COVID-19 inflamed the already 
stressful process of college 
applications, as multiple delays in 
the nation’s standardized testing 
schedule made testing difficult for 
students.
Emma-Gail McMillan, a 
17-year-old Buchholz High School 
senior, was not one of the more 
than 20% of applicants who got 
her application into UF before the 
last day, and she feels good about 
it. Being a senior in high school 
during a global pandemic has 
kept cheering fans from attending 
her swim meets and has cancelled 
cherished events like prom, 
McMillan said. Getting into UF 
would definitely brighten up the 
cloudy haze of her senior year, 
she said. 
“Being around the Gator 
community is such an exciting 
thing,” McMillan said. 
To Rebecca Stewart, 
an 18-year-old PK Yonge 
Developmental Research School 
senior, the pandemic became a 
major roadblock for standardized 
testing. 
Stewart planned to take the 
SAT in the summer before this 
school year started, but COVID-19 
changed her plans. She had to 
submit her application without 
SAT scores because she hasn’t been able to take the test yet. 
Stewart will take the college 
entrance exam on Dec. 5, just 10 
days before the due date to send 
scores to the university. She will 
have to send her score blindly 
and hope for the best. 
“It is definitely scary because 
if I don’t get the score that I want, 
then I won’t know until those 
scores are ready and then UF will 
already have my application by 
then,” Stewart said. 
Stewart has spent over 20 
hours on college applications 
so far, she said. UF is one of 11 
schools to which Stewart has 
applied. 
@racheljslay
@jack_prator
rslay@alligator.org
jprator@alligator.org
STUDENT WORKERS 
FEAR RETURNING HOME 
COULD PUT THEIR 
IMMUNOCOMPROMISED 
FAMILY MEMBERS AT 
FURTHER RISK
By Kalia Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
While families and friends 
reunite for the Thanksgiving Break, 
some student workers have stayed 
in Gainesville to protect their 
immunocompromised loved ones 
from COVID-19.
UF administration encouraged 
faculty to offer courses and final 
exams remotely after Thanksgiving 
Break, so students could remain 
home if they chose to do so. 
As of Thursday, there are 12,176 
COVID-19 cases in Alachua County.  
Neftali Guzman, a 21-year-
old UF English senior, bartends at 
Downtown Fats at least four days a 
week since it reopened in September. 
Guzman said she has watched some students party safely while others 
have left their drinks at the bar, and 
strangers pick them up. 
“That’s pretty much what’s paying 
my bills right now,” she said. “A lot 
of these students are just exposing 
themselves, so they know the risk 
they’re taking.”
While she originally planned to 
go home for Thanksgiving Break, 
she said she doesn’t want to expose 
her immunocompromised family in 
Miami. Guzman’s mother suffers 
from diabetes, asthma and is 
overweight, which are all risk factors 
for COVID-19, and her 74-year-old 
grandfather, who currently suffers 
from cancer, has been isolating since 
the onset of the pandemic in March.  
Guzman works 30 to 40 hours a 
week and occasionally 16 hour shifts 
on game days to pay for her tuition 
and housing costs. Guzman comes 
from a family of Cuban immigrants 
and said she has to help pay for her 
grandfather’s hospital bills as well. 
“I can’t afford the luxury of being 
at home,” she said. 
While she has not visited Miami 
since Winter Break in 2019, she plans to quarantine in Gainesville for 10 
days so she can visit her family for 
Christmas. 
“I have been trying to do my best 
to keep my family safe,” Guzman 
said.  
As a bartender at White Buffalo, a 
downtown bar, Rebecca Breyer spent 
the semester watching partiers share 
drinks and make out with strangers 
despite the pandemic. 
Breyer, a 21-year-old pre-nursing 
Santa Fe junior, has worked at White 
Buffalo since 2017.  She plans to work 
through the Thanksgiving Break 
because her family is at higher risk for 
complications from COVID-19.
Santa Fe College will be closed 
during Thanksgiving Break from 
Nov. 26-28.
Her mother is 
immunocompromised due to asthma 
and gets bronchitis two to three times 
a month.
“I don’t want to be a carrier 
unknowingly and give it to them,” 
she said.
White Buffalo is closed on 
Thanksgiving Day, but Breyer said 
she plans to work Friday and through the weekend. She said the virus is 
going to spread, and people need 
to remember to sanitize and wear a 
mask.
“I hate to say it, but this is my 
job,” Breyer said. “That’s how I make 
money.” 
Breyer is required to wear a face 
mask at all times as a bartender. 
While guests are instructed to wear a 
face mask while in line, Breyer said 
it’s hard to tell every person to put a 
face mask on once inside. 
White Buffalo is restricting 
its capacity to 180 with four to 
five bartenders at a time, due to 
COVID-19, Breyer said. Guests are 
required to wear masks at all times 
unless they’re drinking, she said. 
“We do get customers that’ll come 
in and keep their masks on the entire 
time they’re here,” Breyer said. “But 
then there are the people who lose 
their mask as soon as they walk in 
the door.”
Millie Vanto, a 21-year-old UF 
elementary education master’s 
student, said she is staying in 
Gainesville for Thanksgiving Break 
because of the potential to spread COVID-19 to her family back home in 
Orlando. 
She has worked as a desk assistant 
at Infinity Hall since 2018 where she 
logs packages, provides lock-out keys 
and ensures residents are following 
COVID-19 guidelines. 
“I think that’s just a regular fear,” 
she said. “You could be a carrier, and 
you would never know.”
With both her parents older than 
60, they’re at higher risk of severe 
illness from COVID-19. Vanto said she 
gets monthly COVID-19 screenings 
and tested negative two weeks ago. 
She  prefers to go home for Winter 
Break rather than just a week for 
Thanksgiving. 
For students returning home, she 
hopes they’ll keep their Thanksgiving 
gatherings small and follow social 
distancing guidelines. 
“The sooner you do follow these 
guidelines, the sooner we can go back 
to a normal lifestyle,” she said.
@kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.orgUF sees largest applicant pool after fears of admission numbers falling 
Working students stay in Gainesville to not expose their families at home during Thanksgiving  associate professor of infectious diseases 
at the UF College of Medicine.
“Keep grandma and other at-risk 
family safer by choosing celebrations 
that keep friends six feet apart, masked 
and outdoors,” he said.
Getting tested prior to traveling is not 
the only precaution people should take, 
he said. People should continue taking 
precautions once they’re home, even if 
they’ve tested negative and quarantined.
“It is not to be applied as a pass to 
safety since any exposure in the past 
14 days can still turn into an illness in 
the subsequent days with no further 
exposure,” he said.While some UF students continue 
to party, others are taking precautions 
leading up to break.
Jenna Williams, an 18-year-old 
psychology freshman, said she got tested 
for COVID-19 Wednesday and plans to 
get a rapid test once she arrives home in 
South Florida Sunday. 
“I’m very serious about it,” Williams 
said. “I’m not one of those kids that goes 
out and parties right now.”
In the period between receiving her 
test results and actually leaving for home, 
Williams said she plans on isolating and 
wearing a mask, which she has been 
doing all semester. 
“I would feel so bad if I ever brought 
anything home,” she said. “So I will 
definitely do what needs to be done in order for that to not happen.”
Still, tens of thousands of UF students 
live off campus and in the surrounding 
Gainesville area, where bars and 
restaurants are typically packed full of 
mostly maskless students.
On Friday, a group of UF Health doctors 
and interns staged a demonstration 
outside Downtown and Midtown hotspots 
— Downtown Fats, White Buffalo, Fat 
Daddy’s — to voice their grievances 
about large-scale gatherings. 
Dr. Ellery Altshuler, an internal 
medicine resident at UF Health Shands, 
organized the demonstration. He and 
three other health care workers donned 
masks and scrubs, handing out masks to 
bar and restaurant goers.
They stood on street corners holding 
large, white signs that read “Protect 
your family this Thanksgiving, mask 
up,” “2,000 died today from COVID” and “don’t give the rona to your grandma.”
Altshuler said they staged the 
demonstration Friday night to remind 
people what’s at stake before they travel 
home for Thanksgiving. 
“All of the residents are seeing a ton of 
COVID patients,” he said. “People don’t 
realize the impact of some of these mass-
spreader events just because they don’t 
see it.”
Altshuler said it’s hard to watch people 
pack into bars and restaurants knowing 
the effect it has on hospitals. 
“The hardest part is probably calling 
family members,” he said. “They’re 
sitting by the phone, hoping for good 
news — you call them every day, and 
patients just get worse and worse.”
@thomasjohnweber
tweber@alligator.orgTHANKSGIVING,  from pg. 140% of students plan to return to campuscounties have died from the virus. 
Polk County school bus drivers 
have also recounted feeling unsafe. 
Others in Connecticut and North 
Carolina have shared similar sto -
ries.
The transportation department 
is fighting a losing battle against 
COVID-19, said Shanita Baker, a 
31-year-old ACPS bus driver of 10 
years. When Baker was in school, 
Hamm, or Ms. Ann, was her bus 
driver and later inspired her to be -
come a driver herself.
Baker also knew Davis, or Mr. 
Rickey, as she used to call him. His 
laugh and willingness to help stay 
ingrained in her mind. 
These days, Baker said, it’s a lot 
harder to form special bonds with 
students. There’s less laughing and 
joking. 
“You want to talk but don’t,” 
she said. “You don’t know who has 
it or who doesn’t.” 
While bus drivers and students 
are expected to wear masks and re -
spect social distancing, Baker said 
students are sometimes defiant or 
wear their mask incorrectly.
“It’s useless,” she said. “You 
might as well not have it on.”
Drivers often feel forced to 
come back to work, Baker said. She 
believes the school district should 
close brick-and-mortar schools to 
give the transportation department 
time to disinfect and regroup be -
fore reopening again. 
Drivers, she said, should have a 
protective barrier like plexiglass in 
addition to the personal protective 
equipment they already have, such 
as gowns, gloves, masks and face 
shields.
“We’re the frontliners,” she 
said. “The county just doesn’t 
care.”Transportation director Thomas 
acknowledged the department has 
been greatly affected by Hamm and 
Davis’ deaths.
“There is not a day that I get up 
in the morning that I don’t think 
about that,” he said. “Think about 
their death and how that has af -
fected not only me but our entire 
department.”
He said he shares whatever in -
formation he can. However, pri -
vacy laws about sharing health in -
formation make it difficult to share 
more, he said. If a driver has been 
exposed by transporting a positive 
student, the information wouldn’t 
be shared if they’re in self-quaran -
tine and didn’t test positive.
Multiple drivers said they 
haven’t been alerted about the 
COVID-19 cases that come from 
the students they transport. While 
schools send out letters to teachers 
and families about positive cases, 
bus drivers said they don’t get 
them.
Because of safety issues and re -
strictions from the National High -
way Traffic Safety Administration, 
bus drivers aren’t allowed to use 
plexiglass shields on school buses, 
Thomas said. He inquired with the 
safety administration about install -
ing them. 
Though Regional Transit Sys -
tem buses have them, school buses 
have stricter regulations because 
they are transporting minors.
Agreements for hazard pay are 
the responsibility of the union and 
the school board, he said. The deci -
sion to shut down the department 
or implement mandatory testing 
would also be up to the school 
board.
Employees issues are addressed 
with district administrators, such 
as the superintendent and assistant 
superintendents, during monthly 
“concern meetings.”“My number one goal is to take 
care of the employees, and I hear 
their concerns,” Thomas said. “I 
hear their fears.”
Bus drivers are scared to work 
but need their jobs, an anonymous 
driver said. The possibility of death 
is everywhere, and people aren’t 
being informed of potential contact 
with COVID-19 patients, she add -
ed. Information about who has CO -
VID-19, she said, usually spreads 
among drivers.  
“The bus is only so big and so 
long,” she said. “Whatever these 
kids have, we are exposed.”
Their job, the same driver said, 
used to be fun and challenging and 
gave her the opportunity to change 
a student’s direction.
“Now, it’s survival,” she said. 
“All of our lives are at stake and 
in danger.”
Morale among bus drivers is 
the lowest it’s ever been, another 
anonymous ACPS bus driver said. 
Ten bus drivers have retired or 
resigned since May, according to 
ACPS personnel records. 
The district uses the fact that 
people need jobs to their advan -
tage, even as many drivers make 
below the poverty line, the driver 
said. The transportation depart -
ment has safer, “cushy” jobs while 
bus drivers are on the frontlines 
dying, she added. 
The last day of classes in the 
2019-20 school year was May 29, 
while schools were still fully vir -
tual. This school year started Aug. 
31, but some drivers worked over 
the summer, driving buses rigged 
with hotspots for internet usage 
and taking students to summer 
courses. 
Though buses are cleaned be -
tween morning and afternoon 
drop-off and pick-up, the driver 
said there isn’t enough time to 
clean between elementary and sec -
ondary school runs.  
Elementary school students 
are dropped off around 7:15 a.m. 
whereas those in secondary ar -
rive around 9 a.m., Thomas said. Pick-up for elementary school is at 
around 1:50 p.m. and 3 p.m. for 
secondary school.
The average ACPS bus driver 
makes $20,782.27, according to 
employee salary records. 
Aside from the pandemic, the 
main issue drivers face is a short -
age of bus drivers, said Carmen 
Ward, president of the Alachua 
County Education Association, a 
union that represents education 
workers, including bus drivers. 
The district and union agreed 
to limit capacity to 50% on buses, 
she said. With fewer drivers, more 
buses near 100% capacity.
But there isn’t a shortage of driv -
ers, transportation director Thomas 
said. Instead, some drivers are on 
leave because they are quarantin -
ing, which reduces the number of 
drivers available for routes. 
The district is fairly transparent 
with updating its COVID-19 dash -
board and contacting parents at 
each school when there is a posi -
tive case on the campus or in the 
classroom, Ward said. However, 
she said she has been told bus driv -
ers haven’t been informed when 
they were in contact with a posi -tive case.
A union committee meets week -
ly to listen to bus drivers’ concerns, 
she said. The organization then 
works to address them with a bar -
gaining team that includes repre -
sentatives from the transportation 
department. 
At the Nov. 3 school board 
meeting, two bus drivers spoke 
during public comment. 
Mary Vinson said bus driv -
ers don’t have thermometers, and 
buses are often overcrowded. She 
also pointed out the board recently 
discussed funding a $1.3 million 
track and athletic facilities updates 
for Buchholz High School but not 
helping out bus drivers.
“We feel like we’re going 
through a crisis,” she said. 
Tarphanesha Phillips begged 
the board for mandatory COVID-19 
testing every two weeks. She said 
people were coming into work 
when they needed to self-quaran -
tine.
“Help us!” she said. “Help us, 
please!”
@feinberg_sophie
sfeinberg@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
grifolsplasma.comNew Plasma Donors EARN $300 for 4 donations!*
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!004IA
New donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.
 Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!*
* when applicable
*fees subject to change without notice. We DO NOT pay by WEIGHT!
004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 7/16/20   12:27 PM7/16/20   12:27 PM
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
BUS DRIVERS,  from pg. 1Buses are at 50% capacity6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
SEVERAL VACCINE DEVELOPERS ARE 
REPORTING OVER 90% EFFICACY IN 
PHASE THREE CLINICAL TRIALS, AND 
ROLLOUT COULD START IN DECEMBER
By Thomas Weber
Alligator Staff Writer
As the world anxiously waits for a 
COVID-19 vaccine, UF Health said it’s 
developing plans to provide it free of charge 
for students and staff.
When a vaccine is approved for pub -
lic use, experts say frontline workers and 
vulnerable populations will likely receive 
it first, as it will be in limited supply. But 
once it’s more widely available, UF plans 
to provide the vaccine to students and staff 
on an appointment-only basis, UF Health 
spokesperson Ken Garcia wrote in an email.
The university couldn’t necessarily force 
people to get the vaccine.
“UF does not have independent jurisdic -
tion to mandate vaccines,” said UF spokes -
person Steve Orlando. “That has to come 
from the state.”
This month, several pharmaceutical 
companies announced progress with their 
COVID-19 vaccines — a sign of hope dur -
ing a pandemic that has killed more than 
250,000 Americans.
“When there is enough available for the 
general population, our goal is to provide 
the vaccine at no cost to UF students, fac -ulty and staff,” Garcia wrote.
The vaccine would be available on an 
appointment-only basis, similar to how 
the university administers flu vaccines, he 
wrote. Currently, flu shot appointments can 
be scheduled virtually through the Student 
Health Care Center. 
Garcia said it’s too early to say how 
much it will cost the university to acquire 
the COVID-19 vaccines, because none have 
been approved for public use yet. Friday, 
Pfizer, an American pharmaceutical com -
pany, submitted its emergency use authori -
zation to the FDA to approve distribution of 
its vaccine. The request could be approved 
in December.
Florida’s cases have also been ris -
ing since the beginning of October; there 
were over 10,000 cases recorded Nov. 15, 
the highest since July. UF’s cases have re -
mained steady in November, with the most 
recent seven-day average being about 32 
cases a day, according to the university’s 
dashboard. 
The Florida Department of Health’s draft 
vaccination plan divides distribution into 
three phases: First, health care workers and 
long-term care residents and staff will re -
ceive it, then hospitals and state-mandated 
vaccination clinics, and finally, health pro -
viders like commercial pharmacies, thus 
making it accessible to the general public.
Historically, vaccine development takes 
several years — usually about four, wrote Dr. Kartik Cherabuddi, epidemiologist and 
associate professor of infectious diseases at 
the UF College of Medicine, in an email.
Pfizer and biotechnology company Mod -
erna are developing the two COVID-19 vac -
cine frontrunners. Both vaccines are unique 
because they use mRNA, a molecule in the 
body that helps with protein synthesis.
Traditionally, vaccines inject either pro -
teins or inactivated bacteria or viruses. Ch -
erabuddi said these vaccines take longer to 
make. For example, the flu vaccine takes 
five to six months to produce, he said. 
The COVID-19 vaccine administers 
mRNA, which creates the proteins associ -
ated with coronavirus; the body then de -
velops antibodies that recognize these pro -
teins, making it able to fight off the actual 
coronavirus if the vaccinated person is ex -
posed. 
But the new vaccine presents its own 
challenges; mRNA is unstable, meaning the 
vaccine must be contained at very cold tem -
peratures during storage and distribution, 
Cherabuddi said. Pfizer’s vaccine must be 
stored at -70 degrees Celsius, and Moder -
na’s at -20 degrees Celsius. 
“This COVID-19 vaccine development 
is a testament to what humankind can do 
when using single-minded focus among all 
stakeholders,” Cherabuddi wrote.
Both companies are reporting their vac -
cines are over 90% effective, far surpass -
ing the FDA’s threshold for approval, which is at least 50% effectiveness. The FDA also 
strongly recommended vaccine trials in -
clude a diverse population of participants 
before approval.
In both Moderna and Pfizer’s studies, 
half of their participants were inoculated 
with the vaccine, while the other half re -
ceived a placebo. 
Wednesday, Pfizer announced its 
COVID-19 vaccination is 95% effective after 
participants received two doses over a 28-
day period. Monday, Moderna announced 
its COVID-19 vaccine is 94.5% effective. 
Neither company reports any side effects 
associated with its vaccines.
The companies’ studies were only de -
tailed in press releases, not peer-reviewed, 
scientific  journals. But Cherabuddi said the 
results are reliable because independent 
boards reviewed the companies’ data.
Pfizer submitted its emergency use au -
thorization to the FDA to approve distribu -
tion of its vaccine on Friday.
At-risk populations will likely start re -
ceiving the vaccine by the end of December, 
said Dr. Anthony Fauci, National Institute 
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director, 
during a press conference Thursday.
“We need to actually double down on 
public health measures as we’re waiting for 
that help to come,” Fauci said.
@thomasjohnweber
tweber@alligator.org
HOW THE PANDEMIC 
HAS AFFECTED THE 
AVAILABILITY OF CULTURAL 
CUISINE IN GAINESVILLE
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
Culture-specific cuisine in 
Gainesville has faced accessibility 
hurdles resulting from price hikes 
on hard-to-find ingredients during 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
Economic upheaval due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic has made rip -
ples in the city’s food landscape, as 
store owners experience increased 
ingredient prices and customers 
remain wary of dining in. Student 
shoppers could see fewer options on 
grocery store shelves and restaurant 
menus as a result.
Prum’s Kitchen, a Cambodian 
restaurant that first opened in Janu -
ary, only had two months of nor -
malcy before sales plummeted due 
to the pandemic, said Bo Prum, 54. 
Prum, who co-owns the 6 S. Main 
St. restaurant with his wife, Leanna, 
said they’ve had to spend between 
$2,000 and $5,000 from their sav -
ings each month to keep the busi -
ness running.
Ingredients such as lemongrass 
and Kaffir lime leaves, which are 
both used to marinate beef skew -
ers, chicken skewers and stir fry 
at Prum’s Kitchen, doubled, and 
sometimes tripled, in price. Prum 
said he buys the greens at Chun Ch -
ing Market on 418 NW Eighth Ave., 
but he said the Asian grocery store 
has struggled with supply.
Prum had to increase his weekly 
trips to Sam’s Club, where he gets 
chicken, beef, pork and lettuce for the restaurant, to daily trips due to 
dwindling stock. 
The couple decided not to raise 
prices despite struggling financially, 
because higher prices might deter 
the few customers they have. A typ -
ical meal at Prum’s costs about $12.
They’ve frozen enough ingre -
dients to last in spite of shortages, 
and they have few enough custom -
ers that their supply won’t run out, 
but they have no guesses for what 
the future holds for Prum’s Kitchen, 
Prum said.
Khetpapol Limphoka, owner of 
If It Is Kitchen and Café at 104 S. 
Main St., said procuring all the spe -
cific ingredients required to make 
its intricate Thai dishes has been a 
challenge.
One such dish, If It Is Kitchen’s 
house-made curry, needs almost 25 
ingredients. If even one is missing, 
the restaurant can’t make it.
Limphoka usually imports some 
items, like spicy Thai peppers and 
fruit purees used in drinks, from 
Thailand, but because products 
were stopped at customs due to the 
pandemic, he has had to periodi -
cally remove dishes from the menu.
Ethnic grocery stores have also 
suffered financially due to price 
hikes and item shortages from 
vendors, said Fawzy Ebrahim, the 
48-year-old owner of Zeezenia In -
ternational Market.
Zeezenia, located at 2325 SW 
13th St., sells Turkish, Persian, 
Greek, Middle Eastern, Bulgarian, 
Indian and Hispanic foods. Ebrahim 
stocks the store with imports from 
about 15 vendors.
The prices that Ebrahim must 
pay for most items, like pastrami, 
increased at least 30%, he said. 
Others, like the spice cardamom, increased dramatically by about 
125%. Still others have been com -
pletely out of stock. Ebrahim has 
asked for the Bulgarian butter and 
cheese that has been out of stock for 
six to seven months, but his vendor 
has no answers yet.
With increased prices at the mar -
ket, sales have dropped about 75-
80% during the pandemic, Ebrahim 
said. Sales typically go down in the 
summer months when most college 
students head out of Gainesville, but 
the sales haven’t gone back to nor -
mal because many students decided 
to stay at home.
Food supply shortages initially 
added a hurdle for Caribbean places 
in the city as well, said Darron Al -
varenga, co-owner of the fast casual 
eatery Caribbean Spice.
“It’s stabilizing now, but for 
the first three months, it was stag -
gering,” he said. “It’s really having 
a tremendous impact across the 
restaurant industry, especially for 
smaller mom and pop restaurants.”
Alvarenga said Caribbean Spice, 
located at 1310 NW 23rd Ave. in 
Gainesville, takes pride in its family 
recipes, where most of the dishes 
are made from scratch. The res -
taurant searches locally for fresh 
meat and produce and buys from 
suppliers specializing in Caribbean 
ingredients. The Jamaican eatery 
also imports goods, like the Scotch 
bonnet peppers used in homemade 
spicy pepper sauce, directly from 
the Caribbean.
However, the prices for oxtail, 
used in the oxtail lunch and dinner 
plates, and beef, used to stuff Ja -
maican patties, tripled in April, he 
said. Other ingredients experienced 
a price hike of about 32-35%. While 
the prices have gone down slightly since then, they haven’t deflated 
back to pre-COVID-19 costs yet. Ca -
ribbean Spice hasn’t taken anything 
off the menu to compensate, and 
it doesn’t plan on increasing meal 
prices either.
“We’ve been trying to see if we 
can absorb some of that expense,” 
Alvarenga said. “I’m conscious of 
the fact that a lot of people are hurt -
ing, and some of those people are 
our customers.”
Some Caribbean students at UF 
said the pandemic hasn’t affected 
how much Caribbean food they can 
find in Gainesville, although it is 
limited compared to where they’re 
from.
In Gainesville, Kimberly Thomp -
son, a Jamaican 19-year-old UF 
health science sophomore, can buy 
seasonings from Walmart to make 
curry and jerk chicken. 
But she goes back home to Fort 
Myers for goat meat, pig’s feet or ox -
tails, and she buys from Jamaican or 
Haitian mom and pop shops.
She’s able to drive back more 
often with the flexibility of online 
learning.
To avoid increased meat prices 
at grocery stores during a period 
of meat shortages, Thompson said 
her family stocked up on larger por -
tions of meat than usual from butch -
ers and bought meat directly from 
farms.
As people took up baking as an 
at-home hobby, they also took up 
the flour and yeast supplies in gro -
cery stores. This made it harder for 
21-year-old UF public health and bi -
ology senior Carrisa Sookoo to get 
ingredients for roti, an Indian flat -
bread.
“Other than that, I don’t think 
any other ingredients were affected too badly,” Sookoo said. “I usu -
ally buy it in bulk because I know I 
make it a lot.”
Sookoo hasn’t found ready-
made Trinidadian food anywhere in 
Gainesville, so she either brings her 
mom’s cooked meals or prepares 
dishes herself. She usually makes 
rice with chicken, peas and other 
vegetables.
“I don’t get the same authentic 
food that I like to eat or from my 
mom’s house or that I would get 
in South Florida, but I do get to get 
something if I really do want it,” she 
said.
Like Thompson, Sookoo also 
shops at Walmart for browning 
sauce to make chicken and beef 
stews and for spices like cumin and 
turmeric. She stops by India Bazaar, 
located at 3550 SW 34th St., to get 
curry.
Sookoo buys larger quantities 
and tries to limit her time in restau -
rants and grocery stores in an effort 
to limit her exposure to COVID-19.
Asha Clarke, a 19-year-old UF 
anthropology sophomore, loves 
eating ackee and saltfish and buy -
ing Jamaican food from Caribbean 
Queen, located at 507 NW Fifth 
Ave. But during the pandemic, she’s 
eating less Jamaican food — not 
because of unavailability — but be -
cause she’s cut back on eating out 
as a precaution.
“I’m just trying to be extra safe 
because people are partying, and I 
live near Midtown” she said. “I feel 
like going to the Jamaican restau -
rant in Gainesville with my COVID 
protocol is out of the way or increas -
ing exposure in a way.”
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgUF plans to provide students and staff with free COVID-19 vaccines when available
Caribbean and Asian restaurants, students describe food supply in uncertain timesMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
VEGAN STUDENTS ENDURE 
TEASING AND HUNGER 
DURING NON-VEGAN 
FAMILY HOLIDAY MEALS
By Michelle Holder
Avenue Staff Writer
After a semester of ramen noodle 
packages and Chipotle runs, a home-
cooked meal is sometimes all college 
students look forward to.
But for vegans and vegetarians, 
Thanksgiving looks a little different: 
Turkeys are traded for tofu, mac 
and cheese is replaced with vegan 
alternatives and mashed potatoes 
are made with plant-based milk. 
Vegans and vegetarians often 
encounter dinner-time challenges 
when home for the holidays, as 
their families whip up the traditional 
Thanksgiving dishes full of butter, 
meat and cheese. The plant-based 
lifestyle may often leave vegans 
feeling teased, awkward and hungry.  
For Christina Speros, a 19-year-
old UF nutritional sciences sophomore, being vegan means 
dealing with teasing from her family 
and navigating family meals. As a 
nutrition major, she feels passionate 
about veganism, fitness and living a 
healthy lifestyle.
She has been vegan for over a 
year and a half, but with an Italian 
mom and a Greek dad, her family’s 
Mediterranean background means 
their diets heavily consist of meat 
and cheese. 
Speros’ cousin is also vegan, 
so they plan their meals for 
Thanksgiving together, she said. 
This year, she is hoping to make 
vegan candied yams and a pumpkin 
cheesecake, along with other dishes. 
As much as she faces a hard time 
from her family for being vegan, 
Speros’ family always ends up 
fighting over her vegan chocolate 
chips cookies.
“It’s always in the desserts that 
get them,” she said. 
Marlee Anctil, a 19-year-old 
political science sophomore, is 
planning for her first Thanksgiving 
as a vegan, which she said will consist of a lot of the food she eats 
on a regular day. 
“It’s going to probably be like 
a normal dinner and not really 
Thanksgiving just because it’s kind 
of hard.”
Anctil has been vegetarian for 
five years but made the transition 
to veganism in March. When she 
first transitioned into becoming a 
vegetarian, her family, especially her 
grandparents, who are from Mexico, 
didn’t react well to the news. 
“They were upset,” she said. 
“They didn’t want to have to 
accommodate special meals for me.”
This Thanksgiving, she said her 
family has accommodated some of 
their recipes so she can share some 
of the same dishes with everyone 
else. 
“I am afraid that it’s not going to 
be as good as Thanksgivings prior, 
especially because my parents make 
some really amazing non-vegan 
meals,” Anctil said.
Rain Meekins, a 19-year-old 
UF construction management 
sophomore, said his transition to becoming a vegan was gradual. 
He said he became a vegan due 
to his environmental and animal 
agriculture concerns. 
Meekins said his family is 
supportive of his diet but has faced 
criticism from his brother. 
“My brother always nags,” 
Meekins said. “They were just 
concerned if I am getting my 
nutritional needs.”
For Thanksgiving, he makes a 
lentil-based meatloaf and sticks to 
eating a lot of vegetables. He also 
says his family substitutes non-
vegan items for vegan alternatives 
for him.  
“For mashed potatoes, a lot of the 
time they’ll use dairy-based butter,” 
he said. “I’ll be like, ‘Hey, I can have 
some too as long as you use this 
vegan butter that tastes the same.’”
He said sticking to small changes 
and making dairy-and-meat-free 
swaps in the kitchen can help.  
“You can still enjoy Thanksgiving 
just as much,” he said. “You can 
still be vegan and enjoy the same 
types of foods in the same way. Thanksgiving is still Thanksgiving.”
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.com
Caeleb Dressel breaks three more World Records
The former Gators swimmer broke three World Records in one 
weekend at the ISL semifinal meet in Budapest, Hungary, this 
past weekend. This came one week after he set one World 
Record and two American records, pg. 12STUDENTS LOOK TO AVOID HOLIDAY 
ARGUMENTS AFTER PERIODS OF POLITICAL AND 
SOCIAL UNREST
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
Thanksgiving: a time for turkey, togetherness and, for some, 
turmoil.
In the wake of one of the most divisive periods in recent his -
tory, college students are bracing themselves for what may be 
a tense family reunion for Thanksgiving. The ongoing fight for 
racial justice, the economic and public safety crisis brought on 
by the COVID-19 pandemic and a controversial election season 
have all driven a wedge between the American public. Policy issues have turned personal, and for that reason, civil 
discussions across the dinner table have the potential to heat 
up very quickly. 
Gabriel Castro, a 20-year-old UF political science and in -
ternational studies sophomore, said he anticipates politics as 
a topic of conversation when visiting his extended family in 
Miami, especially given an election President-elect Joe Biden 
declared as a “battle for the soul of the nation” at a campaign 
speech in Georgia.
“I am excited to see everyone, but I know politics will be 
brought up,” he said. 
It’s a conversation that — in light of his politics differing 
from those of his family — Castro isn’t excited to have. But he’s 
not alone: More Americans have said it’s “stressful and frustrat -
ing” to talk about politics since the 2016 election, according to a 
study from Pew Research Center. 
The apprehension can be particularly pronounced for col -
lege students.
The college experience brings people of all backgrounds and 
perspectives together, and research shows this can facilitate 
an exchange of ideas not found in the homogeneity of a high 
school or a hometown. 
“I feel like meeting a lot of different people during college 
has really made me more open-minded to a variety of different 
perspectives,” Castro said. 
For some students, these broadened horizons can result in 
the emergence of a different political outlook than those they 
were raised with. 
Alexandra Cote, a 21-year-old UF biomedical engineering se -
nior, is also used to the conflict. She cited differences in location 
and educational background as the source of the stark contrast 
between her and her family’s political stances. 
“As our views diametrically oppose, we definitely argue,” 
she said.
The ideological split many face makes going home for the 
holidays such a testy endeavor, but luckily, there are ways to 
subdue the stress these gatherings may supply.Easing the tension often comes in the form of avoidance, a 
tactic the Thomas-Kilmann Model notes as one of the five most 
effective strategies of conflict resolution. Diverting the conver -
sation away from the topic of controversy, or ignoring it en -
tirely, is often used to stop an argument in its tracks. 
Nick Manhart, a 25-year-old UF finance sophomore, knows 
this method well. 
His rural Indiana family often discusses politics, and when 
the topic comes up, he said the best way to get out of the poten -
tially uncomfortable situation is to walk away. 
“Luckily we have a big enough family to be able to escape it 
and go do something else,” Manhart said. 
Psychologists have said it’s acceptable, even necessary, to 
step away from conversations when they begin to feel dam -
aging. While it’s tempting to tackle hot topics, especially with 
those who harbor separate perspectives, winning an argument 
often isn’t worth the anger or anxiety that comes with it. 
Instead, placating the conversation can be more productive. 
Playing peacekeeper may seem like a losing strategy, but 
yielding to the opposition could prove opportune in retaining 
relations – especially when your ideological adversary is the one 
passing you the potatoes from across the table.
Castro said, despite his dissent, he generally finds himself 
keeping quiet in the face of family political discussions. He said 
it’s important to him to maintain civility, even at the expense of 
getting his point across. 
“The last thing I want is to have to worry about my family 
resenting me over policy preferences,” he said. 
When approached by particularly passionate relatives, Man -
hart employs a similar tactic. 
“Give them a couple minutes, say ‘Yep’ a couple times, then 
smile and walk away,” he said. “Usually works out pretty well.” 
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgFamily feud: navigating Thanksgiving amid political tension
Vegan students plan for Turkey Day without the turkey
CULTURECULTURE
FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINKShannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
Some students know family holiday dinners 
mean heated argument. Some respond with 
avoidance, others anticipate rising tensions.
Whether you love to cook 
or just love to eat, enjoy 
your kitchen time with 
these dinner time tunes 
from the Avenue staff.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinionsI recently received an email from a student 
graduating in December. 
“Dear President Fuchs, If your schedule 
allows, I would like for the opportunity to 
update you and explain how the University 
of Florida has had such a tremendous positive 
impact on my life. Without getting into too 
much detail, there was a point in my ‘colorful’ 
past (for lack of a better phrase) where I was 
truly hopeless mentally, physically and spiri -
tually. … Bottom line, I am eternally grateful 
for the University of Florida … for providing 
me with the opportunity to transform into the 
scholar, leader, and well-rounded person that 
I am today.
In the same way that all of us Gators were 
challenged [by you to have] unreasonable ex -
pectations during this unusual semester, I feel 
that the University of Florida has provided me 
with the chance to be unreasonably hopeful in 
light of my unusual past.
Thank you for this exceptional university 
that has given me my life back. I look forward 
to the possibility of hearing back from you. Go 
Gators!”
We met last week. And, with the student’s 
permission, I briefly share his story as an en -
couragement as we face the remaining weeks 
of a difficult semester.
The student’s “colorful past” is one of ad -
diction to opioids. He was a student at a pres -
tigious university in another state, but due to 
addiction and its impact on his grades, he had 
to leave the university. He was homeless, living 
on food stamps and using heroin.
A recovery center and living in a halfway 
house for two years in South Florida brought 
him the sobriety he needed to get a job. His 
boss, a UF graduate, encouraged him to try again to pursue a college degree. He took cours -
es at a state college and then successfully ap -
plied to UF. In his bedroom today hangs his UF 
acceptance flyer, which reads “IT’S OFFICIAL. 
I’M NOW A GATOR” and “Your potential is 
Greater as a Gator.” Arriving at UF with “a few 
trash bags full of clothes and the hope for a bet -
ter future,” his goal for his first semester was to 
pass all his courses with a grade of C or better.
He did better. Last year, he received his UF 
bachelor’s degree with a 4.0 GPA, and next 
month he is receiving his master’s degree with 
an expected 4.0 GPA.
We first met last year at a university awards 
ceremony where this student received an 
award. I was so encouraged to meet him again 
last week and to hear that he is still doing well. 
As he said, “UF didn’t cure my opioid addiction, 
but UF gave me back my life and my smile.”
I have never had a perfect 4.0 GPA, and I 
have never been addicted to opioids. However, 
this fellow Gator is such an inspiration to me. 
As we all face the disappointments and threats 
caused by COVID-19, combined with the pres -
sure of a rapidly approaching end to the Fall, 
please know that the seemingly insurmount -
able difficulties we are facing do have an end 
and that each of us should be encouraged by 
the hope before us. I pray we all have strength, 
stamina and a strong finish to the semester.
Finally, to any student struggling with ad -
diction, please know there is help available 
through the UF Counseling and Wellness Cen -
ter’s Alcohol & Other Drug Services programs.
I wish you a restful and well-earned break 
over the holidays. Go Gators!
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. You can 
find his monthly column in The Alligator.The UF administration promised 
students there will be face-to-
face teaching this Spring. You 
will soon discover this is not 
quite the case. 
In order to please our state’s leader -
ship and assure continued funding, UF 
President Kent Fuchs and Provost Jo -
seph Glover have mandated that there 
will be as many face-to-face classes this 
Spring as last Spring. However, because 
of social distancing guidelines, about 
15% of the seats in these classes will be 
live while the rest will be online. 
It gets worse. Because these seats are 
not being equitably distributed to stu -
dents, those who register last and are 
most in need of the face-to-face experi -
ence — first years — will likely have 
the fewest number of seats available to 
them. As students now register for class -
es, they are seeing that the promise of 
face-to-face teaching is hollow.
Even for those who get a class with 
face-to-face teaching, the university 
has not protected students or profes -
sors from the greater risk of getting 
COVID-19. Without hiring more staff to 
clean and sanitize, upgrading ventilation 
systems, or supervising mask wearing or 
social distancing, the university is assur -
ing students and faculty in live classes 
that they are at little risk of getting the 
virus. 
Many faculty who are at greater risk 
of getting the virus because of their age 
and/or pre-existing conditions have been ordered to teach these live classes. 
However, the majority of the students 
taking these classes will be simultane -
ously instructed online. 
Both live and online students in face-
to-face classrooms will be asked to adapt 
to a situation where professors must di -
vide their attention between both live 
and online students. Faculty are only 
right now being trained in this new and 
experimental HyFlex technology. 
This is a disaster that is now unfold -
ing at the same time that the number 
of COVID-19 cases at our university, in 
Gainesville, the state and the nation are 
climbing upward to higher and higher 
levels of infection and death.
Why this trainwreck? Why is the uni -
versity telling students, their parents and 
the legislature that undergraduates can 
take live classes this Spring just like last 
year? None of the other Florida public 
universities treat faculty lives so cheaply. 
Why is human suffering being bar -
tered for economic gain? Is the fear of 
losing funding and the drive to top-five 
status behind this? By choosing to ac -
commodate the legislature, the adminis -
tration is not being honest with students 
and putting all of us at greater risk. 
At the beginning of the year, Presi -
dent Fuchs sent out a video asking that 
we be especially kind to each other this 
year. Is this kindness?
David Hackett is a 
religion professor.Editor’s note: This column contains non-graphic references to suicide.
Friends, family, teachers and peers — not mental health professionals — are often the 
first to notice someone who is struggling. As the first person to notice, your oppor -
tunity to connect and refer someone for additional support can make a life-changing 
impact.
We are all capable of falling into crisis and considering suicide, especially when hope -
lessness and helplessness start to close in. Thoughts of suicide are a human experience, not a sign 
of personal failure or flaw. Struggles with suicide need not be the end of the story and can be a 
signal that we need more support than we currently have.
Although it has been decades since I last struggled with suicide, as an undergrad at UF I did 
contemplate ending my life. 
Thankfully, counseling helped. These days, I work for UF’s Counseling and Wellness Center 
where I support students who may themselves be thinking about suicide.
Research suggests that more than 13% of college students were seriously considering suicide 
within the past 12 months. At UF, that means over 5,000 student Gators have considered suicide 
this past year. Between the pandemic, final exams, the holidays, the election, racial violence and 
the profound distress of our shaken world, we need to be prepared to support each other should 
suicidal thoughts arise.
People who are suicidal may talk about it explicitly but more often drop hints or clues. 
“If anything happens to me, look after my cat.” 
“I just don’t want to be here anymore.” 
Sometimes people don’t say anything but give away valued possessions, explore ways to 
die on the internet or visit a gun shop. And yet others post on social media, making jokes about 
suicide or alluding to death. We encourage you to know the warning signs to better identify 
people who may be at risk, and then take the courageous step to reach out rather than imagining 
somebody else will.
In the Counseling and Wellness Center’s suicide prevention program, we teach participants to 
directly ask the question, “Are you thinking of suicide?” Contrary to popular belief, asking a suicidal person about suicide will not push them closer 
to the edge. Instead, asking shows you care and that you’re willing to connect with them even if 
suicide is on their minds. And, asking won’t plant the idea in their heads if they weren’t consid -
ering suicide. Instead, your willingness to ask makes you more trustworthy if they ever do need 
support.
If someone says they are thinking about suicide, listen openly and respond without judgment. 
Avoid minimizing or invalidating responses such as, “Don’t be silly, your mom would miss you” 
or “That seems a bit extreme, don’t you think?” 
Assuming someone is not in the middle of a suicide attempt (in which case, call for urgent 
assistance), the best thing you can do is express compassion and curiosity about the feelings and 
experiences underneath the thoughts of suicide. This can be something simple like, “Thank you 
for trusting me. This must be such a hard time for you. Can you share a little more about what’s 
been so difficult lately?”
Because people considering suicide often feel lonely and disconnected, your willingness to ask 
about suicide and validate the pain underneath the suicidal thoughts can be the first step toward 
healing. The next step is to encourage that person to get some additional help from a counselor or 
other trusted resource. Research indicates that most people who get help for their suicidal crises 
won’t ever be suicidal again. And, for those who struggle with longer-term suicidal thoughts, get -
ting additional support can make the difference between life or death.
When someone confides in you about suicide, encourage them to contact one of the many 
resources available locally and nationally. Enrolled UF students can start with the CWC (352-392-
1575), where our on-call crisis counselors will learn more about the situation and recommend 
next steps. Non-students can contact the Alachua County Crisis Center (352-264-6789) or the 
Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-8255). If you’re not sure how to help someone you’re 
concerned about (whether they are a student or not), CWC crisis counselors can always consult 
with you.
To learn more, check out the Struggling with Suicide episode of the CWC Talks podcast, where 
campus suicide expert Dr. Meggen Sixbey goes in-depth about what a person considering suicide 
might be thinking and feeling. Another meaningful resource is the Live Through This website 
devoted to portraits and interviews with people who have survived suicide attempts. 
Sara Nash is a clinical associate professor at the CWC. This column  is part of a series 
from the CWC covering mental health.
A student’s story inspires hope The broken promise of Spring reopeningHow to talk to someone considering suicide
Column ColumnColumn
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to 
fact-check and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also 
welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist.
BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info
12-7-20-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         11-23-8-15
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting minimal quantities of 
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
Between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Remaining fall semester
Mondays only thru 12/7
Spring semester (beginning in January)
May increase two days per week - to be 
determined.
Email elight@alligator.org
Please include references.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
Maestro Mechanico
I am a Master Mechanic I buy cars running 
or not call me Pete 352-301-0999 or email 
backtolife732@gmail.com   
11-30-20-2-12
13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES - NOW 
HIRING bartenders and sandwich makers. 
Day and night shifts available. Friendly and 
Fast Paced. Reliable transportation required. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.   
12-7-20-2-141For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. Immed oc -
cupancy. ABSOLUTELY HUGE! Gorgeous 
Wood Floors, cent AC/HT, dishwasher, laun -
dry room, fenced, pets OK $1,795 per month. 
352-665-8166                               1-26-20-6-2
HOUSES FOR RENT NEXT AUGUST
Quality homes walk or bike to campus.
See homes at WWW.gainesvillequalityrental -
homes.com call or text 352-339-2342 for appt.  
1-11-20-4-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
Female roommate needed for 2bdrm 2.5 bath 
townhouse near UF. Rent includes cable and 
internet. $50 application fee. First months 
rent and move-in fees paid. Utilities divided 
equally. Call 352-321-0554.          11-30-20-2-4
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
The MC Hot-N-Happy Home School 
Supplies for Tools needed for Online 
Learning. Over 1,000 items of cheap sup -
plies. https://www.mchotnhappy.com  
11-30-20-4-10  
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-1012 Autos
readreadmeme
Now you can easily submit Now you can easily submit 
your classified ad for print your classified ad for print 
and/or web editions right and/or web editions right 
through our website!through our website!
just go to:just go to:
www.www.alligatoralligator .org.orgBy Joseph A. Gangi
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/23/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/23/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, November 23, 2020
ACROSS
1 Archaeological 
sites
5 Farm trough 
contents
9 Gambler’s 
calculation
13 “Right now!” 
letters
14 Home for monks
16 Lake with 
Canada’s 
southernmost 
point
17 Sacred, as a 
promise
19 Labyrinthine
20 How a sharp 
incline rises
21 Steak orders
23 Confer 
knighthood on
24 Homer’s story of 
67-Across
26 __ XING: 
crosswalk sign
29 Full of attitude
31 Appear
34 Woodshed tools
36 University leader
39 Join (in)
41 Be worthy of
42 High-ranking 
foreign diplomat
44 Bump off
45 Part of GPS: 
Abbr.
46 Goes on a tirade
48 “__-haw!”
49 28-Down entrant
51 “Ready, __, fire!”
53 “Our thoughts are 
with you”
56 Museum 
contents
60 Swear to be true
61 Ensemble playing 
in this puzzle’s 
circles
64 Storm relief org.
65 Woven fabric
66 TV award
67 Helen’s city
68 Carry out 
instructions
69 Dark or marble 
breads
DOWN
1 Orator’s platform
2 “__ that special?”3 Contributed to 
the cause
4 Did undercover 
work
5 Alternative plans
6 Online auction 
site
7 Retreat, as the 
tide
8 Md. neighbor
9 Updated, as a 
kitchen
10 Tehran’s land
11 7 or 11, say, in 
shoes
12 Piano’s 88
15 Aptly named 
brand of coolers
18 27, for 
Beethoven’s 
“Moonlight”
22 Bags on a 
diamond
24 “This __ test”
25 President before 
Richard
26 Nickname for 
Hemingway
27 Finals, say
28 Annual Kentucky 
race
30 Wool clippers
32 Youngest Jetson33 Motion picture
35 Set aside for later 
use
37 “Of course!”
38 “The Son of 
Man” painter 
Magritte
40 Noted fur tycoon
43 “Lost” actor 
Daniel __ Kim
47 Perform in a 
choir
50 Take a breather52 Taxi calculator
53 Float, as an 
aroma
54 Happily-after link
55 Crooner Perry
56 Put in a folder
57 Force to be 
reckoned with
58 Frosty coating
59 Mattel specialty
62 Tango need, so 
they say
63 Spare bone?
By Craig Stowe
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/17/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/17/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2020
ACROSS
1 Deputized 
Western group
6 African capital 
near ancient 
Carthage
11 __-pitch
14 Milo of “Romeo 
and Juliet” 
(1968)
15 Ten sawbucks
16 Bench press 
target
17 Words from a 
vacillator
19 Snitch
20 Golf bunker 
contents
21 “__ fair in love ... ”
22 Golfer’s goof
24 Cogito __ sum
25 Bedtime wish
27 Hurry
29 Detroit NFLer
30 Religion
32 Swing and Disco
34 Casino gratuity
38 Feel out of sorts
39 Crusade
42 Neither’s partner
43 Marvel superhero
45 Peace signs
46 Up and at ’em
48 __ fail: 
unexpected 
disaster
50 Pandora’s box, 
e.g.
51 Fastest-ever 
performance, as 
in a race
56 Workout count
59 __ acid
60 Part of RBG or 
LBJ: Abbr.
61 Inter __: among 
others
62 Doze (off)
63 Spiky, bleached 
hairstyle ... or 
what the puzzle 
circles represent
66 Colorado tribe
67 Word with peace 
or turmoil
68 Ancient letters
69 __ capita
70 Individual 
preference
71 Salon board 
abrasiveDOWN
1 Self-assurance
2 Subject of a 
seasonal buzz 
or nod
3 Utopia in “Lost 
Horizon”
4 Emit
5 Dog-dog 
connection?
6 Immune system 
agent
7 “I give up!”
8 Regulations 
affecting loud 
parties
9 “__ be an honor!”
10 Deals with
11 Hint of mint
12 Extract, as lye 
from ashes
13 The planets, 
since Pluto’s 
demotion
18 Sprint
23 Dryer trap fuzz
26 Leaning Tower 
city
28 Exam proctor’s 
reminder
30 Copier function
31 Intention
32 Primaries, say33 Manhattan liquor
35 At risk
36 Pond carp
37 Slip up
40 “Metamorphoses” 
poet
41 Bit of sunshine
44 Gas in signs
47 Layer
49 Monetary gain
50 Parcel (out)
51 Accumulated, as 
debts52 Act with great 
passion
53 Fall beverage
54 Map within a map
55 British bishop’s 
headdress
57 “Pied” folklore guy
58 Given to 
insolence
64 “Messenger” 
letters
65 Beats by __: audio 
equipment brand
11/16/2020
solution on page 10
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
Trivia Test  answersMega Maze solution
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
11..    IInnddiiccaattiioonn,,  ssiiggnn
11..    SSaaiidd55..    ________  ssiinnggeerr
22..    ________  tthhaann  ssiiggnn  66..    RRooyyaall  hhoouussee  ooff  ________
33..    SSttrraanndd,,  lleeaavvee  bbeehhiinndd77..    CCoowweerr,,  rreeccooiill
44..    BBuuiilldd  uuppNNAAIISSGGLL
KKOONNEESSPPRRAAOOEEPP
UUTTOORRDD
AARRRREEGGTTEE
NNBBAAOODDAANNCCEEIIGGNNRR
CCRRAAEECCUUAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSiiggnnaall    55AA--OOppeerraa    66AA--TTuuddoorr    77AA--CCrriinnggee
11DD--SSppookkeenn    22DD--GGrreeaatteerr    33DD--AAbbaannddoonn    44DD--AAccccrruuee    BB--OOrreeggaannoo1111--2233--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  iiss  aa  mmeemmbbeerr
ooff  tthhee  mmiinntt  ffaammiillyy..
BONUS
1. Zucchini
2. Art is long, life is short
3. "To Kill a Mockingbird"
4. Small South American deer
5. "Scarface," Al Pacino6. The Noo-noo
7. Dark red
8. Dolly the sheep
9. Hiram Rhodes Revels, 1870
10. Socks10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
: PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
 alligatoralligatoranswers below1. FOOD & DRINK: What is another name 
for the vegetable known in some parts of 
the world as a courgette?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the Latin phrase 
"Ars longa, vita brevis" mean?
3. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century novel 
begins with the line, "When he was nearly 
thirteen, my brother Jem got his arm badly 
broken at the elbow"?
4. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a pudu?
5. MOVIES: Which 1983 movie featured the 
character of Tony Montana?
6. TELEVISION: What was the name of the 
vacuum cleaner on the children's series 
"Teletubbies"?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What color is 
carmine?
8. SCIENCE: What was the first mammal to 
be cloned successfully from an adult cell?
9. FIRSTS: Who was the first African Ameri -
can man elected to the U.S. Senate?
10. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was the name 
of President Bill Clinton's family cat?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Redshirt junior T’ara Ceasar netted 
a team-high 18 kills in Florida 
volleyball’s final game of the season 
against Georgia. Ceasar transferred 
from UGA and ended her first season 
as Gator with 109 overall kills.
Florida bests Vanderbilt despite slow start
Sports writer Christian Ortega breaks down Florida’s slow 
start against the Vanderbilt Commodores in Saturday’s 
game. Scan the QR code with your phone to read the story,  
and more, at alligator.org .FOOTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
When Emory Jones signed 
with the Gators in Dan Mullen’s 
inaugural 2018 class, he was 
seen as the starter in the wings 
with Feleipe Franks under center. 
Standing at 6-foot-2 with enticing 
passing abilities, Jones is a proto -
typical Dan Mullen quarterback. 
Three years into the Mullen 
era, however, Jones still isn’t “the 
guy.” The Gators have instead 
turned Kyle Trask into a Heisman 
Trophy favorite. 
For the last two years, Mullen 
has used Jones sparingly to spice 
up the offense and throw differ -
ent looks at opposing defenses. 
Jones had his moment on 
Saturday in the fourth quarter 
against Vanderbilt. On his fifth 
play of the game, Jones found 
tight end Kemore Gamble, who 
scampered to the end zone for a 
30-yard score to seal a 38-17 win 
for Florida.
“It was pretty much the dag -
ger,” Trask said. “He made the 
right read, and Kemore did the 
rest as far as execution goes.”
Does Jones make a difference 
with the offense? 
Methodology
We’re specifically looking for 
when Jones entered a competi -
tive game, not when he is playing 
in garbage time to relieve Trask. 
Garbage time is defined as a lead 
more than:
• 38 points in the second quarter
• 28 points in the third quarter
• 22 points in the fourth quarter 
After ruling out all of Jones’ 
garbage-time snaps, we’re left 
with 22 snaps, which is a ridicu -
lously small sample size. Consid -
er this a warning. 
When does Florida use 
Emory Jones?
Jones had a season-high eight 
snaps in the Gators’ season open -
er against Ole Miss. 
The redshirt sophomore en -
tered the game on Florida’s sec -
ond drive in Oxford and promptly 
threw an interception. Mullen 
kept him on the field for the first 
two plays of the next drive and 
put Trask back in after Jones 
picked up a first down on a sev -
en-yard run. In the third quarter, 
Jones led a five-play drive that 
resulted in a field goal to put the Gators up 41-21. 
“We wanted to make sure that 
we got him in and let him play,” 
offensive coordinator Brian John -
son said. “Obviously, the first 
play design didn’t go as we’d 
planned. But he did a nice job, it 
didn’t faze him, he didn’t freak 
out at all.”
Jones didn’t make another ap -
pearance in a competitive game 
until he had three snaps against 
Georgia and another three against 
Arkansas as well. Jones’ usage 
ramped up against Vanderbilt 
with eight plays, though three 
came when Florida was running 
down the clock on the game’s fi -
nal drive up 21 points. 
He has been featured on 10 
drives through seven games. 
Jones has had three one-and-done 
drives, but he’s performed better 
when given multiple plays. The 
first play of a Jones appearance 
has averaged 6.3 yards while later 
plays average 8.4. 
How does Florida use 
Emory Jones?
It’s not a surprise, but Jones 
has been primarily used as a run -
ner this season. Of his 22 snaps, 17 were running plays with Jones 
carrying the ball on 12 of them. 
On those 12 plays, he has 
rushed for 64 yards (7.4 yards per 
carry) and a touchdown. Seven 
carries were “successful”, giving 
him a success rate of 58.3%, well 
above the Gators’ 41% on the 
season. Jones has also handed the 
ball off five times for 19 yards. 
Again, small sample size, but 
Jones is the Gators’ most effi -
cient rusher out of any player 
with at least 12 carries. Looking 
at Expected Points Added (EPA), 
which values plays as points, 
Jones’ eight carries averaged an 
EPA of 0.50 per carry, which is by 
far the best on the Gators.
“I think one thing Emory does 
in coming up, like changing the 
running back, that he brings a 
little different perspective to the 
position,” Mullen said. “When he 
is in there, (the quarterback run) 
does draw up very, very nicely, 
and the personnel fits him nicely 
as well.”
The Gators are averaging 3.7 
points per drive when Jones 
makes an appearance and 3.49 
points when he does not. 
The use of Jones as a rusher 
has had a positive effect on Flori -da’s offense in some aspects, but 
there are still downsides. 
Jones has been a mixed bag 
as a passer, but it’s hard to judge 
considering he’s only thrown 
five passes in competitive games. 
He’s 3 for 5 through the air for 56 
yards, a touchdown and an inter -
ception. 
The interception against Ole 
Miss is still one of the worst plays 
of the season for Florida, carry -
ing the sixth-worst EPA value of 
any play for the Gators’ offense 
(-3.73). The Gators’ EPA per play 
with Jones in the game is just 
0.07, a stark contrast to UF’s usu -
al 0.27. 
For the most part, Florida has 
avoided using Jones in obvious 
passing situations, with one ex -
ception. On the five-play drive 
against Ole Miss, running back 
Nay’Quan Wright was dropped 
for a loss of a yard, then Jones 
ran for five yards to set up a 3rd 
and 6 deep in Ole Miss territory. 
Mullen stuck with Jones, who 
threw an incompletion, forcing 
UF to settle for a field goal. 
It was a weird decision con -
sidering that the Gators’ offense 
was rolling through Ole Miss’ de -
fense like a hot knife through but -
ter. It’s worth noting that Jones 
hasn’t appeared on third down 
since then. What does all of this mean?
Florida’s run game could use 
the help that Jones provides. UF’s 
rushing performances have been 
mediocre at best this season. 
It’s hard to fault Mullen for uti -
lizing Jones as essentially another 
running back when the team is 
47th in EPA per rush and 48th in 
rushing success rate. The Gators 
have only produced four running 
plays of at least 20 yards all sea -
son, and Jones has one of them. 
Jones’ usage makes sense con -
sidering that it’s usually in favor -
able situations. When you have 
a quarterback that’s lighting the 
college football world on fire, it 
doesn’t make sense to keep Jones 
in for obvious passing downs. 
“I think when you’re utiliz -
ing personnel in different ways, 
it certainly puts and adds pres -
sure to the defense of how they’re 
going to match up against those 
different people,” Mullen said. 
“Schematically, there’s things 
Emory can do better than Kyle, so 
all of a sudden those things come 
into play schematically they have 
to prepare for, because you’re 
putting somebody in a position 
where they can do well.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgWhat’s the deal with Emory Jones?
Brendan Farrell / / Alligator Staff
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2020
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$15 Haircut with Student ID
SWIMMING
By Sara Kate Dyson
Sports Writer
Caeleb Dressel has broken four World 
Records and six American Records in the 
month of November.
Dressel broke one World Record and 
two American Records at the International 
Swimming League (ISL) semifinal meet on 
Nov. 16.
Less than one week later, on Nov. 21, 
Dressel broke two more World Records 
and an American Record in Day 1 of the 
ISL finals in Budapest, Hungary. The next 
day, Dressel broke another World Record 
and an American Record in Day 2 of the 
finals. 
Dressel’s first World-Record perfor -
mance came in his opening swim of the 
competition. He set up on the blocks in 
the 100-meter butterfly against both World 
Record holder Chad le Clos, and American 
Record holder Tom Shields. Those men 
didn’t hold their titles for much longer. 
Dressel finished the 100-meter butterfly 
in 47.79, becoming the first man to swim 
the race in under 48 seconds, and shat -
tered le Clos’ former record-holding time 
of 48.08. 
The new record officially made Dressel 
the fastest 100 butterfly swimmer in short-
course yards, short-course meters and long-course meters. He is the first man to 
accomplish this since Ian Crocker in 2007.
Dressel’s second swim of the day, 
the 50-meter freestyle, told a similar sto -
ry. This time, though, he wasn’t racing 
against the current World Record holder; 
he was the current World Record holder. 
Dressel finished the race in 2016, breaking 
his own record time by .08 seconds. He set 
both World Records in less than an hour. 
Dressel didn’t slow down on Day 2 of 
the ISL finals.
It kicked off with the 100-meter free -
style. Dressel finished the event in 45.08, 
setting a new American Record.
Next came the 100-meter individual 
medley. In the semifinal meet last week, 
Dressel became the first man to finish the 
race in under 50 seconds. In the final, he 
destroyed his own record by .6 seconds, 
finishing the race in 49.28. 
Dressel set four World Records in just 
one week.
The Gators alumnus, who still trains 
in Gainesville, led his team, the Cali Con -
dors, to a finals victory to cap off the sec -
ond ISL season. After his performance, 
Dressel unsurprisingly won MVP honors.
@sarakatedyson
skatedyson@alligator.orgCaeleb Dressel sets three more World Records in ISL Final
Courtesy to The Alligator
Former Gators swimmer Caeleb Dressel broke four World Records this month 
alone while representing the Cali Condors in the ISL.
