Carley Noll & Shannon Ahern / / Alligator StaffINSIDE
New moms discuss journey to motherhood, pg. 3
ONLINE
For more information regarding Gainesville’s LGBTQ+ community 
and how you can get involved, visit our pride hub at 
ifla.news/pride. PRIDEPRIDEPRIDE EDITION
The Alligator, Monday, June 29, 2020
ERROL NELSON IS A 2020 
UF GRADUATE WHO 
HAS WALKED THE LINE 
BETWEEN THE BLACK 
COMMUNITY AND THE 
LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY 
SINCE HE CAME OUT 
AT AGE 16 
Avery Lotz
Alligator Staff Writer
Past: Realizations
Errol Nelson lined up bags of 
his clothes and belongings by the 
front door of his Sarasota home. 
He was 16 at the time and prepar -
ing an escape to his best friend’s 
house. 
“Mom, I need to talk to you, ”  
he said, sitting down on the living 
room couch. The lump that formed 
in his throat, he said, was a feeling 
he’d never forget. 
As the words left his lips, his 
emotions flooded out through 
tears. He was gay.
Errol’s mother reacted with 
love and acceptance—he wouldn’t 
need to escape after all. But she 
also showed concern. Being openly 
gay in America is not easy, she told 
him, but being a gay Black man 
adds another layer of discrimina -
tion. 
“She wasn’t hurt by the sense 
that I was gay. She was hurt by 
the way the world would perceive 
me—a young, Black man who now 
also had this added human differ -
ence, ” he said.
His mother, Kimberly, said she 
remembers the moment, too. She 
started to cry. 
“I wasn’t crying because I was 
angry, ” she said. “I was crying be -
cause I didn’t want his life to be any 
harder than it needed to be. ”
His father wasn’t as quick to 
accept his sexual orientation as 
his mother, he said. In his father’s 
eyes, being a Black man meant be -
ing masculine and tough. Errol said 
these beliefs aren’t uncommon in 
the Black community.
“A lot of the African American 
male dichotomy has to do with 
masculinity and toughness, and 
that’s part of the reason why my fa -
ther is so shy about the fact that I’m 
queer, ” he said.
Kimberly said she yelled, 
screamed and prayed for her son’s 
father to accept him. 
“As a parent, you must love your 
child unconditionally, ” she said. “I 
told him it doesn’t matter who he 
loves. You must love him. ”  
While his father was negative 
about his identity, his mother, step -
father, grandmother and aunt have 
filled the void he left with love and 
acceptance. This support group calls itself the “superfriends, ” Kim -
berly said.
Present: Reality
Errol is now 27 and a history and 
art history Spring 2020 UF gradu -
ate. He said he’s fully embraced his 
identity.
Despite his “Gator get-up-and-
go” drive to be the best version 
of himself he can be, his journey 
hasn’t always been easy, he said. 
Errol has wondered at times if his 
gay identity has made it easier for 
white society to accept him as a 
Black man.
“Oftentimes, I feel that people 
accept me because it’s quite easy 
to be friends with a gay Black guy, 
but would you be as welcoming or 
as willing to approach if I present -
ed more straight?” he said. 
Errol has witnessed this reaction 
from his peers in his social life. 
“People react to me when I walk 
in, and they get scared because I’m 
a bigger African American male, ” he 
said. “They tense up and wonder 
what I’m doing there. And then, the 
‘Hey girl’ rolls out of mouth, and 
you see that queerness makes the 
girls’ shoulders relax. ”
However, he said when he’s 
around members of the Black com -
munity, his mannerisms and sexual 
orientation are met with puzzled 
faces and disappointed looks.
Sometimes his Black identity 
and his gay identity have a strange 
position in their respective com -
munities, he said. Members of the 
LGBTQ+ community, at times, see 
him only as a Black man. He said 
he feels the Black community has 
labeled him as weak because of his 
sexual orientation.
“In the Black community, your 
queerness means that you’re not 
tough enough, ” Errol said. “You’re 
not man enough, you’re a little bit 
less than. ”
Fortunately, he said he feels 
that the lines between the Black 
Lives Matter movement and the 
fight for LGBTQ+ rights have been 
blurred for the better. 
“The fight for Black trans lives is 
the same fight as Black Lives Mat -
ter, ” Errol said. “It’s all about inter -
sectionality and realizing where we 
as a society have oppressed, sup -
pressed and shoved aside certain 
sections of our population, and I 
absolutely want to remind people 
that we have the current liberation 
movement because of Black trans 
women and Black queer women. ”
Despite his confidence in his 
identity, he said he’s felt like an 
outsider in his classes. In his gradu -
ating history class, he said he no -
ticed no more than five peers were 
Black. 
His interest in art history led him to an internship at the Harn 
Museum during the Spring. There, 
he dedicated his time to the Day 
Without Art Campaign, a move -
ment to raise awareness for the 
AIDS crisis.  
Day Without Art features pieces 
that highlight the effects that HIV/
AIDS have had on the LGBTQ+ 
community, especially LGBTQ+ 
communities of color, Errol said. 
He did extensive research on these 
effects from the 1980s to now and 
believes HIV/AIDS is an issue that 
society should continue to discuss.
His love for museums stems 
from his passion for education. To 
Errol, no one should stop learning 
once they leave the classroom. 
Kimberly said she wasn’t sur -
prised by her son’s affinity for the 
museum industry because of his 
love for learning. She joked that 
when Errol was grounded as a 
child, she would take away his 
books instead of toys.
“I can’t say that I’m surprised 
that he’s been in a different main -
stream or had a different level 
of success than most academic, 
young Black men would have, ” she 
said. “It doesn’t surprise me be -
cause he’s always been so different 
and so unique. ”
To her, his positive outlook in 
the face of adversity has allowed 
him to succeed. 
“It always surprises me that Er -
rol can pull himself up by the boot -
straps at the last minute and say, 
‘Woohoo! Look at where I am, ’” she 
said.Future: Truth and Reconciliation
Despite his adoration for muse -
ums, Errol feels the industry must 
diversify and address its own con -
troversial roots. 
“They are actually born off of 
a white supremacy paradigm, ” he 
said. “The first museum collections 
were from wealthy white looters 
and colonists who would take arti -
facts without really understanding 
the cultural relevance to them. ”  
Errol believes that the industry 
must welcome and amplify diverse 
voices to encourage conversations 
about race and sexual orientation. 
He said he takes great pride in his 
ability to be one of these voices—
one that may have been silenced in 
the past. 
Next year, he will attend Virginia 
Commonwealth University to pur -
sue a master’s degree in art history 
and museum studies. There, he 
hopes to continue to educate his 
peers and encourage important 
conversations about diversity and 
inclusion.
While there have been obstacles 
in his path to success, Errol said he 
believes that he’s not a victim to be 
pitied. However, he said members 
of the Black community have to 
put in more work than their coun -
terparts to reach their goals.
“I feel like I’m being propped up 
as an example of what a Black aca -
demic is like supposed to be, and I 
think that culture is really crippling 
in academia, ” he said. “Systemic 
racism has creeped in in all sorts of ways, especially in hiring practices 
or people having lowered expecta -
tions of you because you’re Black. ”  
Lonnie G. Bunch III is the current 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti -
tution as well as the first African 
American to serve in this position. 
Errol hopes to one day follow in his 
footsteps.
“History has the great power 
not to erase the past but look to 
truth and reconciliation, ” Errol said. 
“I think that’s the move that most 
historians are looking for. And I 
think that art history also has a 
role to play in this: If we include 
voices that have been traditionally 
excluded from the museum field, 
we can start to interpret these stat -
ues and these legacies in different 
w ay s.”
While Errol has become a deco -
rated scholar, becoming a Ronald 
E. McNair Scholar and receiving a 
full ride to VCU, perhaps his great -
est achievement is educating oth -
ers. His mother believes he has 
continuously expanded her world -
view and has encouraged her to 
view others without judgement.
“In my business, I see people 
every day, ” Kimberly said. “I’m not 
so quick to judge what’s going 
on with them and try to look at 
all angles. I could see this person, 
and I’m not sure which pronoun I 
should use for them, so I ask. And I 
learned this from my very own son. ”
@ajlotz8
alotz@alligator.orgUF graduate discusses the intersection between being Black and gay 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Errol Nelson is a 2020 UF graduate and a member of both the Black and LGBTQ+ communities.
We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaper“That didn’t happen 20 years ago”
Past UF LGBTQ+ leaders reflect on the movement, pg. 5 
Being gay in academia
UF Economics Department Chair Thomas Knight discusses his 
journey,  pg. 6ADRIANNA AND ASHLEY FINALLY GAVE 
BIRTH TO A BABY BOY ON JUNE 19 AFTER 
THREE YEARS OF TRYING 
Emma Bautista
Alligator Staff Writer
After an exhausting four hours of pushing, Adrianna Tou -
signant looked down. In her arms was a 9-pound, 1-ounce 
baby boy—it was one of the greatest moments of her entire 
life, she said.
Even better, she said, was watching her wife, Ashley Tou -
signant, hold their son, Henry.
Adrianna, 31, and Ashley, 32, fell in love while bartending 
at Gator’s Dockside in Gainesville six years ago. Nearly two 
years later, they were married and immediately began work -
ing on having a child. It took them three years to get preg -
nant.
Same-sex couples have two options for having children: 
adoption or assisted reproductive technology, which includes 
methods of conception, like in vitro fertilization, often used 
used to treat infertility. This technology allows for same-sex 
couples to obtain either a sperm or egg donation and have 
a child that shares genetics with one parent. Two men would 
also need a surrogate, a woman who carries and births the 
child for the couple.
According to Marla Neufeld, a Florida surrogacy attorney, 
there are no laws in the state preventing same-sex couples 
from using assisted reproductive techonology to have a child. 
However, same-sex couples worry about potential future le -
gal issues and social stereotypes when going through the 
process.
The non-biological parent had to “second-parent adopt”  
to officially have parental rights prior to 2015, when the su -
preme court declared same-sex marriage legal in all 50 U.S. 
states, Neufeld said. Second-parent adoption is a two-month 
process that involves a petition, finger-printing, a background 
check and a home-study under Florida’s adoption laws.
Now, parents can avoid this process, if married, because a 
married couple has presumed parentage under Florida law.
However, like many other LGBTQ+ couples, Adrianna and 
Ashley said they fear the same-sex marriage law will one day 
be reversed. On June 12, the Trump administration reversed 
Obama-era health care protections for transgender people 
and redefined “sex discrimination” as applying to females and 
males. The protections do not include discrimination based 
on sexual identity or sexual orientation.
For extra security, Ashley, who did not carry the baby, is 
considering adopting their child.
Neufeld said she recommends that the parents do a step -
parent adoption after the baby is born in case laws change, 
even though they’re both on the birth certificate. Over the 
course of a month, the couple would file an adoption peti -
tion, attend an adoption hearing and attain a stepparent 
judgment. A court order is a stronger protection than a birth 
certificate, which is only a presumption of parentage, Neufeld 
added. 
Ashley and Adrianna said they first began their journey 
of having a child with intrauterine insemination, a treatment 
where a sperm is placed inside a woman’s uterus to initiate 
fertilization. To fertilize, the sperm needs to reach the actual 
egg on it’s own. 
This didn’t work. 
Adrianna, who volunteered to carry the baby, then tried to 
medically increase her chances of getting pregnant by hav -ing endometriosis surgery. Endometriosis is a complication 
with the tissue that normally grows on the inside lining of the 
uterus. In surgery, the doctor removes the tissue, which then 
increases a woman’s chance of getting pregnant.
The surgery also didn’t lead to a pregnancy, so they de -
cided to switch to IVF, a process where the egg is fertilized 
with sperm outside of the body and transferred to the uterus. 
Finally, three years later, they were pregnant.
“Without knowing if you have fertility issues, it’s kind of a 
crapshoot, ” Adrianna said.
She said they carefully decided who would be the sperm 
donor because they wanted to make sure the baby also had 
Ashley’s characteristics—her dark brown straight hair and av -
erage height.
“Henry was definitely worth 
the wait.”
Ashley said it’s a different experience for the partner who 
is not the one giving birth. When going to doctor’s appoint -
ments, she said, staff would assume she was a family member 
and not the other parent. She even said a doctor completely 
ignored her once.
“You still feel like you have to kind of fight for your rights, ”  
Ashley said. “Especially from a female standpoint. Even 
though you’re not the one that’s actually doing the pushing 
and going through everything, you’re still an important fac -
tor, and should be treated just the same as a dad. ”
Ashley said they had a great delivery experience together. 
However, dealing with paperwork after birth was tricky. When applying for their son for a social security number, 
the representative initially only took down Adrianna’s num -
ber and had to return to the hospital room for Ashley’s after 
the representative realized their mistake. 
“Being the partner, it was a different experience, ” Ashley 
said. “Probably not as pleasant I think as others might experi -
ence or a heterosexual couple. ”  
Both Ashley and Adrianna said they worry about the cur -
rent political climate and feel they have to continue fighting 
for their rights. In January, Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee signed a 
bill which allows adoption agencies to deny a couple the op -
portunity to adopt based on religious or moral objections. 
The couple said they worry something similar will happen in 
Florida in the future.
“It’s just like a tornado, that you don’t know where it’s go -
ing to hit, or how destructive it could potentially be, ” Adri -
anna said.
However, there are positives too, the couple said. The U.S. 
Supreme Court outlawed discrimination against the LGBTQ+ 
community in the workplace on June 15.
Adrianna said she believes times are changing. Hopefully 
for the better, she added. The couple plans to have more chil -
dren and just bought a house in Fort White together. She said 
Henry was definitely worth the wait.
The couple wants Henry to grow up knowing it’s OK to be 
whoever he wants to be. Adrianna said the most important 
thing a child needs is support and love.
“Love makes a family, ” Adrianna said.
@emma_V_bautista
ebautista@alligator.org
UF gymnast comes out and 
finds acceptance
Savannah Schoenherr couldn’t hide who 
she was any longer and came out to her 
teammates as gay,  pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 83
Courtesy to The Alligator
Adrianna and Ashley Tousignant celebrate their pregnancy in a field of sunflowers. Their baby boy was born 
June 19.
What it’s like for a same-sex couple to have a baby through assisted reproductive technologySPECIAL
EDITIONT oday’s Weather
Sunday’s Top AP Headlines
Mississippi lawmakers vote to 
remove rebel emblem from flag
Mississippi lawmakers voted Sunday 
to surrender the Confederate 
battle emblem from their state flag, 
triggering raucous applause and 
cheers more than a century after 
white supremacist legislators adopted the design a generation after the 
South lost the Civil War. Mississippi’s 
House and Senate voted in succession 
Sunday afternoon to retire the 
flag, each chamber drawing broad 
bipartisan support for the historic 
decision. Republican Gov. Tate Reeves 
has said he will sign the bill, and the 
state flag would lose its official status 
as soon as he signs the measure. He did not immediately signal when the 
signing would take place. Under the 
legislation, the new design—without 
the Confederate symbol—would be 
put on the ballot Nov. 3, but it would 
be the only choice. If a majority accept 
the new design, it would become the 
state flag. If a majority reject it, the 
commission would design a new flag 
using the same guidelines.The flag’s 
supporters resisted efforts to change 
it for decades, but rapid developments 
in recent weeks have changed 
dynamics on this issue in the tradition-
bound state. As protests against racial 
injustice recently spread across the 
U.S., including Mississippi, leaders 
from business, religion, education 
and sports have spoken forcefully 
against the state flag. They have urged 
legislators to ditch the 126-year-old 
banner for one that better reflects the 
diversity of a state with a 38% Black 
population.
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW 74°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 83
YEAR 2045 
GAINESVILLE METROPOLITAN AREA 
LONG-RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN 
VIRTUAL
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
July 7, 2020
6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.    
6:00 p.m. Presentation
We need your opinion.   
Come share your ideas.
Virtual workshop access
by computer, tablet or  
smartphone at:  
https://global.gotom eeting.com/join/757207837
You can also dial in using your phone. 
United States: +1 (646) 749-3112
Access Code: 757-207-837
Get the GoToMeeting app at https://global.gotomeeting.com/install/610160477
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area is 
updating its Long-Range Transpor tation Plan.  At this workshop, the adopted Year 2045 Needs 
Plan will be presented and citizen comments will be  received concerning funding priorities for 
State Highway System, Federal Transportation  Alternatives Program and Federal Surface 
Transportation Program projects for the draft Year  2045 Transportation Cost Feasible Plan from 
the following scenarios:  
•Alternative 1 - Revenue forecast emphasis on transit projects; and 
•Alternative 2 - Revenue forecast emphasis on roadway capacity projects. 
Visit the Year 2045 plan update website at http://ncfrpc.org/mtpo/LRTP.html  and Facebook 
Page at www.facebook.com/GainesvilleMTPO  for more information. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, the Year 2 045 Long-Range Transportation Plan Workshop will meet 
virtually on July 7, 2020 at 6:00 p.m.  The workshop will be conducted via comm unications media technology. 
Public participation is solicited without regard to race, color, national origin , sex, age, disability, familial status, 
religious status, marital status, sexual orientation or gend er identity.  Any person requiring special assistance or 
accommodations, under the Americans with Disabilities Act (A DA) or persons who require translation services (free of 
charge), to participate in this work shop should contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extensio n 114, forty-eight 
(48) hours prior to the workshop. YEAR 2045 
GAINESVILLE METROPOLITAN AREA 
LONG-RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN 
VIRTUAL
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
July 7, 2020
6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.    
6:00 p.m. Presentation
We need your opinion.   
Come share your ideas.
Virtual workshop access
by computer, tablet or  
smartphone at:  
https://global.gotom eeting.com/join/757207837
You can also dial in using your phone. 
United States: +1 (646) 749-3112
Access Code: 757-207-837
Get the GoToMeeting app at https://global.gotomeeting.com/install/610160477
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area is 
updating its Long-Range Transpor tation Plan.  At this workshop, the adopted Year 2045 Needs 
Plan will be presented and citizen comments will be  received concerning funding priorities for 
State Highway System, Federal Transportation  Alternatives Program and Federal Surface 
Transportation Program projects for the draft Year  2045 Transportation Cost Feasible Plan from 
the following scenarios:  
•Alternative 1 - Revenue forecast emphasis on transit projects; and 
•Alternative 2 - Revenue forecast emphasis on roadway capacity projects. 
Visit the Year 2045 plan update website at http://ncfrpc.org/mtpo/LRTP.html and Facebook 
Page at www.facebook.com/GainesvilleMTPO  for more information. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, the Year 2 045 Long-Range Transportation Plan Workshop will meet 
virtually on July 7, 2020 at 6:00 p.m.  The workshop will be conducted via comm unications media technology. 
Public participation is solicited without regard to race, color, national origin , sex, age, disability, familial status, 
religious status, marital status, sexual orientation or gend er identity.  Any person requiring special assistance or 
accommodations, under the Americans with Disabilities Act (A DA) or persons who require translation services (free of 
charge), to participate in this work shop should contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extensio n 114, forty-eight 
(48) hours prior to the workshop. YEAR 2045 
GAINESVILLE METROPOLITAN AREA 
LONG-RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN 
VIRTUAL
COMMUNITY WORKSHOP
July 7, 2020
6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.    
6:00 p.m. Presentation
We need your opinion.   
Come share your ideas.
Virtual workshop access
by computer, tablet or  
smartphone at:  
https://global.gotom eeting.com/join/757207837
You can also dial in using your phone. 
United States: +1 (646) 749-3112
Access Code: 757-207-837
Get the GoToMeeting app at https://global.gotomeeting.com/install/610160477
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area is 
updating its Long-Range Transpor tation Plan.  At this workshop, the adopted Year 2045 Needs 
Plan will be presented and citizen comments will be  received concerning funding priorities for 
State Highway System, Federal Transportation  Alternatives Program and Federal Surface 
Transportation Program projects for the draft Year  2045 Transportation Cost Feasible Plan from 
the following scenarios:  
•Alternative 1 - Revenue forecast emphasis on transit projects; and 
•Alternative 2 - Revenue forecast emphasis on roadway capacity projects. 
Visit the Year 2045 plan update website at http://ncfrpc.org/mtpo/LRTP.html and Facebook 
Page at www.facebook.com/GainesvilleMTPO  for more information. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, the Year 2 045 Long-Range Transportation Plan Workshop will meet 
virtually on July 7, 2020 at 6:00 p.m.  The workshop will be conducted via comm unications media technology. 
Public participation is solicited without regard to race, color, national origin , sex, age, disability, familial status, 
religious status, marital status, sexual orientation or gend er identity.  Any person requiring special assistance or 
accommodations, under the Americans with Disabilities Act (A DA) or persons who require translation services (free of 
charge), to participate in this work shop should contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extensio n 114, forty-eight 
(48) hours prior to the workshop. 352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgMarianna Colon, mcolon@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.org
Noah Ram,  nram@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.org
MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
First Care Urgent CareNOW OPEN WEEKENDS 9am - 2pmProviding adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation and treatment for:• Respiratory Illness, Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections• Acute Injuries & Illness • Sprains, Strains, Fractures• Vaccinations• Allergic Reactions• STD T esting• Worker’s Compensation• Occupational Medicine• Drug Screening• DOT Physicals• Pre-Employment Physicals4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10Gainesville, FL 32607(352) 373-2340Mon-Fri 8:00am-5:00pm, Sat-Sun 9:00am - 2:00pmSIMEDHealth.com
THE LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY HAS EVOLVED OVER THE YEARSKaelyn CassidyAlligator Staff WriterA few months ago, Bill Gallagher was grabbing pizza at Leon-ardo’s and saw two young men sitting together, hand-in-hand. They looked young enough to be freshmen.“It just warms my heart, ” he said. “I just thought, ‘That didn’t hap-pen 20 years ago. ’”Gallagher, 54, was a student at UF in 1987, when there were no rainbow crosswalks downtown, no public displays of aﬀection be-tween boyfriends and no on-campus organizations for LGBTQ+ stu-dents. Before he came to UF, there was an organization called the Uni-versity of Florida Lesbian and Gay Society, or UFLAGS. Founded in the early 1980s, the group faced a near-constant struggle getting funds from Student Government, obtaining and keeping oﬃce space in the Reitz Union and dealing with homophobia from other students, according to The Alligator archives. A few years after its founding, the group disbanded. So, Gallagher started a new one.The Gay and Lesbian Student Union, or GLSU, started oﬀ-campus in 1987. The group began meeting in the churches and synagogues around campus, including the St. Augustine Catholic Student Cen-ter and the United Church of Gainesville, which Gallagher said were very supportive of the movement for LGBTQ+ rights. Sometimes they would have more than 100 people at their meetings, he added. “We had a lot of progressive clergy and ministers that supported us, but there was a lot of just hatred and animus from people in the community, ” he said.The group became an oﬃcial student group in 1991, and would eventually go on to become the Pride Student Union. It was around this time that Gallagher and others were lobbying the Alachua County Commission to include sexual orientation in its anti-discrim-ination ordinance. “It was controversial, and things were heated, ”  he said. “We got a lot of pushback. I actually got a death threat. ”This inspired a “Walk For Freedom” on June 17, 1992, with Galla-gher as one of the leaders. More than 600 people held hands, chant-ed and sang as they walked down University Avenue more than a mile to the Alachua County Administration building. The protest was met with a mixture of support and animosity. According to Alligator archives, some people driving by yelled slurs, and Gainesville resi-dent Vincent Mallet, who openly opposed rights for members of the LGBTQ+ community, got into a debate with one of the rabbis in at-tendance. The rabbi explained that the protestors were /f_ighting for their civil rights, but Mallet said they didn’t deserve them. He tried to address the crowd, but they sang to silence him. Gallagher recently moved to New Orleans with his spouse, who he married in Washington D.C. in 2012. He said it’s gratifying to see so much more support for LGBTQ+ rights now and appreciates the rainbow crosswalks downtown as a symbol of that. “Right now, at least in Alachua County, it’s political suicide to op-pose gay rights, LGBT rights, ” he said. “We’ve come a long way. ”Kenneth Key, 57, who was a director of UFLAGS before the group disbanded, agrees. He said a lot of strides have been made with LGBTQ+ rights, like the recent U.S. Supreme Court decision to end workplace discrimination, but he said having antagonistic adminis-trations in Washington and Tallahassee could lead to having those rights taken away. “That’ s why it’ s so important to have proactive legislation passed, ” Key said. Before coming to UF , Key went to the Air Force Academy but had to resign after he came out. At the time, he could have been dishon-orably discharged for this, but was instead able to resign, retain the credits he had earned and transfer to UF. What he remembers most about being director of UFLAGS is the struggle for funding with Student Government. The organization wanted to host pride events and have speakers and panels to raise awareness but didn’t have a large budget. In 1984, after the group was given zero funding to host events for Gay Awareness Week, a sit-in was organized during a student Senate meeting.The budget for the Activity and Service Fee Advisory commit-tee, which was about $3 million, was supposed to be discussed that night. About 30 students, primarily from UFLAGS, who called themselves “Students for Fair Funding”  sat in to “make their presence known, ”  according to Alligator archives. UFLAGS wanted $1,886 to fund events that week, including hosting actress Pat Bond, one of the /f_irst openly lesbian actresses, for a speaking event. It is unclear from The Alligator archives if the group was able to secure funding, but Bond spoke in the Reitz Union Ballroom on April 6, 1984, about Eleanor Roosevelt’s alleged aﬀair with journalist Lorena Hickok.“It was a constant /f_ight between UFLAGS and the Student Sen-ate as far as getting our funding, getting our oﬃce space, ”  he said. “Everything we did was met with a major /f_ight. ”Key said that people today have grown up in an entirely diﬀerent era than he did. People are coming out at younger ages and are deal-ing with a much larger spectrum of sexualities than gay or straight, some of which he said he’s still learning the de/f_initions of, he said. “It’s kind of come down to the fact that it’s however you identify, it really is nobody else’s business. It’s what you feel that best signi/f_ies who you are, ”  he said. “And I’m okay with that. And the rest of society should be okay with that too. ”@kaelyn_cassidykcassidy@alligator.org3DVW/*%74OHDGHUVUHȵHFWRQWKHPRYHPHQW
UF PSU, LGBTQ+ AFFAIRS AND QUEER NATION CREATED A &"҃)	$ Ƴ"&!(+By Diane Hernandez Alligator Staff Writer An elderly woman approached Georges Obayi with tears in her eyes.“She’s coming to me to apologize for not doing enough to /f_ight for the future that I’m now living, ” said Obayi, a 22-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering senior and UF LGBTQ+ Aﬀairs ambas-sador. “That’s the pain that I really want us to rectify. ” UF’s PSU, LGBTQ+ Aﬀairs and an LGBTQ+ fac-ulty and staﬀ group called Queer Nation published the “LGBTQ+ Experience Survey”  on June 17. By gathering quantitative data about the community through the questionnaire, the groups hope to be-gin addressing problems faced by LGBTQ+ people on campus. The survey allows participants to share their experiences anonymously, said Cecilia Luna, UF’s Queer Nation co-president and communications specialist at the UF Student Health Care Center. Data about the UF LGBTQ+ community hasn’t been collected in a long time, she said. Faculty were last surveyed in a comprehensive climate survey in 2015, but it did not contain questions speci/f_ic to the LGBTQ+ experience. The most recent survey that did was conducted in the early 2000s, she said. The new survey will help its creators plan events in the future and assess what issues are important to the UF LGBTQ+ community. It was published us-ing Qualtrics, a free survey software, and has been marketed through email, Instagram, Facebook and other social media platforms.Obayi said he’s excited for the potential of the survey results to foster a more inclusive university experience, but he acknowledged that it has its limits. “We’re a small group of people putting togeth-er this survey, and we don’t claim that this survey will be able to look into every aspect of the experi-ence, ” he said.Some LGBTQ+ faculty emailed Queer Nation leaders and criticized the organizations’  decision to survey the community, Obayi said. They deemed the survey “aggressive” and said it was inappropri-ate to question the university, he added. They did it anyway.“We’re not going to wait any longer, ”  Obayi said.Too many times, Obayi said he’s seen university administration shrug at the hardship faced by LG-BTQ+ faculty and students.“We need the system to change, ”  he said.@dianehern19dhernandez@alligator.org 1HZ/*%74VXUYH\SULRULWL]HVFDPSXVLQFOXVLYLW\"_-mmom_;umņņѴѴb]-|ou"|-@
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020
KNIGHT IS A UF ECONOMICS 
DEPARTMENT CHAIR, WORLD 
TRAVELER AND A MEMBER OF 
THE LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY
Avery Lotz
Alligator Staff Writer
Thomas Knight’s hands rested on the 
steering wheel of his Saab Convertible, but 
his mind was elsewhere. 
As he drove away from Tampa’s Interna -
tional Plaza shopping center in 2003, a fleet -
ing thought developed into a revelation. His 
reality was suddenly clear. Knight called a 
good friend and spoke his truth for the first 
time.
The now 36-year-old UF economics de -
partment chair was then a 19-year-old fresh -
man at New College of Florida in Sarasota, 
FL.  From that moment on, his sexual orien -
tation became part of his being. 
“It just, at some point, became second na -
ture, ” he said. “I have dark curly hair. I’m gay. ”
Over the next two years, he shared the 
news with his friends and three sisters. It 
wasn’t until three years after the first phone 
call that he told his parents. 
It happened during a trip home to cel -
ebrate his older sister’s graduation from UF 
Law School. While out for sushi and cock -
tails, he came out to the two people who had 
known him the longest. 
Silence washed over the table. While his father expected the news, his mother felt 
shocked and betrayed that he had not told 
her sooner. 
Initially, Knight’s mother had reservations: 
her fears were that her son would never get 
married or have children. She also expressed 
her worries about the HIV/AIDS crisis. 
However, like her husband, she quickly 
accepted Knight. She prioritized her love for 
her son over the worries she might have. 
After graduating in 2007, Knight spent 
three years at Tilburg University in the Neth -
erlands. 
Both New College and the Netherlands 
were diverse and accepting places, he 
said. Typically those abroad had a wider 
worldview, and most students, even before 
same-sex marriage was made legal, were 
supportive of Knight’s openness about his 
sexual orientation. Exploring in the world of 
academia and socializing abroad helped him 
find security and confidence in his identity.
“I think my life has oftentimes put me 
in bubbles within society that are not hard 
places to be gay, ” he said. 
From the Netherlands, he said he moved 
to Gainesville to pursue his Ph.D. He never 
left.
One member on his dissertation com -
mittee at UF, former economics department 
chair Roger Blair, stood out as a friend, men -
tor and ally. 
“I think of him as like a third parent, ”  
Knight said. “You hear that your boss is in 
his mid-70s and a Vietnam veteran, and you 
might make certain assumptions—but he is 
the most open-minded, supporting guy in 
the world. ”
To Blair, Knight’s sexual orientation wasn’t 
an issue. Blair told Knight that he never un -
derstood the judgment directed at the LG -
BTQ+ community. 
During this time, he also met his husband, 
Gerardo Nunez, a professor in the UF College 
of Agriculture. They’ve been together for 10 
years. 
When Knight became a lecturer in 2012, 
he said he was initially nervous to talk about 
his husband in front of students—nervous 
they’d view him differently or be made un -
comfortable. He did it anyway.  
“My husband, ” he said one day while lec -
turing. In the instant after, he wondered if he 
should have bitten his tongue. That nervous -
ness, however, was quickly replaced by an -
other realization.
If a student in class was uncomfortable 
with their own sexual orientation, Knight 
discovered he could use his platform as a 
professor to normalize their identity and ex -
perience, he said.
Knight said some students in the LGBTQ+ 
community have come to him for advice or 
conversation. These students are typically 
freshmen who come from less accepting 
families, he added, and many even told him 
they never expected to have an openly gay 
professor.
Jacob Gray, a 21-year-old UF economics 
senior, took Knight’s class, Principles of Eco -
nomics, his freshman year in the Spring of 
2018. 
As an openly gay student, Gray said there 
have been moments where he felt alienated 
or belittled by his peers. However, meeting 
Professor Knight allowed him to discover his 
passion for economics and find acceptance 
within the field. “Seeing a gay professor teach a class in 
my department, especially my freshman 
year, made all the nerves of being gay in a 
brand new town go away, ” Gray said. “Know -
ing that Professor Knight was being his true 
self for all of his students helped me feel true 
to myself at UF. ”  
Gray came out as gay his senior year of 
high school, so he was still unsure of his 
place in the LGBTQ+ community, he said. 
However, Professor Knight’s pride in his own 
identity has left a lasting impression on Gray. 
“As I finished his class my freshman year, 
his pride throughout the semester allowed 
me to express myself even more freely than I 
was before, ” Gray said. “His pride gave me the 
courage to show my own pride. ”
Knight’s openness allowed him to find 
confidence in his identity, which shows the 
importance of representation in the class -
room and the workplace, Gray said. 
Knight, too, believes in the power of di -
versity and representation.
“His pride gave me the 
courage to show my own 
pride.”
When students can see themselves in the 
people who are teaching them, it creates a 
more welcoming academic environment, Knight said.
While Knight said he hasn’t felt discrimi -
nated against because of his orientation, he 
believes that economics needs to become 
more diverse. The field struggles with racial 
disparities, gender gaps and infrequent rep -
resentation of the LGBTQ+ community. 
Despite his own positive experiences, 
Knight said he doesn’t minimize the nega -
tive experiences of others. He encourages 
students to be allies and point out injustices 
when they see them. 
“To me, the most impactful thing is when 
you hear something that sounds like it di -
minishes another person’s worth, or blindly 
applies some judgment to another person’s 
experience, ” he said. “Call it out. I think most 
people in this world want to see themselves 
as respectful, loving people, so kindly let 
them know that what they’re saying is not 
respectful and loving.
To Knight, finding happiness and accep -
tance takes a conscious effort: one with the 
right path and right people. 
“The world is full of people who will 
love, support and respect you, ” he said. “So 
find those people. Seek them out. There are 
spaces where you can thrive, so find those 
spaces. Live in them. ”  
@ajlotz8
alotz@alligator.orgThomas Knight reflects on his experiences as a gay man in academia
Courtesy to The Alligator
Thomas Knight has used his platform as a professor in the UF School of Economics 
to normalize the LGBTQ+ experience.
RESOURCES IN GAINESVILLE FOR 
THE LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY
Pride Community Center of North Florida 
3131 NW 13th St., Suite 62, in the 
Liberty Center in Gainesville, FL.
Pride Community Center of North 
Florida provides services to the LGBTQ+ 
community in Alachua, Bradford, Clay, 
Columbia, Dixie, Gilchrist, Hamilton, 
Lafayette, Levy, Marion, Putnam, 
Suwannee and Union counties.
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and 
Gays of Gainesville (PFLAG Gainesville)
PO Box 358472, Gainesville, FL 32635-
8472
Parents, Families and Friends of 
Lesbians and Gays of Gainesville (PFLAG 
Gainesville) is a newly formed chapter 
of PFLAG, the nation's foremost family-
based organization committed to the 
civil rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and 
transgender (LGBT) people.
Planned Parenthood - Gainesville Health 
Center
914 NW 13th Street Gainesville, FL 
32601
Gainesville Health Center offers 
Hormone Therapy and service referrals to 
the Gainesville LGBTQ+ community. These 
services are during business hours on a 
walk-in basis.
Gainesville Community Alliance (GCA)
P .O. Box 357301, Gainesville, Florida 
32635-7301
GCA is a social membership 
organization for the LGBTQ+ community 
to meet through educational and social 
activities. MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
How has LGBTQ+ related policy in Florida evolved?
A timeline of significant events, pg. 11UNIVERSITY CLUB CELEBRATES 
30 YEARS OF BUSINESS
Valentina Botero
Avenue Staff Writer
On any given night, you can expect to see an 
assortment of characters, from drag queens to 
sorority girls, on the dance floor illuminated by 
flashing lights as the smell of sweat mixes with the 
trails of perfume left behind by the performers at 
University Club. 
The local nightclub recently turned 30 in April,. 
It is a place where anyone, regardless of their 
sexuality or gender, is accepted and welcomed by 
its owner, Mark Spangler.
Spangler opened the doors to the first gay club 
in Gainesville in April 1990. With time, he created 
what he calls a safe haven for the local LGBTQ+ 
community.
As far as performers go, University Club has 
helped many start their careers as drag queens–
one, in particular, Jade Jolie, made it onto “RuPaul’s 
Drag Race, ” a reality-competition show, and was 
also featured in Taylor Swift’s music video for “You 
Need To Calm Down. ” 
What makes this nightclub unique from other 
local clubs is the sense of family and community 
it forms within the drag and LGBTQ+ community, 
Spangler said. Four performers, with different 
backgrounds and experiences, talk about their 
lives as drag queens. 
More than just performance: Aurora Whorealis
Christian Acevedo, a 20-year-old Santa Fe 
entomology sophomore, uses his platform to raise 
awareness for topics like rising sea levels and the 
decline in bee pollination during his performances 
as Aurora Whorealis. Growing up in Miami, he was involved in 
theatre and cheerleading because, as a Leo, he said 
he thrives in the spotlight. So on the night of May 3, 
2018, Acevedo transformed into Aurora for her first 
drag competition, and to her surprise, she ended 
up winning.
For Acevedo, the concepts of sexuality and 
gender belong on a spectrum where people are 
allowed to fluctuate freely. Transforming into 
Aurora has allowed Acevedo to realize that the drag 
community includes anyone from a transgender 
man to a biological cis-gender woman.
After the three-hour transformation into Aurora, 
he instantly notices the shift in his confidence: he 
feels like the “creme de la creme” after finishing the 
final touches on his brightly colored makeup and 
lacing up his five-inch stilettos. 
Despite not receiving support from his father, 
who accidentally found out Acevedo dressed in 
drag when he opened his suitcase full of heels and 
wigs, Acevedo is grateful that he can freely express 
himself with other family members and friends. 
A piece of advice that has stayed with him 
throughout his time as a performer is, “At the end 
of the day, you’re not doing drag for anyone, you’re 
doing drag for yourself. ”
Never too late - Sarah Nevada
Had her family not accepted that she was a 
transgender woman, Sarah Cole, 56, said she is 
unsure she would have gotten this far in her life. 
Cole grew up in St. Petersburg, and when she 
was 11, she said she would often sneak into her 
sister’s room to try on her ballet costumes. During 
those secret moments, Cole said she felt a certain 
freedom that comes with departing from gender 
norms. 
But it would be another 10 years before she 
came out to her parents, unsure of how they would 
react because of their Catholic upbringing, yet 
relieved by the idea of not having to entertain the 
notion that she was a male to her parents anymore. 
Her coming out experience wasn’t always as well-
received, however, as she was fired by Home Depot 
in the late ’90s for being a transgender woman, 
Cole said.  
She attended her first drag show in the late 
’80s–a time when being in the LGBTQ+ community 
was not widely accepted. Now 40 years later, Cole 
tried on drag for the first time in September and 
now regularly performs as Sarah Nevada, who she 
describes as a rebel, at University Club. Her opening 
line is: “I am the oasis in the rainbow desert, and I 
am here to quench your thirst. ” 
Double life - Anna Phylaxxis
Unlike Cole, Anna Phylaxxis (who asked The 
Alligator not to disclose their personal name) keeps 
their drag performances a secret from their family 
and colleagues. They said they live a double life as 
they pursue a Ph.D. degree in biology at UF while 
simultaneously performing in drag at University 
Club. 
Phylaxxis finds solace in balancing their 
scientific background with drag because it 
creatively enriches their life, they said. 
“I always kind of wanted to find a way to 
combine the two, ” they said. “I’ve just never been 
happy being purely scientific or purely creative. ”
At University Club, Phylaxxis has managed to 
intertwine their science background into their 
performances by creating special effects like 
putting baking soda and vinegar inside a beaker 
to make foam when they’re doing a “mad scientist” 
act and aiming for accuracy while creating their makeup looks, they said. 
Although their biological family does not know 
about this part of their life, Phylaxxis has created 
what they call a family of their own within the drag 
community at University Club.
When Phylaxxis dresses up in drag, they said 
they embody confidence. But they describe their 
other persona as a people pleaser who lets people 
walk over them. In a way, they said Anna Phylaxxis 
has allowed them to unconditionally embrace 
who they are as they’ve never done before.
Small town boy moves onto bigger things - Alexia 
Fantasia
As a small-town boy who grew up in Statesville, 
North Carolina, Paeton Nutting, a 20-year-old UF 
business administration junior, said he had limited 
exposure to the LGBTQ+ community until he 
attended his first Pride in 2016 in Charlotte. 
It was a pivotal moment for him, he said, 
because it was when his curiosity about drag 
began. 
“It gave me the opportunity to kind of blossom 
and really explore who I am as a person and who 
Alexia is, ” Nutting said. 
Coming from a close-minded southern town, 
Nutting said he was opposed to wearing makeup 
due to fear of the backlash he could have received.  
He explained that it was rare for the LGBTQ+ 
community in his town to explore and challenge 
their gender and sexuality, and he often felt he was combining two personalities into one. 
It took time for Nutting to deconstruct the 
gender norms he had created for himself in order 
to fit a certain mold, and that’s when he created 
Alexia Fantasia, an energetic and confident 
persona who dances to “It’s Raining Men” by the 
Weather Girls. 
University Club in need
Locals and visitors alike have gravitated to 
University Club, but as COVID-19 cases in Florida 
continue to break daily records, Gov. Ron Desantis 
ordered all bars, including UC, to stop selling 
alcohol on their premises.
Unsure of what the future holds for University 
Club, Kelly Kelly, a 25-year-old drag performer for 
the club, created a GoFundMe with the goal of 
reaching $10,000. Once the fundraiser reaches its 
goal, it will be used to pay UC’s $4,000 rent for July, 
help cover any expenses or utilities bills from this 
month and pay the furloughed employees and 
entertainers. 
“I hate that this pandemic is affecting it in such 
a negative way. I don’t want the owners to feel bad 
about not being able to help out their employees 
or entertainers more, ” Kelly said. 
@lvbotero_
vbotero@alligator.orgAn LGBTQ+ safe haven located on University Avenue
PRIDEPRIDE
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
7-13-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
7-13-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-634-6652 or 
visit RefrigerantFinders.com      6-29-1-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
7-13-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  7-13-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
7-13-20-43-14 Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
7-27-20-14
Homework coach wanted for bright but un-
motivated ADHD student. He is 16 yrs old. 
Hrs/Days flexible. 3 hrs 2 X week to help 
complete assignments for this school year 
thru summer. e-mail qualifications to ss-
mills@hotmail.com                      7-6-20-5-14
Cleaning company looking for help with resi-
dential homes Mon-Fri 8-5. Use our vehicles 
and supplies. Call 352-336-8570 or come to 
4605 NW 6th St. suite B Gainesville between 
8-9 and 2-4.                               6-29-20-2-14
Looking for individuals to join our 
summer carpet cleaning team!
This is a temporary position great for college 
students. Must have good drivers license, 
and clean criminal background. Will be re-
quired to drive. Must be in good physical 
condition. This is a physically demanding 
job. Must be able to work long or variable 
hours and weekends. Starting pay $12 an 
hour. brad@professionalcarpetsystemsfl.
com   352-494-3464                 8-3-20-14-14
The Expanded Food and Nutrition Education 
Program (EFNEP) is a free nutrition education 
program for limited resource families. Since 
1969, the University of Florida’s EFNEP has 
worked in local communities to teach partici-
pants skills and strategies to stretch their food 
dollars, eat nutritious meals, and improve their 
overall health.
The Expanded Food and Nutrition Education 
(EFNEP) at the University of Florida is look-
ing for a Communication Specialist and 
Instructional Designer.
Requisition number: 514111
Position Title: Communication Specialist and 
Instructional Designer
Minimum and preferred requirements for 
the position: A bachelor’s degree and fill 
out the number of years of experience or an 
Associate’s degree and fill out the number of 
years in appropriate area of specialization.
Summary: The Communications Specialist and 
Instructional Designer, under general supervi-
sion, will prepare, plan, create and manage 
multimedia aids, execute social media activi-
ties, support internal and external communica-
tions and conduct trainings for EEFNEP faculty 
and staff. This position will be responsible for 
the design, development and implementation 
of technology-based programming. This posi-
tion will work with University of Florida (UF) 
and Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences 
(IFAS) communications to ensure consistency 
and alignment with branding and communica-
tions guidelines.
Expected starting salary range: $33,800 to $54000 com-
mensurate with education and experience.
To apply for this position, visit jobs.ufl.edu. Job number for 
this vacancy is requisition number 514111 and the dead-
line date to apply is July 6, 2020.                    6-29-20-1-14
Looking for volleyball coach for 11 year old 
girl (beginner) whose volleyball camp was 
cancelled. We have a volleyball net and will 
wear masks if you will! Salary negotiable      
rosenson@ufl.edu, phone 352 246 5430       
6-29-20-1-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
7-13-20-43-151For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
7-13-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       7-13-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
GREAT HOUSE IN GREAT LOCATION. 
4BR/3BA, Available Mid-August.  1/2 block N 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big, nice, modern 
home w/many amenities. K&M Properties 
352-372-1509                              7-20-20-4-2 
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
7-14-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
7-13-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     7-13-43-10
Real-time Online Auction
Thurs, July 9, 2020 at 10:00 A.M.
Live-stream auction event consisting of 
Vehicles, Trucks, Trailers and Equipment 
including 2020 Mercedes-Benz GLE 
Class; 2016 GMC Yukon; 2019 Chevrolet 
Silverado Truck; 2015 Cadillac CTS-V; 
2016 Ford F-350 Truck; 2019 MAXXD 14 
&#39; Trailer; 2015 Bobcat T770 Compact 
Track Loader; Diamond Mowers 60&quot; 
Skid Steer Head Mulcher; Vertical Cat 8k 
12 volt Light Tower; 2020 Mack Granite 
GR64B; 2019 TICO Spotter Yard Tractor; (2) 
2020 Fontaine Magnitude 55MXT Lowboy 
Trailers; 2019 PST Nitrogen Spreader Bar 
Axle; Toyota Diesel Powered Lift Truck; Yale 
Clamp Forklift; 2015 Honda CR-V SUV; 2012 
Nissan NV2500 HD S Conversion Van; 2012 
Nissan NV3500 HD S Conversion Van; 2002 
Ford Econoline E350 Super Duty 16&#39; 
Box Truck and more!
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com
Pick-up/removal: Jacksonville, FL.
Preview: 07/08 by appointment. Call for de-
tails (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
Case No. 16-2020-CA-001718
Case No. 16-2020-CA-001526-XXXX-MA
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin               6-29-1-10BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/29/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/29/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, June 29, 2020
ACROSS
1 Evidence of fire
6 Phone call enders
10 Recedes to the 
sea
14 Piglike rhino 
relative
15 Move like The 
Blob
16 Strong wind
17 “__ you clever!”
18 Folklore meanie
19 Stan on the sax
20 Protection for 
extremities during 
slicing and dicing
23 Long-standing 
dispute
24 Go public with
25 Brewery kilns
29 Old-style 
timepieces 
attached to vests
33 GI chow
34 Many a retired 
racehorse
35 The “O” in OAS: 
Abbr.
36 Least distant
40 Coming into 
being
42 Rude dude
43 Travel document
45 Tropical 
“constrictor”
46 15-season CBS 
drama about the 
FBI’s Behavioral 
Analysis Unit
50 Become frantic
51 Meadowland
52 Uses a shovel
55 Looks after, as 
suggested by 
the last word 
of 20-, 29- and 
46-Across
59 “The Thin Man” 
dog
62 Lacrosse targets
63 Specialized 
vocab
64 Null and __
65 Like much 
testimony
66 Word with circle 
or city
67 Kibbles ’n Bits 
competitor
68 Agile
69 Colorful marble
DOWN
1 Employee group
2 Curie with two 
Nobels3 Speak candidly
4 Regal realms
5 Art Deco master
6 __-woogie
7 Dannon products
8 Pound who was 
a friend of T.S. 
Eliot
9 Tea leaves  
reader
10 Spider’s  
hatching  
pouch
11 Main squeeze, in 
slang
12 Lunch menu 
letters
13 Utters, in slang
21 Earns lots of, as 
dough
22 Spoils, as a 
grandchild
26 Clog or loafer
27 Fork-tailed 
shorebird
28 Army NCO
30 Narrow opening 
in a cliff
31 Take the title
32 High-spirited 
horse
36 Sputnik letters
37 “__ Croft: Tomb 
Raider”
38 Top Norse god39 Flight safety  
org.
41 Toting clubs for a 
golfer
44 MLB’s Hank 
Aaron, e.g., in 21 
seasons
47 Gilbert and 
Sullivan  
operetta, with 
“The”
48 Pitifully small
49 “Burnt” crayon 
color53 “__ it, Rover!”: 
“Fetch!”
54 Keep a mate 
awake, perhaps
56 Grandson of 
Adam
57 One in  
handcuffs, for 
short
58 Kazan with an 
honorary Oscar
59 Actress Gardner
60 Sun, in Sonora
61 Bit of advice
By Frank Virzi
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/16/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/16/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 16, 2020
ACROSS
1 Single-celled 
creature
6 Cab alternative
10 Partner of aid
14 Disinterested
15 Georgetown 
athlete
16 Hot under the 
collar
17 Pricey violin, for 
short
18 Did some 
weeding
19 Start of a spell
20 Tenderloin often 
served with 
Béarnaise sauce
23 Prince Valiant’s 
boy
24 Highest degree
25 Kindergarten art 
item
28 Squeaked by
30 Smeltery refuse
32 Inc. kin
33 Rockies resort 
town
36 Rifle range 
supply
39 Federation in 
OPEC
40 Les __ les autres: 
one another
41 Sub on a plate
46 Court players’ gp.
47 Disapproving 
sounds
48 Like a one-lane 
bridge
52 Topiary tool
54 “http” often 
begins one
55 Lemon finish?
56 Biblical phrase 
in Lincoln’s 
historic 6/16/1858 
speech, and 
what each set 
of circled letters 
contains
60 River seen from 
the Leaning 
Tower
62 Old bread 
problem
63 Breezing  
through
64 Rain cats and 
dogs
65 “Do it, or __!”
66 Eco-friendly word
67 Falafel holder
68 Letter opener
69 Those in favorDOWN
1 ’70s-’80s  
scandal that 
inspired 
“American 
Hustle”
2 Lepidopteran foe 
of Godzilla
3 Quick post office 
run, say
4 Outplay
5 Back-of-the-book 
supplements
6 “You betcha!”
7 Blockhead
8 Watcher
9 Politically 
extreme
10 Yoga posture
11 “Blowin’ in the 
Wind” singer/
songwriter
12 Make a mistake
13 Sri Lanka export
21 Yours, to Yves
22 Legendary Greek 
ship
26 Ye __ Shoppe
27 Some mil.  
drillers
29 Cruet filler, to 
Rachael Ray
30 Tons
31 MGM co-founder 
Marcus34 Blockhead
35 German 
industrial region
36 Cries of insight
37 Protestant 
denom.
38 Monocled food 
mascot
42 Houston MLBer
43 Took as a given
44 45-Down 
inscription
45 Site of the 
Crucifixion49 The “r” in pi-r-
squared
50 Danish seaport
51 Wood-splitting 
tools
53 Now, in Nogales
54 Cow’s milk 
source
57 Only
58 Film lioness
59 Slushy drink 
brand
60 iPhone purchase
61 French king
06/15/2020
answer on page 9
Is your business, club or organization having 
an event? Do you have a special a nnounce-
ment? Place your ad here and get it noticed!
Investment Opportunity. 9 1/2% Secure First 
Lien Mortgages. Monthly Dividends.
Call 407-571-6985 Ext 6985         6-29-1-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & FoundHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesMONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
solution below answers below
1. GEOGRAPHY: What was the former name 
of the Hawaiian Islands?
2. MOVIES Which Elvis Presley movie features 
the theme song "Can't Help Falling in Love"? 
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What color is 
fuchsia?
4. TELEVISION: What was the real name 
of the Skipper's character on "Gilligan's 
Island"?
5. GEOLOGY: What kind of rock is sandstone?
6. FOOD & DRINK: Which country has a 
wine-producing region called the Rapel 
Valley?
7. MEDICAL: What kind of insect can transmit 
diseases such as cholera and typhoid fever?
8. MEASUREMENTS: How many standard 
bottles are contained in a magnum of 
champagne?
9. LITERARY: Who was the first official poet 
laureate of England?
10. HISTORY: Which treaty ended the 
American Revolution?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  answer
Here's one way:
Trivia Test  answers1. The Sandwich Islands
2. "Blue Hawaii"
3. Purplish red
4. Jonas Grumby
5. Sedimentary6. Chile
7. Houseflies
8. Two
9. John Dryden
10. The Treaty of Pariswww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020
American Heart Association News
Even before the pandemic, LGBTQ+ youth 
faced unique health challenges. Now, social iso -
lation is heightening concerns about protecting 
their mental well-being.
Isolation, and the way it cuts off youth from 
life-affirming social connections, could have seri -
ous implications, warned a report from the Trevor 
Project, a suicide prevention and crisis interven -
tion organization for LGBTQ+ youth.
LGBTQ+ youth already were at much higher 
risk of seriously considering or attempting sui -
cide compared with heterosexual youth. And al -
though physical distancing helps fight the spread 
of the coronavirus, it separates youth from peers, 
supportive teachers and other allies, said Amy 
Green, the Trevor Project’s director of research.
Many LGBTQ+ teens may find themselves 
trapped in homes that are not supportive of or 
even hostile to them. “It’s really a minority of LG -
BTQ+ youth who, when they’re in their home 
environment, are in a place that supports them in 
their authentic self, ” Green said.
Yet young people shouldn’t be seen as help -
less, said Megan A. Mooney, a licensed psycholo -
gist in Houston who has spoken nationally about 
preventing and treating trauma in LGBTQ+ youth.
“I think that that’s an important message to 
share – that our LGBTQ+ youth are incredibly resil -
ient, ” said Mooney, president of the Texas Psycho -
logical Association. “They’re strong, and they are 
dedicated to making things better for themselves 
and others in the future. ”
But as the coronavirus temporarily severs their 
ties to peers and groups that affirm their identi -
ties, it “is really causing increased difficulties for 
people, ” Mooney said.
Adolescence and young adulthood are criti -cal times for identifying yourself as independent 
from your family of origin and developing your 
sense of who you are, she said.
A lot of LGBTQ+ youth come out to their 
friends before they tell their families, Mooney 
said. “So not having their social outlets through 
school – and hanging out with friends, and clubs, 
and sports and those sorts of things – takes away 
a lot of their ability to live freely as themselves. ”
Not every high school is a safe place. But if a 
student can find supportive people, “and their 
teachers and their peers accept them and affirm 
them for who they are, it can be a sanctuary out -
side of the home and it can really help them to 
grow and to blossom, ” Mooney said.
But if they’re trapped with family members 
who don’t know who they really are, it inflicts a 
heavy burden as they carry the weight of their se -
cret around, she said.
The stress of discrimination puts LGBTQ+ 
youth at risk not only for depression and anxiety 
but also for engaging in substance abuse and 
smoking, Green said.
Then there’s the threat from COVID-19 itself, 
which requires help from a health care system 
that often discriminates against LGBTQ+ people, 
Mooney said. It’s a particular problem for trans -
gender people. “If they end up being exposed to 
COVID, then their contact with medical profes -
sionals is potentially another source of discrimi -
nation, harassment and negative psychological 
impacts for them. ”
There are other broad risks. According to the 
Human Rights Campaign Foundation, LGBTQ+ 
people are most likely to work in restaurants and 
food services, which meant lost shifts or lost jobs 
during the lockdown. The second most common 
job is working in hospitals, increasing their risk of 
COVID-19 exposure. The virus attacks the lungs, 
and LGBTQ+ people are more likely to be smok -ers and have asthma.
But Mooney said it’s crucial for people going 
through trauma to maintain a sense of hope. And 
there are reasons to be hopeful, she said.
Young LGBTQ+ people need to hear that help 
is out there, she said. “There are allies out there. 
There are others like you. And that is important to 
know. This isn’t going to last forever. We are all go -
ing to be able to see each other again. ”
She encourages young people to stay con -
nected with peers, even if they can’t meet in 
person. She noted that professional telehealth is 
more readily available. “So if people are having 
significant psychological issues, it’s much easier 
to actually get that therapeutic help right now. ”
Green suggested that someone seeking em -
pathetic professional care should start with a 
local LGBTQ+ center for recommendations. She 
also noted how the pandemic has brought down 
longstanding barriers to telehealth and was ex -
cited about the potential this has to help people 
in rural communities, where it can be hard to find 
LGBTQ+-friendly counseling.
She also is pleased with the way many groups 
have responded since the Trevor Project report 
was issued in April. She’s had regular calls with 
agencies and schools about finding ways to help 
LGBTQ+ youth, whether it’s providing counseling 
or keeping a school’s gender and sexualities alli -
ance club going in a new format. Worries about 
the threat from the coronavirus were wide-rang -
ing at first, she said, but “the conversation has re -
ally turned into mental health and self-care. ”
Mooney said anyone who wants to support a 
young LGBTQ+ student, friend or family member 
needs to do their part as well. “We really have to 
pay considerable attention, as people who love 
and care about them in the community, ” to listen 
for cries for help.
“You know, you don’t have to have answers necessarily, ” she said. “But just letting the people 
that you know and care about know that you’re 
there for them, whenever they need you, I think is 
the No. 1 thing that we can do. ”
Editor’s note: Because of the rapidly evolving 
events surrounding the coronavirus, the facts and 
advice presented in this story may have changed 
since publication. Visit Heart.org for the latest cover -
age, and check with the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention and local health officials for the most 
recent guidance.
If you have questions or comments about this 
story, please email editor@heart.org.
American Heart Association News covers heart 
disease, stroke and related health issues. Not all 
views expressed in American Heart Association News 
stories reflect the official position of the American 
Heart Association.
Copyright is owned or held by the American 
Heart Association, Inc., and all rights are reserved. 
Permission is granted, at no cost and without need 
for further request, to link to, quote, excerpt or 
reprint from these stories in any medium as long as 
no text is altered and proper attribution is made to 
the American Heart Association News. See full terms 
of use.
HEALTH CARE DISCLAIMER: This site and its 
services do not constitute the practice of medical 
advice, diagnosis or treatment. Always talk to your 
health care provider for diagnosis and treatment, 
including your specific medical needs. If you have or 
suspect that you have a medical problem or condi -
tion, please contact a qualified health care profes -
sional immediately. If you are in the United States 
and experiencing a medical emergency, call 911 or 
call for emergency medical help immediately.COVID-19 adds to challenges for LGBTQ+ youth
HOW COVID-19 AND #BLM ARE REMINDING US OF PRIDE’S ROOTS
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Contributing Writer
 
I celebrated my first ever Pride in Gainesville.
 Moving here three years ago was the first time I ever felt comfortable being out, and 
the annual celebration which sprawled colorfully across Bo Diddley Community Plaza 
welcomed me with open arms.
 But as protests have erupted across the country in the past few weeks, and the 
COVID-19 pandemic has canceled all mainstream Pride parades, we are taken back to the 
origins of the Pride movement, a time long before queer people were free to gather and be 
ourselves with rainbow apparel in public spaces.
 Many people are familiar with the impetus of the modern gay rights movement, the 
Stonewall riots in 1969. These uprisings, which were a response to state violence, parallel 
the Black Lives Matter movement of today and show how the systems that queer activists, 
particularly Black transgender women, fought against all those years ago still hold power 
today.
 Robert Baez is a UF Department of Sociology and Criminology & Law Ph.D. candidate 
whose research is centered on the politics of pride and queer liberation.
 “The Stonewall riots (51) years ago did involve the most marginal people within our soci -
ety, ” he said. “It was Black people, Brown people, sex workers, trans people. It’s so important 
to, again, recognize that this [police brutality against marginalized groups] has always been 
a problem within our society. ”  
 Baez said while LGBTQ+ liberation and Black liberation don’t look the same, they are 
interwoven because of the societal power structures that work together and marginalize 
different groups of people.
 “It’s so important to also recognize that there have always been riots and communities 
fighting back against state violence, ” he said.
Moreover, the added dimension of the COVID-19 pandemic offers something else to 
think about this Pride month. Especially for a community which has already endured a pub -
lic health crisis by way of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, COVID-19 reveals how minority groups are 
still those most vulnerable to disease outbreak.
 “As a gay man, I’ve had to confront minimizing risk and internalized homophobia in 
regards to HIV, ” UF adjunct lecturer Bienvenido Torres wrote in an email. “Fear of HIV was 
socialized into me, into all of us as a kid. And I think what we’re dealing with right now is a 
wide swatch of Americans being unable to cope with disease that kill invisible, in ways we 
don’t understand, and that is transferred through close proximity. COVID and HIV are both viruses, but the queer community is a lot more familiar with the 
social and scientific issues surrounding a ‘novel virus’ than the 
world at large. ”
 Torres, 35, taught Drag Race & LGBT Communications in 
Spring 2020. His class developed the Instagram account @
purplepamflet to educate UF and Gainesville about the area’s 
homophobic history, including the presence of the Johns Com -
mittee in the 1950s, which attempted to out and expel queer 
students and faculty.
 “As a faculty member, I’ve dealt with overt homophobic behavior on and off campus in 
Gainesville, ” Torres wrote. “I’ve had other faculty members tell me to ‘put my head down’ and 
‘feel lucky’ that I wasn’t more expressly rejected by the institution. Queer people, young and 
old, deserve better at UF and in the state of Florida. ”
 Ingrid Wu is a 22-year-old alumna who took Torres’ class and helps run the Instagram 
account.
 “The past most definitely affects the present and future, ” she wrote in an email. “It’s im -
portant that UF owns up to their past. ”
 Torres recognizes how the circumstances surrounding this Pride month make it different 
than in the past.
 “It’s more introspective and personal, I think. Also way blacker and browner, ” he wrote. 
“I think young people are self-actualizing and realizing their power. We are not the first to 
fight these battles – we are the most vibrant, connected, and sensitive, though. ”
 On that first day I celebrated Pride, as glitter-covered people sang and danced and 
laughed and celebrated around me, it felt like the whole world loved us. And perhaps a lot 
of them do. But it’s not enough, and this year is loudly reminding us why.
 Companies may love us enough to sell us rainbow shirts and socks and keychains, but 
they don’t love us enough to stop donating to anti-LGBTQ+ organizations.
 Our straight neighbors may love us, but not enough to call out homophobic behavior 
they see in their friends.
 Our families may love us, but not enough to vote for legislators who protect our rights 
unequivocally.
 Our city may love us, but not enough to take accountability for the wrongdoings of the 
past and how those legacies affect us today.
 Our society may love us on the surface, but it’s refusing to do the work to recognize how 
the liberation of queer people is deeply wrapped up in the liberation of all minority groups.
 Though the circumstances are disheartening and exhausting, this month has allowed 
us to reconnect with our roots and shift the mainstream conversation to regain sight of the 
movement and just how much there is left until liberation is truly and fully possible.
@morgangoldwichOrange & Boo: Pride has always been a protest Orange & Boo
Carley Noll / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020   ALLIGATOR    
Shannon Ahern & Micayla Richardson / / Alligator Staff
GAINESVILLE PROHIBITED DISCRIMINATION BASED ON SEXUAL 
ORIENTATION IN 1998 
Micayla Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
Joe Antonelli knew there was something missing. 
It was 1990, and he’d just moved to Gainesville from Massachusetts. There, he noticed 
a divide between the LGBTQ+ community: women and men congregated at different bars, 
socialized at different clubs and generally didn’t intermingle.  
To bring the community together, Antonelli founded the Gainesville Community Alliance 
in 1991. It was an all-inclusive organization that hosted events for LGBTQ+ members and 
their allies, and it still exists today.  
Antonelli said Alachua County has passed laws that protect the LGBTQ+ community, in -
cluding sexual orientation, gender identity and diversity training. Here is a look at signifi -
cant LGBTQ+-related policy in Alachua County and Florida starting in the 1800s.
According to Equality Florida, Florida has passed more local nondiscrimination laws than 
any other state, including gender identity and sexual orientation protections. Those protec -
tions now cover 60 percent of people in Florida, the third-largest state in the country, said 
Jon Harris Maurer, Equality Florida’s public policy director.“We are fortunate that Florida has been a breakthrough state in the South for advanc -
ing LGBTQ+ equality, ” Maurer said. “Similarly, Alachua County has really shown tremendous 
leadership within the region in advancing LGBTQ+ policy. ”
However, Antonelli said that the community continues to face challenges.
A Florida State Senate resolution was introduced to the 2020 legislative session that ac -
knowledged injustices perpetrated by the Johns Committee in the 1950s and 1960s and 
offered an apology to those whose lives, well-being and livelihoods were damaged or de -
stroyed by the committee. 
But in March, the resolution was indefinitely postponed, withdrawn from consideration 
and died in the Governmental Oversight and Accountability Committee, a standing commit -
tee of the Florida Senate.
According to the resolution, those affected by homophobia in Gainesville have not re -
ceived reparations for the discrimination they faced while attending UF. 
“There are so many laws on the books that are still against us, in so many ways and in so 
many places, ” Antonelli said. “We will be free. ”
@micaylaafaith
mrichardson@alligator.orgMONDAY, JUNE 29, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
www. alligator .org
FOR BREAKING NEWS
& DAILY UPDATES
follow us on social media:
Scan these QR codes using 
your smartphone
 @FloridaAlligator
 @TheAlligator
 @TheAlligator_
GYMNASTICS
UF GYMNAST COMES 
OUT AND DETAILS THE 
CHALLENGES SHE FACED 
TO GET WHERE SHE IS NOW
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Confidence is critical for a gym -
nast’s success. Every misstep during a 
routine is costly, most meets are de -
cided by less than half of a point. 
Savannah Schoenherr, a gymnast 
for Florida, said she struggled with con -
fidence and accepting who she is as a 
person for most of her life.
On June 25, Schoenherr told the 
world she’s gay. In a video posted to 
the Gators gymnastics Twitter account, 
she said she has struggled in the past 
to accept herself and has even tried to 
deny her sexuality. In Columbus, Geor -
gia, where she was raised, there was a 
negative stigma attached to people in 
the LGBTQ+ community.
“I kind of told myself, I was like, I 
can't be this way, ” she told The Alliga -
tor. “The biggest thing for me was just 
accepting it myself and coming to the 
realization of who I was and who I was 
meant to love. ”
During her freshman year of high 
school, Schoenherr said she started to 
question her sexuality.
“I just felt like I was attracted to girls, 
and that I wanted to be more than 
friends with them, ” she said.
She tried to push those thoughts 
away, she said. She didn’t want to be gay.
Shortly after arriving in Gainesville 
for her freshman year, Schoenherr 
reached out to a friend who came out 
publicly during Schoenherr’s sopho -
more year of high school. She was the 
first person Schoenherr came out to.
Schoenherr asked her friend about 
the feelings she experienced—the 
desire to be more than friends with 
girls. Most of all, Schoenherr wanted to 
know how someone knows if they’re 
gay.
“She was like, ‘Well, if you're ques -
tioning this much, then there's prob -
ably a chance that you do have those 
types of feelings, ” Schoenherr said. 
“And it's okay to have this type of feel -
ings. There's nothing wrong with you. 
Because of that, you're born the way 
you are for a reason. ’” 
After their conversation, Schoen -
herr started to embrace her iden -
tity. Those feelings had been there for 
years, she said. There was no pushing 
them away anymore.
Learning to love and accept herself 
was the hardest part of her journey, 
she said. 
The next people she told were her 
best friends on the gymnastics team: 
Halley Taylor and Trinity Thomas. They 
were supportive, she said, and told 
her that nothing would change their 
friendship.
Taylor is a rising junior, like Schoen -
herr, and said they have practically be -
come sisters since arriving on campus. 
She remembers the day Schoenherr 
came out to her during their freshman 
year.“I was proud of her that she came 
out and was totally comfortable, ” Tay -
lor said. “First of all, I was really honored 
that she said that one of the first peo -
ple she told was me, because we were 
really close. ”
However, Schoenherr still hadn’t re -
vealed who she was to her family. Too 
many things stood in her way: fear of 
making things awkward, of having her 
family look at her differently. 
“When you're just sitting, and 
there's an elephant in the room, ” she 
said. “I didn't want that to be me. ”
Still, she said the truth would come 
out at some point. She had to tell them.
Eventually, she did. After telling 
each of her family members individu -
ally, she said she felt like a huge weight 
was lifted off her shoulders. The feeling 
she got after telling them was greater 
than the fear of not saying anything at 
all.
 “They just want what's best for me 
in my life, ” she said in the video.  “As 
long as I'm happy, they're happy. ” 
Since then, Schoenherr has contin -
ued to grow, Taylor said. 
“She is just so much more self-
confident, ” she said. “She's a lot more 
outspoken, she's ready to take on chal -
lenges head-on. And I think that is also 
a maturity thing, but also just her being 
more confident in herself. ”
Schoenherr’s newfound confi -
dence has made a difference in the 
gym, too, she added.
“Freshman year she might have 
been a little more timid than she is 
now, ” Taylor said. “And, now she’s con -
fident. She’s like, ‘Yeah, I got this, ’ and I think she's ready to take on any chal -
lenge that anyone throws at her. ”
Coach Jenny Rowland said she has 
noticed a more confident Schoenherr 
as well. 
“Seeing Sav so confident and 
happy makes my heart happy, ” Row -
land wrote in an email to The Alligator. 
“Above all else, we strive to build in our 
Gators the importance of being your -
self and not letting anyone change 
that or take away from who you are. 
I am thankful she felt comfortable in 
sharing her journey to all-knowing her 
Gator family will be in full support be -
side her. ”
Schoenherr also encourages oth -ers who are questioning their sexuality 
or afraid to come out to listen to their 
heart.
“You're made the way that you are 
for a reason, and society shouldn't 
have a control over who you are meant 
to be, ” she said. “When you can truly be 
happy with who you are, and not try -
ing to please everybody else and try 
to make everyone else happy, that's 
when you can be your true self and ex -
press yourself to the fullest. ”
zhuber@alligator.org
@zacharyahuberSavannah Schoenherr: “You’re made the way you are for a reason”
Emily Felts / / Alligator Files
Savannah Schoenherr sticks the landing during a routine against 
Alabama on Feb. 21.  The rising junior came out as gay in a video 
posted on the gymnastics team's Twitter account Thursday.
