We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperStudents speak on UF law professor’s past
Robert Wood, a Levin professor, has a controversial history 
dating back to time at UCF, pg. 4
African American Vernacular English explained
Local linguists and teachers discuss the origin and impact of 
terms like “sis” and “lit, ” pg. 6Students react to Swamp capacity
Football writer Christian Ortega asks UF 
students how they feel about The Swamp 
only hosting 2,000 students for home games, 
pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 4
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Alexandra Scott, an 18 year-old wildlife ecology freshman, watches a prerecorded chemistry lecture on 
Thursday at the Reitz Student Union.
UF PRESIDENT KENT 
FUCHS ADDRESSES 
CONCERNS ABOUT 
COVID-19, FOOTBALL 
AND SPRING BREAK
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff Writer
It was nearly 1 p.m. on a 
Wednesday in September and 
UF President Kent Fuchs, jacket-
less and donning a white KN95 
mask, was running late.
He was tied up with the day -
long Florida Board of Governors 
meeting, he said as he entered 
his cream-walled, wood-floored 
office. UF being named No. 6 in 
U.S. News and World Report’s 
2021 college ranking left Fuchs, 
65, in a heightened state, even 
by 2020 standards.
Some at UF, however, have 
hit a new low.
Faced with a pandemic that 
has killed about 200,000 in the 
United States, plus nationwide 
protests against racial injustice, 
2020 has forced Fuchs to figure 
out a way to move the univer -
sity forward in a time where re -
strictions — and tensions — are 
high.
“I felt sorry for myself, ” Fuchs 
said. “Why didn’t this happen 
to some previous president or 
some future president? Why’d 
it have to happen now because 
things were going so well?”
Regardless of the answer, it’s 
a problem UF will have to solve 
as it fights COVID-19 on campus 
and in the community through -
out the Fall semester — and 
maybe longer.
Since May 6, more than 
2,300 members of the UF com -
munity have tested positive for 
COVID-19, with quarantined 
students facing issues such as a 
lack of transportation and food. 
In an effort to combat the pan -
demic, UF indefinitely delayed 
in-person graduations and can -
celed Spring Break, prompting 
outcries from students and fac -
ulty. 
Yet Fuchs sees UF capable 
enough to handle COVID-19 
and doesn’t see it shutting 
down again — not even for a 
death.
“We may very well have 
deaths, ” Fuchs said. “But if the 
other things are not there, 
which would be the lack of 
quarantine space and the lack of hospital space — if those are 
not present, then a death would 
not be the trigger. ”
One method he’s consider -
ing is mandatory testing. While 
students were not required to 
be tested before returning to UF, 
Fuchs noted those in high-risk 
situations — including labs and 
some Greek houses — must be.
But a COVID-19 vaccine, 
should one become available, is 
a different case.
“We’re not mandating it. 
When you mandate it, it comes 
with just a lot of challenges for 
those that don’t want to be vac -
cinated, ” Fuchs said. “If we can 
get the vast majority to be vac -
cinated, we believe that’ll be 
sufficient. ”
Even without a vaccine, 
Fuchs believes UF can power 
through its plan for the Fall, one 
that includes football — and 
doesn’t include graduations.
As to why commencements 
can’t be hosted, Fuchs cited the 
need for hundreds of guiding 
marshals and staff along with 
the 12 ceremonies necessary to 
honor everyone in contrast to 
only fewer attendees at football 
games.
However, despite student 
frustration with the lack of clar -
ity for future ceremonies, Fuchs 
said the only way an in-person 
ceremony can be possible is 
with a COVID-19 vaccine. 
“Our tradition is that every 
student be personally recog -
nized, and it’s likely we won’t 
do that ever in person during 
2020, ” Fuchs said. “We prom -
ise that, when COVID is gone, 
we’re going to have in-person 
ceremonies and we’re going to 
welcome them all back. ”
Spring Break has been an -
other point of contention be -
tween the administration and 
community.
UF’s Faculty Senate voted 
Sept. 17 to cancel the March 
Spring Break and add an extra 
week to Winter Break, with the 
administration expected to an -
nounce a final decision soon. 
Students and faculty have ex -
pressed their issues with it, indi -
cating it could lead to burnout.
Fuchs understands and even 
agrees with those concerns, but 
believes the university must 
prioritize public health and 
academics over the need for a 
break.Fuchs sees UF on top as 
students hit rock bottom
UF’S FACULTY SENATE 
APPROVED CHANGE DUE 
TO COVID-19 CONCERNS.
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s initially planned 2021 Spring 
Break was canceled.
The Spring semester will now run 
from Jan. 11 to April 21, with no break 
aside from Martin Luther King Jr. Day on 
Jan. 18. The change was made during a 
UF Faculty Senate meeting Thursday af -
ternoon, where the 160-member group 
voted to extend Winter Break by a week 
and eliminate the March Spring Break. The university leadership is review -
ing the change and will release a final 
calendar soon, according to an email 
sent out to students and faculty Friday. 
The amended calendar shifts the 
Spring semester from Jan. 5 - 11. To off -
set that, six additional instructional days 
would be added from March 8-13.
Of the senators present at the meet -
ing, about 79% voted for the motion 
while about 21% voted against.
The purpose of the change is to give 
additional time at the beginning of the 
year to let the COVID-19 pandemic po -
tentially subside and prevent a surge 
during spring travel, UF’s associate pro -
vost for undergraduate affairs Angela 
Lindner said. Sylvain Doré, the chair of the Faculty 
Senate and a member of the UF Board 
of Trustees, said the proposal was in line 
with UF health experts’ prevention rec -
ommendations.
“This is not an optimal year and we 
have to plan for essentially the best sce -
nario for our students, faculty, staff and 
graduate students, ” Doré said. “I under -
stand that it’s going to be demanding 
mentally and physically for everyone. ”
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.orgUF’s March Spring Break canceled, 
Winter Break extended by a week
SEE FUCHS,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW 67°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Sunday's Top AP Briefs
Wanted: Bilingual poll workers who 
reflect U.S. diversity
The national Mi Familia Vota 
organization has long been involved 
in voting rights issues and other 
matters of civic engagement, but 
this year it's added a new initiative: 
Recruiting bilingual poll workers. 
The Phoenix-based group is joining 
advocacy organizations, nonprofits 
and even businesses across the 
U.S. in trying to persuade younger 
people to work at polling places, 
especially those who are bilingual. 
The coronavirus has upended 
how elections officials recruit poll 
workers, who are typically older and 
thus more susceptible to becoming 
seriously ill from COVID-19. Using 
digital recruitment campaigns and 
celebrity endorsements, various 
groups are selling the role as a key 
to democracy. Major companies 
such as Old Navy also have jumped 
in, offering employees paid time off 
to work the polls. Eduardo Sainz, Mi 
Familia Vota's Arizona state director, 
said ensuring that poll workers can 
communicate in Spanish is critical 
even in a state where most voters 
cast ballots by mail or by using 
drop boxes. Newer voters especially 
seem reluctant to trust their ballot 
to the Postal Service. “We need to 
make sure that every voter gets their 
vote to be counted and no voter 
gets turned away, and that means 
investing and having individuals 
who are culturally competent 
and speak several languages, ” 
Sainz said. That will be especially 
important in a year that is projected 
to see a record turnout of eligible 
Latino voters — some 32 million, 
according to the Pew Research 
Center. Census data shows about 
12.6 million Latinos cast votes in the 
2016 general election — about 47% 
of those eligible to vote. In Arizona, 
Latinos account for nearly a quarter 
of registered voters. In Florida, 
where Latinos could help swing 
the presidential election, several 
organizations are actively recruiting 
Spanish-speaking poll workers in 
counties across the state. Among 
them is Florida For All Education 
Fund, which has added Haitians 
who speak Creole to its recruiting 
drive. Harvey Soto, the fund's 
democracy coordinator, said it has 
already recruited 300 poll workers for Miami-Dade County alone. He 
said he has worked polling places 
in Florida and Georgia, and seen 
how voters with limited English 
proficiency struggle when there 
is no translator. He did not want 
that to be an obstacle this year. 
“We decided not to sit back and be 
proactive and help out, ” he said.
America Disrupted: Troubles cleave 
a nation, and a city
It was difficult to celebrate America 
in Saginaw this year. The deadly 
coronavirus had torn through 
the county. Unemployment had 
surged five-fold. Weeks of protest 
over racial inequality left many 
debating what should be hallowed 
and what must be changed. But 
Tom Roy had given it his best. As the 
head of the July Fourth fireworks 
board, he struggled to save the 
display of red-rocketed flares 
and bursting peonies, fruitlessly 
seeking a venue that felt safe from 
the sickness. He couldn't do it. So 
Saginaw canceled its festivities, 
upsetting many of Roy’s neighbors 
who lost an opportunity to unify 
a bitterly divided community for 
one night. The dark skies over this 
mid-Michigan city were a plaintive 
marker of a nation utterly disrupted 
in a matter of months. This period of 
national crisis has not inspired unity. 
Americans are aiming their anger at 
each other, talking past each other, 
invoking race, class and culture. 
They cannot even agree on the need 
to wear a mask to protect against 
a virus that has killed more than 
130,000 Americans. These forces are 
converging as the country hurtles 
toward a convulsive presidential 
election. President Donald Trump 
continues to portray himself as 
a disrupter, with a wrecking-ball 
agenda that is rooted in nationalism 
and roils racial divisions — taking 
the stage over the July Fourth 
weekend to warn of “new far-left 
fascism" that would tear down “our 
national heritage." His Democratic 
rival, Joe Biden, meanwhile, calls 
for a national reset to something 
resembling normal for a “suffering” 
nation. “It’s never been this divided, ” 
says Roy, vice chair of Saginaw’s 
Republicans. Will younger voters, 
whose generation is the first since 
World War II to be faring worse than 
their parents, turn out? Will older 
voters, those most vulnerable to the coronavirus, seek change? Will 
the growing political power of Black 
women manifest itself in ways that 
swing key states? Will the suburbs 
once again provide the pivot points 
in the country’s partisan divide? The 
election will provide answers to all 
these questions, but not necessarily 
to the central issue of American life 
in the year 2020: Can the United 
States pull itself together? The 
country is beset by “parties who see 
each other as ‘the other’ instead of 
collaborators in a democracy, ” says 
historian Doris Kearns Goodwin. 
“A crisis allows you, if you’ve got 
the leadership, to unite the nation. 
What’s needed — and we’ve seen 
this for a while — is a national 
direction," she said.
'If not now, when?': Black women 
seize political spotlight
The little girl ran up to her, wide-
eyed and giddy. “Are you Charisse 
Davis?” the fourth grader asked. 
Davis was stunned. A former 
kindergarten teacher and librarian, 
she was more accustomed to 
shuttling her two sons to basketball 
practice than being seen as a local 
celebrity. But now she had been 
elected the only Black woman on 
the Cobb County School Board, 
gaining office in a once conservative 
suburban community where 
people who look like her rarely 
held positions of power. Something 
had changed in this place, and 
something had changed in her. “I 
love your hair — your hair looks like 
my hair, ” the girl squealed, calling 
friends over. It was a moment both 
innocent and revealing: Not just a 
child seeing herself in an elected 
leader, but also a reflection of the 
rapidly building power of Black 
women. It’s a momentous change 
that could make history on a 
national ticket and determine the 
outcome of the presidential race. 
Black women have long been the 
heart of the Democratic Party — 
among the party’s most reliable 
and loyal voters — but for decades 
that allegiance didn’t translate to 
their own political rise. There have 
been zero Black female governors, 
just two senators, several dozen 
congresswomen. And the people 
representing them instead have 
not met their needs: Disparities 
in education and opportunity 
resulted in Black women making 
on average 64 cents for every dollar 
a white man makes. Long-standing 
health inequities have caused Black 
people to die disproportionately 
from COVID-19. And countless 
cases of police brutality have left 
many Black women terrified every 
time their children pulled out of the 
driveway, fearing that they might 
not make it home alive.“We’ve been 
watching from the sidelines and 
allowing other people to take their 
turns, and take these positions of 
power, ” Davis said. “Now here we are 
to essentially fix it. ”VOLUME 115 ISSUE 4
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinion Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
UF now ranked #6
among public universities
 /endash.case U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT 2021
UFL.EDU
RISING MOMENTUMTHANK YOU   faculty, staﬀ   and students. It is because of you we 
can celebrate this success. As the flagship university in the nation’s 
number one state for higher education, the University of Florida’s 
momentum is on an unstoppable trajectory.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020AFTER THE HIRING OF A 
PROFESSOR WITH PREVIOUS 
OFFENSIVE ALLEGATIONS 
AGAINST WOMEN, STUDENTS 
QUESTION UF LAW’S HIRING 
PROCESS. 
By Kalia Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
A former University of Central Florida associ -
ate professor accused of misogynistic behavior is 
teaching at UF’s Levin College of Law this Fall. 
While at UCF, Robert Wood faced 10 separate 
accusations, according to a report filed by the 
University’s Compliance, Ethics, and Risk Depart -
ment and the Office of Equal Opportunity and 
Affirmative Action Programs. He was said to have 
inappropriately commented on a female student’s 
clothing as well as “kissed or licked” a female staff 
member on the forehead while drunk at a party. 
The accusations were not deemed severe 
enough to violate UCF’s policies, throughout the 
64-year-old’s nearly two decades of teaching at 
UCF, according to the report.
Despite this, some UF law students are an -
gered by the school’s decision to hire him in the 
first place.
Levin administrators knew about Wood’s histo -
ry when they hired him, but there was no violation 
of the UCF Title IX law, which prohibits discrimi -
nation based on sex, Levin College of Law Dean 
Laura Rosenbury wrote in an email. He was hired 
because of his extensive experience at UCF and 
the Barry University Dwayne O. Andreas School of 
Law in Miami.
Wood was hired as a temporary adjunct pro -
fessor for the Fall semester to teach administrative 
law A, which is not mandatory, Rosenbury wrote. 
A full-time professor will teach it in the Spring.
“Given the lack of a finding, the positive evalu -
ations and references from Barry Law School, and 
our general belief that individuals should not be harmed by unfounded allegations, we decided to 
hire Professor Wood for the fall 2020 semester, ” she 
wrote. 
Wood retired from UCF in May of this year in 
good standing, according to his personnel file. 
“Even if these allegations were true, it didn’t 
violate Title IX, and in my position, they didn’t hap -
pen, ” Wood told The Alligator.
UF Law students enrolled in the administrative 
law A course received an email from Brian Mitch -
ell, Levin assistant dean, 12 days before the start of 
UF Fall classes. The textbook had been changed, 
and professor Robert Wood would be teaching 
the course. 
No comments of previous allegations were 
mentioned in Wood’s UF employee personnel file.
Sophia Serrao, a 25-year-old third-year UF law 
student, said she dropped the course after finding 
out Wood would teach it. She doesn’t want a pro -
fessor who demeans students and staff.
“I wasn’t gonna put myself in a position to may -
be be harassed by a professor, ” she said. “My own 
self worth and my own safety is at much higher 
value to me than being in this class. ”
The UCF investigation began in 2016 after 
Wood raised his voice at a female student for using 
her phone during class, required that she respond 
with “yes, sir” and then dismissed her, according to 
the report. When a male student used his phone 
the following month, he did not receive the same 
treatment.
“I told her to put it away, and she got embar -
rassed and went to complain to the head of my 
department, ” Wood said.
Amber Little, a 25-year-old third-year UF law 
student, took two of Wood’s classes during under -
grad at UCF and is enrolled in administrative law. 
Little said she recalls a similar encounter where a 
female student was kicked out of class for using 
her phone. She could not confirm if this was the 
same allegation from the investigative report.
In his UF administrative law class, Little said he 
has not made any sexually charged comments or 
inappropriate comments so far and expects stu -
dents to pay attention if they want to do well in class. 
“I do believe in survivors, but at the same time, 
I do believe you are innocent until proven guilty, ” 
Little said.
Wood said UCF’s administration disliked him 
because he proposed a faculty satisfaction survey 
from 2013- 2014 as a member of the UCF faculty 
senate. He hoped the survey would show opin -
ions on new faculty members earning higher 
salaries than professors with seniority. The survey 
was voted unanimously by faculty, but denied by 
administration and the provost office. 
“The investigation was biased from the begin -
ning, ” Wood said.  
During a class discussion on appropriate attire 
for an interview in July 2014, Wood singled out a 
female student with a low neckline, according to 
the report. He said she would not go to an inter -
view “with everything hanging out. ” He proceeded 
to make a comment about yoga pants with “Juicy” 
written on the back, stating “some girls can’t pull 
that off, ” implying she could, according to a wit -
ness in the report. 
“It looks terrible that some professor made 
all kinds of sexist comments and only got a slap 
on the wrist, but that’s not what in fact occurred, ” 
Wood said in response to the 2017 Orlando Sen -
tinel article.
He said the head of his department took one 
or two student complaints and escalated them 
into an Equal Employment Office complaint. 
In 2016, Wood received a letter of reprimand 
from the UCF Equal Employment Office and Com -
pliance Office in response to the complaints made 
against him. But Wood told The Alligator the letter 
was removed from his personnel file in 2018 fol -
lowing a settlement. 
At UF, Serrao and four others started We Be -
lieve Survivors last year, a coalition created to pro -
tect UF law students. The Facebook page posted 
about Wood’s “misogynistic behavior” in August, 
before the Fall semester began.
Serrao was already disappointed in the law 
school’s decision to bring Supreme Court Jus -
tice Clarence Thomas to teach this past Spring. Anita Hill, who was paid to speak at UF earlier this 
month, accused him of sexually harassing her in 
the 90s. 
After speaking with the school’s administra -
tion, Serrao said she was disheartened by its 
decision to hire Wood.  She is advocating for the 
university to either change their hiring policy or to 
never let someone like Wood be hired again.
“Where are you drawing the line on student 
safety?” Serrao said.
Wood disclosed that working at UF was a “one 
semester gig, ” but expressed he would teach at UF 
again. 
“If the situation arose, depending on my sched -
ule, I would be willing to teach again, ” Wood said.
Hanna Rubin, a 25-year-old third-year UF law 
student, said she had an interest in pursuing ad -
ministrative law and planned to take the class this 
Fall but dropped it when she learned Wood was 
teaching the course.  
“I definitely felt upset, ” Rubin said. “I felt that I 
had been in a position where I had to choose be -
tween taking that class that was important to me 
and protecting myself. ”
Sebastian Campbell, a 23-year-old third-year 
UF law student, once sat in Wood’s class at UCF, 
said he could not stomach sitting in his virtual 
classroom now.
“I think that’s the behavior of a pig, ” he said. 
“That’s highly unacceptable, especially in an insti -
tution like UF. ”
Campbell believes the law school has a greater 
interest in the school ranking than the quality of 
the education. He said it was unfathomable that 
UF would hire a professor with such an “allegedly 
checkered past. ” 
“If you want to talk all the time about how 
you’re a top-25 law school, act like it, ” Campbell 
said. “This is not the behavior of a premier legal 
education institution. ”  
@kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.orgUF law students express dissent on hired UCF professorGPD’S BUDGET WILL INCREASE BY $220,000 
DESPITE CALLS TO DEFUND THE POLICE
By Asta Hemenway
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Police Department’s increase in funding this year has 
community members divided.  
The Gainesville City Commission approved a $220,000 increase 
to GPD’s $36.33 million budget, bringing it to $36.55 million, on 
Sept. 11, totaling to 26% of the city’s overall budget.
This decision follows after protesters rallied against increasing 
funding and a summer of nationwide protests following the death 
of George Floyd, a Black man who died May 25, after a white Min -
neapolis police officer knelt on Floyd’s neck for more than eight 
minutes. 
Some local activists are unhappy with the city commission’s ap -
proval of GPD’s budget increase, while others want GPD to continue 
funding local youth programs. 
Since 2011, GPD’s adopted budget has increased by $5.18 mil -
lion. 
About $100,000 of this latest increase is for mental health spe -
cialists and three teachers at the Reichert House, an education pro -
gram for at-risk youth, said Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe. The rest of 
the money is for police body cameras.
Values represented in the city should be representative of the 
budget, Poe said. It’s why the city is focusing on mental health, edu -
cation and decreasing the number of officers.
“There’s valid voices on all sides, ” Poe said. 
GPD will buy about 300 cameras, said Assistant Police Chief Ter -
rence Pierce.
“Everyone’s being issued one from the chief of police on down 
to the newest rookie, ” Pierce said.
The cameras will ensure that officers are following GPD’s poli -
cies, like use of force, he said. Residents can request footage on the 
GPD records website. 
Jhody Polk, an activist who founded the Jailhouse Lawyers Ini -tiative, said she doesn’t believe body cameras will change anything 
if the court system isn’t reformed. Polk said the body cameras don’t 
instill trust in GPD.
 “Body cams cannot be protective if you do not have a protective 
court system, ” Polk said.
 The $220,000 increase isn’t enough for adequate changes in the 
police department, she said, so the money is wasteful. This amount 
isn’t even enough for Polk’s organization of eight members, so she 
said she can’t imagine how it would help GPD. 
As an East Gainesville resident, she said the community and its 
youth have had negative relations with police long before the Black 
Lives Matter movement.
However, some residents support GPD’s funding increase.
Doris Edwards, a 73-year-old activist and East Gainesville resi -
dent, said she has come to trust and value GPD. She believes GPD 
made a difference after getting involved in her neighborhood 
by frequently checking up on children and adults and attending 
neighborhood watch meetings, she said.
Edwards has collaborated with GPD for more than 25 years 
through her neighborhood watch at  Lincoln Estates. As a Black 
resident, Edwards said she has witnessed how GPD has helped de -
escalate dire situations. 
“If I could triple that money, I’d do it in a minute, ” she said.
Edwards said about six weeks ago police used their crisis inter -
vention team to help a man with mental health issues. The man 
remained calm, went to Meridian Behavioral Healthcare and later 
came back to the neighborhood. 
In the past, the man would have gone to jail, Edwards said.
GPD’s youth program Reichert House has saved lives, she said. 
Little boys she has met became police officers after the program.
“When you can have a bunch of young men, especially in the 
area that I live, that can go up and talk with another teenager that’s 
having an issue, that’s golden, ” she said. 
Manu Osorio, a 24-year-old Dream Defender and 2017 UF eco -
nomics and political science alumna, said she was disappointed in 
the budget increase because the commission put more money into 
the problem.  To Osorio, those who won’t hear their cries for change are willing 
to live in the same world with the same issues. 
“This isn’t going to end, ” she said. “We’re gonna continue asking 
for change. ”
@astahemenway
ahemenway@alligator.orgMixed reactions from Gainesville residents about increase in GPD funding
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
More than 70 people gathered Sept. 3 to protest 
Gainesville City Commission’s proposed increase to 
GPD’s budget.
“We believe the most important thing 
is that we be able to finish the semester 
from beginning to end; that students 
complete their courses; get an education 
that’s as best as possible in the midst of 
COVID; and in that we be as safe as pos -
sible, ” Fuchs said.
The added challenge, in a true 2020 
twist, is managing the issues of physical 
safety while trying to address systemic 
racism.
“There’s just not a vaccine for racism, ” 
Fuchs said, “but I do believe we can take 
steps. ” 
In a June letter to all students, Fuchs 
outlined 15 actions he planned to take 
to lessen the impact of systemic racism 
— including the end of the “Gator Bait” 
chant. 
Fuchs views the public reaction to the 
decision to end it, which he admits was 
symbolic, as misunderstood. He placed 
the blame on the racist history of the 
phrase.“People that read that felt I was accus -
ing them of a racist cheer, which is not the 
case at all, ” he said. “I just can’t have the 
symbolism of that, which is actually in our 
library, associated with what we’re saying 
in our athletic events. ”
Another step is a committee to review 
UF’s honorary namings for buildings, indi -
cating which names may have ties to rac -
ism. That project is expected to be com -
pleted by the end of the Spring semester, 
with names Fuchs has in place. 
The goal, Fuchs stressed, is to initiate 
the discussion on whether those build -
ings should be renamed, which would 
then have to be approved by the Board of 
Trustees.
“As president, I can’t put a name on 
anything and I can’t take away a name. 
Nobody at this university can, ” Fuchs said. 
“So we’re creating the context that peo -
ple would then base those decisions on. ”
How well-equipped Fuchs and UF are 
to deal with these issues is another ques -
tion. 
In a 2018 survey conducted by the 
University of Southern California, UF re -ceived an F ranking on racial representa -
tion. Just this year, the Levin College of 
Law temporarily dropped two classes on 
race, leading to student protests and an 
eventual reinstatement of the courses.
Regardless of those ever-present 
physical and emotional issues, Fuchs sees 
UF on the rise. Though where he sees the 
end of his presidency is still to be deter -
mined.
Before his five-year contract expired 
in June, Fuchs amended his agreement to 
serve at the will of the BOT. He plans to 
see the university through the end of its 
$3 billion “Go Greater” fundraising cam -
paign, which is expected to be completed 
in the Spring, though he hasn’t set a date 
for his retirement.
His hope this year, though, is that UF 
stays determined.
“Make this as one of the best years, 
even though that’s an unfair request, ” 
Fuchs said. “Sometimes, tough years can 
be the best years. ”
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
Corbin Bolies, 21, university administration reporter 
for The Independent Florida Alligator, met for an 
exclusive interview with UF President Kent Fuchs, 65,  
on Wednesday.
FUCHS,  from pg. 1An exclusive interview with UF’s President
AS PART OF HER FINAL STEPS TO 
JOIN THE INAUGURAL CLASS OF 
FEMALE EAGLE SCOUTS, OLIVIA 
FOLI GIVES BACK
By Kalia Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
As a toddler, Olivia Foli used to trek camp -
grounds alongside her brother, who was a Cub 
Scout. 
She too was a scout, a Girl Scout, and rose 
from Daisy as a young girl to Cadet in middle 
school earning bronze and silver awards.
Despite this, she craved the experiences that 
her brother had. 
Olivia founded all-female Troop 21 in 
Gainesville in February 2019, and decided to 
complete her final project at UF Health Shands 
Children’s Hospital last Friday, in order to achieve 
her Eagle Scout status. The 16-year-old PK Yonge 
junior donated 676 painted healing stones from 
more than 100 people from six different states: 
California, Texas, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Florida and Oregon.
Twelve 20-inch rocks with words like “courte -
ous” and “brave” peeked out from the bushes of 
the UF Health Children’s Healing Garden. Olivia 
said each stone symbolized the 12 points of the 
Scout Law.
Each pediatric patient can complete a scaven -
ger hunt with the 12 stones and collect a healing 
rock as a reward. Patients will get physical pre -
scriptions to play in the garden and pick out a 
rock that speaks to them.
“It’s very taxing on a childhood to be in and 
out of the hospital, ” she said. “This is just some -
thing to bring joy to those patients. ”
Olivia said she wished that someone had 
done something like this for her when she was 
younger. She was born with brachial plexus, a 
nerve damage injury, leaving her right arm para -
lyzed from her neck to her fingertips, she said. 
Once she completed her surgery, she went to oc -
cupational therapy at UF Health Shands Hospital 
from age 7 to 14.
“When I found out this garden was going to 
be for pediatric patients it really called me, ” she 
said.The donations are part of Olivia’s Eagle Scout 
project. On Feb. 1, 2019, females were accepted 
into Scouts BSA, Boy Scouts of America and more 
than 14,000 female scouts have joined since April 
2019.
An Eagle Scout is the highest rank a Scout can 
achieve. They’re required to complete a service 
project, earn 21 merit badges, attend a scoutmas -
ter conference and be approved by the board of 
review, according to the 2019 Eagle Scout fact 
sheet.  Only 8% of scouts ever rise to this rank.
Olivia plans to be a part of the inaugural class 
of female Eagle Scouts in America.
Amy Wegner, the director of the child life ser -
vices at Shands Hospital, said Olivia’s project will 
support children of all ages in the hospital, even 
family and staff members.
“She really took the lead and created this won -
derful project, ” she said. “We couldn’t be more 
thankful. ”
Wegner said the pediatric patients haven’t 
had an opportunity to utilize the garden recently 
because of COVID-19, but plans to allow children 
with volunteers or staff members to play in the 
garden individually.“We know that the outdoors really benefits 
children in many, many ways as far as healing and 
relaxing them, ” Wegner said.
Two years ago, this would’ve been impos -
sible, Troop 21 Scoutmaster and Olivia’s mother 
Kim Foli said. Her daughter would ask incessantly 
about when she could be a Boy Scout. She recalls 
her daughter’s reaction when she first shared the 
news that Scouts BSA was accepting females.
“She jumped up from her plate and started 
running around the house, ” Kim Foli said. “This 
previously impossible idea was now possible. ”
Olivia Foli has completed all her rank require -
ments and merit badges so far. She did so in 
about 19 months, a process that normally takes 
five to six years, Kim Foli said.
The next step is the review process. On Feb. 8 
she can officially receive her certificate to become 
an Eagle Scout.
“This has been a dream of hers since she was 
a little girl, ” Kim Foli said. “It’s an incredible oppor -
tunity. ”
@kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.orgFemale boy scout delivers 700 healing stones to Shands Hospital6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
S-U GRADING WAS OFFERED IN SPRING DUE TO 
COVID-19 CLASS DISRUPTIONS
By Rachel Slay
Alligator Staff Writer
UF gave students an academic safety net in the Spring that won’t 
be available this Fall.
UF isn’t planning to offer an S-U option and is not anticipating an -
other transition to fully online classes this Fall, UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando wrote in an email.
When COVID-19 moved UF’s classes online in the middle of the 
Spring semester, students could opt for a Satisfactory-Unsatisfactory 
grading style for any course. For UF’s Fall semester, S-U grading can 
only be used for one elective course per term, as usual, but must be 
approved. 
S-U grading is not the same as pass/fail grading, though the 
names tend to be used interchangeably. UF does not offer pass/fail 
grading where a grade of D- or above is a “Pass” and E grades are con -sidered a “Fail. ”
General education requirements cannot be taken S-U, according 
to UF’s policy. 
“UF offered this option in the Spring because of the disruption 
caused by switching to being fully online mid-semester, ” Orlando 
wrote. “That did not happen over the Summer or this Fall. ”
Under S-U grading, a student must earn a minimum of a C by the 
end of the semester to pass a class with an “S, ” according to UF’s grad -
ing policies. This means the letter grade would not show up on a stu -
dent’s transcript and would not affect their UF grade point average. 
In his 11 years at UF, Kevin Knudson, mathematics department 
chair, has only had a few students ask for pass/fail grading during that 
whole time, he wrote in an email. Knudson said they only requested 
it because the courses were electives. 
The change of policy in the spring was appropriate because of 
how sudden the move online was, Knudson wrote.
“This term, however, we all knew in advance what the teaching 
format would be and so I think it’s less necessary now, ” Knudson 
wrote. 
Because students knew how classes were going to be set up for the Fall semester, Erin Hilsabeck, a 20-year-old UF psychology junior, 
understands why S-U isn’t an option. 
During the transition to asynchronous classes in the spring, 
meaning there are no live class meetings, Hilsabeck struggled with 
time management and procrastination. She considered S-U grading 
for some of her classes. 
“I really liked the schedule of going to lectures at a certain time, 
and having to be there in class and listen, ” Hilsabeck said. “It was really 
hard for me to keep up and actually watch the lectures when I was 
supposed to. ”
She didn’t end up choosing S-U in spring, but this semester, she 
said she wishes she had the option now because of her asynchro -
nous organic chemistry class, which doesn’t meet at a scheduled 
time online. 
Unfortunately, students hoping for the same S-U option from the 
Spring will have to keep their GPAs in good condition the old-fash -
ioned way: good grades. 
@racheljslay
rslay@alligator.org
WHILE AAVE WORDS AND PHRASES, “SIS,” “LIT” 
AND “ON FLEEK” HAVE BECOME POPULAR 
ONLINE, MANY BLACK STUDENTS WHO SPEAK 
AAVE AREN’T UNDERSTOOD AND SOMETIMES 
EVEN RIDICULED BY TEACHERS
By Asta Hemenway
Alligator Staff Writer 
Using African American Vernacular English as a Black person is ex -
pected and encouraged but also criticized. 
While AAVE words and phrases, such as “sis, ” “lit, ” “yas” and “tea” 
have become popular online, many Black students who speak AAVE 
aren’t understood and are sometimes even ridiculed by teachers. In 
the American education system, Black students may speak AAVE, 
which some teachers consider incorrect because of its different 
speaking and writing patterns. 
The debate about AAVE’s validity even led to a successful lawsuit 
against school systems in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in 1979, after teach -
ers denied AAVE’s existence. Oakland, California, recognized AAVE as 
a language in 1996.
Expert linguists, like Diane Boxer, a UF linguistic professor, said 
AAVE is a highly developed, systematic language with its own pre -
dictable grammatical rules.  
AAVE is a language variety essential to Black culture, Boxer said. 
The variety, which has its own grammar, vocabulary, syntax, pronun -
ciation, word forms and context, was formerly known as Black English 
Vernacular or Ebonics. 
The variety grew after slave owners purposely grouped slaves 
from different areas of Africa so they couldn’t understand each other, 
Boxer said. The rise of the variety began as a pidgin language, which 
develops when two speakers don’t share a common language. 
While most speakers of AAVE acquire it by hearing it at home 
while growing up, linguists like Boxer believe it isn’t something that 
can be taught.
Bidialectal students are similar to children who grow up bilingual, 
Boxer said. Speakers of AAVE grow up with one way of talking in their 
community and another way of talking in formal situations. The situ -ation differs because AAVE speakers are usually exposed to English.
However, Boxer said students may not find using standard Eng -
lish necessary — this is where they may find educational trouble.
Students in Davida Holmes’ English classes at Eastside High 
School sometimes used words often perceived as slang, like “finna, ” 
“gon’” and “ion. ” Holmes, their teacher, said she never bashed them or 
told them they were wrong.
Many of the students in her classes were fluent speakers of AAVE, 
so few students using standard English when writing papers can 
have experiences comparable to those learning English as a second 
language, Holmes said.
Holmes, who taught general and Advanced Placement English 
courses, had her students read books that combine AAVE and SAT 
prep words with a standardized writing style. Her students read The 
Hoopster Trilogy by Alan Lawerence Sitomer, a novel about a young 
Black basketball player navigating racism while pursuing journalism. 
When growing up, Holmes said her mother wouldn’t allow her 
and her siblings to use AAVE until they knew standard English. Her 
mother said if she wanted to use a phrase like “Ion like that” or “I’m finna go to the store, ” she needed to know how to say “I’m not going 
to do that” or “I’m getting ready to walk to the store. ”
“It was not a matter of learning a foreign language per se, ” Holmes 
said. “I think it was more so my mother just telling me ‘This is the way 
that you’re expected to speak within society and be respected, so you 
gon’ do it. ’”
People who say the variety is grammatically incorrect are mis -
informed, insensitive and dismissive of Black history, Holmes said. 
However, she added that many students told her they felt they were 
perceived as ignorant or stupid because of the way they spoke.
“I think language has a way of doing that, ” she said. “I think it has 
a way of making people feel like they’re inferior or superior to others, 
and that is why I teach the way that I teach my students. ”
When she felt relaxed, Holmes said she used words like “finna” in 
classes. 
This is called code switching, or the swap from one language vari -
ety to another, Boxer said. AAVE speakers everywhere do it every day. 
AAVE speakers may code switch to be recognized as a member of 
a cultural group, Boxer said. A Black person may be seen as an outsid -
er to the culture if they don’t speak like those around them in informal 
situations. The change, often a subconscious one, involves shifting all 
aspects of language — grammar, vocabulary, tone, intonation, dic -
tion and pitch and volume — depending on what someone is trying 
to say, she said.
As a code switcher herself, Holmes said students have asked her 
how she learned to talk differently, even telling her that she “talks 
white. ”
“It’s almost like you’re a chameleon, ” Holmes said. “You need to be 
able to adapt to the situation that you’re in, OK?”
To Boxer, teachers need to adapt as language evolves.
“Language is always in the process of changing, ” Boxer said. “It’s 
not accepted by the wider public, especially people who are in the 
teaching profession who ought to be able to accept different variet -
ies of English. ”
@astahemenway
ahemenway@alligator.orgDESPITE THE PANDEMIC, UF’S 
GYMS CONTINUE TO SERVE THE 
UF COMMUNITY. 
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer 
After closing in Spring 2020, UF’s gyms 
are open once again, but students looking 
to lift are in for a different experience.
Since the onset of COVID-19, staff mem -
bers at Southwest Recreation Center and 
Student Recreation Center, two of the main 
UF student gyms, have implemented pre -
ventative measures to help students exer -
cise safely. These include a screening pro -
cess, a mask requirement at all times and 
limited hours and capacity. 
During the screening process, staff mem -bers take the temperature of all patrons and 
ask about COVID-19 symptoms and expo -
sure. 
Staff members also do three times the 
amount of cleaning they usually do, and 
equipment is disinfected by a Clorox Total 
360 System, a spray machine that sanitizes 
surfaces. This is done prior to opening at 6 
a.m. on weekdays and 10 a.m. on weekends, 
said Marty Dempsey, the associate director 
for facility operations for all UF facilities. 
Gym hours have decreased due to COVID-19.
“We are continuing to assess our poli -
cies and our procedures to make sure that 
everybody has a safe and enjoyable time, ”  
Dempsey said.
Equipment is spaced 6 feet apart. Each 
room has a capacity limit based on how 
large it is.Gyms on campus have faced new hurdles 
due to the COVID-19 restrictions, like long 
lines and wait times to get in. If a room is 
full, students have to wait until others leave 
to enter. 
Alexander Hanson, a 20-year-old UF 
criminology and psychology senior, went 
to Southwest Rec five days per week in the 
summer but has opted to an off-campus 
gym this Fall to escape the long wait. 
“Oftentimes there’s a 40-minute plus line, 
which is just not something I’m necessarily 
willing to do, ” he said. 
To combat this, Dempsey said staff mem -
bers began dispersing gym equipment to 
different areas so fewer students would try 
to use the same room. Additionally, live cam -
eras on the RecSports website show how 
many people are in the gym in real time.Emily Lyssenko, an 18-year-old UF inter -
national studies freshman, has been going 
to Southwest Rec at least four times per 
week this Fall and feels it’s one of the safest 
places on campus because visitors are al -
lowed to clean their own surfaces.
While Lyssenko is aware of the risks, she 
continues to exercise because it’s important 
not only for her physical health, but also her 
mental health. 
“It’s kind of the break that I give myself in 
the day, ” she said. “But I still think that I can 
lead in a way where I’m still taking all those 
precautions and I’m not giving up one for 
the other. ”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgUF isn’t offering an S-U grading option to students this Fall
A tale of two Englishes: African American Vernacular English’s roleSanitation and distance: How UF’s gyms are handling COVID-19
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
You can register 
to vote now 
using your 
campus address.
You can vote early.  
You can vote by mail.
You can vote  
on Election Day.
Go to voteamerica.com/students
VoteAmerica. com
VoteAmerica is a 501(c)3 registered non-profit organization, and does not  
support or oppose any political candidate or party. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
An analytical look at UF’s schedule
Resident stats expert Brendan Farrell examines the Gators op -
ponents, pg. 11EXPLORING THE MALE 
BODY IMAGE ALONGSIDE 
A PANDEMIC
By Alan Halaly
Contributing Writer
Grady Svetly grew tired of being 
the butt of the joke because of his 
weight in middle school.
Even though they were just jokes 
to his peers at the time, they left a 
lasting impact, as these negative 
interactions laid the foundation for 
how he built a relationship with his 
body, the 18-year-old UF computer 
science freshman said.
According to researchers from 
the University of Birmingham, ev -eryday worries about looks can be 
exacerbated by increased phone us -
age and less face-to-face interactions 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. As 
many students self-isolate and spend 
hours scrolling through social media, 
a sense of self-worth can be derived 
by comparing themselves to others. 
With the popularization of the 
controversial body positivity move -
ment encouraging women to love 
their bodies no matter their size or 
build, some men feel they are left out 
of the narrative.
“Men are left out of the conver -
sation of body positivity because in 
order for them to participate in the 
movement, there needs to be vulner -
ability, ” Svetly said. “That isn’t a qual -
ity that is considered ‘manly’ to have, meaning that most men don’t open 
up about their insecurities. ”
Research from The Body Project 
shows that 95% of college-age men 
are dissatisfied with their bodies on 
some level. Men are also less likely 
to seek help for body image issues, 
on average holding off longer than 
women due to feelings of shame. 
When Karin Kratina of Gainesville-
based Nutrition Therapy Associates 
chose to specialize in nutrition ther -
apy 35 years ago, men almost never 
came in for treatment. 
“The way our culture demonizes 
fatness and pushes everyone to idol -
ize a standard that is unreachable for 
most people often causes intense 
feelings of inadequacy not specific to 
one gender, ” Karin Kratina said.In Kratina’s experience, however, 
body image is especially a problem 
with Alachua County’s college-aged 
men, as they worry about social 
pressures and the transition to adult -
hood.
“Oftentimes, eating issues or an 
increased interest in shaping the 
body happens in times of transition 
or times of stress, as men focus on 
their bodies as a way to feel better 
and they’re worried about whether 
things are going to work out or not, ” 
Karin Kratina said.
Caroline Kratina, Karin Kratina’s 
niece and media and marketing di -
rector of Nutrition Therapy Associ -
ates, feels media portrayals play a 
critical role in the development of 
male body image.
“Take underwear ads, for exam -
ple. They always portray one type of 
man: tall, a six-pack, great hair, with no fat whatsoever, ” Caroline Kratina 
said. “Nobody is going to 100% fit 
into those categories, and men are 
beating themselves up over that. ”
“Dad bod, ” is a slang term mean -
ing, “a male physique that is relatively 
slim but not lean or toned, ” according 
to Oxford Languages. 
While this may lead us to believe 
that social expectations for male 
bodies are starting to shift, for Bryce 
Brown, an 18-year-old UF journalism 
freshman, dad bods are just another 
unattainable category men feel pres -
sured to put themselves in.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/the_avenue
@alanhalaly
alanhalaly@ufl.edu
“LOVE IS…” RELEASES SEPT. 25
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
Former Gainesville resident and music art -
ist Kelsea Martinez believes there are three 
loves: the first love, the innocent and naive 
one; the second love, the one where you learn 
the most lessons; and the third love, the unex -
pected one where you might even find your 
soulmate.
Martinez, , discusses all of the above with 
her new album “Love Is… ” set to be released 
on Sept. 25. The album will consist of six 
tracks, including her recently released single, 
“Lemon, ” which dropped on Aug. 21.
Martinez, , said she became interested in 
making music as a child. She began writing 
songs at age 9 and immediately wanted to 
reach listeners through her music.
Making music became a pivotal part of 
Martinez’s life in high school when she was 
, a condition affecting the nervous system. 
Martinez had already witnessed the effects 
of illness through her mother and turned to 
music and dance to process  tumultuous time 
of her life.
Martinez lived in Gainesville for four years 
while attending Santa Fe College, where she 
studied dance. She returned to her about a 
year ago and now teaches dance in addition 
to making music.
“Love Is… ” will be Martinez’s first album 
release, a collection of songs that she said are 
based on love and growth. Martinez said the 
album takes on an R&B sound and will feature some rap elements as well, citing The Notori -
ous B.I.G. as one of her musical inspirations.
The three loves will be the first focus of the 
album. The track “Damn Shame” is Martinez’s 
dedication to the first, idealistic love; “Socio -
path” details a second, more toxic relationship 
where hard lessons  learned; and the single 
“Lemon” describes the third love, an unex -
pected relationship where you might meet 
“the one. ”
Though Martinez said she didn’t find the 
third love to apply to her, she wrote “Love Is… ” 
as a portrayal of herself in past relationships 
and as a recognition of the strength she devel -
oped, even at the lowest of points.
Accompanying Martinez on this journey 
was fellow Jacksonville artist and friend , 
known professionally as L3V!, who mixed and 
mastered the album’s six tracks.
Wilson worked to capture the flow and 
theme of Martinez’s album and believes the 
finished songs offer something every listener 
can enjoy and take away from.
Martinez said she is proud of the new al -
bum and the release marks a big step for her, 
citing the relationships discussed in “Love 
Is… ” as an obstacle she has overcome.
“Those relationships, they always hindered 
me, ” she said. “They always made me feel like 
what I had wasn’t good enough. This album is 
almost like an ‘awe moment’ for me. I’m like, 
‘I did it. ’”
“Love Is… ” will be released on Spotify, 
iTunes and Amazon Music on Sept. 25.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.org‘Dad Bods’ and the male beauty standard
R&B artist Kelsea Martinez describes 
what love is in upcoming album 
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE
MUSICMUSIC
My feelings are mixed as I 
walk around campus this 
fall. I’m happy to see stu -
dents in masks studying in 
the Reitz Union or enjoy -
ing each other’s company outdoors, 
but I miss the energy of Turlington 
Plaza during class changes and the 
lunchtime crowds on the Plaza of the 
Americas.
Library West and Marston are qui -
et, even by library standards! And though I can’t 
wait to see the Gators play football, the Swamp 
will be quieter, too, with fewer than 18,000 fans 
allowed for games due to COVID-19.
So I am grateful this Fall’s rankings of the na -
tion’s best public universities give us all some -
thing to shout about.
Last week, U.S. News & World Report ranked 
UF the No. 6 public university in the country. This 
continues our rising trajectory among the nation’s 
top ten public universities for the fourth year in a 
row and puts UF just one step and one point away 
from our goal of joining the top five.
We had to cancel Homecoming because of 
COVID-19, and we won’t play, and beat, our tra -
ditional rival, FSU. But in addition to being a wel -
come cause for celebration, our rise in the rank -
ings is its own victory — especially for students.
Why a victory for students? Because the rank -
ing is based to a large degree on increasing excel -
lence in education.
Key measures that go into the ranking include 
smaller classes. UF’s student-to-faculty ratio is 
steadily improving, which means more personal 
interaction and small-group discussions with 
instructors. A second key measure gauges the 
amount of resources devoted to faculty. For stu -
dents, this translates to increasingly exceptional 
faculty, well-equipped to teach and do research.
Our rising ranking is also tied to rising gradu -
ation rates. Graduating faster helps students hold 
down costs, which reduces debt and allows them 
to quickly move on to graduate schools or careers. In student outcome measures (reten -
tion, graduation performance, social 
mobility and student debt), we were 
ranked No. 7 in the nation among all 
private and public universities, which 
includes universities such as Harvard, 
Yale, Princeton and Stanford.
A top rank even benefits students 
after they graduate, since it raises the 
value of their UF degrees in the eyes 
of graduate schools and employers. 
Keep in mind, our ascent has occurred during a 
time when our in-state tuition ($6,380 for this Fall) 
has barely budged. We are one of the nation’s 
very top higher education values, and often cited 
as such.
Finally, a top ranking benefits students in 
many indirect ways. For example, the higher we 
are ranked, the more effective our fundraising. 
For the second year in a row, we raised more than 
$500 million from donors this fiscal year, and we 
expect to complete our $3 billion capital cam -
paign ahead of schedule this spring. For students, 
this means more and bigger scholarships, more 
professors funded by endowments and more 
beautiful and advanced facilities.
To be sure, we have room for improvement.
As we gain in stature and in selectivity, we 
will redouble our efforts to ensure access to stu -
dents from underprivileged backgrounds and 
increase our numbers of Black and other minority 
students. We will work even harder to make sure 
that all admitted students are supported and can 
succeed.
Still, UF’s No. 6 ranking is great news in this 
year of living and learning with COVID-19. It is 
news we can share on Zoom or while standing in 
line for Krishna lunch, which continues complete 
with masks, plexiglass and social distancing. It is 
news even thousands of masks can’t muffle.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. You can 
find his monthly column in The Alligator.News even thousands of masks can’t muffleOpinions Column
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By David Distenfeld
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/21/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/21/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 21, 2020
ACROSS
1 New York deli 
namesake Willy
5 Nobel __
10 Pack of cards
14 Wind instrument
15 “Superbad” 
co-screenwriter 
Seth
16 Pulitzer author 
Jennifer
17 Red bonus 
square on the 
Scrabble board
20 Soak in the tub
21 Casino wheel
22 Michelle of “Crazy 
Rich Asians”
25 Sleep acronym
26 Serious injury for 
a firefighter
34 Go bad
35 Brazilian 
mountain chain
36 Pop star whose 
name used to 
be spelled with a 
dollar sign
37 Army outfit
39 Particulars, 
informally
41 DEA bust
42 “What a shame”
44 Descendant
46 Ending with hero 
or alp
47 1975 made-
for-TV horror 
anthology starring 
Karen Black
50 Online guffaw
51 “Seize the day” 
acronym
52 Dual-purpose
57 Royally named 
singer with 
the #1 album 
“Melodrama”
61 Appetizer-entrée-
dessert serving
64 Wine bottle date
65 Divided Asian 
peninsula
66 Happy hour 
places
67 Camera part
68 Wintry and white
69 Geometry class 
calculation
DOWN
1 “Today” 
co-anchor Hoda
2 Incantation 
opener3 “Nothing __!”: 
“Easy!”
4 Gentle breeze
5 Start to fix?
6 Use oars
7 Hunchbacked lab 
assistant
8 Love, in tennis
9 Last a long time
10 Month in which 
Kwanzaa starts
11 Four-award 
acronym
12 Golfer’s transport
13 Leg joint
18 __ United: 
English soccer 
team
19 Smooth and 
glossy
23 Had too much, 
briefly
24 Joan of Arc’s 
crime
26 Put faith in
27 “It’s an __ just to 
be nominated”
28 Formal “Who’s 
there?” reply
29 Spanish artist 
El __
30 Okay, as a treaty
31 Delta rival 
renamed in 1997
32 Safari beast33 Consumerist 
Ralph
38 Scorekeepers, at 
times
40 Explorer 
Hernando de ___
43 Lorna of 
literature
45 Portia de Rossi’s 
“Ally McBeal” 
role
48 Austrian pistols
49 Self-moving 
vacuum52 Texter’s “Chat 
soon”
53 Roller coaster 
cry
54 Algerian seaport
55 Midday
56 French franc 
successor
58 Fanny
59 Have the nerve
60 Lioness of film
62 VCR go-back 
button
63 Come out with
By Bruce Haight
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/15/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/15/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 15, 2020
ACROSS
1 *Dough (and start 
of a word ladder)
6 “__ it ain’t so!”
9 Pop’s bros
13 Insurance giant
14 Paul Bunyan tool
15 *Bit of luck
16 *Dismal
17 Itinerary word
18 Poetic feet
19 __ Lingus
20 Horse-and-buggy 
sect
22 *Sheepish 
remark?
23 Interoffice PC 
connection
24 Carnival city
25 “You bet!”
27 “Seats all taken” 
sign
28 Abbr. on a B-52
30 Not nice at all
32 Hillside home 
asset
33 Author Wiesel
35 Blood work and 
such
37 Apt description 
of the sequence 
suggested by 
the answers to 
starred clues?
40 Partygoer, say
43 Target’s target, 
say
46 Some August 
babies
47 Third of eight
50 Intertwine
52 Under the 
weather
53 Also say
54 What a suspect 
tries to beat, with 
“the”
56 “That’s more than 
I need to know”
57 *Made holy
59 Musical set in 
Argentina
61 Family guy
62 “Me too!”
63 Bigwig
64 *Fabulous time
66 *Dispense with 
modesty
67 Uncommon 
sense
68 Justice 
Sotomayor
69 A.D. part70 Vote against
71 *Doomed, 
slangily (and end 
of the ladder)
DOWN
1 Ricky’s signature 
song on “I Love 
Lucy”
2 Word after news 
or press
3 Everlasting
4 Santa __ winds
5 Senegal’s  
capital
6 Rescuer
7 x or y, on graphs
8 “Sure, sure”
9 Eurasian border 
river
10 Usually 
successful 
opponent
11 Musical set at the 
Kit Kat Klub
12 Winter lifts
15 Tots’ spill 
catchers
21 Karaoke singer’s 
tool
26 Isle of 
Napoleon’s exile
29 Piccolo relatives
31 Gastric woe32 Cobra’s weapon
34 Long, long time
36 “Open __ 9 p.m.”: 
store sign
38 Pigged out (on), 
briefly
39 All square
40 Storied cave 
opener
41 Exposes
42 Holy city 
resident?
44 Nails the test45 Absorption 
process
48 Psychedelic
49 Fez or fedora
51 Suggest
53 Go __: fight
55 Brewery that 
co-distributes 
Not Your Father’s 
Root Beer
58 Just passable
60 Mastercard rival
65 WC
09/14/2020Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
“The liberty of the press is essential to the 
security of the state.” – John Adams
14 Help Wanted
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Café Risqué
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
352- 466- 3803
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Cooks / Waitresses / Managers / Performers
Apply NOW
11-2-8-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
16 Health Services
Friends don’t let friends 
catch COVID-19.
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
BE A HERO. 
WEAR A MASK!
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Are your online classes putting you to sleep?  
READ THE ALLIGATOR INSTEAD!1For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
*********** STUDENTS ***********
1 and 2 bedroom apartments and houses. 
All convenient to campus and downtown. 
Call or text 352-359-2304. tedcoprops@
yahoo.com.                              9-21-20-3-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. ABSOLUTELY 
HUGE! Gorgeous Wood Floors, central 
AC/HT, dishwasher, laundry room, fenced, 
pets OK $1,890 per month. 352-665-8166
10-26-20-8-2
Available Immediately. Blocks away from UF 
& shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes utilities 
& wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call Brenda 352-
672-8657  10-12-20-4-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
4 Roommates
1BR/1BA available in 2BR/2BA Condo
Close to Shands. $400/mo + 1/2 utils.
W/D. Call 352-318-1702                          9-28-3-4
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
Please recycle this newspaper.10 For Sale
answer on page 10
answers below1. What U.S. Olympic gymnast, born in Mos -
cow in 1989, won the women's all-around gold 
medal at the 2008 Beijing Summer Games?
2. The annual award given to Major League 
Baseball's best left-handed pitcher is named 
in honor of what legendary southpaw?
3. What Heisman Trophy winner had his No. 
27 retired by both the Tennessee Titans and 
the Ohio State Buckeyes?
4. What country won the gold medal in the 
inaugural Olympic women's ice hockey tour -
nament at the 1998 Nagano Winter Games?
5. Name the three drivers who share the 
record for NASCAR Cup Series season titles 
with seven apiece.
6. What stadium was ransacked by souvenir 
hunters during the Philadelphia Phillies' fi -
nal home game there in 1970? 
7. With what Major League Baseball team did 
Bo Jackson finish his playing career in 1994?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
solution below
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  answerSports Quiz  answers1. Nastia Liukin.
2. Warren Spahn.
3. Eddie George.
4. The United States.5. Dale Earnhardt, Jimmie Johnson 
and Richard Petty.
6. Connie Mack Stadium.
7. The California Angels.
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators in the U.S. Open
Former Florida Gator Billy Horschel competed in the U.S. Open this past week at 
Winged Foot Golf Club, finishing T38 with a final score of 294 (+14). Paul Tesori, 
another UF alum, was also in the tournament, caddying for Webb Simpson, who 
finished in a tie for eighth. Current Gator Ricky Castillo also competed as an 
amateur but missed the cut.Former UF wide receiver Van Jefferson 
caught four passes for 45 yards in the 
Los Angeles Rams’ victory over the 
Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday. His 
longest reception was a 21-yard catch 
to set up a scoring drive.
FOOTBALL
By Christian Ortega
Sports Writer
He spent his life as a Gators fan. 
Tim Tebow and Urban Meyer’s champion -
ship runs fueled Shane Solana's, a 21-year-
old UF animal sciences junior, love for the 
program. 
So when he enrolled at UF, Solana made 
it his mission to attend as many games as 
possible. This included a five-hour road trip 
from St. Augustine with his girlfriend and 
two friends to watch Florida’s 2019 Orange 
Bowl win in Miami. He’s only missed two 
games as a student. 
But the odds that Solana attends one this 
year are in limbo. As a way to balance fans 
attending games while limiting the chances 
of spreading COVID-19 through social dis -
tancing measures, only 17,000 fans will be 
in The Swamp during home games. Of that, 
no more than 2,000 tickets will be given to 
students through a lottery system. 
Solana isn’t alone, as many students ex -
pressed frustration over the small propor -
tion of tickets allotted to students for games. 
“I feel like students are the ones that pro -
vide the most to the university, ” he said. “It's 
just, it's a shame that it's only 2,000. I just 
feel like it's kind of a little ridiculous. ”
Up to 10,000 students will watch games 
at home this season because once one wins 
the lottery, they’re no longer allowed to en -
ter. Gators Students, the official Twitter page 
for the Gators Students Rewards Program & 
Student Info for UF athletics, said the deci -
sion was made to maximize the number of students and general season ticket holders 
that Ben Hill Griffin Stadium can host on 
game days. 
Many took to social media to voice their 
displeasure. One suggested a petition to al -
low students to have an extra year of eligi -
bility to receive discounted tickets. But most 
just used it as a platform to vent. 
One reason they are bothered by the lim -
its is the experience of attending games at 
The Swamp. Solana says the atmosphere is 
part of the reason he loves being a UF fan, 
and his best experiences were watching 
Florida upset LSU in 2018 and Auburn in 
2019. 
It’s the camaraderie that Drake Kavana -
ugh, a 21-year-old UF biology junior, thinks 
is quintessential to the student experienc -
ing at games in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
“I think we serve as the loudest voice in 
the stadium, ” Kavanaugh said. 
Kavanaugh, a first-generation college 
student, wasn’t a fan before enrolling at UF. 
But his first experience hit him like a semi-
truck. This season, it won’t be the same. 
“When you're a student, you give like 100 
percent going into the stadium, ” he said. 
“You cheer for everything, you get loud, you 
motivate your friends to get up and get loud 
with you, and I just don’t see that happen -
ing. ”
That sentiment is shared by Leslie White, 
a 20-year-old UF agricultural education and 
communications junior. As a transfer stu -
dent, she hoped she would see a game in-
person, and even more excited to be a Gator. 
Now, those feelings of excitement are over -shadowed by frustration. 
“No matter if you're a football fan or not, 
going to a football game is something that 
everybody kind of looks forward to, just be -
ing a part of that atmosphere and environ -
ment so getting that experience almost cer -
tainly cut out is kind of something that we 
talk about a lot, ” she said. 
While Kavanaugh, White and Solana plan 
on putting their names in the lottery, they’ll 
be among thousands, and the odds likely 
won’t end in their favor. 
“My morale, just looking at that, went 
down because I know the odds of me actu -
ally getting a ticket is pretty low, ” Kavana -ugh said. “For there to be — not the greatest 
odds for someone — no certainty that you 
could get a ticket. It's pretty sad, honestly. ”
With UF’s expectations to succeed this 
season at its highest since Meyer’s depar -
ture, this season could feature the return to 
form Gators fans have craved for a decade. 
Whether that will come to pass remains 
to be seen, but one thing is certain: The live-
game experience this fall will be unlike any 
before.
cortega@alligator.org
@unofficialchrisStudents torn over limited attendance this season 
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
To determine who will be able to attend home games this season, students must enter 
a lottery system. Of the 17,000 available seats in Ben Hill Griffin stadium this season, 
2,000 will go to students.
STATURDAY
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Gators kick off their unprec -
edented 10-game, conference-only 
2020 campaign against Ole Miss in 
just five days. Here’s an analytical look 
at who they’ll play and how they stack 
up. 
According to the data, Florida 
lucked out with its schedule this year. 
Before the COVID-19 pandemic can -
celed out-of-conference play for the 
SEC, the Gators’ schedule was already 
light. But adding Arkansas (who went 
0-8 in the SEC last year) while avoid -
ing No. 2 Alabama and No. 8 Auburn 
makes for an even more manageable 
slate. 
UF’s opponents were a combined 
36-44 (.450) last season in SEC play. 
Only three had a winning record against conference opponents and 
five went to a bowl game in 2019. 
Let’s take a look at how Florida and 
its opponents looked last season on 
both sides of the ball using Predicted 
Points Added (PPA), collegefootball -
data.com’s Expected Points Added 
(EPA) model. Higher numbers are bet -
ter for offenses, while lower numbers 
are better for defenses.
On the next page is a table show -
ing how teams performed across vari -
ous offensive and defensive metrics. 
It’s shaded from red (bad) to blue 
(good). Passing downs are second 
downs with at least seven yards to go 
or third and fourth downs with at least 
five yards to go. All downs that are not 
passing downs are standard.
LSU was only rivaled by Alabama 
offensively last season, but the Tigers 
have also lost most of their talent on both sides of the ball. According to 
ESPN writer Bill Connelly’s returning 
production metric, LSU ranked 127th 
in February after losing Heisman Tro -
phy winner Joe Burrow, running back 
Clyde Edwards-Helaire and wide re -
ceiver Justin Jefferson. That number 
doesn’t even include wide receiver 
Ja’Marr Chase, who opted out of the 
season in August. 
Aside from LSU, there were a 
couple of defense-first teams in Geor -
gia and Missouri, an Ole Miss team 
that was fine offensively but couldn’t 
stop a nosebleed, two terrible teams 
in Vanderbilt and Arkansas and four 
teams somewhere in between. 
Let’s focus on offense for a bit. 
Again, LSU was completely domi -
nant offensively, but the rest of Flor -
ida’s schedule left a lot of room for 
improvement in 2020. Tennessee and Missouri were decent throwing the 
football but struggled with the run, 
while teams like South Carolina, Ar -
kansas, and Vanderbilt struggled with 
everything. Kentucky, forced to run 
the wildcat offense after quarterbacks 
Terry Wilson and Sawyer Smith were 
injured, likely won’t have the same ex -
treme disparity between rushing and 
passing this season. 
Along with PPA, I’m using some -
thing called success rate, which is the 
percentage of plays that are deemed 
successful. Success is defined by ob -
taining at least 50 percent of the re -
quired yardage to move the chains 
on first down, 70 percent on second 
down, 100 percent on third and fourth 
down or scoring. 
It’s likely that the best offense Flor -
ida will face in the regular season will 
be in practice. Quarterback Kyle Trask might be the best returning passer in 
the conference. Last season was not 
a banner year for SEC passers, as out -
side of Burrow, Trask and Alabama’s 
duo of Tua Tagovailoa and Mac Jones, 
few were better than average. 
However, Florida’s running game 
was abysmal in 2019 with the excep -
tion of a couple big plays, and it loses 
leading rusher Lamical Perine. Return -
ing four starters on the offensive line 
while adding graduate transfer Stew -
art Reese will help, but it’s still an obvi -
ous weak point for Florida. 
Florida’s offense could have some -
thing resembling a tune-up game 
Week 1 against Ole Miss, whose de -
fense gave up more than 26 points 
and 400 yards per game last season. 
But the Gators will have to quickly Despite all-SEC opponents, Gators draw easy schedule
SEE STATURDAY,  PAGE 1212   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
work out any kinks offensively, because four of 
their next five opponents finished in the upper 
half in 2019. 
Georgia and Missouri both finished last sea -
son in the top 10 nationally in PPA per play de -
fensively and both have plenty of returning piec -
es. The Bulldogs, fresh off a season where they 
topped the Power Five in PPA per rush, return 14 
players who played at least 200 snaps. Dan Mul -
len’s work is cut out for him in Jacksonville. 
The good news for Mullen and the offense 
is that the schedule thins out toward the end of the season. Immediately after the World’s Larg -
est Outdoor Socially Distant Cocktail Party, the 
Gators face Arkansas and Vanderbilt. Both teams 
were pitiful defensively last season, and there’s 
little reason to believe anything different will 
happen this year. 
Looking at last season’s stats, Florida was a 
team that did well against the run (10th in the 
country in PPA per rush) and was solid against 
the pass when it wasn’t facing Burrow. Aside 
from Georgia, other standout defenses were 
Missouri and LSU, while Tennessee, Texas A&M 
and Kentucky had some positives. 
Connelly’s preseason SP+ model has UF’s 
defense as the No. 3 defense in the country, be -
hind only Georgia in the SEC. The issue is that 
six of Florida’s opponents will start the season 
in the top 25 defenses according to SP+. While the Gators have a lot of advantages offensively, 
that doesn’t mean it will be easy sledding every 
week. 
Conclusions
As previously stated, considering that the 
Gators will be facing 10 SEC teams this season, 
they could have done a lot worse. Florida will still 
face three teams in the top 15 of the preseason 
AP poll, but the only way this would have been 
easier for them would be if the road trip to Texas 
A&M was swapped for Mississippi State. 
The Gators also have a lot of room to flex 
their continuity on the sidelines and under cen -
ter, which should be especially important this 
year because of their limited offseason. Ole Miss, 
Missouri and Arkansas all debut new coaches this year, while others, such as Georgia and LSU, 
have brought  in new offensive and/or defensive 
coordinators. Six teams will also be starting a 
new quarterback. 
It’s no wonder, then, that fans and analysts 
look at Florida and see a threat for both the di -
vision title and the conference championship. 
Anything can happen on any given Saturday 
— and this bizarre offseason makes it feel like 
almost any team in the conference could go on 
a run. But the Gators’ situation is very favorable 
this year, and they have the potential to take ad -
vantage of it. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgSTATURDAY,  from pg. 11UF has good odds
Brendan Farrell / / Alligator Staff Brendan Farrell / / Alligator Staff
