We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperNational student loan has ballooned
Here’s how UF compares, pg. 3
Monkey see, monkey do
Volunteers make toys for primates, pg. 9UF opens track season in South 
Carolina
The Gators were dominant in the triple jump 
led by Clayton Brown’s performance , pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 46
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
NANCY PELOSI SAID 
IMPEACHMENT ARTICLES 
WILL BE SENT SOON
By Valentina Botero 
Alligator Staff Writer
In the year of a divisive up-
coming election, Republicans and 
Democrats at UF can agree on one 
thing — President Donald Trump 
will probably not be removed from 
ofﬁ  ce before Americans can vote. 
On Dec. 18, the U.S. House of 
Representatives voted on two ar-
ticles of impeachment that charged 
Trump with abuse of power and 
obstruction of Congress. This 
makes Trump the third U.S. presi-
dent to be impeached, but he won’t 
be removed from ofﬁ  ce unless the 
Senate passes the articles, accord-
ing to The New York Times.
Few people at UF expect it to 
get to that point, even though 
U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced Friday the House will 
move to send the impeachment ar-
ticles to Senate this week.
Trump won’t be removed from 
ofﬁ  ce unless two-thirds of the Sen-
ate vote in that direction, said Beth 
Rosenson, a UF associate political 
science professor. But with 53 Re-
publicans and 47 Democrats in the 
Senate, it may be difﬁ  cult for the 
Senate to convict Trump — but not 
impossible, Rosenson said. 
Not only does the impeachment 
have the ability to increase polar-
ization on campus, it also doesn’t 
help the country’s global standing, 
Rosenson added. 
“It highlights disunity in this 
country, and that makes it hard 
for the United States to act as a 
leader on the global stage,” Rosen-
son said. “Disunity and perceived 
weakness beneﬁ  ts countries like 
Russia, Iran, North Korea, Cuba 
and others that want to see (the 
U.S.) struggling and divided.”
Nationwide, Rosenson isn’t sure the recent controversial U.S. 
airstrike that killed top Iranian 
general Qassem Suleimani will be 
enough to sway Republican voters 
away from voting for Trump in the 
2020 elections.
Instead, Rosenson said she be-
lieves the state of the economy will 
be a major predictor of how people 
will vote. She said if the economy 
stays well, it be would be an ad-
vantage for Trump, but there are 
still nine months until the election.
“And if the economy gets 
worse, that may have an impact on 
more independent voters who are 
not part of Trump’s loyal base,” 
Rosenson said.
UF College Democrats President 
Matthew Barocas, a 20-year-old UF 
political science and history junior, 
doesn’t think Trump’s impeach-
ment will have much of an impact 
on the 2020 election. The country 
is so “terribly polarized” that he 
FLAGS WILL FL Y AT HALF-MAST 
TO HONOR JENNINGS
Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
Former Gainesville mayor, city 
commissioner and civil rights pioneer 
Edward Jennings Sr. was considered to be 
a legacy. 
Jennings Sr. died Friday evening, 
according to the Gainesville Sun. He was 
82. 
He was a “core civil rights leader” in 
Gainesville and Alachua County, Mayor Lauren Poe said.
Poe announced on Twitter Sunday that 
ﬂ  ags at city buildings will be ﬂ  own at half-
mast until Friday in honor of Jennings. 
Jennings served the Gainesville 
community as a public servant for nearly 
two decades, according to the Gainesville 
Sun. He was Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst community 
affairs coordinator in 1971, a city 
commissioner in 1993 and later appointed 
mayor in 1996.
Even after retiring from public service, 
Jennings remained involved in the 
community as a volunteer and mentor. 
He was a bridge-builder and peacemaker who devoted himself to bettering the 
community, Poe told The Alligator.
Poe said Jennings used to say, “It’s never 
about the last vote, it’s always about the 
next vote,” which was his way of saying 
there’s always more work left to be done. 
City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos 
wrote in an email to The Alligator Sunday 
that he was saddened to learn about 
Jennings’ passing and sent his thoughts to 
his family and friends.  
“He was a man who fought for equality, 
and our city is a better place because of his 
public service to our community,” Hayes-
Santos wrote. The chief human services administrator 
for Hillsborough County, Carl Harness, 
shared the news of Jennings’ passing in 
a Facebook post on Friday. In the post, 
Harness described Jennings as a man of 
integrity and a voice for the voiceless. 
“We were truly blessed to have the 
opportunity to love Ed over the years as 
one of our own family members,” Harness 
wrote. “And there was no question that Ed 
Sr. could do some serious cake baking.”
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.org
THE CAUSE OF THE CRASH
 IS STILL BEING INVESTIGATED
By Stephany Matat
Alligator Staff Writer
A 20-year-old woman died and a 19-year-old man 
was injured in a single-vehicle crash Thursday evening 
on West University Avenue, according to a Florida trafﬁ  c 
crash report. 
Authorities responded to the 2600 block of West Uni-
versity Avenue just after 8 p.m. and found a vehicle on 
the sidewalk compressed against a guardrail, according to 
the report. The vehicle appeared to have also crashed into 
a light pole. The accused driver, Adam Mandel, a 19-year-old UF 
student, appeared to not understand why law enforcement 
or ﬁ  re rescue were on the scene, according to the report. 
He claimed he had parked along the side of the road, and 
the damage on his vehicle was old. 
Mandel was sweating profusely, and his pupils ap-
peared to be larger than normal, according to the report.
Mandel was transported to UF Health Shands Hospital 
as a trauma alert. Passenger Kassandra “Kassy” Guzman-
Ramirez died at the scene of the crash. 
Trafﬁ  c homicide investigators are still looking into 
what caused the fatal crash. 
A GoFundMe page created by Kathy Savastano Vazquez, 
Guzman-Ramirez’s aunt, has raised more than $10,000 for 
Guzman-Ramirez’s funeral expenses. The current goal is listed at $15,000. 
Savastano Vasquez said Guzman-Ramirez was an art-
ist since grade school and painted canvasses of her fam-
ily. She was not a student in Gainesville and moved from 
Weston to live with her boyfriend. She also turned 20 
years old last month.
“She was just full of life, always, no matter what was 
going on with her. I mean her world could be spinning 
around, and she was just smiling,” Vasquez said. “She’s a 
bright ray of sunshine.”
@stephanymatat
smatat@alligator.orgUF community: Trump removal slim
Civil rights pioneer, former city mayor Ed Jennings Sr. dies at 82
20-year-old dead after West University Avenue crash Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Sly Sullivan, 22, practices for the Possum Creek Skate Jam Saturday. 
Read the story and see the gallery on page 6 . SEE IMPEACHMENT,  PAGE 3SK8R BOIT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  82° LOW  59°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.MONDAY
UF students receive free 
     admission to the Florida 
     Museum
When: Monday to Saturday, 10 
a.m.-5 p.m.; Sunday, 1-5 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History, located at 
3215 Hull Road 
What: UF students with a valid 
Gator 1 card will receive free 
admission to the “Butterfly 
Rainforest” and other fee-
based exhibits year-round at 
the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. This is sponsored by 
UF Student Government. The 
museum is open from 10 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Monday through 
Saturday and from 1 to 5 p.m. 
Sunday.
TUESDAY
"The Book of Mormon" at the 
Phillips Center
Where: UF Performing Arts, lo-
cated at 3201 Hull Road 
When: 7:30 p.m.
What: "The Book of Mormon" 
begins its weeklong run at the 
Phillips Center. This musical 
comedy contains explicit lan-
guage. Student tickets are avail-
able for $30 and are limited to 
100 tickets per performance.
CBDB and Locochino
Where: Loosey’s, located at 
120 SW First Ave.
When: 8 p.m.-midnight
What: CBDB is a progressive 
rock jam-band from Alabama 
defining a newfound, south-
ern-blend of progressive rock 
‘n’ roll. It is supported by 
Locochino, a progressive funk 
jam band from Gainesville. 
Tickets are $8.
WEDNESDAY
Florida Museum hosts selfie 
day Jan. 15
When: Wednesday, Jan. 15, 10 
a.m.-5 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History, located at 
3215 Hull Road
What: The Florida Museum 
of Natural History will host a selfie celebration dur-
ing #MuseumSelfieDay. 
Participants can capture and 
share posts about permanent 
exhibits on social media. The 
most creative selfie will win 
an individual museum mem-
bership. For more information, 
visit www.floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/museum-selfie-day 
or call 352-273-2062.
Gator Dining Job Fair
When: 10 a.m.-2 p.m.
Where: 10 NW Sixth St.
What: Aramark is hosting open 
interviews for jobs at UF Gator 
Dining. Gator Dining is looking 
for cooks, supervisors, leads, 
cashiers, food service workers 
and more. Background checks 
will be required.
THURSDAY
Plant-Based Junk Food in 
Gainesville
Where: Cypress & Grove 
Brewing Co., located at 1001 
NW Fourth St.
When: 3-9 p.m.
What: Vulture Food is com-
ing from Los Angeles to bring 
vegan comfort food in a spe-
cial pop-up hosted by Cypress 
& Grove Brewing Co. Entry to 
the event is free and featured 
menu items include vegan 
crispy "chik’n" sandwiches and 
loaded fries. 
FRIDAY
Concord Coffee Market
Where: Concord Coffee, locat-
ed at 1038 W. University Ave.
When: 1-5 p.m.
What: Concord Coffee rings 
in the new semester with an-
other market. A variety of local 
artisans will sell individually-
curated selections of handmade 
and reworked goods and there 
will be coffee. The market will 
be held outside on the patio 
overlooking University Avenue.
100.1FM WGOT’s 12th Birthday 
Bash/Benefit
Where: 433 S. Main St.
When: 9 p.m-1:30 a.m.
What: 100.1FM WGOT will celebrate its 12th anniversary 
and feature bands Arrows in 
Action, In Bed by Ten, Articles 
and the Rick Randlett Band. 
Doors open at 9 p.m. and the 
show begins at 9:30 p.m.
SATURDAY
34th Annual Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire
Where: Alachua County 
Fairgrounds, located at 3100 
NE 39th Ave.
When: 10 a.m.-6 p.m.
What: Travel back in time at 
the 34th Annual Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire for three week-
ends: Jan. 18 and 19, 25 and 26 
and Jan. 31 and Feb. 2. Nine 
stages of entertainment feature 
battling knights, dancing gyp-
sies and mystifying magicians. 
The marketplace features hun-
dreds of artisans selling their 
medieval-inspired wares. Other 
activities include jousting, a 
full-flight falconry show, battle 
chess, old-world games and 
food fit for a king. Tickets are 
available at the gate, online at 
www.hoggetownefaire.com, or 
at any Gator Dominos location. 
Heartwood Presents: Rising 
Appalachia
Where: The Heartwood 
Soundstage, located at 619 S. 
Main St.
When: 8-11 p.m.
What: Folk band Rising 
Appalachia, made up of sisters 
Leah and Chloe Smith, come 
to the Heartwood on the heels 
of its new album, “Leylines.” 
Doors open at 7 p.m., and the 
show starts at 8 p.m. 
SUNDAY
Russ Liquid with special guests 
Cofresi and Side Trakd
Where:  Signal, located at 7 
SW First St.
When: 8 p.m.-2 a.m.
What: The Brainquility Festival 
presents Russ Liquid and 
Cofresi’s return to Gainesville 
with support from Side Trakd. 
Brainquility will be at the 
event raffling off two tickets 
to Branquility Music Festival 
2020. Tickets are $15 during 
the presale and $20 on the 
night of the show. 
CORRECTION
On page 2 of Wednesday and 
Friday’s paper, an event ti-
tled "4th Avenue Food Park 
Opening: event was incorrectly 
reported by The Alligator to be 
on Sunday, when it was in fact 
on Saturday. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 46
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Renee HancockMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Katelynn Joyner, J.P . Oprison,Ellen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoMONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Be a part of something BIG
GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsdoesn’t believe this event inﬂ  uenced the pub-
lic’s opinion of the president in any political 
direction, he wrote in an email. 
But the impeachment made history either 
way. 
“The President clearly seems even more an-
gered and unhinged by this process,” Barocas 
wrote. “This will be a historical stain on his 
presidency, and I think it may be the ﬁ  rst time 
he and his supporters are reckoning with how 
his presidency will be remembered beyond the 
success of his 2016 campaign.”
When it comes to campus, Barocas believes 
the impeachment will only be a large point of 
conversation if it appears that any senators are 
considering breaking party ranks, which he be-
lieves is unlikely. 
If not, he thinks it may fade into the back-
ground of the larger 2020 elections discussions 
like the primaries and caucuses that will be 
starting in Iowa this February. 
On the other side of the political spectrum, 
Jared Rossi, a 22-year-old senior ﬁ  nance major and UF College Republicans executive board 
chairman, strongly believes Trump’s impeach-
ment is not affecting the country as most may 
think it is. 
“In Trump’s speech the other night, he said, 
‘It doesn’t feel like impeachment.’ And that’s 
probably the truest thing I’ve heard throughout 
this whole entire thing,” Rossi said. 
As the word “impeachment” appears more 
every day on news articles, Rossi said the citi-
zens of this country are doing their research on 
what the impeachment process actually means, 
which he believes is a good educational oppor-
tunity. 
“Having an election with Donald Trump in 
it is no typical election. That’s the bottom line 
here.” Rossi said. “Even though he’s been the 
president for the last three years, American pol-
itics has never seen anyone like him before.”
@lvbotero_
vbotero@alligator.orgIMPEACHMENT,  from pg. 1THE NATIONAL 
STUDENT LOAN DEBT 
HAS DOUBLED
 IN THE LAST DECADE 
By Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writer
Alexis Meier will graduate 
with about $120,000 of student 
debt in her mother’s name. 
Coming to UF was the cheaper 
option for the New Jersey native, 
who would have spent about 
$60,000 a year had she chosen to 
go to a school in her home state. 
The 19-year-old UF sociology 
sophomore’s loans, which only 
cover her tuition and fees, help 
contribute to the U.S. national 
student debt — which reached 
$1.64 trillion in 2019, according 
to a study done by LearnBonds.
com, a ﬁ  nancial publication.
The study states that in the 
last decade, U.S. student loan 
debt has more than doubled by 
more than 119 percent going from 
$771.7 billion to $1.64 trillion. So how does UF compare to 
these numbers?
In data provided by UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando, the 
average amount of debt upon 
graduation for an undergraduate 
student who took out loans 
during 2007-2008 was $15,318. 
In the most recent data available,  
2017-2018 aid year, the average 
debt for students who borrowed 
loans was $21,713. 
On average, about 60.8 percent 
of UF students graduated with no 
student loan debt between 2013 
and 2018. 
According to the study, the 
average cost of tuition and fees 
at a public in-state university 
in the 2019-2020 school year 
was $10,116, whereas UF was 
below that average at $6,380. 
For students attending a public 
university out-of-state, the 
cost was on average $22,577. 
However, at UF, the cost is about 
$28,658.
Being an out-of-state student 
equates to Meier paying almost 
$1,000 per credit hour whereas a student with Florida residency 
would pay $212.71, according 
to the ﬁ  nance and accounting 
department at UF. 
Students at UF have different 
options for aid in the form of 
loans — federal or private. 
In 2019, UF accumulated 
$233,079,690 in federal loans, 
which are loans from the 
government. Private loans, such 
as ones from companies like Sallie 
Mae or Citizens One, reached 
$11,875,556 among all students.
Student debt continues to 
be a topic of interest across the 
U.S., speciﬁ  cally in the race for 
the 2020 democratic nomination. 
Candidates like Bernie Sanders, 
Elizabeth Warren and Joe 
Biden each have plans to either 
eliminate, reduce or modify 
student debt.
UF offers four different 
ﬁ  nancial aid options: 
scholarships, grants, loans and 
part-time employment, according 
to the Student Financial Aid 
Affairs website.
Florida residents who meet the requirements can receive one 
of two Bright Futures, the Florida 
Medallion Scholarship or the 
Florida Academic Scholarship. 
The Medallion scholarship 
offers 75 percent of their tuition 
covered, while the academic 
scholarship covers 100 percent of 
tuition, according to the Student 
Financial Affairs website.
Meier believes UF should ease 
the ﬁ  nancial burden of college 
to prevent the need to take out 
student loans. 
“I personally think it should 
just be lower and more cost-
efﬁ  cient,” she said. “I pay $1,000 
per a credit hour while in-state 
students pay $1,000 for their 
whole tuition.”
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.orgHow does UF’s student debt compare nationally?
UF v. Nationally 
AVERAGE AMOUNT OF DEBT AT 
GRADUATION IN 2018-2019:
UF: $21,713
Nationally: $29,200
AVERAGE COST OF TUITION 
AND FEES IN-STATE IN 2019:
UF: $6,380
Nationally: $10,116
AVERAGE COST OF TUITION 
AND FEES OUT-OF-STATE 2019:
UF: $28,658
Nationally: $22,577
How did we get here? The events that led to the impeachment 
• The impeachment process starts when the House decides whether to bring impeachment 
charges against federal ofﬁ  cials — in this case, President Trump. Speaker Nancy Pelosi 
authorized an inquiry Sept. 24, which started the most recent impeachment process. 
• The inquiry had closed-door testimonies by three witnesses in November — William B. 
Taylor Jr., former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, George P. Kent, State Department ofﬁ  cial for 
European and Eurasian affairs, and Marie Yovanovitch, former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine. 
This was then followed by two days of public hearings with the three witnesses. 
• After the hearings, the House Judiciary Committee must decide whether to write up articles 
of impeachment. The committee held a public hearing Dec. 4 before approving two articles 
of impeachment against Trump: abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. 
• The Judiciary Committee then voted to send the articles of impeachment to the House on 
Dec. 13. The articles passed the House with a 230-197-1 vote Dec. 18 and have yet to be 
sent to the Senate.
• If the Senate trial goes forward, House Democrats and the president’s lawyers will present 
their cases. In order to remove the president from ofﬁ  ce, the Republican-controlled Senate 
will need to vote by a two-thirds majority.
Information courtesy of the Los Angeles Times and NPR4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020AUDITIONS WILL BE HELD 
JAN. 22
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Though Elaine Jacobson had been 
involved in choral music for around 20 
years, the lack of Jewish ballads made 
her feel like there was a weakness in her 
musical education. This inspired her to 
fix the problem.
Jacobson is the treasurer of Shab-
baTones, a nonprofit chorus that was 
founded in Gainesville in 2019. Although 
it is not tied to UF or any religious institu-
tion, it focuses on Jewish songs.
Richard Sadove, ShabbaTones’ vice 
president, helped establish the chorus 
with Jacobson. He said choral music is 
all over the world but was a rarity in 
North Central Florida. 
“We’re celebrating the rich heri-
tage and beauty of Jewish music down 
through the millennia,” Sadove said.
ShabbaTones will hold auditions Jan. 
22 at UF Hillel from 6-7 p.m. Students 
can sign up through ShabbaTones’ Face-
book. It is also offering a basic musical 
skills class before auditions for students 
to test and practice their abilities.
During auditions, the singers will 
meet Will Kesling, a UF choral professor 
and the music director and conductor for 
ShabbaTones. Although he is not Jewish, 
Kesling is excited to learn more about 
Jewish history, Sadove said. 
The audition will take about five to 10 
minutes. The vocalist will sing a couple 
of notes or a song to make sure there is 
sectional balance, Jacobson said.
“People shouldn’t feel intimidated by 
the audition,” Jacobson said. “It’s a very friendly atmo-
sphere.”
Jacobson and 
Sadove, who are 
both Jewish, live 
in Gainesville 
and formed the 
nonprofit group 
with others on 
their committee. 
Sadove wants 
to allow students 
the opportunity to listen and participate 
in a Jewish choir, as he and his parents 
did. Students will also learn the history 
behind the songs, he said. 
“We’re very excited about being here 
with the University of Florida student 
population,” Sadove said. “Here we have 
a real opportunity for people to strength-
en their Jewish identity and pride.”
ShabbaTones’ first performance will 
be April 23 at the Historic Thomas Cen-
ter, located at 302 NE Sixth Ave. It will 
include modern and century-old music. 
There will be songs not only in Hebrew 
but in other languages like Spanish and 
German, Sadove said.
After auditions, the group will dive 
right into practice from 7-9 p.m., Jacob-
son said. Further rehearsals will be held 
on Wednesdays from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at 
UF Hillel.
“I’m really grateful that the Shabba-
Tones has been formed,” Jacobson said. 
“I’m looking forward to learning about 
that repertoire that I’m very ignorant 
about.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org  Jewish chorus offers new 
way to study their historyTHE STUDY WAS GRANTED $130,000 BY THE 
FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers are conducting a study to find a potential 
correlation between toxins within algal blooms and human 
diseases.
This study, conducted by UF faculty members on Florida’s 
Harmful Algae Bloom Task Force, is looking through three 
types of toxins: neurotoxins, hepatotoxins and BMAA. Neuro-
toxins irritate the nervous system, eyes and respiratory system 
similarly to coastal red tide algal blooms. Hepatotoxins affect 
the digestive system, particularly the liver. BMAA is a toxin 
associated with Alzheimers, ALS and Parkinson’s disease.
Edward Phlips, UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ences professor, said algal blooms produce toxins and are the 
result of an accumulation of algae and cyanobacteria in lakes. 
He said this study will hopefully produce scientific data to see 
how harmful the toxins are in algal blooms, if at all. 
“If there is a link that we see, then obviously people need 
to know that, because they can alter their behavior to avoid 
exposure to those toxins,” Phlips said.
The Florida Department of Health gave $130,000 to fund 
this study until June, but Phlips said the study will most likely 
take longer to reach definite conclusions, and there will prob-
ably be more funding. 
Phlips said concerns about the effect of algal blooms on hu-
man health have existed for decades, but it increased in 2016 
because of massive growth of algal blooms in areas such as 
the St. Lucie Estuary and the Caloosahatchee River.
“Whenever there’s a massive one (algal bloom), then the 
issues of human health come up and people are concerned. It’s not just for people; it’s for animals, for livestock, for pets,” 
Phlips said.
Assistant professor at UF’s department of health outcomes 
and biomedical informatics Yi Guo also said there were simi-
lar concerns from several years ago, such as dogs that died a 
couple hours after swimming in a lake.
“There are some public concerns,” Guo said. “But, scien-
tifically, you have to identify those potential threats and ac-
tually quantify the toxins in them so we don’t make people over-worry or under-worry.”
Phlips said while most people in Florida are vaguely aware 
that algal blooms can create health problems, the team will go 
in with no preconceived notions of what they will find. 
“Our objective is to make sure that we add to a body of 
knowledge so that we can answer some really important ques-
tions that people have about harmful algae bloom,” Phlips 
said. “We know these concerns exist and we want to address 
them.”UF Health conducts study to determine if algal blooms threaten health
Kesling
Courtesy to The Alligator
Students of UF professor Edward Phlips taking cyanobacteria samples out of a lake of an algal bloom.
THESE PROGRAMS WILL ONL Y BE 
THREE DAYS EACH
By Valentina Botero 
Alligator Staff Writer
To educate women and empower young LG-
BTQ+ community members, a local pride center 
will introduce two new programs. They start as 
soon as this month.  
The Pride Community Center of North Central 
Florida will partner with the Gainesville Police De-
partment for the first time to implement Rape Ag-
gression Defense classes to teach defense options 
for women. This is also the first time the center will 
host the Pride Youth Leadership Academy, a three-
day retreat-style program for young LGBTQ+ 
members in Alachua County. 
The free women’s self-defense class will take 
place Jan. 27, 28 and 30 from 6-10 p.m. Nationally 
certified instructors from GPD will teach a range of 
tactics, including verbal techniques and escaping 
from chokeholds, said Jorge Campos, a Gainesville 
Police spokesperson. 
The pride center introduced the class to em-
power women by teaching them personal safety, 
said Terry Fleming, the pride center’s co-president. 
If the classes are successful, Fleming said the cen-
ter will host more. 
LGBTQ+ people often face higher rates of 
poverty, stigma and marginalization, putting its 
community members at a greater risk for sexual 
assault, according to the Human Rights Campaign, 
an organization working to achieve equal rights for 
the LGBTQ+ community. 
Fleming said a member of the pride center’s 
board brought up the idea of the self-defense class-
es in a meeting, so the board asked the police de-
partment if it is willing to collaborate to host the 
classes. 
“Anything that improves the safety and security 
of women and female-identified members of the 
community is good for the community overall,” 
Fleming said.
In February, the pride center will also host its first Pride Youth Leadership Academy. The pro-
gram is aimed to teach, inspire and prepare LGT-
BQ+ youth from Alachua County. Instructors will 
teach sessions on the history of LGBTQ+ people, 
healthy sex, body image and intersectionality, 
Fleming said. 
The program will run from Feb. 7-9. High 
school students can register for $30, and the pride 
center provides scholarships to waive the fee. 
“We are excited to offer this program and 
looking forward to it,” Fleming said. “We’ve had 
a number of registrants already and are looking 
forward to having more. We do believe that this 
is an incredibly important program for LGBTQ+ 
youth.”
UF students are lucky to benefit from being at 
an institution that funds programs for LGBTQ+ 
students, said Georges Obayi, the president of 
UF’s Pride Student Union and a 21-year-old UF in-
dustrial and systems engineering senior. He said 
it’s an amazing idea for the pride center to create 
these opportunities for young LGBTQ+ students 
in Gainesville who may not have other chances to 
do so.  
“There’s so much to know before you start to 
navigate the world and unfortunately, the current 
status of our education system doesn’t fully cater 
to the needs of LGBTQ+ folks,” Obayi said. “It’s 
wonderful to see that members of the community 
are giving back in order to set up a proper structure 
and resources for these individuals.”
@lvbotero_
vbotero@alligator.orgLocal pride center to 
host two new programs
The Rape Aggression Defense classes: 
Jan. 27, 28 and 30 from 6-10 p.m.
The Youth Leadership Academy: Feb. 7  
from 7-9 p.m., Feb. 8 from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
and Feb. 9 from 2 to 6 p.m.MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
AP ROUNDUP
By Nick Perry
Associated Press Writer
Crews battling Australia’s wild-
fires said Sunday they have been 
able to turn from defense to offense 
for the first time in weeks thanks to 
a break in the weather.
Dale McLean, who is helping 
manage the response to a fire near 
the town of Bodalla in New South 
Wales, was part of a team that was 
bulldozing down small trees and 
burning scrub ahead of the fire’s 
projected path to try to stop it from 
reaching a major highway by starv-
ing it of fuel.
“This fire took a major run 
about seven or eight days ago, 
and with the weather changing 
now, the weather settling down, 
the fire has settled down,” he said. 
“The fire behavior has changed. So 
we’re able to get in front of the fire 
now, get on the offensive.”
Other workers echoed McLean’s 
comments, saying cooler tempera-
tures and mild winds have finally 
offered them a chance to make 
progress. The weather is expect-ed to remain benign for the next 
week, although any deterioration 
in conditions after that could see 
the wildfires flare up again.
While battling the blazes, vol-
unteer firefighting veteran Mick 
Stain found some moth larvae, 
or “witchetty grubs,” and turned 
them into what’s known in Austra-
lia as bush tucker by roasting them 
directly on the fire’s burning coals.
“Bit creamy and nutty, but 
they’re all right,” Stain said. 
“They’re not spew-worthy, so 
they’re pretty good.”
Meanwhile, U.S. tennis star Ser-
ena Williams donated her $43,000 
winner’s check from New Zea-
land’s ASB Classic to the fundrais-
ing appeal for victims of the wild-
fires, joining many other tennis 
stars to pledge money, including 
Ash Barty, Nick Kygrios, Novak 
Djokovic and Maria Sharapova.
Also on Sunday, news came 
that another firefighter had been 
killed. Bill Slade — one of the few 
professionals among mainly volun-
teer brigades battling blazes across 
southeast Australia — died after 
being hit by a falling tree on Sat-urday near Omeo in eastern Victo-
ria state, Forest Fire Management 
Victoria Executive Director Chris 
Hardman said.
The 60-year-old married father 
of two was commended in Novem-
ber for 40 years of service with the 
forestry agency.
“Although we do have enor-
mous experience in identifying 
hazardous trees, sometimes these 
tree failures can’t be predicted,” 
Hardman said. “Working on the 
fire ground in a forest environment 
is a dynamic, high-risk environ-
ment and it carries with it signifi-
cant risk.”
The tragedy brings the death 
toll to at least 27 in a crisis that has 
destroyed more than 2,000 homes 
and scorched an area larger than 
Indiana since September. Four of 
the casualties have been firefight-
ers.
The crisis has brought accu-
sations that Prime Minister Scott 
Morrison’s conservative govern-
ment needs to take more action to 
counter climate change, which ex-
perts say has worsened the blazes. 
Thousands of protesters rallied Fri-day in Sydney and Melbourne, call-
ing for Morrison to be fired and for 
Australia to take tougher action on 
global warming.
The prime minister said Sunday 
that his government was building 
resilience to the fire danger posed 
by climate change.
He said the government was 
developing a national disaster risk 
reduction framework within the 
Department of Home Affairs that 
will deal with wildfires, cyclones, 
floods and drought.
“This is a longer-term risk 
framework model which deals with 
one of the big issues in response to 
the climate changing,” Morrison 
said.
He said his government accept-
ed that climate change was leading 
to longer, hotter and drier sum-
mers, despite junior government 
lawmaker George Christensen post-
ing on social media over the week-
end that the cause of the latest fires 
was arson rather than man-made 
climate change. Another junior 
lawmaker, Craig Kelly, has also 
publicly denied any link between 
climate change and fire crisis.State authorities have said a mi-
nority of fires are deliberately lit.
“The government’s policy is set 
by the Cabinet. Our party room has 
a broad range of views,” Morrison 
said of those within government 
ranks who reject mainstream cli-
mate science.
Morrison also announced that 
AU $76 million ($52 million USD) 
would be spent on providing psy-
chological counseling for firefight-
ers and fire-affected communities 
as part of a previously announced 
AU$2 billion ($1.4 billion) recovery 
fund.
“There has been a deep scar in 
the landscape that has been left 
right across our country,” Morrison 
said. “But I am also very mindful, 
as is the government, of the very 
real scars that will be there for 
quite a period of time to come for 
those who’ve been exposed to the 
trauma of these bushfires.”
While the fire threat is most 
acute in rural communities, wild-
fire smoke that has choked some 
of Australia’s largest cities is a re-
minder to many urban Australians 
of the unfolding disaster.
By Brendan Farrington 
Associated Press Writer
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is pursuing an 
agenda this year that builds on some of his 
successes in his first year in office, including 
education, the environment and immigration.
DeSantis has declared 2020 “the year of 
the teacher” and is proposing raising the mini-
mum teacher salary to $47,500; he’s pushing 
for legislation that will help Florida combat 
blue-green algae and other environmental is-
sues. He wants lawmakers to approve E-verify, 
a system that checks whether someone can le-
gally work.
“We’ve put out some pretty major initia-
tives over the last few months,” the Republican 
governor said when he released his proposed 
$91.4 billion budget. “The environment, we’re 
going to keep the momentum on that, and then 
we have a lot of major education initiatives.”
But after getting nearly everything he want-
ed during his first legislative session, he might 
find this year’s to be a little tougher, with 
concerns about his teacher raise proposal and 
reluctance to pass E-verify. The legislative ses-
sion begins Tuesday.
House Speaker Jose Oliva and Senate Presi-
dent Bill Galvano, both Republicans, have 
expressed concerns about DeSantis’ proposal 
to raise the minimum teacher pay statewide, 
which would cost about $600 million.
While Galvano said raising teacher salaries 
is a worthy goal, taking a blanket approach to 
a state as large and diverse as Florida may not 
be easy.
“There are districts that have different lev-
els of pay currently, you have different costs 
of living in certain districts, and when you go 
through and put it as a one-size-fits-all, then 
you can create some practical problems as well 
as some inequities,” Galvano said.
House Democratic Leader Kionne McGhee 
agrees with DeSantis that teachers need raises 
across the board, but he thinks the state should 
go beyond the governor’s proposal.
“Right now the thing I can agree with him 
on, is this is the year for the teacher,” McGhee 
said.
But McGhee wants to make sure veteran teachers aren’t all of a sudden making the 
same as a new hires, and he wants to make 
sure the state keeps raising teacher salaries 
over the next few years. He has a bill that gives 
all teachers a 5 percent raise, or brings them 
up to $47,500, whichever is greater. The plan 
also calls for raises in base salary or percentage 
raises the following two years.
Last year DeSantis successfully pushed for 
a bill that bans “sanctuary cities.” It requires 
local governments cooperate with federal au-
thorities in enforcing immigration laws. But his 
push for E-verify this year might meet more 
resistance.
“The Senate has not come out and en-
dorsed the E-verify proposal as presented. I’ve 
had many senators that have raised concerns 
about the additional obligations being placed 
on private employers and private citizens. I 
think we have to take these concerns serious-
ly,” Galvano said.
DeSantis’ predecessor, Republican Sen. 
Rick Scott, refused to acknowledge climate 
change and sea level rise. By contrast, DeSantis 
has built a high approval rating in part because 
he’s taking on those issues, as well as being 
more aggressive in the state’s battle against 
blue-green algae blooms that have hurt the en-
vironment and tourism.
He’s pushing for a wide-ranging bill that 
attempts to document and reduce nutrients 
flowing into waterways through farms, septic 
systems, stormwater runoff and faulty sewer-
age lines that contribute to the blooms.
Environmentalists notice the difference be-
tween DeSantis’ approach and Scott’s, but say 
he can do more.
“We have a very urgent situation here and 
we’re taking baby steps,” said Deborah Foote, 
a lobbyist for the Sierra Club. “Certainly there 
is greater discussion, but the big question is 
whether the Legislature and leadership and the 
governor can get something worthwhile done.”
And while DeSantis wants to spend $100 
million to purchase conservation land, Foote 
said that’s far below the $470 million the group 
believes should go toward land preservation 
under a constitutional amendment voters ap-
proved in 2014 that dedicates a portion of real 
estate tax to that effort.By Brendan Farrington
Associated Press Writer
The 60-day Florida legislative session that 
begins Tuesday will have lawmakers consid-
ering everything from coconut patties to a 
state budget expected to exceed $90 billion.
Lawmakers are also expected to address 
abortion rights, private gun sales and envi-
ronmental issues such as the rise in sea level.
Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis has de-
clared 2020 “the year of the teacher.” He’s 
proposing a $91.4 billion budget that in-
cludes $600 million to raise the minimum 
salary for teachers to $47,500 a year. It also 
includes $1 million to help eradicate pythons 
in the Everglades and elsewhere — just one 
of the environmental initiatives he wants the 
Legislature to approve.
But the Legislature doesn’t have to follow 
the governor’s budget recommendations, 
and while House Speaker Jose Oliva has 
been diplomatic, he’s expressed some con-
cern over the teacher pay proposal.
“My initial thought is one of gratitude for 
those who came before us and saw it fit to 
bind us and all future legislatures to a bal-
anced budget,” Oliva said when DeSantis an-
nounced the proposal.
While several abortion bills have been 
filed on both sides of the debate, a bill requir-
ing girls under 18 to get their parents consent 
before having an abortion has a good chance 
of passing.
Sen. Kelli Stargel is sponsoring the legisla-
tion and draws from her own experience as a 
pregnant teenager.
“I thought for sure my mother would kill 
me when I told her that I was pregnant un-
derage,” Stargel told her colleagues when 
presenting the bill. “She advised me to have 
an abortion. I chose not to have the abortion, 
but through that process, we are closer.”
Florida already has a law that requires 
that a girl’s parents be notified if she gets an 
abortion, but it doesn’t require parents give 
their permission for the procedure. The pa-
rental consent bill would allow girls to ask a 
judge for a waiver if they are victims of abuse 
or incest.It’s one of several bills filed on both sides 
of the abortion issue, though most of the oth-
ers are less likely to pass. There’s a House bill 
that would outlaw abortions if a doctor can 
detect a fetal heartbeat, but Senate President 
Bill Galvano said that would be tough to get 
through his chamber.
Democratic Sen. Lauren Book said she 
sponsored the bill to serve as a talking point 
after the Alabama Senate sent a heartbeat bill 
to the governor. 
“Having to watch two women, whose 
backs were certainly against the wall in a 
chamber like that, having to speak up for 
millions of women who had no voice and no 
representation in that chamber,” Book said. 
“I started drafting it after that.”
Lawmakers will once again consider new 
gun laws two years after the Parkland high 
school shooting that left 17 dead. Galvano di-
rected Infrastructure and Security Committee 
Chairman Sen. Tom Lee to come up with gun 
safety legislation after mass shootings across 
the country last year. 
“It seems to me like the best thing we can 
do to enhance public safety is to take a look at 
the systems that we use or the requirements 
that we have in law for people to transfer or 
sell weapons between individuals,” Lee said.
The environment will also be a top is-
sue. Lawmakers are considering legislation 
that addresses the algae blooms that have 
plagued Florida in recent years. Republicans 
are also backing bills to create the Statewide 
Office of Resiliency and the Statewide Sea-
Level Rise Task Force. 
Then there are hundreds of miscellaneous 
bills that won’t be among the most hotly de-
bated, such as legislation that would ban “pet 
leasing,” which is essentially rent-to-own 
contracts some pet stores offer consumers.
Then there’s Book’s bill to designate coco-
nut patties as the official state candy.
“This is very serious legislation,” Book 
said with a laugh. “I thought it would be 
fun and light, and people are very opinion-
ated about it. Why not salt water taffy? Why 
not pink Starbursts? We feel strongly about 
Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups. And I’m like, 
‘Guys, but this is created in Florida.’”Australia turns from defense to offense in wildfire battle 
DeSantis pursues 2020 agenda Lawmakers ready for session6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020
MORE THAN 500 
PEOPLE ATTENDED
By Anna Wilder 
Alligator Staff Writer
As part of the 150th anniversary 
of Gainesville, the city hosted an 
event with blaring music, wall art 
and skateboards. 
The Possum Creek Skate Jam 
took place Saturday at Possum 
Creek Skatepark, located at 4009 
NW 53rd Ave. 
During the free event, which 
included food trucks, event-goers 
circled around the park to watch skateboarders compete. 
When city project coordinator 
Nicole Yucht first started planning 
the event, she said she thought 
around 100 people would come. 
“Over the course of the event, 
we had more than 500 people 
there,” she said. “It was really suc-
cessful. We were thrilled.”
Russell Etling, the manager of 
cultural affairs for the Gainesville 
Parks Recreation and Cultural Af-
fairs department, said the event 
was a success and will probably 
continue for years to come. 
“Our skateboard community has 
been very active since the 1970s, 
so it was an opportunity to reach out to this part of our community 
and get them active,” Etling said.
The event had four competing 
divisions divided by age groups 
ranging from less than 12 years old 
to more than 30 years old. There 
was a fifth division, which was 
comprised of professional skaters, 
where each skater was sponsored 
by different skate groups. 
All winners got a Gainesville150! 
swag bag, which included T-shirts, 
Hoggetowne Medieval Faire tick-
ets, lip balm and other small items. 
The first place winners got skate-
boards. 
Etling said Billy Rohan, a 
39-year-old Gainesville resident and skater, came up with the idea 
for the competition and brought to-
gether his friends to coordinate it. 
Rohan, who owns Samurai 
Skateshop at 920 NW Second St., 
also suggested bringing urban art 
to the celebration. Artists painted 
colorful murals on walls during the 
event.
Raquel Vallejo, a Gainesville150! 
team member and project manager 
of 352walls, a public art project 
that creates murals in Gainesville, 
said after seeing the great turnout 
of the event she expects it to hap-
pen again in the future. 
The first-place winner of the 
sponsored division competition, John Velote, is a Gainesville resi-
dent who has skated for 15 years 
and found out about the event 
through Samurai Skateshop.
Dunyea Grant, a 20-year-old UF 
electrical engineering major, at-
tended the event with a UF dance 
group, The Hip Hop Collective. 
Grant said there was a lot of energy 
at the event that made attendees 
feel like true Gainesville natives, 
especially in the spirit of the city’s 
150th anniversary.
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgGainesville celebrates 150th anniversary with skateboarding, painting
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Stephen T eques, a 25-year-old local skater, 
practices for the Possum Creek Skate Jam 
Saturday.
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Zack Squiers, an 18-year-old Santa Fe physical therapist assistant 
student, practices on his Razor scooter. 
Emily Felts /Alligator Staff
Skate Jam Judges Nate Coning, 44, Ben Andrews, 46, and Matt Wiles, 45, judged the Possum Creek Skate Park competition that brought out local skaters.  
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Aedyn Martinez, an 11-year-old Gainesville 
resident, skates in the Possum Creek Skate Jam 
Saturday.
MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
Faculty Member from the 
UF College of Journalism and Communications
(unpaid member of the board of directors)
The application for this position is available at the 
Alligator office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday 
through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until 
Tuesday, January 14th. Look for the Alligator sign located in 
the lobby. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Friday, January 17th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be 
held on Friday, January 24th at 1 p.m. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator . Applicants must be a faculty member from 
the UF College of Journalism and Communcations.The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position:
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
2-MEDIUM
2-Topping Pizzas
$599
3605 SW Archer RD
352-336-PAPA
(352-336-7272)4220 NW 16th Blvd Ste A
352-375-PAPA
(352-375-7272)
each*
*minimum purchase of two
COUPON CODE: OP599
Laura San Juan // Alligator Staff
Kaygan Nielson supervises “Emerald City” where all the squirrel monkeys are located in the sanctuary. 
She explained the monkeys were retired from nicotine research at the Food and Drug Administration. 
Laura San Juan // Alligator Staff
The habitats of the monkeys include an outdoor and indoor area. In their 
habitats, they have access to toys that volunteers make for them. 
Laura San Juan // Alligator Staff 
On Saturday, volunteers from UF’s 
Society for Conservation Biology 
helped clean habitats, make toys for 
primates and shadow caregivers at 
the Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary. 
Monkeying aroundBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
Please recycle this newspaper.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Voluteers Needed: Make Gainesville
Butterfly City Again
Contact: gabrielhillel@gmail.com       
1-17-20-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1, - very nice 5BR house. 
Remodeled kitchen, game room, large yard, 
W/D incl, fireplace. Call or text 352-339-2342 
to see. $1800/mo 1803 SW 43rd Ave. More 
info at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com      
1-22-20-5-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      1-24-
20-19-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Matt McKinley
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/13/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/13/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, January 13, 2020
ACROSS
1 Hanks who plays 
Mr. Rogers
4 Spanish houses
9 Watched secretly
14 Dr.’s group
15 Scarlett of fiction
16 African river
17 Server of shots
18 Manicurist’s tool
20 Word with sprawl 
or renewal
22 Norse trickster
23 Walrus feature
24 Made stuff up
26 Like Mattel’s 
Cathy doll
28 Eponymous 
’60s-’80s 
“Airways” 
entrepreneur
33 Like desperate 
straits
34 Send with a 
stamp
35 Old Detroit 
brewer
39 Like frozen roads
40 Resolves out of 
court
42 Paris summer
43 Spot for a friendly 
kiss
45 Bit of cat talk
46 Mennen lotion
47 Attacker or 
defender of 
online information 
systems
50 Water heater
53 Nuremberg no
54 German auto
55 Movie lab 
assistant
59 President #2
62 “It” novelist
65 Org. for the ends 
of 18-, 28-, 47- 
and 62-Across
66 Remove the 
chalk
67 Muslim holy city
68 Home state for 
the ends of 18-, 
28-, 47- and 
62-Acr.
69 Monica of tennis
70 Beautify
71 Suffix with Japan 
or Milan
DOWN
1 “Forbidden” 
fragrance
2 Actor Epps3 Bakery item Jerry 
stole from an 
old woman in a 
classic “Seinfeld” 
episode
4 Fooled in a 
swindle
5 “Figured it out!”
6 Windsurfing 
need
7 Guthrie of folk
8 Quarterback-
tackling stat
9 Biol. or ecol.
10 Toaster snack
11 Data to enter
12 Spew out
13 Not at all cool
19 Kiss from a 
pooch
21 Teacher’s helper
25 Ten-cent piece
27 Gas brand with 
toy trucks
28 Bank acct.-
protecting org.
29 Wealthy
30 Cake directive 
Alice obeyed
31 Soda bottle buy
32 Permit
36 Arrange new 
terms for, as a 
loan
37 Bart’s bus driver38 Perceive aurally
40 Terrier type
41 McGregor of 
“Doctor Sleep”
44 “Total” 2017 
event visible 
in a coast-to-
coast path from 
Oregon to South 
Carolina
46 Very dry
48 Soft French 
cheese
49 President #4050 Diamond quartet
51 Off-the-wall
52 Perfect
56 Govt.-owned 
home financing 
gp.
57 Gave the nod to
58 Wealthy, to Juan
60 Corp. execs’ 
degrees
61 January “white” 
event
63 “For __ a jolly ... ”
64 ATM giant
By Erik Agard and Wyna Liu
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/11/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/11/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, January 11, 2020
ACROSS
1 Drill bit?
6 Sudden blow
10 ’60s civil rights 
gp. inspired by 
student sit-ins
14 Recall trigger
15 One singing in 
musical tones?
16 Ponies run in it
17 Written in 
mystical letters
18 Ghanaian flag 
feature
19 Micro amount
20 Irritable sort, in 
slang
23 Even prime
24 Stadium 
opening?
25 Precious person
27 Mickey’s “Love Is 
Strange” singing 
partner
30 Hoods
31 Fricative 
admonishment
34 Distorts to one’s 
advantage
35 Clog from France
36 Wasn’t true
38 Sober
40 Govt. agency 
with a “meatball” 
logo
41 Agent concerned 
with spots
43 Alternative to 
“start at,” in 
pricing
45 Only article in a 
U.S. state capital 
name
46 Key partner
47 Looked bad?
49 __ analysis
51 Venues with 
games
55 Rap music article
56 Do a surveying 
task
59 Micro amount
61 Look bad?
62 Plant name from 
the Arabic for 
“red”
63 Film bit
64 Las Vegas Aces’ 
org.
65 Put into action66 Was true to, as 
one’s word
67 Elle Woods of 
“Legally Blonde” 
got 179 on hers, 
briefly
68 Lucy’s husband 
and son
DOWN
1 Compassion
2 Luxury auto
3 Saoirse __, 
“Lady Bird” star
4 Toasting signs
5 Make-out spots?
6 Respond to a 
shock
7 Beauty store 
chain
8 Get out of the 
way
9 Dessert that just 
sounds wrong
10 Ooh-and-aah site
11 Just okay
12 Classic hole-in-
one site
13 José’s greeting
21 Kennel chorus
22 Dips
26 Equine coat color28 Physical figures
29 Absurd
31 Some visual 
humor
32 Alternative to a 
wall safe
33 Help line
37 Upper-bod 
muscle
39 Aid in developing 
hair waves
42 Alfred of coffee 
fame44 Looked over
48 Opposite of 
austere
50 Animated Tootsie 
Pop eater in ads
52 When repeated, 
spills the beans
53 Gaming biggie
54 Splinter groups
57 Jessica of “L.A.’s 
Finest”
58 Off the rocks?
60 Flat: Abbr.
01/10/20
solution on pg. 9MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals ill bring you ‘round!
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
"Whoever would overthrow the liberty of a 
nation must begin by subduing the freeness 
of speech." – Benjamin FranklinTrying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an 
ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange -
ments or show off your bus and shuttle 
service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!  MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020, Non-Nazi 
Republican, Not divorced or bankrupt.
For TRUE TIME Standards &
MAKING AMERICA GOAT AGAIN!
Paid for by Mitchell Willliams, Republican for 
President P O Box 33 Palatka, FL 32178
1-15-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsLEARN HOW to make an
extra $400 per week
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: collegecash.fun        1-22-20-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
Designated drivers are the greatest
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 23 Rides 16 Health Services
To submit your classified ad for print and/or web 
editions thru our website
Just go to   www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted
PUZZLE 
SOLUTION1.  Angora goat fleece
1.  Repress, squelch 5.  Congo’s former name
2.  ____ turn6.  ____ furniture
3.  Passivity 7.  Baby
4.  Arrangement HIMRAO
UELZZMRAZEI
OIAPT
AHIPIRN
RNITAIEFINNTA
OLATUYANSWERS: 1A-Mohair  5A-Zaire  6A-Patio  7A-Infant
1D-Muzzle  2D-Hairpin  3D-Inertia  4D-Layout  B-PIzza Hut1-13-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was founded in 
Wichita, Kansas in 1958.
BONUS
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Freshman Semira Killebrew ran  
a 7.29 second 60 meter dash 
in the season-opening meet 
over the weekend. It is tied for 
the third-best indoor time in 
program history.Gators baseball lands commitment from Arrambide
Cade Arrambide, a catcher from Spring, T exas, in the 2024 class committed 
to Florida on Sunday.By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Two points. 
When Florida lost 65-45 to 
No. 14 Kentucky on Sunday at 
the O’Connell Center, that was 
all UF guard Lavender Briggs 
scored. Through 33 minutes of 
action, Florida’s leading scorer 
had her lowest total of the sea-
son, and so did the Gators. UF 
kept it close in the ﬁ  rst half, 
even having a lead with just 
over a minute to play in the ﬁ  rst 
twenty minutes. However, the 
second half was all Wildcats, 
and the Gators dropped their 
second conference game to UK 
(14-2, 3-1 SEC) to fall to 11-6 on 
the year and 2-2 in the confer-
ence. 
“That’s a tough, tough SEC 
basketball team,” coach Cam 
Newbauer said. “I think they’re 
better than a top-14 team.”
Outside of Briggs struggling 
to score, Wildcat offensive re-
bounds and Gator turnovers were UF’s two biggest killers. 
Florida shot 42.9 percent from 
the ﬂ  oor while Kentucky was at 
31.4, but UK’s 19 offensive re-
bounds and 13 second-chance 
points easily made up for that. 
Also, not only did the Gators 
turn it over 25 times to Ken-
tucky’s six, but the Wildcats 
scored 31 points off of those 
turnovers. 
As the game wore on, Flori-
da simply got worn down. The 
stronger, more physical team 
won despite shooting at a less 
efﬁ  cient clip. UF was already 
the undersized team, and it also 
made more mistakes and shot 
only 2 of 10 from beyond the arc 
to make matters worse. 
The two bright spots for 
Florida offensively were guards 
Kiara Smith and Ariel Johnson, 
who scored 16 and 10, respec-
tively. They were the only dou-
ble-digit UF scorers and both 
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
The Gators were coming off 
one of their most convincing 
wins to date. With their best 
player in forward Kerry Blacks-
hear Jr. on the bench most of the 
night due to early foul trouble, 
they pulled out a convincing 81-
68 win at Columbia, South Caro-
lina against the Gamecocks on Tuesday.
The team was 2-0 in SEC play 
and had won three in a row be-
fore traveling to what turned out 
to be an inverted version of the 
game it had just won — although 
it was still Columbia.
Columbia, Missouri, was the 
site of Florida’s 91-75 disman-
tling on Saturday and where 
the team came crashing back to 
earth.
It seemed that nothing could 
go right for Florida and its latest 
success seemed nothing more 
than a distant memory.
Guard Andrew Nembhard 
was playing his best basketball 
of the season going into Mizzou. 
He had just come off back-to-
back 20-point games before only 
ﬁ  nding the bottom of the net 
twice against the Tigers for eight 
points.
And a team that put together 
a miraculous offensive perfor-
mance without their top scorer in 
Blackshear Jr. struggled mightily 
without him.
Blackshear Jr. scored 22 points on Saturday with the next 
leading scorer being guard Noah 
Locke at only 12 points.
It was a who’s who of whose 
fault it was. What the Gators 
didn’t ﬁ  nd on offense, they cer-
tainly didn’t ﬁ  nd on the defen-
sive side of the ball.
“Our last two games weren’t 
our best defensive performances 
and it was a big emphasis in 
practice to make sure we get 
back to that,” Locke said in a re-
lease after the game.
The Tigers made 12 threes 
and shot an unprecedented 63.2 
percent from behind the arc — a 
pace that Florida simply couldn’t 
match at 43.5 percent
“Our approach defensively, in 
terms of readiness and intensity 
level, was not on point from the 
tip,” Florida coach Mike White 
said. “We dug ourselves a hole.”
That hole was as deep as 24 
points — the largest deﬁ  cit of the 
season for the Gators.
Although Florida’s defense 
left something to be desired, the 
Tigers were simply making shots that they — or any team for that 
matter — don’t usually make.
“I can’t remember the last 
time that happened to us at Flor-
ida,” White said. “They domi-
nated us.”
Defense, one of Florida’s big-
gest strengths, will be a major 
point of emphasis in this next 
stretch of SEC games.
Although Mizzou’s shooting 
may be an enigma, Florida (10-
5, 2-1 SEC) will have a chance 
to rebound against Ole Miss (9-6, 
0-2 SEC) in Gainesville on Tues-
day.
The Rebels have dropped 
their last three games where they 
averaged just under 58 points 
during that stretch.
If there was ever a time for 
Florida to boost its conﬁ  dence in 
this seesaw of a season, it would 
be on Tuesday.
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.orgCFP Title 
Game Picks 
Column
Staff Report
Well, here we are, folks. 
The end of another college 
football season is upon us.
Last month, the Gators 
wrapped up another 
successful season under head coach 
Dan Mullen with a win in the Capital 
One Orange Bowl in Miami, Florida, 
over the Virginia Cavaliers, 36-28. 
While it was not as lopsided as 
Vegas had predicted (the spread was 
14.5 in favor of the orange and blue 
-- royal blue), Virginia was unable to 
catch up after the Gators made it a 
two-possession game. 
Two New Year’s Six bowl game 
wins in a row and an 11-win season? 
Not too shabby for a second-year 
coach.
So now what? Don’t fret, there’s 
one game left before the seven-month 
college football hiatus ensues.
The epic conclusion of this year’s 
CFP between Clemson and LSU -- 
or as I’d like to call it, “the most-
anticipated catﬁ  ght in history” -- is 
scheduled to kick off tonight at 8 
p.m. 
Sports Editor Kyle Wood and 
sports writer Payton Titus debate 
who they believe will win the 
national title game between the two 
Tiger teams.
Clemson will win because…
It entered the postseason with a 
chip on its shoulder. Head coach Dabo PICKS
SITE: Mercedes-Benz Superdome 
(cap. 74,295)
KICKOFF: 8 p.m., Monday 
TV:  ESPN
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 12
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Guard Kiara Smith led the way for Florida with 16 points in the 
loss to Kentucky.
Samantha Harrison/ Alligator Staff
Guard Noah Locke had 12 points 
in the road loss to Missouri.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLGators overpowered in loss to No. 14 UK
Florida falters on the road ahead of SEC stretchMONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11  
TRACK
WOMEN’S TENNIS MEN’S TENNISBy Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
In the NCAA’s triple jump 
rankings one meet into the 
2020 season, two Gators top 
the list. 
In first is senior Clayton 
Brown with a jump of 16.46 
meters, the second-farthest 
legal jump of his career. 
Second is Jonathan Miller, a 
sophomore transfer from Ne-
braska, at 16.04 meters. 
The two horizontal jump-
ers highlighted the weekend 
for Florida at the Orange and 
Purple Elite Invitational. The 
meet in Clemson, South Car-
olina, commenced the 2020 
indoor season. 
The Florida men’s team 
will compete this season as 
defending national champi-
ons, after it claimed its fifth 
title in program history in 
2019, all in the past decade. 
It loses standouts this season 
such as world record holder and six-time SEC Champion 
Grant Holloway, who de-
clared for the Olympics and 
sprinter Ryan Clark, who 
graduated.
The women’s team fin-
ished sixth last season, los-
ing triple jump national 
champion Yanis David to 
graduation. 
In addition to Brown and 
Miller’s triple jumps, other 
field events impressed for 
the orange and blue over the 
weekend. Senior Kala Penn 
jumped 13.2 meters in the 
triple jump to rank second 
nationally on the women’s 
side. Redshirt junior Connor 
Bandel reached 19.29 meters 
in the weight throw, reset-
ting his indoor personal best 
to place sixth nationally. 
Freshman Semira Kille-
brew also impressed in the 
women’s 60-meter dash. Her 
time of 7.29 seconds places 
her at No. 7 nationally. 
Senior Brandee Johnson finished the women’s 60-me-
ter hurdles in 8.25 seconds to 
rank fourth nationally, while 
freshman Grace Stark was 
.02 seconds behind her to 
rank fifth. 
Overall, the straightaways 
and the horizontal jumps 
were the backbone of Flor-
ida’s track team in its first 
meet. And in all likelihood, 
that is how it will be for most 
of the season. Coach Mike 
Holloway’s specialties are 
jumpers and sprinters. Paired 
with jumpers’ coach Nic Pe-
tersen, UF always shows out 
in those two areas. 
The Gators will compete 
this weekend only about two 
hours from Clemson, as they 
head to Columbia, South 
Carolina, to compete in the 
Gamecock Invitational. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.org
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s tennis team’s trip to the 
Bahamas was not pleasant.
Inclement weather cut play short on Sunday 
afternoon and the Gators ended the weekend at 
the Pink Flamingo Cup with just seven wins across 
singles and doubles play.
Senior Tsveta Dimitrova dominated the singles 
competition, logging wins on each day of the Cup. 
Dimitrova defeated UCLA’s Sasha Vagramov, who is 
ranked No. 108 in the world, in straight sets (6-3, 6-3) on Friday. She followed that by beating Miami’s Maya 
Tahan (6-3, 6-4) on Saturday to end her weekend. On 
Sunday, she dispatched Texas’ Tijana Spasojevic (7-
5). The weather caused the singles matches to be just 
one-set matches.
The rest of the No. 21 Gators did not fare as well 
against the assembled competition, which included 
No. 4 UCLA, No. 7 Texas and No. 23 Miami. UF 
is used to the stiff competition, though. A season 
ago, the Gators finished just 13-12, but thanks to a 
difficult schedule, they finished ranked 24th in the 
final ITA rankings.
Dimitrova’s win on Friday was the only tally in 
the victory column on the day for Florida, but on 
Saturday, sophomores Marlee Zein and Sydney Berlin 
also came out victorious in singles.
Zein defeated Miami’s Yuna Ito (6-3, 6-4) and 
Berlin notched UF’s second ranked victory with a 
win over No. 69 Selma Cadar of Miami (4-6, 6-3, 1-0 
(13-11)).
Sunday was the best day of the Cup for Florida. 
Juniors Victoria Emma and McCartney Kessler 
defeated the duo of Daevenia Achong and Estela 
Perez-Somarriba (7-5) from Miami to end the doubles 
drought. Kessler also notched a singles victory over 
Texas’ Bianca Turati on the same day (6-1).
Coach Roland Thornqvist thought his team failed 
to take advantage of several opportunities.
“We had three singles matches with 4-1 leads we 
let slip away and against a team like UCLA, who may 
be the favorite to win the National Championship 
along with Texas, you will be punished,” he said in 
a release.
As a team, the Gators went 1-8 in doubles play 
against Texas and UCLA on the weekend.
Florida now has two weeks off before the ITA 
Kick-off weekend in Raleigh, North Carolina, with a 
match against Oklahoma.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBy Noah Ram
Sports Writer
After a strong finish last season 
and a successful fall, the Florida 
men’s tennis team finally hit the 
courts on Saturday for the first 
time since its Final Four appear-
ance in 2019.
They did so with an important 
distinction for the first time in 
school history.
As the No. 1 team in the coun-
try.
The Gators were the top-ranked 
team in the country when the Or-
acle/ITA Preseason rankings were 
unveiled on Wednesday, and this 
weekend, they looked the part.
Florida demolished its two op-
ponents on Saturday afternoon at 
the Alfred A. Ring Tennis Com-
plex in Gainesville, first beating 
Furman 6-1 and then FAU 7-0 to 
start the season 2-0.
Despite UF’s remarkable play 
last season, it did have one Achil-
les Heel: doubles. In three of its 
four losses in 2019, it lost the dou-
bles point.
However, against the Paladins, 
Florida won the doubles point 
with ease. Sophomores Sam Rif-
fice and Harrison Cacciatore took 
their match 6-1 and Senior Jo-
hannes Ingildsen and freshman 
Will Grant clinched the point with 
a 6-3 win.
Singles were more of the same 
for the Gators. Freshman Blaise 
Bicknell won his first match in the 
orange and blue, winning 6-3, 6-0 
on court five. No. 4 Riffice made it 
3-0 with a 6-4, 6-1 victory on court one. Ingildsen clinched the match 
6-1, 6-3 on court six.
UF elected to finish out the re-
maining matches and went nearly 
perfect the rest of the way. Juniors 
Duarte Vale and Oliver Crawford 
took their matches, but sopho-
more Lukas Greif lost in straight 
sets.
A brief intermission followed 
before the match against FAU. 
Doubles was once again easy 
against the Owls. Crawford and 
Riffice blanked Maxime Lapraille 
and A. Fernandez Horta with a 6-0 
win and the point was clinched 
with a 6-1 decision for junior Josh 
Goodger and sophomore Greyson 
Cacciatore.
In singles, Florida was perfect 
this time. No. 14 Crawford was 
the first to win with a 6-0, 6-1 
victory on court one. No. 17 Vale 
made it 3-0 on court two, secur-
ing a 6-4, 6-1 victory on court two. 
The match was clinched on court 
three by No. 72 sophomore Andy 
Andrade, 6-3, 6-1.
Just like against Furman, the 
Gators chose to finish out against 
Florida Atlantic. Goodger, Greif 
and Bicknell all acquired wins, 
finishing off the shutout.
UF will be back in action on 
Wednesday for one of its biggest 
matches on the season as it will 
take on reigning national cham-
pion, and No. 2 Texas at the Ring.
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgBrown takes nation’s triple jump lead in opening meet
Dimitrova shines, Florida stumbles No. 1 UF wins at homeAlligator File Photo
Senior Raymond Ekevwo and the Gators head back to South Carolina this 
weekend for the Gamecock Open.
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Marlee Zein recorded a singles victory 
at the Pink Flamingo Cup on Saturday.
12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2020
did it at an efﬁ  cient rate, with 
Smith at 58.3 percent from the 
ﬂ  oor and Johnson at 66.7 per-
cent. 
However, that duo was no 
match for Kentucky’s combina-
tion of guards Rhyne Howard 
and Chasity Patterson who had 
22 and 20 points. Their 42 com-
bined points was just three shy 
of Florida’s total. 
“Rhyne Howard, best scorer, 
maybe the best player in the 
conference right now,” New-
bauer said. 
For Howard, this game was 
a tale of two halves. UF limited 
her to just four points in the 
ﬁ  rst 20 minutes before she ex-
ploded for 18 in the latter 20. A 
key reason for her success was 
the charity stripe, she went to 
the line six times and sunk all 
of them. 
That second-half efﬁ  cien-
cy complimented Patterson’s 
13-point ﬁ  rst half. It seemed 
that at all times, somebody 
wearing blue and white was un-
guardable. 
Another main ingredient for 
the result was bench points. 
The Wildcats bench outscored 
the Gators bench 27-12. And 
10 of Florida’s 12 bench points came from Johnson, as the last 
two came via forward Faith Dut 
at the very end when the game 
was already well in hand. 
“We took it on the chin to-
day,” Newbauer said. “I’m real-
ly disappointed because I think 
we’re tougher than this.”
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgSwinney has been very outspoken 
about his disappointment in the 
playoff committee, which came 
to a head in December when his 
Tigers were ranked third in the 
ﬁ  nal poll. 
Everyone counted them out. 
“The ACC sucks,” they said. 
“They didn’t even play anybody 
this season,” they griped. “Trevor 
Lawrence peaked last season,” 
they assumed.
Clemson now has the chance 
to win back-to-back national 
championships.
In Clemson’s playoff game 
against Ohio State, Lawrence led 
the Tigers in both passing (18 of 
33 for 259 yards, two touchdowns) 
and rushing yards (16 carries, 107 
yards, one touchdown). Over the 
course of the season, Lawrence 
is ﬁ  fth in the country for passing 
touchdowns with 36. But, most 
importantly, he knows how to 
win this thing. He’s done it before 
against one of the most dominant 
college football programs of 
all time in Alabama. Why not 
tonight?
And with Dabo whispering 
sweet nothings like “God 
wouldn’t put a Goliath in your 
life if he didn’t know there was a 
David in you,” into their ears (as he told “Game On” reporter Emily 
Austen last week), how could 
they lose?
- Payton Titus
LSU (-5.5) will win 
because…
I had the privilege and the 
pleasure of watching Joe Burrow, 
Heisman winner and destroyer of 
defenses, play football this year. 
It was a cool night in mid-October 
in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and 
Burrow had a bad game -- by his 
astronomical standards. 
Only twice this season did 
Burrow throw for fewer than 300 
yards: one was a 55-3 dismantling 
of Georgia Southern in which his 
services were not required after 
halftime. The other was a 42-28 
win over then-No. 7 Florida. What 
I’m saying is Burrow on an “off 
night” is enough to defeat a top-
10 team with a top-10 defense.
Burrow the past few weeks 
has been far from “off.” In 
the SEC Championship Game 
against Georgia and the College 
Football Playoff Semiﬁ  nal against 
Oklahoma, he accounted for 904 
total yards of offense and 12 
touchdowns. Accordingly, the 
Tigers outscored their opponents 
100-38 in those two games. That’s 
not normal and neither is this offense.
The question surrounding the 
Tigers for years has been “when 
can they get over Alabama?” The 
Tigers went to Tuscaloosa and 
all but punched their ticket to 
Atlanta in a shootout win. A few 
weeks later, they returned for the 
semiﬁ  nal because they had so 
much fun the ﬁ  rst time around 
against Georgia.
Now they have what is 
essentially a home game in New 
Orleans for the title. (Yes, Dabo 
Swinney already complained 
about this.)
Burrow has ridiculous weapons 
at his disposal in running back 
Clyde Edwards-Helaire and 
receivers Ja’Marr Chase and 
Justin Jefferson, who are tied for 
the most receiving touchdowns in 
the nation with 18 apiece.
Give me LSU in this game. 
Because there is just no way that 
a historical season like this can 
end with these Tigers coming 
up short now. Because I’m 
convinced Burrow could make a 
group of alligatorSports writers 
look like All-SEC-caliber wideouts 
and he has much better targets 
to throw to. Because there’s no 
way this season doesn’t end with 
a Gatorade-drenched Coach O 
saying, “Go Tigahs” one last time.
- Kyle WoodWOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 10 COLUMN,  from pg. 10UF hit just two threes Championship is at 8 p.m.
Next five games:
Jan. 16 vs. Tennessee
Jan. 19 at Texas A&M
Jan. 26 at Arkansas
Jan. 30 vs. LSU
Feb. 2 at Kentucky