We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Flu season, COVID-19 create dual problems
A deadly flu season may be exacerbated by the pandemic, pg. 4
Halloween at Hardback
“Devil’s Night Dreams,” a ho rror-inspired burlesque show, is 
coming to Gainesville, pg. 8Making a Racket
UF freshman Ben Shelton may be the 
coach’s son, but he has all the tools to forge 
his own legacy at Florida, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 9
A STRING OF EARLY VOTING 
EVENTS CALLED THE 
GAINESVILLE COMMUNITY 
TO ACTION
Alligator Staff Report
More than a week before Elec -
tion Day, four rallies, marches and 
car parades encouraged Alachua 
County voters to get to the polls.
Almost 74,500 early voting and 
mail-in ballots have been cast in the 
2020 general election in Alachua 
County as of Sunday evening.
A “Free The Vote” rally Satur -
day afternoon gathered hundreds of 
masked community members on the 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza with 
little social distancing to celebrate 
the voting rights of formerly incar -
cerated people. A car rally supporting Presi -
dent Donald Trump paraded across 
Gainesville Saturday afternoon. No 
one showed up to an early voting 
event on Bo Diddley Plaza, called 
“Walk The Vote,” Saturday morn -
ing. 
Souls to the Polls events Sunday 
afternoon had distanced chairs with 
many wearing masks. People also 
parked nearby to listen to live music 
and partake from their cars.
 Saturday afternoon: March to polls 
for formerly incarcerated voters 
and Trump rally
About 70 organizers, first-time 
voters and formerly incarcerated 
people marched to the Alachua 
County Supervisor of Elections office 
to vote as part of a “Free the Vote” 
rally Saturday afternoon.
While marchers cast their ballots, a few hundred people rallied on Bo 
Diddley Plaza for the event, which 
was set up by the Alachua County 
chapter of the Florida Rights Resto -
ration Coalition, an organization of 
returning citizens with a focus on 
voting rights activism. 
In 2018, Amendment 4 gave 
nearly 1.4 million formerly incarcer -
ated people in the state the right to 
vote except those convicted of mur -
der or sexual offences from voting.
After the Amendment passed, 
the Florida Senate required felons to 
pay all fines and fees to have their 
voting right restored, disenfranchis -
ing many felons who believed they 
got their rights back.
The crowd arrived at the doors 
of the Supervisor of Elections office 
on North Main Street and shuffled Early voters march to the polls, 
while others rally for Trump this weekend Zachariah Chou / / Alligator Staff
People are seen holding “Let My People Vote” signs at the “Free the Vote” rally while walking 
away from Bo Diddley Plaza on Saturday, Oct. 24, 2020.
ASSISTED-LIVING RESIDENTS 
AND UF HEALTH PATIENTS 
FACE CHALLENGES BEYOND 
THE IMMEDIATE THREAT OF 
COVID-19
By Thomas Weber
Alligator Staff Writer
Warren and Patsy Nelms are both 
83-year-old residents of Oak Ham -
mock, a Gainesville retirement and 
assisted-living community. After 
more than 50 years of living together, 
they now live separately — Patsy in 
an independent home and Warren, 
who has dementia, in assisted care.
She parks her golf cart — clad in 
Gator bumper stickers — outside Oak 
Hammock’s health pavilion, where a 
nurse feeds Warren his meals. Patsy 
walks across the health pavilion’s 
lawn and stands by the window, 
waving at Warren as he enjoys his 
pre-mushed meat and potatoes. Dur -
ing these window visits, his reactions 
are limited.
Life in retirement and long-term 
care facilities has been drastically up -
rooted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Windows and plexiglass now sepa -
rate spouses and families, leaving the 
population’s most mentally vulner -
able to battle the anxiety of a pan -
demic that has killed thousands of 
Florida’s seniors.
But the effects of the pandemic 
reach beyond the lives it has taken 
— loneliness, delirium and mental 
decline also threaten seniors in isola -
tion.
In Florida, people 65 years or 
older have accounted for 52% of 
hospitalizations and 82% of deaths, 
according to the Florida Department 
of Health’s most recent COVID-19 re -
port. Despite this population being at 
high risk, long-term care facilities and 
nursing homes are slowly reopening 
across the state.
Thursday, Florida Gov. Ron De -
Santis directed the Florida Division 
of Emergency Management to allow 
children to visit long-term care facili -
ties, remove a five-person maximum visitation policy and limit restrictions 
on outdoor visitation. 
Florida has had over 775,000 
COVID-19 cases — the third highest 
out of all states — and about 16,500 
people have died. About 50,000 cases 
and 6,000 deaths have occurred in 
Florida’s long-term care facilities.
With restrictions being lifted, se -
niors in assisted living now have 
more opportunities to visit loved 
ones.
Patsy and Warren
Oak Hammock’s nurses know to 
feed Warren by a particular window, 
so he and Patsy can see each other 
every day.
After spending a few minutes with 
Warren, she headed back home, put -
tering through the Oak Hammock 
streets in her golf cart. “G8R FAN,” 
the license plate read — Patsy and 
her husband are both 1959 UF alum -
ni. They married a year before they 
graduated.
Oak Hammock resembles any reg -
ular suburban neighborhood: The in -
dependent living section is made up 
of five-story apartment buildings and 
houses on winding roads. The com -
munity feels otherworldly, tucked 
away in the greenery of moss-riddled 
oak trees.
Patsy and Warren moved to Oak 
Hammock together in 2013, opting to 
live in a house surrounded by a lush 
garden where purple flowers dangle 
from trees and hummingbirds whiz 
about. 
About 15 years ago, Warren began 
having memory difficulties. When 
they lived together at Oak Hammock, 
Patsy said he began falling, and he 
would sometimes have trouble get -
ting back up. She knew he would 
have to be moved into assisted living, 
where nurses could provide him with 
24-hour care.
About two years ago, he was 
moved to memory care, a facility that 
provides specialized care for those 
with Alzheimer’s or dementia. Patsy 
was able to visit him at any time. 
They would sing together, Warren COVID-19 affects older population
SEE DELIRIUM,  PAGE 5SEE VOTER MOBILIZATION,  PAGE 6T oday’s Weather
ISSN 0889-24232   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 9
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinion Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett Mullenax
Forty years ago, I met the girl of my 
dreams, with our first date being 
during UF’s Homecoming Weekend, 
October, 1980.  I was lost, and you 
found me.  I’m so fortunate to have 
this life with you.  The past four 
decades have been an amazing ride.  
Our road together, with its twists and 
turns, and with 35 years of marriage, 
has given us a world of experiences 
and so much love.  The best of those, 
is Little Blue Eyes.  And now, she’s 
married!  I am truly the luckiest man 
on the face of the earth.  Here’s to 
another 40 years… and more!To The Girl With The 
Beautiful Blue Eyes:
ILY,
Liarface
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
grifolsplasma.comNew Plasma Donors EARN $300 for 4 donations!*
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!004IA
New donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.
 Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!*
* when applicable
*fees subject to change without notice. We DO NOT pay by WEIGHT!
004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 7/16/20   12:27 PM7/16/20   12:27 PM
STANDARD GARAGE  
BY UF NOW OPEN!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable monthly & yearly rates!
Download the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
A sinkhole that appeared during the week is seen behind NW 14th Place on Sunday, Oct. 25, 2020. 
People who live in the homes surrounding the sink hole were asked to evacuate this past Thursday.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
ALACHUA COUNTY HEALTH 
OFFICIALS ENCOURAGE ALL 
RESIDENTS TO GET A FLU VACCINE
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
The uncertain nature of the 2020-21 flu 
season coupled with the pandemic con -
cerns health experts. 
In last year’s flu season, which lasted 
from October to April, somewhere between 
24,000 and 62,000 people died of the flu in 
the U.S., according to the Centers for Dis -
ease Control and Prevention. With 9,950 
Alachua County residents diagnosed with 
COVID-19 and 74 residents dead as of Oct. 
25, experts fear a potential influenza out -
break could exacerbate the devastating ef -
fects of the pandemic. 
Some experts point to the possibility 
of what some are calling a “twindemic,” 
where flu cases could rise with the climb -
ing number of COVID-19 cases, or patients 
could contract both the flu and COVID-19 
simultaneously.
The subgroups of the population at the 
highest risk are children under the age of 
5 and people over the age of 65, wrote Dr. 
Nicole Iovine, the chief epidemiologist at 
UF Health Shands Hospital. 
She pointed to the deadly potential of people contracting both the influenza virus 
and SARS CoV2, the virus that causes CO -
VID-19, at once.
“Considering that both viruses can 
cause severe illness and death on their 
own, the combination is very, very con -
cerning,” Iovine wrote in an email.
Shands employees are promoting in -
fluenza vaccines in primary care clinics 
for adults and children, said Dr. Kathleen 
Ryan, a UF Health pediatrician. Pediatric 
practices are also providing the flu vaccine 
to parents and offering weekend flu vac -
cination clinics.
She also said the Control Flu Program, 
which offers no-cost influenza vaccines to 
all public, private and charter schools in 
Alachua County, is offering FluMist vac -
cines administered in the form of a nasal 
spray to all students. 
While private and charter school stu -
dents were already vaccinated, all consent -
ing public school students will be vaccinat -
ed by early November, she said.
Paul Myers, administrator at the county 
health department, echoed these concerns. 
He emphasized how important it is for 
elementary school-aged children to have 
their parents consent to them being vac -
cinated. Young children are “flu super -
spreaders” because they spread the virus 
for longer periods of time than adults.  There are many unknowns heading into 
the 2020-21 flu season, but Myers said he 
is hopeful by the less active season seen in 
the Southern Hemisphere. Aside from the 
vaccine, mask-wearing and social distanc -
ing can help prevent the spread of the flu.
Vaccines are available at the county 
health department, UF Student Health Care 
Center, primary care providers, public schools and some grocery stores and phar -
macies.
“There are plenty of opportunities,” My -
ers said. “But no excuse not to get your flu 
shot this year.” 
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org
THE GAINESVILLE ROLLER 
REBELS HAVE YET TO RETURN 
TO THE RINK — BUT THAT 
HAS NOT STOPPED THEM 
FROM BEING A TEAM
By Avery Lotz
Alligator Contributing Writer 
At least two nights a week, Lily 
Jane Woodard would slip out of her 
work clothes and put on pads, a 
mouth guard, skates with red wheels 
and a blue helmet detailed with a 
glittering white star. 
The 37-year-old OPIE Software 
saleswoman followed this routine 
for eight years, never missing one 
6:30 to 9 p.m. practice at the Alachua 
County Fairgrounds. Other evenings, 
she traveled across the state to 
compete with her team.The onset of the COVID-19 
pandemic forced Woodard to take 
a break from the sport she loves: 
roller derby. Although COVID-19 
has disrupted their seasons since 
March, teams around the world, 
including the Gainesville Roller 
Rebels, have shifted their focus from 
winning bouts to giving back to the 
community.
With extra funds in its wallet, 
the team donated to local charities 
protecting human rights and looked 
within the roller derby community to 
find and eradicate inequality. 
Woodard said the feeling of 
acceptance she has received from 
other roller derby teams should be 
felt by all people, no matter their 
background, body type or experience. 
“Anyone who wants to play roller 
derby, can,” she said. “Even if they 
don’t want to be a skater, there are so many other ways to be involved.”
The Roller Rebels can’t return 
to the court until COVID-19 cases 
in Alachua County subside to only 
134 new cases over a 14-day period. 
This number is derived from the 
national Women’s Flat Track Derby 
Association’s baseline limit, which is 
50 cases for every 100,000 people in 
a county’s population.
The WFTDA, which presides over 
more than 450 women’s roller derby 
leagues, developed an internationally 
recognized seven-tier plan to return 
to the sport that emphasizes local 
COVID-19 statistics. The plan 
received acclaim from Samantha 
Bee on Sept. 30 on her TBS show 
“Full Frontal with Samantha Bee” 
and earned compliments from the 
National Parks Association.
Out of the 10 teams in Florida, 
only two have met the baseline 
requirements, according to the 
WFTDA COVID-19 map. In the U.S., 
only 10 teams have reached Tier 
One.
League President Chelsea Tobias, 
nicknamed Queen Slayer, said she 
hopes to have outdoor practices at a 
reduced capacity — only five people 
— once those metrics are met. 
To Tobias, COVID-19 halted what 
would have been a strong season for 
the Roller Rebels.
In the 2019 season, the Roller 
Rebels had a close-to-perfect record 
of 7-2, Tobias said.
On March 21, the “All Stars” 
Roller Rebels crew was supposed 
to travel to Virginia Beach to face 
the Dominion Derby Girls for its 
first out-of-state bout of the season, 
she said. Instead, it was the first of 
many matches to be canceled due to 
COVID-19.
Cat Clifford, 35, balances her time 
among the Neurosurgical Specialists 
of North Florida where she is a 
registered nurse, her home where she is a mother of two and the Roller 
Rebels where she is a hard-hitter 
nicknamed Bootyvicious.
Clifford said the WFTDA’s plan, 
which was devised by roller-derby-
playing nurses and scientists, mirrors 
her perspective on COVID-19 as a 
healthcare professional. 
“As a healthcare provider, it’s 
easy for us to separate the health 
component from all of the other social 
and economical and political pieces 
that go into closing things down or 
getting back to normal,” she said. 
“It’s hard to justify putting you, your 
teammates and your community at 
risk just so you can’t be bored.”
On March 23, a letter addressed 
“Dear Gainesville” was posted to 
the Gainesville Roller Rebel website 
announcing the cancelation of bouts 
and practices until further notice. 
The piece also provided a link to a 
t-shirt fundraising campaign to help 
keep the team afloat. 
Roller Rebels Treasurer Brittany 
Evans, 27, nicknamed Gnarly 
Rae Jepsen, said the merchandise 
fundraiser was originally started to 
raise money for away games. 
Despite the disappointment the 
team felt from having bouts canceled, 
Evans said COVID-19 provided an 
unexpected opportunity. Without 
having to pay for their practice space, 
the Roller Rebels had extra funds to 
give back to the community. 
In June, the team voted to donate 
to Computers for Kids, a campaign 
attempting to close the technology 
gap accentuated by digital learning, 
the team’s treasurer said. Then, in 
August, the Roller Rebels donated 
$525 to the Alachua County Human 
Rights Coalition. Later in October, 
the team plans to vote on another 
charity to support.
Following the summer’s Black 
Lives Matter movement protests, the 
international Women’s Flat Track Derby Association has made a recent 
effort to create a more diverse and 
inclusive roller derby community. 
The Roller Rebels’ first diversity and 
inclusion meeting was held Oct. 4.
“We’re trying to reach out to 
BIPOC skaters and league members 
on our team and are really listening 
to them and seeing what we can do 
better,” Tobias said. “I think derby, 
in general, tends to be more inclusive 
toward LGBTQ+ members, not that 
it’s perfect in that way, but it is still 
a very overwhelmingly white sport.”
The Roller Rebels encouraged 
the team to listen to diversity-based 
webinars and conducted a survey 
about the inclusivity of the team.
“Our league has stepped up,” 
Woodard said. “They are being 
active in not just saying that we 
are inclusive and that we are a safe 
space but really figuring out how 
to attract minorities and do surveys 
and to do what we can to encourage 
inclusiveness.”
Once practice resumes, Tobias 
plans to expand the team’s “gear 
library” — where new players can 
borrow donated gear — so the price 
of skates, helmets and pads does not 
deter new members from the sport.
Catherine Lippi, a 36-year-old 
Roller Rebels referee-in-training, 
is a current UF doctoral candidate 
studying in the Emerging Pathogens 
Institute. 
It’s important to Lippi that the 
Roller Rebels take this time to focus 
on how they can open the roller 
derby family to all. 
“We’re creating that space where 
basically the only requirement is a 
willingness to strap wheels onto your 
feet,” she said.
@ajlotz8
alotz@alligator.orgA “twindemic”: 2020-21 flu season may be deadly alongside COVID-19, experts warn
Four wheels makes a family: Gainesville Roller Rebels focus on inclusionShannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Roller Rebels leap over pumpkins while balancing on their 
skates in the Pumpkin Jump social media challenge to keep their 
skating skills sharp.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
often leading them in songs like “You Are My 
Sunshine.” 
But Warren’s physical and mental capabili -
ties continued to decline. This year, he lost his 
ability to communicate.
Before the pandemic, he was moved to the 
skilled nursing unit, where nurses help him 
with everyday tasks. Patsy said residents are 
sent there when they can’t get out of bed on 
their own.
But she said he’ll sometimes smile at her, 
and he doesn’t give the nurses a hard time.
“He’s lasted way longer than they expected 
him to,” Patsy said. “He’s not unhappy, and 
he’s not suffering.”
During the summer — the height of the pan -
demic — visitation and social restrictions in the 
community were more firm. Dining facilities 
were closed, in-person activities were canceled 
and residents were encouraged to isolate. 
Residents in assisted living had the most 
restrictions, said Katherine Osman, Oak Ham -
mock’s director of community affairs. She said 
nobody could come inside to visit them, includ -
ing spouses and other family.
“A lot of these people chose Oak Hammock 
because a spouse needed extra care and they 
wanted to be under the same roof with them,” 
Osman said. “And to be separated — it’s tough.”
In April, 12 Oak Hammock residents and 
staff tested positive for COVID-19. As of Friday, 
there are no active cases among Oak Hammock 
residents, but two active cases among staff. 
One Oak Hammock resident died of CO -
VID-19, according to the Florida Department 
of Health’s report on deaths in long-term care 
facilities.
Osman said some independent-living resi -
dents still spend most of their time in isolation.
The staff developed a strategy to keep tabs 
on those in independent living. Residents place 
sticky notes on the outside of their doors if they 
are doing well; staff checked residents’ doors 
every morning and called those who didn’t dis -
play the signal.
She said only a few residents still participate 
in the daily sticky-note-check-ins — mainly 
those who live alone and enjoy receiving the 
call.
Normally, Patsy is active in the community: 
chamber music group, book club, pilates, co-
editor of the community’s newsletter, “The Oak 
Leaf.”
Recently, the paper published a compila -
tion of residents’ miniature pandemic memoirs, 
inspired by a similar piece in The New York 
Times.
“In pandemic’s throes, my garden grows!” 
read Patsy’s memoir.
“Home sweet home! Secret introvert guilt,” 
wrote one resident. 
“So many lost. So much missed,” wrote an -
other.
DeSantis and the Florida Division of Emer -
gency Management began lifting visitation re -
strictions in early September, allowing entry for 
family and friends if they wore personal protec -
tive equipment.
Since then, active cases have declined 
among the state’s long-term care residents, ac -
cording to the Florida Department of Health. 
As of Saturday, there were 859 active cases — 
down from about 2,000 a month ago. But, cases 
have remained relatively consistent among 
long-term care facility staff. A month ago, there 
were about 3,000 active cases; as of Saturday, 
there were more than 2,200.
With the recently lowered restrictions — 
Oak Hammock now allows entry for outside 
visitors — Patsy occasionally invites friends 
to sit on her porch and share her homemade, 
frosty peppermint ice cream — a Patsy Nelms 
staple, which she offers within minutes of en -
tering her home.
Dozens of homemade books, calendars and photo albums are stacked around her house, 
each containing collages of family events. A 
book titled “Growing Up” displays her and 
Warren, decades ago, sitting on a swing set 
with their two children. Many document vaca -
tions at Bird Island — a special place for Patsy. 
Aside from countless family outings, it’s also 
the site of a UF archaeological dig she partici -
pated in — where she, of course, served pep -
permint ice cream to all the excavators — and 
it’s even where she and Warren had their hon -
eymoon. 
Lately, Patsy has been able to visit with War -
ren on a bench outside the health pavilion. She 
sings to him.
“He used to always be the one that would 
lead singing,” she said.
She sings him a variation of “Old Folks at 
Home,” or “Suwannee River,” which they 
would sing as they drove over the river on their 
trips to Bird Island.
“Not so far above the Suwannee River lies 
our island home, bright and shining in the blue 
Gulf waters, to it we love to roam.”
“Delirium Prevention Champions”
In hospitals, COVID-19 patients face the 
threat of delirium: a state of mental confusion 
and disorientation.
It’s a symptom of COVID-19 doctors weren’t 
ready to combat when the pandemic spread 
throughout the U.S. in March. Since then, doc -
tors at UF Health have worked to prevent it 
through “Delirium Prevention Champions,” a 
program where nurses suit up in PPE to reorient 
COVID-19 patients by spending time with them.
Delirium can manifest in several ways be -
yond disorientation and confusion, said Dr. 
Mariam Mufti, a UF assistant professor in geri -
atric medicine. She said it can cause behavioral 
responses, including agitation, hallucinations, 
hitting and spitting.
“It’s very difficult to orient someone… when 
they’re isolated in a room and have some un -
derlying dementia and infection going,” Mufti 
said. “That was one of many things that we 
saw.”
Dementia can exacerbate the effects of deliri -
um, because when a patient already has limited 
cognitive function, it becomes harder to reorient 
them, said Dr. Nila Radhakrishnan, chief of the 
division of hospital medicine and director of UF 
Health’s Delirium Champions Program.
She said the best way to prevent it involves 
physically interacting with people, which 
proved difficult when patients were suffering 
from a contagious virus.
The solution: delirium prevention champi -
ons, nurses in head-to-toe PPE who spend time 
with patients. This involves physical touch, 
conversations, activities and coordinating video 
chats with family.
One of the delirium prevention champions, 
nurse Jennifer Melara, said she was anxious 
about interacting with COVID-19-positive pa -
tients at first.
“But certainly once we got in the rooms, you 
could definitely see the need for the patient to 
have more interaction with people,” she said.
Melara and the other nurses visited between 
15 and 25 people a day from a few minutes to 
an hour, she said. 
“Some patients had limited ability to carry a 
conversation,” Melara said. “Others could tell 
you their whole life story.”
Aside from conversation, the nurses offered 
games and art activities for further cognitive 
stimulation. They offered coloring, painting, 
virtual music therapy and puzzles, depending 
on the patient’s preferences.
Suzanne Maye, another delirium champion 
nurse, said she cared for a patient with cogni -
tive levels similar to those of dementia. The 
patient was often confused and agitated, and 
she even had to be restrained because she was 
hitting staff.
Maye said she coordinated virtual visita -
tion with the patient’s family, which helped 
her communicate with the patient to fulfill her 
needs. They took her off restraints, and at one 
point, the patient’s family called Maye a part of 
their family.
“That was one of the most heartwarming in -
teractions I’ve had,” she said. Delirium can have a negative impact on a 
patient’s future cognitive abilities, said Cathe -
rine Price, a neuropsychologist and UF assistant 
professor. She said individuals who have devel -
oped delirium have a higher rate of cognitive 
decline over time as well as a higher mortality 
rate.
“Intervening on delirium is truly vital to a 
patient’s long-term outcome,” Price said.
Valerie Griffith
In the pandemic’s seven months of isola -
tion, Valerie Griffith’s friend has experienced 
six years’ worth of mental decline.
Griffith, 80, has been a resident of Oak Ham -
mock for 16 years; for as long as the community 
has been open, she’s lived there. She moved 
there alone after her husband’s ten-year fight 
with dementia. He lived in a nursing home for 
the last six years of his life.
After living at Oak Hammock for seven 
years, Griffith received a call from an old friend 
from college — both of them UF alumni. He 
subsequently moved there, and after a 45-year 
break in their relationship, they reunited. 
He was moved to assisted living after he 
started forgetting to take his medication. But 
other than that, Griffith said he was mostly fine; 
he took care of himself, enjoyed his usual activi -
ties and continued meeting her for dinner.
But the pandemic separated them.
By May, he was moved into memory care, 
where residents were restricted from having 
visitors. Five months later, Griffith said he has 
difficulty bathing and dressing himself, and he 
has trouble holding a coherent conversation.
“It’s the isolation,” she said. “It’s unbeliev -
able. It’s very destructive to people who have 
any kind of mental problems.”
She said his long-term memory persists. He 
recalls their years in college together — occa -
sionally, he has moments of lucidity. But in just 
seven months of isolation, she said he’s had a 
similar level of mental decline as her husband’s 
six years in a nursing home.
Griffith said it’s been a huge loss for her and 
Oak Hammock. Because of his sociable nature, 
she said he was loved among the entire com -
munity.
“We had hoped that he would be at least 
marginally able to exist,” she said. “But not 
anymore. He’s not going to ever come back.”
But Griffith said she’s doing OK because she 
can tell he’s happy. He’s told her that he enjoys 
living in the memory unit; he loves the food, 
and he likes talking to the nurses.
Depending on the conditions of a person’s 
isolation, a lack of stimulation can have nega -
tive effects on a person’s cognition, said UF 
neuropsychologist Catherine Price. 
She described the brain as a “sensory input 
system” that needs cognitive stimulation to re -
main healthy. She said this comes in a variety of 
forms, including stimulating all five senses and 
fostering different types of social interaction.
Interaction with lifelong friends and family 
triggers different neurons and blood flow com -
pared to interaction with strangers.
“When you’re with somebody that you know, there’s a kindling of old memories,” 
Price said.
Regardless of whether a person has demen -
tia or COVID-19-induced delirium, Price said 
isolation can cause depression, anxiety and 
loneliness.
Griffith said the pandemic has instilled a fear 
and frustration in her she’s never experienced. 
“It’s because I’m 80, and now I’m like, ‘OK, 
I don’t have that many years left,’” she said. “I 
don’t want to mess it up.”
Monica Ondrick, social services liaison at 
Oak Hammock, said the staff has been working 
hard to keep assisted-living residents engaged 
to try to stave off the harmful effects of isola -
tion. 
“The staff has put a lot of things in place to 
help try to combat some of the depression and 
the sadness that has come from people not see -
ing their families,” she said.
Ondrick said assisted-living staff offers daily 
FaceTime opportunities for residents to video 
chat with family, and the staff even puts on 
shows to brighten the residents’ days. 
On Fridays, staff line dances down the halls 
of the assisted-living facility, and residents 
dance and clap along in their doorways. One 
week, a staff member wore a blow-up dinosaur 
costume, which Ondrick said brought smiles to 
the residents’ faces.
She said visitation restrictions have less -
ened, so people in assisted living are able to 
spend time with visitors outdoors — as long as 
they’re wearing PPE. 
Griffith has visited her friend several times 
since restrictions were lifted. She said she’s al -
lowed to visit him twice a week, but she calls 
him every day. She said the five- to 10-minute 
conversations are disjointed.
During in-person visits, Griffith is required 
to wear full PPE, including an N95 mask, and 
head and body coverings. She said sitting next 
to him in complete protective gear feels odd, 
but he doesn’t seem to mind. He also wears a 
mask.
They sit in one of Oak Hammock’s court -
yards and talk, separated six feet apart. Because 
his long-term memory is functional, she said 
he’ll sometimes talk about his life: the friends, 
places and memories from the 45-year gap she 
wasn’t a part of.
But other times, he’ll recall memories from 
their college years. 
Griffith feels he isn’t getting enough mental 
stimulation because at the beginning of their 
talks, he’s usually disoriented. By the end, she 
said he’s much more aware of his surroundings.
“You can’t expect staff to give them the time 
that you’d give them as an individual,” she said.
She said she wishes restrictions would be 
lifted even more, at least to allow a few close 
family members to spend more time with peo -
ple in assisted living.
“Is it better that he’s mentally gone, as op -
posed to being physically gone?” Griffith said.
@thomasjohnweber
tweber@alligator.orgDELIRIUM,  from pg. 1Loneliness
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Patsy Nelms waves to her husband, Warren Nelms, through his window in the assisted 
living building at Oak Hammock on Wednesday, Oct. 14, 2020. She cannot go inside.
out to the blue X’s taped on the sidewalk six 
feet apart. While about 15 cast their votes, other 
marchers waited in the parking lot and cheered 
for each voter.
“I feel like Beyoncé,” one voter said after 
leaving the building. 
Latamrra Batie, an FRRC assistant, said she 
has registered 300 formerly incarcerated voters 
since she began working with the organization 
in May 2018. This is the first time she will vote after her incarceration in 2007.
“I vote with my heart instead of listening to 
everybody else because everybody’s got sto -
ries,” she said. 
A parade of cars waving Trump flags passed 
by the plaza and slowed to a roll. The groups 
didn’t engage.
More than 100 Trump supporters gathered 
in the Oaks Mall parking lot Saturday after -
noon to drive around Gainesville in support for 
their candidate ahead of the Nov. 3 presidential 
election. Vehicles included large trucks, vin -
tage cars, and family-packed minivans, mostly donned with oversized “Trump 2020” or Ameri -
can flags. 
Drivers held four fingers out of their vehicles, 
chanting “Four more years.” One man stood in 
the bed of a silver pickup truck dressed in an 
Elvis Presley costume holding a Trump flag. 
Participants paraded down Newberry Road, 
passing UF’s campus. They later passed the 
March the Vote event and dispersed.
Saturday’s “Walk The Vote” event, sched -
uled to begin at 9 a.m. on Bo Diddley Plaza, but 
by 9:30 a.m., not one person showed up to the 
event. Participants were to gather on Bo Diddley 
Plaza and walk together to drop their ballots in 
the ballot box.
Sunday afternoon: “Souls to the Polls” event 
for Black voters
Black voters organized an event near the 
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections office 
in Gainesville Sunday afternoon. 
The social-distanced “Souls to the Polls” 
event took place next to a Suntrust Bank just 
south of the Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections office. It was organized by the Equal 
Ground Education Fund, an Orlando-based or -
ganization focused on empowering Black vot -
ers. The Rev. Karl Anderson, a minister from 
Upper Room Ministries in Gainesville, hosted 
the event. 
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections Kim 
Barton, wanted to ensure attendees got the in -
formation they needed to vote, as well as learn 
more about the candidates. 
“Traditionally, in the African American 
community, you go to a church,” Barton said. 
“This is why this program is ‘souls’ to the polls. 
Churches bring their members here and encour -
age them.”
As the countdown continues, Barton thinks 
about the lessons her parents taught her when 
they lived in Memphis, Tennessee, a city that 
holds historical significance within the Civil 
Rights movement: to honor the activists of the 
era. Barton’s parents urged her to not take vot -
ing for granted.
Republican Alachua County Commission 
candidates Joy Glanzer and Raemi Eagle-Glenn 
sat under canopies and spoke with voters 
throughout the event.Jasmine Burney-Clark, the 33-year-old 
founder of the Equal Ground Education Fund, 
said the event is a celebration and encourage -
ment of Black voting. 
The COVID-19 pandemic and increased 
racial tensions following the death of George 
Floyd really affected Black voters, Burney-Clark 
said. The event, she said, is meant to promote 
bringing Black issues to the ballot box.
“Take your issues, social and personal, to 
the ballot box because that’s where account -
ability will be,” Burney-Clark said.
Multiple Black Greek organizations includ -
ing Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. and Alpha 
Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc. attended the event. 
Latalyia McKnight is the 33-year-old secre -
tary of March For Our Freedom, an organiza -
tion in Gainesville. She proudly wore a pink and 
green pin emblazoned with the letters “AKA.” 
McKnight said she was excited to vote for Sen. 
Kamala Harris, a fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha sis -
ter, for vice president.
As a Black woman, voting is special to McK -
night because it was never a guarantee, she 
said. 
“It’s not just a vote,” McKnight said. “You 
are voting for literally our freedom.”
Enveloped by the First United Methodist 
Church on one side and gospel music onstage, 
church goers made a steady crowd. Leaders 
from other churches found voting to be an im -
portant task. 
“It encourages everybody to fulfill their civic 
duty and Christian responsibility,” the Rev. Dr. 
George Dix Jr. of PASSAGE Family Church said.
Representatives from Alachua County politi -
cal parties gave their own words on the upcom -
ing election with an emphasis on voter turn-out. 
People should vote ahead and make plans 
to help relatives get to the polls, Dr. Cynthia 
Chestnut, 71, said, chair of the Alachua County 
Democratic Party.
“This is the most consequential election of 
our lives,” she said. 
Ariana Aspuru, Edysmar Diaz-Cruz, 
Lianna Hubbard, Jack Prator, Manuel Rea, 
Rachel Slay and Steven Walker contributed 
to this report. 6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
THE MARSHA P. JOHNSON 
LLC APPROVED FOR 
FALL 2021
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
LGBTQ students looking to 
live on campus will soon have ac -
cess to UF’s first gender-neutral 
housing in a new Living Learning 
Community.
The Marsha P. Johnson LLC 
could come by Fall 2021, said for -
mer Student Government Sena -
tor Ryan Wilder, who was on the 
task force lobbying for the LLC. 
Living Learning Communities are 
groups in UF’s dorms students 
can join to participate in activities 
and have access to course offer -
ings and resources related to their 
LLC theme.
“I think it would be a con -
centrated area, a one stop shop 
of resources for LGBT students,” 
Wilder said. “They can go into 
their college experience and not 
have to worry about, ‘Oh no, 
what if my randomly assigned 
roommate isn’t an ally?’”
Some of the 16 LLCs on cam -
pus are the Arts LLC in Reid Hall, 
the Black Cultural LLC in Graham Hall and the Engineering LLC in 
East Hall.
UF Housing and Resident Edu -
cation gives LLCs between $500 
and $1,000 each academic year 
for their activities and resources, 
according to a call for LLC pro -
posal from UF Housing and Resi -
dence Education. Wilder hopes 
100 students will be a part of the 
LLC when it begins.
This new Marsha P. Johnson 
LLC will be the first gender neu -
tral housing at UF, Wilder said.
“We don’t have the issue of 
gender neutral housing settled 
right now,” Wilder said.
“Currently floors are still as -
signed same sex and that might 
not match your gender identity.”
UF Housing and Residence 
Education approved the LLC Oct. 
5 and is now in the stages of de -
signing the programs and learning 
objectives for the LLC. A six-per -
son taskforce of UF Student Gov -
ernment senators and students, 
including Wilder, proposed the 
LLC to UF Housing and Residence 
Education.
The task force and housing 
hope to have the community in 
Springs Complex because of the 
suite structure of the rooms.The LLC will also have re -
sources like LGBT-trained Coun -
seling and Wellness Center 
mental health professionals and 
community-building events like 
LGBT movie nights for its resi -
dents. 
Wilder said the normal stresses 
of moving into college life can be 
compounded for LGBT students 
who also have to worry about 
roomates or RAs being homopho -
bic or transphobic, losing accept -
ing support networks from home, 
coming out and figuring out their 
own gender and sexual identities.
“You go through those things 
easier when you have resources 
like resident assistants and coun -
selors who are competent and 
aware of those things and how to 
get through them,” he said.
Dayanna Peek, an 18-year-old 
UF international studies fresh -
man, served on the taskforce in 
August, speaking with UF’s hous -
ing department. Peek is also the 
co-director of social justice for 
InterResidence Housing Associa -
tion.
“I hope we can create a com -
munity for those who don’t have 
a home and should have a home,” 
she said.Peek came out to her fam -
ily as gay after being questioned 
in the car after buzz cutting her 
hair. Peek’s father questioned her 
about her sexuality until she was 
forced to come out, she said.
“It was difficult for him to ac -
cept me at first, but it seems like 
he’s come around to it, but I can 
tell he still misses his girl,” she 
said.
Peek said having the LLC 
would make it easier for others 
to find community at UF. Peek’s 
RA was accepting and she wants to ensure other students will have 
the same experience, she said.
Peek hopes to be an RA at the 
Marsha P. Johnson LLC when it’s 
designated.
“We just hope the LLC is a 
space for humans,” she said. 
“You don’t have to worry about 
your gender identity or your sexu -
al preferences. It’s just a place for 
you to exist.”
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.orgLGBT-focused Living Learning Community coming to UF
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Gail Johnson, a city representative and volunteer, is seen giving a welcoming speech 
at Souls to the Polls, an event held off of North Main Street on Sunday, Oct. 25, 2020. 
Attendees can drop off their vote-by-mail ballots and hear from local faith and community 
leaders, gospel choirs, elected officials and political candidates, all from their vehicles, in 
an effort to urge local black voters to vote.Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
VOTER MOBILIZATION , from pg. 1‘Most consequential election of our lives’MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
THE HORROR-INSPIRED SHOW WILL 
TAKE PLACE LIVE AND 
VIRTUALLY OCT. 30
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
Something wicked this way comes, and 
the spooky spectacle is making its way to the 
Hardback Cafe just in time for Halloween. 
“Devil’s Night Dreams,” a horror-in -
spired burlesque and drag show, is coming 
to Gainesville. The show will be produced 
by Purple Nightshade Productions, a three-
year-old Gainesville production company 
“committed to quality horror-based sexy en -
tertainment across Florida stages,” according 
to the company’s website. 
“Devil’s Night Dreams” is the fourth show 
of Purple Nightshade’s 2020 season, follow -
ing performances in February, May and Au -
gust but the first at a Gainesville venue.
The production will be held at 920 NW 
2nd St. at 9 p.m. on Oct. 30. It will offer both 
seating for up to 20 people and a livestream 
option. Tickets are $12 and $15 for each op -
tion, respectively.
The show will include performances from 
a cast of drag and burlesque artists, as well 
as a homemade mask contest with a cash 
prize of $50.
Live show seating will be available on 
Hardback’s viewing patio. Masks and tem -
perature checks will be required upon entry, 
and attendees will be able to order drinks 
without having to enter the venue.
“The venue has worked really hard to 
make sure that everybody is following CO -
VID guidelines and making sure that every -
one is as safe as possible,” said Della-Kate Flower, the show’s producer and head of 
Purple Nightshade. 
“Devil’s Night Dreams” is continuing with 
Purple Nightshade’s horror concept, with a 
cast of performers who regularly incorpo -
rate elements like fake blood or grotesque 
makeup into their shows and are known for 
their affinity toward the unconventional and 
unsettling. 
Kathryn Giardino, a 28-year-old drag 
queen and regular performer at Gainesville’s 
University Club, shines in shows like these. 
Mangled, misshapen, covered in blood and 
even feasting on pretend body parts, Giardi -
no, who performs under the drag name 
J’Adore LaGore, said doubling down on the 
horror feels like home. 
“I feel so accepted and so welcomed,” 
Giardino said of the shows she’s done with 
Flower and Purple Nightshade. 
Productions like “Devil’s Night Dreams” 
take a more alternative approach than other 
local performances. Giardino said Flower’s 
support of the weirder side of drag and bur -
lesque has allowed her to test her creative 
limits. 
And for Purple Nightshade regulars, the 
weirder, the better. 
“They were like, ‘You were great!’” 
Giardino said. “Like, ‘I was a serial killer, but 
OK cool, thanks.’” 
It’s the off-kilter choices that draw a 
crowd, Giardino said. The grime and gore 
isn’t for everyone, she said, but those who 
do enjoy it are among the most engaged and 
excited audience members.
Devorah Ooze, a 21-year-old drag queen 
and performer in “Devil’s Night Dreams,” 
has experienced similar enthusiasm from 
this crowd. She and Giardino are members of The Boheme Coven, a group of Gainesville 
performers with a gothic flair. 
“People come to us and they’re like, ‘Oh 
yes, we live for that Halloween fantasy.’ But 
we do this all the time,” Ooze said.
The video for “Devil’s Night Dreams” will 
be produced by Edith Meowt, a 30-year-old 
Gainesville resident who doubles as a video 
producer and a burlesque performer. For the 
show, she will be taking on both roles. 
“It sounds like a very complicated spi -
derweb, almost, but it all comes together,” 
Meowt said.
While the platform is creatively reward -
ing, Flower said producing a virtual show 
takes twice the energy of performing a live 
show. When the cheers of a crowd are out of 
earshot, the energy diminishes, and the shift 
in the performance atmosphere is palpable. 
“Art by its very nature is evolutionary and 
revolutionary,” she said. “We’ve got to be 
flexible if we’re going to survive.”
The art form has persevered largely due 
to the support within the community, the 
performers said. Flower, Giardino and Ooze 
said Gainesville’s performing arts scene rep -
resents a tight-knit group, one that has relied 
on each other for stability in the turbulence 
of the past few months.
“The immediacy of care and comfort from 
all sides – burlesque, drag, everybody – was 
incredible to watch, even if we couldn’t 
touch each other,” Flower said. 
Amid the changes and the challenges, the 
spirit of spook remains. With “Devil’s Night 
Dreams,” Flower and her cast are hoping to 
deliver an unforgettable night of thrills and 
chills. 
“If you’ve been wondering if Halloween 
is canceled, come to my show because it’s so not,” she said. 
“Devil’s Night Dreams” premiers Oct. 30 
at 9 p.m. at the Hardback Cafe. Tickets ($12 
for in-person, $15 for virtual) available at 
www.purplenightshadeproductions.com.
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.org
Gators soccer drops game amid multiple absences
UF lost its match against South Carolina 4-2 while down 
seven players and its head coach Becky Burleigh , pg. 12Courtesy to The Alligator
Edith Meowt, a 30-year-old 
Gainesville resident, will be the video 
producer and a burlesque dancer for 
the horror-inspired burlesque and 
drag show at Hardback Cafe.
‘Devil’s Night Dreams’ burlesque and drag show comes to Hardback Cafe 
ART & THEATERART & THEATER
COLUMNCOLUMN
WHETHER STAYING IN OR 
BRAVING THE STREETS, 
SAFETY SHOULD BE 
A PRIORITY
 By Lonnie Numa
Avenue Staff Writer
As we enter the last week of 
the spooky season, Mercu -
ry, the planet of communi -
cation, intellect and active 
listening finds itself cuffed 
to the moodiest, most controversial 
sign in the zodiac, Scorpio. 
And with Mercury currently in 
retrograde, I’d dust off any skel -
etons in your closet before they 
threaten to come dancing out — 
though it would suit the festivities! 
Or lack thereof for many of us. 
When this year began, many of 
us might’ve looked forward to wed -dings, graduations or birthdays — 
but as a self-proclaimed queer gob -
lin witch, I was counting down the 
days until Halloween. 
I knew the holiday would fall 
on a Saturday this year, and I was 
already rubbing my little gremlin 
hands together in glee at the thought 
of an entire weekend of mischief. 
Though everyone’s favorite virus 
had different plans in mind. 
For Carlyn Thrasher, a 22-year-
old UF English junior, “party” holi -
days like Halloween, the Fourth of 
July and Valentine’s Day hold more 
significance when they fall on a 
weekend. 
“Even if I’m staying home, I 
don’t want to go all out for a holiday 
that I have to wake up at 6 a.m. the 
next day for,” Thrasher said. 
Last year, Thrasher celebrated 
Halloween in a typical college fash -
ion for the first time, going to a club and partying amongst fellow sweaty 
strangers. This year, they’re spend -
ing the holiday at home with their 
girlfriend watching scary movies 
like “Paranorman and “Coraline.” 
“We had a plan when we first 
got together to dress like obscure 
Scooby Doo parents, but that’s fall -
en to the side with all that’s happen -
ing,” they said.  
I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t jeal -
ous of how disgustingly adorable 
that sounds — perhaps it’s Scor -
pio’s pettier inclinations making me 
a little green with envy. Too bad I 
already bought my costume, other -
wise I’d pass as the Wicked Witch 
of the West. 
Though some integral parts of 
the holiday, like trick-or-treating, 
have been halted, James Eschrich, 
a 20-year-old UF English and com -
puter science junior, is looking  for 
aspects of the holiday that can be preserved, he said. 
“I’m a little too old to be going 
door to door asking for candy,” Es -
chrich said. 
He maintains the idea that Hal -
loween is an important part of the 
college experience. Last year, Es -
chrich navigated the bars of down -
town Gainesville for the first time, 
making for a formative night of his 
student experience, he said. 
“It was one of those very fun, 
classically college nights where 
you meet new people and do new 
things,” Eschrich said. “ I never 
thought of that before as a Hallow -
een memory specifically, but it is.” 
This year, Eschrich will be help -
ing his younger siblings orchestrate 
a socially distanced movie night.
I applaud his efforts to make 
this Halloween fun, yet safe for his 
brother and sister. Way to upstage 
all of us mediocre older siblings, 
James — you’re making me look 
bad here!
Needless to say, it’s important we consider the repercussions of 
our decisions. Whether you’re 
planning a night at home or on the 
town, remember some activities are 
safer than others.
Thrasher empathizes with stu -
dents who are antsy for a night out. 
It can feel like we’re running out 
of time to have the “college experi -
ence,” but catching the virus is just 
not worth it, they said. 
Social distancing doesn’t equate 
to social isolation; It’s not that black 
and white. We should all be trying 
our best to interpret this new life -
style in the shades of grey that’ll 
keep us and our families safe. 
However, if I recognize anyone 
outside without a mask, festive or 
otherwise, I will cast a spell on you. 
And not in the beguiling, “Sabrina 
the Teenage Witch,” sort of way. 
I’m talking full on “Hocus Pocus,” 
warts and all. Happy Halloween! 
@lonaald
lnuma@alligator.orgFor the navigators: Our spookiest Halloween yet
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers for 
our Tower Road location. Day shifts and night 
shifts available. Part and full time available. 
Flexible scheduling and great work environment. 
Reliable car a must. Pay is $8.56/hour plus tips. 
Apply in person at 600 NW 75th St or online 
at fivestarpizza.com/employment and choose 
Gainesville NW 75th St for location.    
11-2-20-3-14
Café Risqué
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
352- 466- 3803
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Cooks / Waitresses / Managers / Performers
Apply NOW
11-2-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Service & Maintenance Help Needed
Experience as a maintenance technician 
Strong work ethic and an eager to learn 
attitude
Apartment housing experience a plus!
Working knowledge of appliances, plumb-
ing & HVAC
Able to work flexible schedule, which may 
include nights/weekends and emergency-
on-call rotation
Excellent customer service
Must Reliable transportation and valid instate driv -
erís license. Apply online at colliercompanies.com    
11-2-20-2-14
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         10-26-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Jeff Stillman
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/26/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/26/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 26, 2020
ACROSS
1 June honorees
4 Hissed “Hey!”
8 Tool for curved 
cutting
14 Devoured, say
15 State bordering 
Lake Erie
16 Dress like a 
justice
17 Astral-shaped 
wildflower of the 
American West
19 Whatsit
20 Really 
impressive, in 
slang
21 Asking for a 
saucer of milk, 
maybe
23 Soft fly ball
25 Utmost degree
26 Helpful hint
29 Veer off course
30 Business 
sector involving 
merchandise
35 Performing in 
person
36 Walking on 
water, as Jesus 
did
37 Take for granted
40 Speak under 
one’s breath
41 Heated dispute
43 Clark’s  
coworker
44 Lionel products
46 Koothrappali on 
“The Big Bang 
Theory”
49 “Undoubtedly”
50 Key next to the 
space bar
51 New Zealand 
native
53 Cite for speeding
57 Advise of danger
58 “Love” 
concoction
61 Backpacker’s 
snack, and a 
hint to the circled 
letters
63 First in a playoff 
series
64 Biology lab gel
65 Genesis fruit 
eater
66 House speaker 
Nancy
67 Ritual flammable 
pile
68 Checkers colorDOWN
1 Elapse, as time
2 Number one Hun
3 Underwater 
herbivore
4 D.C. insider
5 Wedge-shaped 
leveling piece
6 End of Jane or 
June?
7 RAV4 automaker
8 “Star Wars” 
warrior
9 A party to
10 Pirate’s rum drink
11 Nursery buy
12 Lawyer’s org.
13 Exchange 
marriage vows
18 Old MGM rival
22 Sudden fancy
24 Kind of scream
26 Diplomacy
27 Not scheduled 
to play, as a pro 
team
28 Look intently (at)
31 Three-time 
Wimbledon 
winner Chris
32 Spanish citrus 
fruit
33 Obvious 
observation
34 Stinkers35 Garage job
37 Football rival of 
Navy
38 A tree helps it 
keep its shape
39 Soap bubbles
42 Obnoxious tyke
43 Arrangement of 
church services
45 Brewpub fixture
46 Aimless sort
47 Hit the big time
48 Brought bad 
luck to52 Hole-making  
tool
53 Skid row denizen
54 Some reddish 
deer
55 Crucifix letters
56 Jack who 
preceded Carson 
on late-night TV
58 Burst
59 Reveal, in verse
60 Business card 
abbr.
62 Embitterment
By Roland Huget
(c)2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/20/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/20/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, October 20, 2020
ACROSS
1 Play divisions
5 Citrus coolers
9 Caroline, to 
Bobby Kennedy
14 Site of many a 
college party
15 Vatican leader
16 Garden trimming 
gadget
17 Singer __ Amos
18 Stuffed shirt
19 Pastry with tea
20 Bach mini comic 
opera about 
a beverage 
addiction
23 Pillow filler
24 Anthem 
contraction
25 Modern car 
receivers
33 Letter-shaped 
plumbing trap
34 Shade tree
35 Layer on a 
stagnant pond
36 Opp. of 56-Down
37 Secretly
41 Denver-to-
Chicago dir.
42 Beginning on
44 Hide-hair 
connector
45 German camera
47 He played the 
interviewer in 
“Interview With 
the Vampire”
51 Yellowfin tuna
52 Very often
53 Last parting, 
or what can 
literally be found 
in 20-, 25- and 
47-Across
59 Liberty Bell flaw
60 Artificial bait
61 “The First __”: 
holiday song
63 “Voices Carry” 
co-songwriter 
Mann
64 Perched on
65 Impulse
66 Models strike 
them
67 Acknowledges 
applause
68 Mexican bread?
DOWN
1 Back on board2 Gator’s cousin
3 Poi source
4 React to an 
insult, maybe
5 Legal challenge
6 Scale starters
7 Grand-scale 
production
8 Genesis creator
9 Snapple rival
10 They’re often 
swiped at work
11 Entertainment 
awards acronym
12 Wrestler John
13 Prior to, in 
poems
21 Tosses in one’s 
cards
22 Expected 
outcomes
25 The “poison” 
type contains 
the skin irritant 
urushiol
26 Disconcert
27 Pavarotti, for one
28 Earth, to Cato
29 “Xanadu” rock 
gp.
30 Seal the deal
31 Prevention 
measure?
32 Makeup streak38 “Open __ 9 
p.m.”: store sign
39 Avril Lavigne’s 
“Sk8er __”
40 Give permission
43 Bride-to-be
46 Wiped out by 
excess costs, as 
profits
48 Burger joint drinks
49 Limited in scope
50 Grabs some 
shuteye53 Cold, in Cádiz
54 Brand with a 
paw print in its 
logo
55 Love handles, so 
to speak
56 Works-by-itself 
setting
57 Old stories
58 Relay race 
segments
59 Spending limit
62 Sign of summer
10/19/2020
solution on page 10Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-131For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
BE A HERO. 
WEAR YOUR MASK!
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. ABSOLUTELY 
HUGE! Gorgeous Wood Floors, central 
AC/HT, dishwasher, laundry room, fenced, 
pets OK $1,890 per month. 352-665-8166
10-26-20-8-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
Friends don’t let friends 
catch COVID-19.
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
2 SIDED T-SHIRT
MAKE AMERICA SANE/NICE AGAIN
White on Blue  - XL  100% Cotton
$13 Pick-up OR $15 I Mail
Call 352-373-9400                         11-2-20-3-10 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY10 For Sale
readreadmeme
answers below1. An ancient Grecian messenger named 
Pheidippides is believed to be the progenitor 
of what modern Olympic sport?
2. What Pro Football Hall of Famer and 
Chicago Bears great was known as the 
"Kansas Comet" for compiling 4,020 all-
purpose yards while playing for the Kansas 
Jayhawks?
3. Name the Oklahoma State Cowboys foot -
ball coach who blasted the media in a 2007 
press conference, declaring, "Come after me! 
I'm a man! I'm 40!"
4. What combat sport was developed in the 
1920s by brothers Carlos, Oswaldo, Gastao 
Jr., George and Helio Gracie?
5. University of Maryland basketball stand -
out Len Bias was selected by what team in 
the 1986 NBA Draft?
6. Name the IndyCar driver who won the In -
dianapolis 500 in 2017 and 2020.
7. Who scored the winning touchdown for the 
Baltimore Colts in overtime of the 1958 NFL 
Championship Game (a.k.a. "The Greatest 
Game Ever Played") vs. the New York Giants?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
solution below
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
CryptoQuote  solutionSports Quiz  answers1. The marathon.
2. Gale Sayers.
3. Mike Gundy.
4. Brazilian jiu-jitsu.
5. The Boston Celtics.
6. Takuma Sato.
7. Alan Ameche.
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
15 Services
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
11..    OOwwnneerr,,  ppoosssseessssoorr  
11..    CCllootthheess  ________55..    SSiillvveerr  ________
22..    HHootteell  oorr  mmootteell66..    PPrroommpptt,,  iinncciittee
33..    LLoooopp77..    CCoonnccuurrrreedd  
44..    ________  ppeeaannuuttssLLHHEEDDOORR
PPAAHHRREEMMAALLEEMMDD
PPMMEELLII
OOLLNNIIGGGGDD
LLSSEELLIIEEPPAAEERRDDEEGG
EEDDOOBBLLIIAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--HHoollddeerr    55AA--MMeeddaall    66AA--IImmppeell    77AA--AAggrreeeedd
11DD--HHaammppeerr    22DD--LLooddggiinngg    33DD--EElllliippssee    44DD--BBooiilleedd    BB--AArrmmaaddiilllloo1100--2266--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  mmeeaannss  ““lliittttllee  aarrmmoorreedd  
oonnee””  iinn  SSppaanniisshh..  
BONUS
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
www.alligator.org/sportsUConn basketball cancels non-conference game against Florida
CBS Sports basketball writer Matt Norlander tweeted Sunday that the 
Huskies called the Gators to cancel their Dec. 6 non-conference game 
at UF. The cancelation came because UConn agreed to play NC State 
on Dec. 5 at Mohegan Sun.Junior Sydney Berlin was one of two 
Gators to win a singles match at the 
Bulldog Invitational on Saturday, 
defeating her opponent 6-3, 6-2. 
Teammate McCartney Kessler also 
won her match 6-1, 7-5.
FEATURE
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Lisa Shelton has always seen her son as a 
vivacious child, someone who spent a major -
ity of his time outside. 
She remembers once, when he was around 
5, he was banished to his room to atone for 
whatever mischief his young mind got him -
self into. She went to check on him and heard 
how desperate he was to be free again.
“I go up there and he’s like, ‘Can I just take 
a spank?” she said with a laugh.
That mischievous kid grew into a Division 
I tennis player, and his desire to play  pro -
pelled him to develop a dynamic serve he 
now uses as a member of the Florida team.
Ben Shelton was in fourth grade when his 
father, Bryan Shelton, became the head coach 
of the Florida men’s tennis team. The Shel -
tons packed up and moved from Atlanta to 
Gainesville.
The Gators entered Ben’s life.
The program became something of an ex -
tended family to Ben over the past eight years, 
pushing him, including guidance from volun -
teer assistant coach Scott Perelman.
Ben recalls one night, shortly after his 
family arrived in Gainesville, when he and 
his family stayed in the same hotel as Perel -
man. The fire alarm went off in the middle 
of the night, forcing the Shelton family into 
the parking lot when Perelman presented Ben 
with an opportunity. 
“‘Benny,’” Ben remembers Perelman tell -
ing him, “‘It’s the middle of the night right 
now, everyone else is asleep. You could go 
up the elevator just like all these other normal 
people are going to do tonight when the fire 
alarm stops going off, or you could take the 
stairs and get a head start on everybody for 
today.’”
“After the fire alarm stopped going off, I 
ran up the stairs,” Ben said with a laugh.
Despite how much the program means to 
Ben, it wasn’t always his plan to stay home 
and play for his dad. For a long time in his 
childhood, tennis wasn’t even his favorite 
sport. Far from it, in fact.
“Until I was probably 11 or 12, I hated ten -
nis,” Ben said, “I did not want to play it, and 
I was really big into football and basketball, 
baseball, soccer, I mean, basically any other 
sport.”
Even before he became a star on the tennis 
court, Ben was still playing, starting as a quar -
terback for six years with the Boys & Girls 
Club both in Atlanta and then Gainesville.
Lisa recalled one game against a team of 
players much larger than Ben where the field 
was covered in puddles after endless rain. He 
took one crushing hit after another. Ben got 
tackled face-first into a puddle with a pile of 
defenders on top of him at one point. 
Lisa jumped up concerned, but Ben got back on his feet without hesitation.
“He was really upset, he had just been hit 
so many times,” Lisa said, “but he would not 
come out of the game.”
However, the older Ben got, the more he 
found himself gravitating toward the family 
business. The switch didn’t come from trying 
to follow in his father’s footsteps, but rather 
his older sister’s, Emma Shelton, now a junior 
on South Carolina’s tennis team.
“I saw my sister doing really well in ten -
nis and going and playing with my dad ev -
ery day,” Ben said, “And I just thought like, 
maybe try it out.”
The transition to tennis was made of lit -
tle indistinct steps like colors changing on a 
maple tree. The more he played, the more 
he noticed the tennis talent definitely hadn’t 
skipped a generation, and the more he honed 
his skills, the more he grew infatuated with 
the game.
“I saw that I had some gifts in it and that 
I could possibly go somewhere with my 
tennis,” Ben said. “And then I just kind of 
weighed the options and realized that I had 
one of the best coaches in the country as my 
dad, and that might be a good idea for a path 
for me to go.”
The decision paid dividends; Ben blos -
somed into a junior star. He won national 
tournaments with the United States Tennis 
Association (UTSA) as well as the FHSAA 
state championship in singles. Tennis Re -
cruiting Network (TRN) ranked him as high 
as ninth nationally as a junior, and he even 
reached the top position in their TennisRPI 
rankings in March. TRN called Ben a blue 
chip prospect — a ranking beyond even five-
star prospect.
It quickly became clear that Ben had the 
talent to play for his father’s team. The only 
question now: Was Florida where Ben want -
ed to be? 
“It’s kind of been a dream, you know, for 
me,” coach Shelton said, “Quietly, over the 
years, hoping that one day I’d have the op -
portunity to coach my son here at Florida.”
Coach Shelton and the Gators weren’t ex -
actly a lesser option, either. With two SEC 
Coach of the Year awards (2016, 2019), a 
2019 ITA Southeast Region Coach of the Year 
award and a team ranked No. 1 to open spring 
competition in 2020, there was more than just 
family that Florida could offer.
However, Bryan knew that for it to be a 
marriage of player and program truly, this had 
to be Ben’s choice.
“I mean, you love your son, right?” coach 
Shelton said, “and you want what’s best for 
him and so you have to, in that, keep an open 
mind, knowing that you want him to come to 
that realization himself. Not for you to force 
his hand, because that doesn’t do anyone any 
good in the long run.”
Both Bryan and Ben knew the moment he was destined to become a Gator: when Ben 
returned from touring Stanford.
“I liked it,” Ben said, “but it just seemed 
like there was so much at Florida that it didn’t 
seem like they had much more, it was pretty 
similar.
“I just thought that being at home with my 
dad, in-state, would just be a lot easier for us, 
and I thought I could definitely do better with 
my tennis here than anywhere else.”
On July 22, Ben signed to become the new -
est member of the Florida men’s tennis team. 
Originally in the high school Class of 2021, 
Ben completed his coursework over the sum -
mer in order to enroll a year early.
As his father noted, Ben’s love of playing 
has also grown into a love for life and people, 
making him someone his father sees as an 
easy person to connect with.
“I felt like, even through his junior days 
and his high school days, he was always 
somebody that other people were drawn to -
wards,” coach Shelton said. ”And I think he’s 
going to help us on our team and is going to 
be an energy, high-energy guy out there on 
the court or off the court.”
Ben is the only freshman on the team this season, but he may be more suited to handle 
that challenge than most. He’s been coming 
to the Florida tennis facility with his father 
since he was in elementary school. He has a 
familiarity with everyone involved with the 
program, including his new teammates.
“He’s been around, obviously, ever since 
I got here,” senior captain Duarte Vale said, 
“And he’s a great kid, the best type of people, 
and he’s an extremely hard worker.”
While a younger version of himself may 
not have believed it or even wanted it, Ben 
now takes the court for the Gators and wears 
the logo on a little patch over his heart wher -
ever he competes. That is something his fa -
ther refuses to take for granted.
“To see him out there playing and smiling 
and running around the court, it was a great 
feeling to have him be a part of this thing,” 
coach Shelton said.
While the Shelton name may already have 
impacted Florida tennis, Ben wants to create 
a racket all his own at Alfred A. Ring Tennis 
Complex.
rhaley@alligator.org
@ryan_dhaleyFamily Court: Another Shelton joins the Florida tennis program
Courtesy to The Alligator
Freshman Ben Shelton (left) walks alongside doubles teammate Will Grant after 
dropping a match, 8-7, against Auburn on Oct. 2 at the Tiger Fall Invitational in 
Auburn, Alabama.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2020
SOCCER
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
An already difficult matchup at 
No. 11 South Carolina was even 
tougher for Florida with the ab -
sence of coach Becky Burleigh, who stayed back in Gainesville 
due to COVID-19 contact trac -
ing. A shorthanded Gators team 
proved no match for the Game -
cocks, who came away with a 
comfortable 4-2 victory at Stone 
Stadium in Columbia, South Car -olina, on Sunday.
UF was without seven players 
for undisclosed reasons: Carina 
Baltrip-Reyes, Georgia Eaton-Col -
lins, Kouri Peace, Kit Loferski, 
Deanne Rose, Ashlyn Kane and 
Ava Kuyken. Although Peace, Loferski and Rose have recently 
missed time with injuries, the ex -
act cause of their absences was 
not revealed.
With Burleigh in quarantine, 
Alan Kirkup and Vic Campbell 
took over the coaching duties 
for Florida. The associate head 
coaches, along with help from 
Burleigh through phone calls, 
were responsible for setting the 
starting lineup.
Their decision to start redshirt 
freshman Nicole Vernis paid off in 
the 10th minute, as the midfielder 
found the back of the net on a low 
cross from forward Cassidy Lind -
ley to level the game at 1-1.
The Gamecocks had opened 
the scoring just four minutes pri -
or to Vernis’ first collegiate goal 
off a set piece that was headed 
home by defender Sutton Jones.
South Carolina’s goal in the 
early stages foreshadowed Flori -
da’s fate in what turned out to be 
a disappointing performance from 
the Gators defense.
The Gamecocks took advan -
tage of UF’s back line, which was 
without two of its mainstays in 
Baltrip-Reyes and Eaton-Collins, 
scoring each of their four goals 
from corner kicks.
“(We) clearly had an issue de -
fending corners and USC exposed that,” Burleigh said in a release 
after the defeat. “We will work on 
that going forward. (I) felt good 
about our ability in the run of 
play, but we aren’t here for moral 
victories.”
Gators defender Tori Grambo 
also found the back of the net for 
the first time in her college ca -
reer with 22 seconds remaining in 
Sunday’s contest. 
The UF freshman dribbled the 
ball near the edge of the box and 
unleashed a left-footed shot from 
19 yards out to cut South Caro -
lina’s lead in half. Her late goal 
was just a consolation, however, 
as the Gators dropped their third-
consecutive game.
The Gamecocks, meanwhile, 
celebrated coach Shelley Smith’s 
300th-career win. She is now the 
27th coach in NCAA Division I 
women’s soccer history to reach 
that milestone.
Next up for Florida is a meet -
ing with Tennessee on Friday 
night. Burleigh’s availability for 
next week’s game, along with 
that of the seven players who 
failed to make the trip to South 
Carolina, is still unknown.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgNo. 11 South Carolina dominates shorthanded Florida
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Redshirt freshman midfielder Nicole Vernis fights for a ball at Florida’s home opener against Georgia 
this season. Vernis scored her first collegiate goal versus South Carolina Sunday afternoon.
