We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperU.S. practicing social distancing
The American entertainment industry is canceling events, closing 
theme parks, pg. 8
Panic purchasing
Photo gallery reveals Walmart shoppers’ reaction to the 
outbreak, pg. 4
“I was always striving for more.”
Florida gymnast Trinity Thomas’ record-
breaking season became possible from hard 
work and humble beginnings in her hometown 
of York, Pennsylvania, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 68
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
UNIVERSITY ALACHUA
Classes are moving online and students are 
moving out as UF continues to monitor the 
coronavirus pandemic. 
Because classes are fully online until at 
least March 30, UF is encouraging large events 
and meetings to take the same route and 
consider holding them virtually, according to 
an email sent Wednesday from UF President 
Kent Fuchs.
“These are extraordinary and uncertain 
times,” Fuchs wrote in Wednesday’s email. “I 
encourage all of us to look out for each other 
as we take care of ourselves.”
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said UF 
is encouraging all students to return home. 
Students who live on campus are welcome to 
stay at their housing facility if they want to.
UF’s Student Health Care Center started screening patients Wednesday morning who 
were experiencing ﬂ  u-like symptoms, such 
as coughing, fevers or shortness of breath, 
Orlando said. The protocol follows guidelines 
from the Florida Department of Health and the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Orlando said he is unsure how many 
students were sent into the center’s designated 
area Wednesday. Students were only kept 
there for a quick checkup. No student 
remained quarantined. 
These measures came less than one day 
after Alachua County conﬁ  rmed its ﬁ  rst case of 
the virus and only a few hours after the World 
Health Organization ofﬁ  cially characterized it 
as a pandemic. The Florida Department of Health 
conﬁ  rmed its second case of a patient with 
the coronavirus on Thursday evening, 
according to the department’s press release. 
The newest case is a 24-year-old female 
who is known to have traveled to Europe 
recently. 
This comes about two days after a 
68-year-old Georgia woman tested positive 
for the virus in Alachua County. 
Multiple people are being tested for the 
coronavirus in the county, local ofﬁ  cials said 
in a press conference Wednesday afternoon. 
They would not give details on how many 
people are being tested, but said there is no 
shortage of lab tests. 
The ﬁ  rst case, a 68-year-old woman from Georgia,  tested positive is under quarantine 
in the county, Paul Myers, administrator 
for the county health department, said 
at Wednesday’s conference. Those who 
came in contact with her are also under 
quarantine, he said.
“There were a number of people who 
were exposed,” Myers said. “I’m very 
conﬁ  dent that we have identiﬁ  ed most, if 
not all of them.”
The Georgia Department of Public Health 
is trying to determine where the woman 
with the coronavirus contracted the disease, 
along with where she traveled before 
coming to Florida, Myers said. 
“I know where she went in Alachua UF cancels class, eventsAlachua County has two conﬁ  rmed 
cases of the coronavirus
SEE UF, PAGE 6 SEE COUNTY,  PAGE 5
Nomfumo Manaba, a 23-year-old 
UF journalism and political science 
junior, video calls into her class at 
Library West Thursday afternoon as 
UF moves classes completely online 
in response to the coronavirus 
pandemic. 
Photo by Nushrat Nur / / Alligator Staff
Stories reported by Alligator Staff
Multiple people are being tested in the countyClasses will be online until at least March 30T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  57°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.SwampCon: HACKED
SwampCon was supposed to 
take place on Saturday and 
Sunday at the Reitz Union. 
SwampCon is a convention 
that focuses on games, comics, 
anime and more. It was slated 
to have a cyberpunk theme and 
would have featured things 
such as cosplay contests, 
vendors and panels. 
Santa Fe Spring Arts Festival
The Santa Fe Spring Arts Festival was slated to take place 
March 28 and 29. It typically 
features art booths and musical 
performers. Next year, the 
festival is scheduled for April 10 
and 11.
TEDxUF 2020: Paradox
TEDxUF: Paradox was a planned 
TEDxUF conference that sought 
to bring UF and Gainesville 
communities together. The event 
was slated to feature numerous 
guest speakers, community labs, 
food trucks and more. There is 
currently not a rescheduled date VOLUME 114 ISSUE 68
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorCopy Desk Chiefs
Katelynn Joyner, kjoyner@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Lonnie NumaEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
What’s NOT  Happening! Editor’s Note: The Alligator 
is committed to printing our 
newspaper as often as possible 
despite closures and UF moving its 
classes online. For the foreseeable 
future, The Alligator will 
continue to print and distribute 
our newspapers on Mondays, 
Wednesdays and Fridays and 
provide daily online content, 
especially in regard to COVID-19.  
If you think you might have 
COVID-19, contact the COVID-19 
Call Center at (866) 779-6121 or 
the UF Student Health Care Center 
at (352) 392-1161. FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
UF now ranked #7
among public universities
 – U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT 2020
UFL.EDU
THANK YOU   faculty, staff 
and students. It is because of you 
we can celebrate this success. 
As the flagship university in the nation’s number one state for 
higher education, the University 
of Florida’s momentum is on an 
unstoppable trajectory.
INVESTING IN OURSELVES. 
INVESTING IN WHAT’S NEXT.4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
Shoppers look for cleaning supplies along empty shelves in Walmart, located at 2900 SW 42nd St., 
Thursday evening. The coronavirus pandemic slowly brings life in Alachua County to a standstill and 
supplies are running out in stores.Walmart shoppers scan empty soap shelves Thursday evening as 
the coronavirus pandemic slowly brings life in Alachua County to 
a standstill.Walmart shoppers cleaned out shelves of hand sanitzer in a 
Gainesville store Thursday evening. Health experts are asking 
people to wash their hands often for at least 20 seconds.   
Shoppers look for cleaning supplies along empty shelves in Walmart, located at 2900 SW 42nd St., 
All photos by Nushrat Nur / / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
          
           
County, and I know who her contacts are,” 
he said. “So the risk to this community is 
very low.”
While the county is continuing to focus on 
identifying and containing the virus, Myers 
said they are now trying to prevent it from 
spreading. This involves personal hygiene 
like washing hands and staying home when 
sick. 
“These are all very important 
considerations to buy us time,” he said. “We 
have to buy time in order for a vaccine to be 
developed.” 
But during this time, life marches on for 
Alachua residents, who are ﬁ  nding ways to 
keep clean and safe. 
Public schools stay open, but sanitize 
Kathleen Solito begins her school day 
wiping down the desks in her classroom. 
Gainesville High School teachers always 
have hand sanitizer and tissues available 
for students, said Solito, an English 
and research teacher. But in light of the 
coronavirus, the English department chair 
said she’s purchased more materials for her 
department.
Alachua County Public Schools doesn’t 
plan on closing its schools or transitioning to 
an online platform, said Jackie Johnson, the 
school board’s spokesperson. After consulting 
with the county health department, she said 
the school system decided to keep schools 
open because the risk of spreading the virus 
is considered low. 
Johnson said their decision to not close 
schools is not unusual, as most school 
districts in Florida haven’t closed schools 
yet.
“If someone tells us we need to close 
schools, we will close schools,” Johnson 
said.
The district has some worries about 
making schools fully online because some 
students rely on it for their meals or don’t 
have access to computers or the internet at 
home, Johnson said. 
The school district is taking small preventative measures, such as enacting 
ﬂ  u season cleaning protocols and ensuring 
school nurses continue to be proactive 
in sending home students with fevers or 
coughs, she said. 
Teachers are educating students on 
proper handwashing techniques and telling 
them how to handle coughs and sneezes 
while avoiding touching their faces, Johnson 
said.
Although schools haven’t closed down, 
that hasn’t stopped teachers from talking 
and students from hoping, Solito said.
“It’s funny,” she said. “I don’t think they 
(students) seem very fearful.”
James Donnelly, a 17-year-old Eastside 
High School senior, said when he walks down 
the halls, the atmosphere is overwhelmingly 
calm, despite the few students wearing 
surgical masks.
He said he sees students compulsively 
wipe down their desks and clean their hands 
with disinfectant. Yet most are calm and 
collected, only fearful of putting others in 
danger. 
“I would have expected more of an 
outcry,” Donnelly said. 
Homeless shelters double down
 on cleaning 
Local homeless shelters are making sure 
their occupants are taken care of in response 
to coronavirus.
The St. Francis House, located at 413 S 
Main St., has come up with a preventative 
plan, said Katelyn Drummet, the shelter’s 
volunteer and communications manager. 
If someone at the shelter gets the virus, 
she said they will be referred to the health 
department. 
“We’re still here to serve the homeless, 
and we are doing that,” Drummet said.
The shelter is operating normally, she said. 
While no one at the shelter has shown any 
symptoms of the virus, they are monitoring 
occupants for difﬁ  culty breathing, persistent 
pain in the chest, confusion and seizures.
Drummet said the shelter has had to cut 
into its regular funding from the city and 
county to purchase supplies such as soap, alcohol-based hand sanitizers, tissues, trash 
baskets and disposable face masks. Work 
areas will be disinfected before, during and 
after shifts using wipes or rags soaked with 
cold water and bleach, she said.  
Everyone in the shelter is responsible for 
washing their hands frequently, using hand 
sanitizer with at least 60 percent alcohol and 
covering coughs and sneezes with tissues or 
the inside of their elbow, she added. 
“We’re just playing it by ear with how 
this is going,” Drummet said.
Public transportation faces criticism for 
alleged failure to sanitize  
Despite coronavirus precautions from 
other parts of the city, a public transit 
operator feels the city is falling short in its 
role to protect residents. 
Transit operators haven’t been provided 
training or sanitation supplies, and the 
buses aren’t being cleaned during the day 
to kill the virus, an RTS driver, who The 
Alligator granted anonymity to for fear of 
repercussions, wrote in an email. 
“Unfortunately, the main transportation for students and residents is taking no action 
to sanitize, clean, and limit exposure,” the 
driver wrote. 
The virus can live on surfaces made from 
a variety of materials for days, according to 
the CDC. 
However, the city’s spokesperson 
Rossana Passaniti wrote in an email that the 
city is “proactively working” to help stop the 
spread of COVID-19, ensuring that each bus 
in service is cleaned with industrial strength 
products daily.
When asked if transit operators have been 
provided training or sanitization supplies, 
Passaniti didn’t answer directly. Instead, 
she wrote that RTS drivers are “regularly 
updated” about the daily cleaning of the 
buses and upcoming sanitation protocols. 
“We’re working with UF during 
this evolving situation to best meet the 
transportation needs of students, faculty and 
staff,” Passaniti wrote.
Samantha Chery, Grethel Aguila, Sarah 
Mandile, AJ Bafer, Alex De Luca and 
Stephany Matat contributed to this report. COUNTY,  from pg. 1Two coronavirus cases in countyALACHUA
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Mark Sexton, the Alachua County spokesperson, took questions Wednesday 
afternoon at a press conference at the Alachua County Emergency Operations 
Center regarding the coronavirus outbreak.
6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
As of Friday morning, there 
are 45 positive cases of COVID-19, 
according to the Florida Department 
of Health. One of the non-Florida 
residents is a 68-year-old Georgia 
woman who tested positive for the 
coronavirus in Alachua County on 
Tuesday evening, said Paul Myers, 
administrator for the county’s health 
department.
Here’s what’s escalated at UF 
from the coronavirus:
Think you have the virus? Don’t 
go to Shands
UF encourages students to follow 
guidelines from the Centers of Disease 
Control to prevent getting the virus. 
This includes washing your hands 
often with soap and water for at least 
20 seconds, avoiding touching your 
face, avoiding close contact with 
people who are sick, cleaning your 
surrounding surfaces, staying home 
when you are sick and covering your 
cough or sneeze with a tissue.
However, if you do believe you 
have the virus, Shands is not a 
testing facility. The Alachua County 
Department of Health is asking 
students and residents to contact 
them before going to any physician’s 
office, emergency department, 
hospital or urgent care. 
The department can be contacted 
during the business hours of 8 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. at 352-225-4181 and after 
hours at 352-334-7900.
UF exposure to COVID-19
As of Tuesday night, UF has 
not reported any coronavirus cases 
from the university community, but 
it is not permitting those who have 
traveled to highly affected areas — 
such as China, South Korea, Italy, 
Iran or Japan — to go on campus. 
However, UF students have still been 
exposed to the virus.
From March 1-3, about 60 UF 
students attended the American Israel 
Public Affairs Committee conference 
in Washington, D.C. Six attendees 
later tested positive for the virus. As 
of Sunday, Orlando said there was no 
procedure currently in place for the 
students because the CDC did not 
have restrictions for domestic travel. 
These students aren’t required to 
quarantine, he added Sunday. 
While there are no limits to 
domestic travel because the CDC has 
not put out any guidelines, students 
who have been exposed should still 
self-monitor and get checked out if 
any symptoms appear, Orlando said 
Wednesday.  
Students also attended the 
National Institute for Computer-
Assisted Reporting (NICAR), a 
journalism conference, in New 
Orleans, where at least one attendee 
has tested presumptive positive 
for coronavirus. UF students and 
faculty who attended this conference 
over Spring Break are monitoring 
themselves for symptoms but have 
not been required to self-quarantine, 
according to Mindy McAdams, a 
journalism professor who supervised 
the trip. 
“We still asked them not to come 
to class,” McAdams said. “We left on 
Sunday, so we won’t be sure until 14 
days is up.”Doug Haddix, the executive 
director of Investigative Reporters 
and Editors and NICAR, said 16 
people from UF registered to attend 
the conference. He could not give the 
names of the attendees and said no 
one else has tested positive for the 
virus. 
Two Alligator staff writers 
attended the conference and are self-
quarantining, said Christina Morales, 
The Alligator’s editor-in-chief.
At least seven other UF students 
went to another conference attended 
by someone who tested positive for 
the virus. The students have not 
been asked to quarantine, according 
to one who attended. 
The person who tested positive for 
the virus was not in the same room 
as UF students at The Conservative 
Political Action Conference, the 
student said. No one who also 
attended the conference has shown 
any symptoms, the attendee said. 
On Wednesday night, U.S. 
President Donald Trump announced 
a travel ban coming in and out of 
Europe, beginning tonight at 11:59 
p.m. The ban applies to foreign 
nationals in the last 14 days and U.S 
citizens are exempt, though they 
must fly to select airports and will be 
screened. 
Orlando confirmed Thursday 
night that UF will end all Spring study 
abroad programs in Western Europe 
early. Students will receive credits 
for completing their classes online. 
Details about Summer study abroad 
programs have not been decided yet.
But changes aren’t just taking 
place in Gainesville. UF has canceled 
all study abroad programs to China, 
Iran, Italy and South Korea for this 
Summer. Japan is still under review. 
and no other programs had been 
affected as of Wednesday afternoon. 
Approximately 400 students were 
affected by the program cancellations 
this summer, Orlando said. This 
number has changed with Spring 
cancellations, but The Alligator 
couldn’t get those by the time of 
publication. 
The hardships of online classes 
The mandatory move to go fully 
online works for traditional classes, 
but some UF professors are trying to 
find ways to teach classes that don’t 
work well with online delivery, such 
as scientific labs that need hands-on 
instruction.
“This is an unprecedented 
situation,” Orlando said. “In cases 
like that, people are finding ways to 
be creative and innovative and make 
things work.”
Even though UF is fully online 
until at least the end of March, 
advance registration for Summer and 
Fall begins on March 23. Orlando 
said he was unsure of how advising 
sessions would be done, but classes 
scheduled in the Summer and Fall 
are still planned to have a traditional 
format.
Professor Anna Calluori 
Holcombe, who teaches ceramics, 
said taking classes online will not 
give students the same hands-on 
experience with clay.
However, she said she still 
plans to deliver the technical and 
conceptual information that students 
would have learned in her class 
anyway. Holcombe said she worries about 
using Canvas because of its tendency 
to crash when she’s used it minimally 
for her classes. She said more time to 
adapt to online delivery would have 
been helpful. 
“Compared to some of my 
colleagues at other universities, I feel 
we haven’t been given enough notice 
or preparation, or resources for that 
matter,” she said.
While he acknowledges that the 
transition will be difficult, Dylan 
Probert, a 21-year-old UF theatre 
senior, said he thinks the move 
to online classes is “for the best” 
because it is more important to look 
out for the health of everyone. 
He said he still thinks he’ll get 
something out of his acting classes, 
even if they are online, but he doesn’t 
know if his learning outcomes will be 
the same. 
He hopes that people will be 
patient with the UF School of Theatre 
and Dance.
“Some people, I fear, might be 
very hard on the school and think 
some of the choices they decide to 
make going online might be crazy,” 
he said. “But I think they don’t have 
much of a choice.”
Students who are experiencing 
“unanticipated expenses” can apply 
for financial assistance through an 
Aid-a-Gator application, according 
to an email sent by the UF Office for 
Student Financial Affairs Thursday.
The assistance is intended to 
help cover the costs of unanticipated 
travel, additional technology 
requirements and other “education-
related expenses” in the wake 
of coronavirus-related changes. 
Students who receive emergency 
funding are not expected to pay the 
aid back, according to the Aid-a-
Gator website. 
“Funds from Aid-a-Gator are 
intended to be a grant, not a loan, 
to help our students in need,” the 
website read. 
Students who apply must submit 
a signed statement explaining why 
the funds are needed and what they 
will be used for, according to the 
application. They must also provide 
documentation to demonstrate 
“extenuating circumstances.”
All UF students are eligible 
to receive funding, according to 
the website. However, graduate 
assistants; medical and veterinary 
residents; and post-doctoral fellows 
and associates must apply through a 
separate application for faculty.
Sanitizer, soap and safety: 
Campus changes at UF
The State University System of 
Florida is asking all state universities 
to accommodate on-campus students 
who need assistance and cannot 
return home.
For those who don’t leave, UF is 
stepping up sanitary procedures. An 
email sent March 6 from UF Public 
Affairs said UF will install hand 
sanitizer dispensers on campus and 
put more bottles on instructors’ 
desks. 
UF is in the process of installing 
several hundred dispensers now, and 
this should be done by the end of the 
week, Orlando said. 
The university’s housing 
division implemented precautionary 
measures as well, according to the 
email statement. High-touch surfaces 
such as door handles, handrails, 
water fountains, tables and chairs will be wiped down daily.
New and stronger disinfectants 
will be used, along with more 
frequent and vigorous cleaning, 
Orlando said.
Gator Dining sent an email 
Tuesday informing students that 
employees are washing their hands 
every 15 minutes, changing out 
utensils every 20 minutes, sanitizing 
high-touch areas every 30 minutes 
and discontinuing the use of reusable 
beverage cups.
Fuchs wrote in an email that 
despite encouraging students to go 
home, campus resources such as the 
dining halls will remain open.
What’s up with on-campus 
events?
Most events can’t go fully 
online like classes did, but 
student organizations are trying to 
accommodate. 
Accent Speakers Bureau 
announced Thursday that it’s 
postponing Andrew Yang’s 
presentation at UF. A new date has 
not yet been decided. 
There has been no update 
regarding Dave Portnoy, the founder 
of the blog Barstool Sports, who is 
also scheduled to speak at UF on 
April 1.  
Yang was going to be paid 
$50,000 to speak at UF, according to 
his contract.
Zach Roberts, 22, said he 
supported Yang because he brought a 
fresh perspective to the technological 
advancement of the nation — 
something Yang called the “fourth 
industrial revolution.” 
“He’s obviously very smart. 
That’s something we need at this 
time in particular,” Roberts said, 
adding that he believes the current 
U.S. President Donald Trump is “not 
so smart.”
The UF business administration 
senior said he looked forward to 
voting for Yang and would have 
liked to see him speak at UF. He said 
he’s disappointed the event has been 
postponed but isn’t surprised. 
“You kind of knew it was going 
to happen with everything else that’s 
been going on,” he said. “Honestly 
it’s safer, probably for the best.”
Henry Fair, the Accent chairman, 
referred The Alligator to Accent’s 
Facebook post announcing the delay 
of Yang’s speaking engagement and gave no additional comment. 
Additionally, Dance Marathon 
announced Thursday that their 
annual event would be canceled. 
This is the first time it has been 
canceled after holding it for 25 years. 
Other options are being explored 
to host an alternative event, said 
Connor Bennett, Dance Marathon’s 
executive director. He said he doesn’t 
think they will reschedule in the 
Stephen O’Connell Center because of 
the size of the event and uncertainty 
about the progression of the virus. 
“We didn’t think it would be 
healthy, or really responsible, in this 
time,” Bennett said.
Dance Marathon has been 
fundraising for a year for its main 
event: a 26.2-hour fundraising event. 
Last year, Dance Marathon raised 
more than $3 million for UF Health 
Shands Children’s Hospital. 
A large portion of the money 
fundraised for Dance Marathon is 
donated during the main event and 
the final push in the week leading up 
to it, Bennett said. He doesn’t know 
how significantly fundraising efforts 
will be impacted by the cancellation 
or if that money will be made up 
elsewhere. 
“We’re still going to continue to 
fundraise and still continue to try our 
best to bring in as much money as 
possible,” Bennett said.
As for UF Student Government, 
Senate procedures will be shifted 
online, but the logistics of that 
transition are unclear, Senate 
President Kyle Garner said in an 
email to the Senate.
“The University of Florida is 
clear that they are taking students’ 
safety as their top priority and Pro-
Tempore Brown and I are adamant 
in following suit,” Garner wrote. 
Garner echoed sentiments Student 
Body President-elect Trevor Pope 
highlighted in an email Tuesday, 
including encouraging senators to 
stay informed, remain calm and be 
flexible. 
Hannah Phillips, Kaelyn 
Cassidy, Chastity Maynard, 
Meghan McGlone, Alyssa 
Feliciano and Stephany Matat 
contributed to this report. UF, from pg. 1Study abroad in Europe endsUNIVERSITY
Lawren Simmons // Alligator Staff
A UF student leaves the infirmary after getting her flu medication 
Wednesday. She said her visit was unrelated to the coronavirus, and 
she was wearing a mask when she came. UF’s Student Health Care 
Center started seeing patients experiencing flu-like symptoms. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
8  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
Calvin Martin, MD
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation 
and treatment for:
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• Abrasions & Lacerations
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Monday - Friday 7:00am - 6:00pm
SIMEDHealth.comEXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
ELECTION DAY: TUESDAY, MARCH 17
EARLY VOTING FROM FRIDAY, MARCH 6UF Graduate 1983
College of Agriculture
Degree in Food Science
Served as Senior Biological 
Scientist for Interdisciplinary 
Center for Biotechnology
“MOVE GAINESVILLE FORWARD”
Paid political advertisement approved by Scherwin Henry for Gainesville City Commission At-Large, Seat 2FOR GAINESVILLE CITY 
COMMISSION AT-LARGE, SEAT 2VOTE FOR
HENRYSCHERWIN
EXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
EXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
WWW. SCHERWINHENRY .COM
Na#onal	Alliance	on	Mental	Illness	
Support	Groups	
Training	Courses	
Advocacy	&	Support	
www.namigainesville.org
352	320-0457	
352.373.6760
625 E. Univ ersity A ve.sweetwa terinn.com
•Lodg ing •Events •Catering
Join us for W ine & Cheese Hour
Wine and Cheese? Y es Plea se!
(reser vations onl y)
By Jake Coyle 
Associated Press
NEW YORK (AP) — The entertainment 
industry prepared Thursday for an 
unprecedented shutdown to curb the spread of 
the coronavirus, canceling upcoming movies, 
suspending all Broadway performances and 
scuttling concert tours until it’s safe to welcome 
crowds back.
To accommodate calls for social distancing, 
Hollywood moved to pause the normal hum 
of TV productions and the bustle of red-carpet 
movie premieres. After New York Gov. Andrew 
Cuomo banned gatherings of more than 500 
people, Broadway theaters announced that 
they would close immediately and remain dark 
through April 12. The Tribeca Film Festival 
was called off too.
The closures amount to a nearly complete 
halting of the industry, from Lincoln Center to 
Disneyland, and the largest-scale shutdown of 
many of the country’s major arteries of culture.
The Metropolitan Opera at Lincoln Center, 
the New York Philharmonic, Carnegie Hall, 
the Apollo Theater and the Kennedy Center 
in Washington all canceled events through 
March 31. Live Nation Entertainment and AEG 
Presents, the world’s largest live-entertainment 
companies, suspended all current tours through March, including those of Billie Eilish, 
the Strokes and Post Malone.
The dawning awareness of the virus’ 
reach had already forced the cancellation or 
postponement of all major imminent events on 
the calendar, including the sprawling South by 
Southwest conference and festival in Austin, 
Texas; Hollywood’s annual movie expo 
CinemaCon,  in Las Vegas; this month’s Kids 
Choice Awards in Los Angeles; and the sunny 
California music festival Coachella, which 
was put off until October.  TV networks saw 
the scuttling of most major sporting events, 
including the NBA season, March Madness 
and the NHL season. 
Earlier Thursday, California urged bans of 
not just the largest events but also gatherings of 
more than 250 to help stymie the virus’ spread. 
California Gov. Gavin Newsom recommended 
the cancellation or postponement of gatherings 
of 250 or more people through at least the 
end of the month. That put a new focus on 
Broadway, multiplexes and concert venues.
Disneyland plans to shut its gates Saturday 
for the rest of the month. After Sunday, 
Florida’s Disney World will also close to 
guests through the end of March. And Disney 
is suspending any new cruise ship departures 
starting Saturday. 
Hollywood still planned to usher several new movies into theaters beginning Thursday 
evening. North American’s largest chains, AMC 
and Regal, did not respond to emails. Cinemas 
have already been closed in China, India, Italy, 
Poland, Greece and other countries. 
But they will soon run out of movies to 
play. Postponements have erased much of the 
upcoming movie release calendar.
The Walt Disney Co. wiped out its upcoming 
slate, including “Mulan,” “New Mutants” and 
“Antlers.” Universal Pictures said the “Fast 
and Furious” movie titled “F9” would not open 
May 22 as planned but in April next year. John 
Krasinski, writer and director of “A Quiet Place 
2,” announced that his ﬁ  lm from Paramount 
Pictures would not open next week as planned 
but be rescheduled to for another date. 
“One of the things I’m most proud of is that 
people have said our movie is one you have to 
see together,” Krasinski said in a message on 
social media. “Well due to the ever-changing 
circumstances of what’s going on in the world 
around us, now is clearly not the right time to 
do that.”
Across Hollywood, the usual machinations 
of show business, from auditions to rehearsals, 
ground to a halt. Apple’s “The Morning Show” 
was among the many productions put on 
hiatus. Central Casting closed its ofﬁ  ces. The 
TCM Classic Film festival, scheduled next month in Los Angeles was canceled. Leading 
talent agents closed their ofﬁ  ces and sent 
agents home to work.
The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame postponed 
its annual induction ceremony, scheduled 
for May 2 in Cleveland. It was to have been 
televised live for the ﬁ  rst time by HBO. 
Posthumous inductees Whitney Houston and 
the Notorious B.I.G. were to be honored, along 
with Depeche Mode, the Doobie Brothers, 
Nine Inch Nails and T. Rex. Canada’s top 
music awards show, the June Awards, was 
also called off as a precaution.
The announcement Wednesday evening 
that Tom Hanks and his wife, Rita Wilson, had 
tested positive for coronavirus sent shudders 
through the industry. Hanks was easily the 
most famous person yet to publicly announce 
that he had the virus. He was in Australia to 
shoot an Elvis Presley biopic that Warner Bros. 
said would halt production.
“Not much more to it than a one-day-a-time 
approach, no?” Hanks said of their condition.
On Thursday, “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” and 
“The Late Show With James Corden” joined 
other late-night talk shows in announcing they 
will tape without audiences. That followed 
similar decisions by CBS’ “The Late Show With 
Stephen Colbert,” NBC’s “Tonight Show” and 
“Late Night With Seth Meyers.” Coronavirus brings entertainment world to a standstillBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      3-13-
20-12-2
LAW SCHOOL/ GOLF COURSE ADJACENT
5BR/3BA
Available August 1st. Rent $2100/mo
Call 904-862-1009    3-30-20-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
May 1-July 31 Summer Sublease
Lexington Crossing
3700 SW 27th St. Apt. D-101
Gainesville, FL 32608
1b/1b within 4b/4b with 3 male roommates 
$600/month
Furnished, In-room laundry, Free parking
Please call (352) 213-7121      3-13-20-4-4
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
HAVING A PARTY?
● ● I have Marde Gras / Party Beads ● ●
$25 / case -   ~ 300 per case
Various Sizes & Colors     Call 352-278-4663           
3-18-3-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Thursday, March 26th, 2020 at 1PM
1970 British Royal Air Force Jet Provost 
MK5A, Fixed Wing Single-Engine, Turbo-Jet.
Zephyrhills Municipal Airport (KZPH)
39450 South Ave, Hanger 200A-200B
Zephyrhills, FL 33542
Routinely maintained and hangered for 
much of its life. All systems function fully and 
airworthy. A MUST SEE!
FAA Registry N-Number: N300LT S/N: 
XW354
15% - 18% BP will apply. $5,000 ref. certified 
funds deposit. As is, where is.
Chapter 11 Case No.: 8:19-bk-01890-CPM
Preview: morning of sale 9AM – 1PM (or by 
appt.)
More info: www.moeckerauctions.com
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin       3-13-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
3-13-20-12-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Freon Wanted: : We pay CA$H for cylin-
ders and cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. 
Convenient. Certified Professionals. Call 
312-634-6652 or visit RefrigerantFinders.
com        3-13-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-141For Rent
furnished8 Electronics 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Winston Emmons
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/13/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/13/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, March 13, 2020
ACROSS
1 2019 Pan 
American Games 
city
5 Present to an 
audience
10 Nat’s hat
13 Norse deity
14 Syndicated show, 
say
15 Smooth-talking
17 “It’s been a while 
since I shopped 
till I dropped”?
20 Revise
21 Bud
22 Annually
23 __ Cruces
25 Convent figure
27 Pastoral 
exhortation to a 
graffiti artist?
32 Belgian __
33 Special ops 
acronym
34 Some bank jobs
38 Lack
40 Set down
42 Bender
43 Meddles
45 Pack (down)
47 Mauna __
48 Bargain hunter’s 
forte?
51 Moby-Dick, e.g.
53 Vote in favor
54 Many Oscar night 
attendees
55 Sun, for one
58 Social division
62 Trojan king struck 
dumb?
65 Sources of cones
66 Dabbling ducks
67 Cable car
68 Fabled beast
69 Ad guy 
responsible for 
four long puzzle 
answers?
70 Roll call call
DOWN
1 Kinks title 
woman with 
“a dark brown 
voice”
2 Word after fallen 
or false
3 Like new
4 Actress Kinsey of 
“The Office”
5 Asian honorific6 Census worker, 
for one
7 Location
8 Legislation that 
varies from state 
to state
9 Eclectic musician 
Brian
10 Prepare for print
11 Buenos __
12 Earnest requests
16 “__ Blues”: 
Beatles “White 
Album” song
18 Cafeteria stack
19 Buffalo skater
24 Intervenes
26 Prague’s region
27 Maxims
28 It often 
undergoes 
changes
29 First female 
attorney general
30 Burt’s musical 
collaborator
31 Send
35 Arias, usually
36 Animation 
product
37 Unattached
39 Joint Chiefs, for 
example
41 Joltin’ joe?44 Refracting 
polyhedron
46 Intimidate 
mentally, with 
“out”
49 “The Last of the 
Mohicans” author
50 Toast word
51 Heart chambers
52 Hideouts
54 Banana Boat 
letters
56 Copy room unit57 One sometimes 
seen with Boris
59 Withered
60 Romanov title
61 Salinger character 
who says, “I 
prefer stories 
about squalor”
63 “The Racer’s 
Edge”
64 Gp. that 
sometimes has 
an added “Y”
By Michael Paleos
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/12/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/12/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, March 12, 2020
ACROSS
1 Soft end of the 
Mohs scale
5 Old Toyota 
models
10 Order to go
14 Squiggly lines 
in the funnies, 
maybe
15 Hot day refuge
16 “Him __?”: love 
triangle ultimatum
17 First anniversary 
gift for a 
zookeeper?
19 Like eyes “you 
can’t hide,” in an 
Eagles song
20 Ring loudly
21 It can spice 
things up
23 Prescription 
specs
26 2000 Gere title 
role
28 Gere, for one
29 Super Mario 
Galaxy consoles
30 Japanese ice 
cream flavor
32 “It’s __ good”
33 Livid
34 Lots and lots
37 Race in place
38 10th anniversary 
gift for a 
musician?
40 Wire-concealing 
garment, perhaps
41 Least 
encumbered
43 Musical work
44 “A lie that makes 
us realize truth,” 
per Picasso
45 Adds insult to 
injury
47 Hair gel squirt
48 Bow ties, e.g.
50 The Spartans of 
the NCAA
51 “Well, I’ll be!”
52 Totally jazzed
54 Like many 45 
records
56 Jordanian queen 
dowager
57 50th anniversary 
gift for a fast-food 
worker?
62 Stop discussing
63 Hail
64 Passion
65 __ pool66 __ pool
67 Biblical spot
DOWN
1 Cover
2 Nicole’s “Cold 
Mountain” role
3 Hack
4 Brunch choice
5 “¿Cómo __?”
6 Kids
7 “Macbeth” role
8 “Swan Lake” 
princess
9 Blood fluids
10 Comforted
11 15th anniversary 
gift for a golfer?
12 Palermo pal
13 Barbershop part
18 In medias __
22 Relay sticks
23 Middle-earth 
figure
24 Gulf ship
25 25th anniversary 
gift for a chef?
27 Fiery candies
30 South side?
31 Like a shutout
33 “I’m not gonna 
sugarcoat this”
35 Screen legend 
Flynn36 Failed to act
39 Long-outlawed 
smoking 
establishment
42 Greek Muse of 
music
46 Oil, for many
47 Look-up aid
48 Herbal  
Essences maker, 
for short
49 64-Across, at La 
Scala51 Serengeti 
herbivore
53 Fleece-lined 
footwear brand
55 Not duped by
58 Two-time Emmy-
winning actress 
__ Grant
59 OMG part
60 67-Across outcast
61 Number of 
Canadian 
provinces
03/11/20
answers on page 9
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
Ginnie Springs Outdoors Hiring
Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-18-20-10-14
LOOKING FOR MALES  & FEMALES TO 
WORK WITH PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
Must have HS diploma, vehicle, w/ license 
& registration. Call 352-745-2665      3-13-
20-6-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring Summer Camp, After-School, 
Gymnastics, Dance, Ninja Zone and more. 
Join our team. Apply now:
suncountrysports.com/jobs      3-20-20-9-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hir-
ing deli counter and bar help. No exp need -
ed. Day/Night shifts available. Come to 2327 
N W 13th Street to apply. Must be depend -
able and have reliable trans.      3-13-20-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-
dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan 
sales from April – September. Approx. 20 hrs a 
week, $11/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and 
free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others 
in a professional manner and have a positive 
attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer 
experience is a plus. Apply online for requisi-
tion #: 285852 at www.gatordining.com    3-13-
20-3-14
Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
5-12-20-14
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Environment
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training provided
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501         3-20-
20-5-14
Calling Artists, Engineering, Construction, 
Education & Community Majors! Maker 
Summer Day Camp Now Hiring! Do you like 
making crazy things, Getting dirty, Playing 
with kids, with Lots of Laughs along the way? 
Come work with us this summer! F/T $12/hr 
More info at www.masterbuildercamp.com      
5-14-20-20-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
This Super Affiliate System Will
Make You A Stable Income.
Free Training, Take Action. 
www.digitalmarketinglifestyle.best     3-16-
20-4-15
AVIATION Careers start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification in airframe and 
powerplant. Financial aid if qualified. No ex-
perience required. Call AIM 888-242-2649      
3-13-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16DDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a 
common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
Is your business, club or organization having 
an event? Do you have a special a nnounce-
ment? Place your ad here and get it noticed!
"The Benefits and Blessings
of True, Necessary, Kind"
An ECK Light and Sound Service
Sun., March 15, at 1:00 PM
Courtyard By Marriott
3700 SW 42nd Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
352-378-3504
www.eck-florida.org
facebook.com/EckankarinGainesville
Everyone welcome!
3-13-1-20
LEARN HOW
one guy went from $0 to $11,506/day in 
Affiliate marketing? Watch this free webinar 
https://www.clkmg.com/highnooner/1gcafs     
3-20-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the 
classifieds to find trip arrangements or show 
off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your roommate...
pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet prod-
ucts here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/ScrabbleGrams  solution Hitori solution1. How do you pronounce the name 
of the band INXS?
2. Why did Joan Jett take that name? 
3. What was the original name of 
the band that eventually became 
Sugar Ray?
4. Who released an album titled 
"CHOBA B CCCP"?
5. Name the song that contains this 
lyric: "I'm gonna love you till the 
stars fall from the sky for you and I 
... Stronger than dirt."1. "In excess." In various incarnations they were known 
as Doctor Dolphin, Guinness, Farris Brothers and The 
Vegetables.
2. She was born Joan Marie Larkin. When her parents 
divorced, she took her mother's maiden name, Jett, for 
musical reasons. Her first band was the Runaways.
3. The Shrinky Dinx. They had to change the name of 
the band after threat of a lawsuit by the toymaker who 
created Shrinky Dinks.
4. Paul McCartney. It means "Back in the USSR," and 
the first word is pronounced Sno-va.
5. "Touch Me," by The Doors, in 1968. The "stronger 
than dirt" addition at the end of the song was thought 
to be a reference to Ajax because the last four notes are 
the same in both the song and the cleanser commercial. FlashBack  answers
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
1. Name The Who guitarist who 
is known for smashing his guitars 
during performances. How did that 
get started?
2. Why did Bob Dylan stop touring 
between 1966 and 1973?
3. What was Wicked Lester?
4. The Polka Tulk Blues Band ended 
up as what band?
5. Name the television show that 
used these lyrics in the theme song: 
“Just sit right back and you’ll hear a 
tale, A tale of a fateful trip.”
Answers
1. Peter Townsend. He accidentally 
broke the head off a guitar during a 
show and afterward continued break-
ing guitars (albeit cheaper ones).
2. He was seriously injured in a 
motorcycle accident, crashing his Tri-
umph Tiger 100SS. Later, however, he 
was quoted as saying he’d wanted to 
get out of the rat race.
3. The original name of Kiss, with a 
short period (1970-1971) being called 
Rainbow. Look for a 1972 bootleg 
album called “The Original Wicked 
Lester Sessions.”
4. Black Sabbath.
5. “Gilligan’s Island,” which aired 
for three seasons from 1964-67, a 
total of 98 episodes. The first season 
was in black and white. The storyline 
tells of castaways who ran aground on 
an island during a storm while on the 
charter boat SS Minnow.
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
January 27, 2020
answers below
1.  Implant
1.  Cut into5.  Expertise, skill
2.  Strength, vigor6.  Milan, ____
3.  Take back7.  Determinant 
4.  Attorney RINTSE
NIEICSFATRC
LAIYT
MNAASTI
RAETCRTAORCFT
WYRELAANSWERS: 1A-Insert  5A-Craft  6A-Italy  7A-Factor
1D-Incise  2D-Stamina  3D-Retract  4D-Lawyer  B-Croatia3-13-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: National parks and nature preserves
make up about 10 percent of ____.
BONUS
The answer is C) 40.5 . Multiply the first number by 3 to get the next number, then take 
1/2 of that result to get the third number, and so forth. 1/2 of 81 equals 40.5Stickelers  answer
Wednesday
solution below
answers below16 Health Services 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Dan Mullen and the 
Florida football team will 
hold spring practices as 
scheduled starting on March 
16. Practices, however, will be 
closed to the public.Pro sports suspend play indefinitely due to 
coronavirus outbreak
The NBA, NHL, MLB and MLS all halted operations for the foreseeable 
future due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The NBA, MLB and MLS announced 
play will be postponed for at least 30 days.
FEATURE
TRINITY DOESN’T JUST BREAK 
RECORDS — SHE ALSO MENTORS 
YOUNG GYMNASTS 
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
With a big breath, Trinity Thomas stepped 
onto the ﬂ  oor for her routine against Penn State.
The crowd at Recreation Hall on March 
7 in State College, Pennsylvania, included 
many family and friends. Trinity is from York, 
Pennsylvania, a little over 100 miles from PSU.
The nerves were running through her body 
as she began her exercise.
“I was going one pass at a time and before 
my last pass, I was like, ‘You can do this. If you 
land this, you’ve done it,’” Trinity said.
Once she ﬁ  nished, she felt good about it, but 
it was unknown how the judges would rule.
And then she heard the roar from the crowd.
And she knew then she had once again 
etched her name in Florida gymnastics history. 
Trinity had scored yet another perfect 10 — one 
of four this season, including one on bars and 
two on beam. 
There is the Trinity Thomas Florida fans 
know, the gymnast with record-breaking scores 
and Olympic dreams. But there is also Trinity 
the person, who is always there to mentor 
young gymnasts.  
“I was always striving for more”: 
Trinity’s athletic past 
Trinity’s impact on the spectators that 
Saturday afternoon extended well past the 
conclusion of the meet. As soon as it ended, 
hundreds of fans packed the ﬂ  oor to catch a 
glimpse of her and snap a picture with a local 
legend.
This included many young gymnasts, some 
from Prestige Gymnastics, the academy in 
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, where Trinity trained.
According to Jen Fatta, the owner and head 
coach of Prestige, almost 90 percent of the team had made the two-hour drive.
“It was so cool,” Trinity said. “The little 
ones aren’t so little now; they are like as tall 
as me.” 
Part of the reason Trinity is welcoming to 
young gymnasts is because she sees herself in 
them.
Gymnastics wasn’t part of the plan for 
Trinity. Neither of her parents did the sport but 
one incident caused her mom to rethink that.
“Trinity put a hole in my wall,” Titania 
Thomas said. “Her and her sister were ﬂ  ipping 
around, and I said ‘we have to put you in 
gymnastics. We have to ﬁ  nd something for you 
to do.’”
Trinity comes from an athletic background. 
Her dad, Tisen Thomas, was a wide receiver at 
Penn State in the early 1990s and Titania was 
a cheerleader.
Growing up, playing sports — especially 
swimming — was the norm for Trinity and her 
four younger siblings.
Tesia Thomas, Trinity’s younger sister, has 
a track scholarship lined up next year at Penn 
State. Her other siblings — Taleyn, Tristen and 
Tayvon — play volleyball, track, football and 
swimming, respectively.
But Trinity didn’t begin gymnastics right 
away. She started in her mom’s sport of 
cheerleading.
After two days of gymnastics at her 
cheerleading program, seven-year-old Trinity 
was asked to start her own gymnastics team.
Trinity said she was hooked immediately, 
but she found herself at an early disadvantage. 
Many girls start out in gymnastics younger than 
Trinity, so she was already behind.
However, it didn’t take long for the prodigy 
to move up the ranks, going from Level four 
to 10.
“I just took it step-by-step,” Trinity said. 
“I had fun the whole time, and I was always 
striving for more and watching the older girls 
and trying to copy them.”
In 2011, she won the Pennsylvania Level 7 
State Championship in all-around and all four 
exercises. By age 11, the offers began to come in from U.S. National camps.
Eleven is also when Trinity began to attend 
Prestige after her coach left for New Jersey.
That was when Fatta ﬁ  rst met her.
“She was extremely gifted, mentally and 
physically,” Fatta said. “She was probably the 
only one who didn’t know that, though. I think 
she knew she was good, but I don’t think she 
realized how far she could really go.”
It was during Trinity’s high school years that 
she took off. In 2017, she appeared in her ﬁ  rst 
U.S. Championships, her biggest competition 
yet, where she placed in the top ﬁ  ve in all-
around, ﬂ  oor and beam and was named to the 
senior national team.
That still wasn’t enough.
“I still wasn’t super comfortable with 
competing, and I was still super nervous, and 
I’d get myself all worked up,” Trinity said. “It 
was really hard for me at ﬁ  rst competing in big 
meets like that.”
Her high school experience was unorthodox 
compared to others. She was fully enrolled in 
virtual school and graduated a year early, she 
said. 
As time went on, Trinity began to feel more 
comfortable, and it showed. She ﬁ  nished as a 
runner-up in bars and all-around at the 2018 
Pan American Games and won a silver medal 
in all-around at the 2018 World Cup.
“That experience [the World Cup] was 
probably one of the best experiences I’ve ever 
had,” she said. “My mom and my coach came 
and I was the only U.S. women’s gymnast 
there.”
“I go out and give it my all”: Trinity’s 
career
Normally a gymnast like Trinity would skip 
college and continue with their elite career, but 
that was never in consideration for her.
“I grew up watching college gymnastics,” 
she said. “I knew right off the bat, I wanted to 
be a college student.”
 Trinity didn’t announce her UF commitment 
the way most athletes do. 
Florida coach Jenny Rowland remembers it 
well.
She said her announcement, which was 
broadcast on social media, was like a gender 
reveal, with balloons and orange and blue 
confetti dropping.
“Someone said that she was making her 
announcement on social media to see what 
college she’s going to, and I was like, ‘should 
we watch’?” she said. “And then we saw the 
balloons and the confetti.”
When Trinity did arrive in Gainesville for 
freshman year, Rowland put her trust in Trinity 
immediately, starting her in all-around in every 
meet.
Rowland’s trust paid off. Trinity was a 
ﬁ  rst team All-American on ﬂ  oor, won SEC 
Freshman of the Week six times and was the 
only freshman to ﬁ  nish in the top 20 of every 
event last season.
Yet, the season ended in a disappointing 
way for the team and for Trinity herself. The 
Gators, who only suffered two losses in the 
regular season, fell in the NCAA Regionals and 
missed the Super Six for the ﬁ  rst time since 
2011. Meanwhile, Trinity ﬁ  nished 30th on bars 
at the NCAA Championships.But this season, everything has changed – 
both for Trinity and for the team.
Florida is 10-0 and SEC regular season 
champions after completing its ﬁ  rst perfect 
conference season in program history.
And Trinity’s play this season has been truly 
remarkable. In addition to her perfect scores, 
she has won SEC Gymnast of the Week eight 
out of nine weeks. 
But Trinity is preparing for her biggest 
challenge yet: a spot on the Olympic team this 
summer in Tokyo.
Only four gymnasts will travel on the U.S. 
team to Tokyo, so it will be an uphill climb for 
Trinity. Although, she said she will be satisﬁ  ed 
just making it to Olympic Trials in St. Louis 
from June 25-28. 
“Whatever happens, it was meant to 
happen,” she said. “I think as long as I go 
out and give it my all, I’ll be happy with any 
outcome.”
“I want to be inspiring to them:” Trinity’s 
mentorship 
Even if Trinity fails to make the Olympic 
team this summer, she knows what she’ll be 
doing in her free time — mentoring younger 
gymnasts. 
It was during her time at Prestige that Trinity 
started to lead others. Fatta said she was so nice 
and everyone looked up to her.
“She was such a good teammate and such 
a good example to everyone at the gym,” she 
said. 
Trinity even became a role model to 
someone close to Fatta – her daughter. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org/
sports
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgTrinity Thomas: So much more than a Florida gymnastics icon
Lawren Simmons // Alligator Staff
Thomas does warm up jumps alongside a fellow teammate before the start of practice 
Tuesday afternoon. 
Lawren Simmons // Alligator Staff
Thomas stretches in line alongside other 
teammates at the O’Connell Center. 
12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
NIGHT  9 pm-12 am
$2 Double Wells
$2 Rolling Rock Cans
$2 Pink Whitney Shots
LIVE DJ
(DOWNSTAIRS)
FRIDAYS
on theROOFNEW!NCAA
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
THERE WILL BE 
NO CHAMPIONS 
CROWNED ACROSS 
DIVISION I ATHLETICS 
FOR MONTHS TO COME.
The NCAA canceled 
all remaining winter and 
spring championships due 
to the “evolving COVID-19 
public health threat” 
in a statement released 
Thursday afternoon.
Evolving is the perfect 
word as just hours prior, 
conference tournament 
games were being held 
in front of fans — despite 
warnings from health 
ofﬁ  cials — for bids to 
the 2020 NCAA Division 
I Men’s Basketball 
Tournament, one of the 
largest sporting events 
in the world. It includes 
68 teams, captivates the 
country and is held across 
a slew of states. It’s so 
big that the Final Four is 
held in football stadiums 
instead of basketball 
arenas to allow more fans 
to attend.
Now, it won’t happen. 
Basketball is far from the 
only sport affected by the 
NCAA’s unprecedented 
announcement. March 
Madness was scheduled 
to begin Tuesday, and the 
College World Series, held 
in June, has also been 
canceled.
Many universities and 
leagues had suspended 
play until March 30, which 
was already affecting dozens of games at the 
University of Florida alone. 
Now, those suspended 
regular seasons are up 
in the air with nothing to 
play for at the end of the 
tunnel.
Every major 
professional sports league 
has elected to suspend its 
season over the past 24 
hours. The NCAA was the 
last organization to do so, 
but it went a step further 
with outright cancellation.
Playing without fans in 
attendance was considered 
an initial solution, as many 
government ofﬁ  cials had 
ordered hard caps on large 
groups, and it seemed 
teams were preparing for 
that reality. But NCAA 
President Mark Emmert 
deemed even reduced 
crowds (and the travel 
that would inevitably be 
required for such large 
events) too high of a risk.
The Gators were 
projected to play in the 
Men’s NCAA Tournament 
for the fourth-straight 
season and had an 
SEC Tournament game 
scheduled for Thursday 
afternoon.
What was considered 
by some one of the most 
volatile college men’s 
basketball seasons in 
recent history will be left 
without closure as concern 
over the spread of the 
coronavirus (COVID-19) 
sidelines all sports for the 
foreseeable future.
kwood@alligator.org
@kkylewoodAll NCAA spring and winter championships canceled
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Contributor
Forward Keyontae Johnson and Florida’s 2019-20 season came to an abrupt end on Thursday after the SEC and NCAA 
T ournaments were both canceled due to concerns over the coronavirus. The Gators were scheduled to play Georgia on 
Thursday afternoon during the SEC T ournament’s second round.
