We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperBy River Wells
Sports Writer
A win is a win. 
And while UF’s victory over 
South Carolina wasn’t particularly 
ugly, the 38-24 final score was just 
a millimeter closer than it was last 
week. Coach Dan Mullen will be 
the first to tell you that the Gators 
have a few more beasts to slay be -
fore they reach the top of college 
football’s proverbial mountain.
“I think we’ve got to get a lot 
better,” he said after the game on 
Saturday. “We certainly have to get 
a lot better with how we finished 
the game. Offensively, should have 
finished the game much sooner. 
Defensively, have the opportunity 
to get off the field.”
Despite the win, Florida fell to 
the No. 4 spot in the nation. But 
it will need to improve on the of -
fensive and defensive sides of the 
ball if it wants to avoid a further 
fall down the polls.
Offense
As Aerosmith would say, it was 
the “Same Old Song and Dance” for Florida.
Senior quarterback Kyle Trask 
threw four touchdown passes on 
Saturday to tack on to the six he 
threw at Ole Miss last week. Half of 
those scores found their way into 
the hands of junior tight end Kyle 
Pitts, who netted four receptions 
for 57 yards. Mixed with an Evan 
McPherson field goal and a touch -
down on the ground from running 
back Dameon Pierce, UF went to 
the half with a 10-point lead.
In the second half, though, that 
success started to dwindle. 
“I didn’t think we played excep -
tionally well today offensively, to 
be honest with you,” Mullen said. 
“We made some critical errors in 
the course of the game.”
Florida managed 14 points in 
the third quarter, but came up 
with nothing in the fourth. The 
Gators only picked up nine yards 
of offense in the last quarter of the 
game, with two turnovers, two 
punts and around half as many total 
yards (348) as they accumulated 
last week (642). There was reason 
for concern among the Gators offensive unit.
“With the capability and poten -
tial of our offense, the playmakers 
that we have, we expect to score 
every single time we have the ball, 
Trask said. “And we should have 
scored every time we have the ball. 
We’ve just got to go out and do a 
better job of cleaning up those little 
things.”
There were some positives, 
however. Pierce scored his first 
rushing touchdown of the year 
and averaged almost six yards per 
carry. Florida also got the ball to 
nine different players in the pass -
ing game, showcasing its depth 
fairly well.
The team has work to do before 
facing the Texas A&M Aggies this 
Saturday at Kyle Field, but despite 
that, Mullen still has confidence 
in his squad’s ability to move the 
football.
“Our guys came out and made 
plays when we needed to make 
them at critical moments of the 
game. We made the plays we need -
ed to win,” Mullen said. “We want 
to play better.”Defense
Damage that’s half as bad is still 
damage.
The Gators gave up 329 total 
yards on Saturday, and they 
lost the turnover battle 2-1. The 
Gamecocks had more first downs 
than UF (25-18), and running back 
Kevin Harris rushed for 100 yards 
and a touchdown on 22 carries. 
“All these third-down conver -
sions, they’re just learning lessons 
to help us execute next time,” de -
fensive back Kaiir Elam said after 
the game. “I feel like we should 
come off the field every third down, 
but if that’s not the case, you can’t 
dwell on it.”
While the defense came up with 
a much-needed stop at the end of 
the game and played well enough 
to stave off the Gamecocks, it’s be -
coming clear that the unit needs to 
improve if it wants to compete with 
other SEC powerhouses.
“I mean, we gave up 11 con -
versions today. We gave up good 
opportunities, whether it’s third or 
fourth down, so we’ve got to do 
a better job getting off the field,” Mullen said. 
Next week, against a Texas 
A&M team that put up 450 total 
yards against a stout Alabama de -
fense — in a blowout loss, but im -
pressive nonetheless — Florida will 
need to step up defensively with a 
secondary that was missing players 
like safety Brad Stewart Jr. for the 
second week in a row. And while 
the Aggies struggled previously 
against a poor Vanderbilt team, the 
Gators will need to bring their best 
if they hope to maintain an unbeat -
en path this season.
Preparation for Saturday, 
though, won’t look any different 
than it usually does.
“Every second of the game con -
cerns me about us getting better,” 
Mullen said. “I don’t know that 
I’ve ever been in a game that every 
second didn’t concern me. So this 
week will be no different than any 
other week.“
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
A look into students’ college at home life
Students who chose not to return to Gainesville are leveling 
with college life from their childhood bedrooms,  pg. 6
Teachers open up about a tough decision
Alachua County Public School teachers discuss their choice to 
leave the classroom for their own safety,  pg. 4Love in the time of COVID-19
A UF professor is in on a nationwide lawsuit 
over the legality of the shutdown of K-1 
fiancé(e) visas, pg. 4
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 6
FOLLOWING THE GATORS’ 
WIN AGAINST SOUTH 
CAROLINA SATURDAY, 
STUDENTS AND FANS 
CELEBRATED AT BARS AND 
WATCH PARTIES 
Staff Report
More than 200,000 Americans 
are dead and the U.S. president is in 
the hospital with COVID-19, but UF 
students partied on.
From morning past midnight, UF 
students, alumni and Gator football 
fans alike celebrated the first home 
game by throwing crowded house 
parties, tailgating and filling up bars.
Gov. Ron DeSantis announced 
Florida’s Phase 3 reopening 
plan Sept. 25, prohibiting local 
governments from closing 
businesses or enforcing capacity 
restrictions. Florida has more than 
700,000 positive cases of COVID-19 
as of Sunday morning, and more 
than 14,000 deaths. 
Floridians, national visitors 
celebrated game day
Fans from Texas to New Jersey 
and everywhere in between traveled 
to the Swamp to see the Gators face 
off against the South Carolina Game -cocks. UF opened a fifth of Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium’s seats, but fans 
overflowed into Gainesville’s back -
yard tailgates and watch parties at 
off-campus houses.
People walked around Gainesville 
maskless in bright blue and orange 
jerseys, hats, beads and shirts. Some 
fans didn’t wear their masks until 
they stepped through the stadium’s 
metal detectors.
Grace Mullen flew from Colum -
bia, South Carolina, the opposing 
team’s city, with her sister to sup -
port her team and party. The Uni -
versity of South Carolina has had 
2,414 positive COVID-19 cases since 
Aug. 1, according to the university’s 
website.
The pair started their day drink -
ing at 9 a.m. before going to a party 
at The Standard, an apartment com -
plex on University Avenue. They 
watched the game in an off-campus 
house and later ended the night at 
Fat Daddy’s, a bar and restaurant at 
Midtown.
She came to Gainesville last year 
to tailgate and said the parties were 
smaller this year.
“They made it the most fun it 
could be,” she said. “It’s more tame 
this time. It’s a lot more cautious Unmasked students, fans return to pre-pandemic partying habits on game day
Zachariah Chou / / Alligator Staff
More than 50 people are seen waiting outside of Main Street Bar and Billiards, located in Downtown 
Gainesville, on Saturday night, after the first home football game.
SEE GAME DAY,  PAGE 5
FOOTBALL
Gators pick up second win but still have much to answer forT oday’s WeatherCITY OFFICIALS, BUSINESSES DIVIDED ON 
REGULATIONS
By Thomas Weber
Alligator Staff Writer
Gov. Ron DeSantis opened the floodgates a week be -
fore UF’s football home opener: Bars and restaurants no 
longer have state-mandated capacity restrictions.
DeSantis announced Florida’s Phase 3 reopening Sept. 
25. The plan prohibited local governments from closing 
businesses and enforcing COVID-19 guidelines through 
fines or limited restaurant capacities. 
Because of Alachua County’s rising cases this semes -
ter, Gainesville city officials have been critical of the gov -
ernor’s decision.
Alachua County’s 14-day average positivity rate is 
6.5%, and Sept. 11 saw the county’s highest number of 
positive cases in a single day — 225, according to its CO -
VID-19 dashboard. More than a third of the county’s posi -
tive cases — 3,212 — have occurred since Aug. 31, the 
beginning of UF’s Fall semester.
UF’s mask and distancing policies won’t be affected 
by the governor's order, said UF spokesperson Steve Or -
lando. He said the school’s policies will remain in accor -
dance with the Florida Board of Governors’ guidance.
DeSantis’ Phase 2 of reopening began June 3, where 
bars, restaurants and businesses were allowed to reopen 
at 50% capacity. Despite this plan initially excluding 
South Florida, Phase 2 preceded Florida’s largest surge 
in cases, which peaked in mid-July as tens of thousands 
were infected.
In a Facebook post Sept. 25, Gainesville Mayor Lauren 
Poe said he was “extremely disappointed” with the gov -
ernor’s order. The next day, Poe shared a letter he and 
County Chair Robert Hutchinson wrote to the governor, 
asking him to reconsider his decision.
Phase 3 vs. Local government
The Phase 3 order prohibits local governments from 
closing businesses or using fines or penalties to enforce 
COVID-19 guidelines, and restaurants cannot be forced 
to operate below 50% capacity. If local governments 
wish to limit capacity, they must appeal to the governor 
by explaining the health benefits and economic risks of a 
capacity limit.
Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Al -
lergy and Infectious Diseases, called Florida’s reopening 
“very concerning” Sept. 28.
Poe and Hutchinson urged DeSantis to allow more 
flexibility for local governments to enforce COVID-19 
guidelines and restrictions.
Since Sept. 20, the county’s median age for positive 
cases has fluctuated between 21 and 29 years old, ac -
cording to Florida’s COVID-19 summary. Throughout the 
pandemic, the vast majority of the county’s cases, 41%, 
have been in the 15 to 24 age range, but these ages only 
account for 3% of hospitalizations.
Meanwhile, Alachua County’s 65- to 74-year-olds 
have accounted for only 5% of cases, but they account 
for the most hospitalizations — 22%, or 93 people — and 
the most deaths — 30%, or 19 people. For 75- to 84-year-
olds, 19 people have died.
City Commissioner David Arreola said with the 
month’s rise in cases, this is the wrong time to reopen 
the state.
“We are really coming off of our largest surge,” Arre -
ola said. “This is the wrong time to be going backwards, 
and really, this isn’t just going backwards; it’s completely 
undoing months of work.”
Because Phase 3 limits local government restrictions, 
the city and county will no longer send code enforcers to 
businesses that violate COVID-19 safety guidelines.
Alachua County stationed code enforcers outside of 
businesses up until Sept. 15, handing out masks and en -
suring staff and customers were in compliance with CO -
VID-19 guidelines. Until that point, the county reported 
approximately 98% mask-wearing compliance at those 
select businesses.
Missy Daniels, Alachua County growth management 
director, said the county will encourage businesses to 
continue mask and distancing policies. She said the coun -
ty will not send code enforcers anymore. 
Arreola said up until now, the city opted to close busi -
nesses for violating guidelines until they remedied what -
ever issue they had, rather than giving fines or penalties. 
Appealing to the governor to maintain COVID-19 en -
forcement requires the local government to report po -
tential economic risks of COVID-19 restrictions, which 
Arreola said would be a difficult and unnecessary process for businesses, considering the challenges of reopening 
and managing influxes of customers. He said they’d likely 
have to present income balance sheets, possibly through 
the last five years. 
“It's an academic exercise to go through quantifying 
the economic cost, and so it's nonsense for the governor 
to expect that,” he said. 
Phase 3 and local businesses
Some businesses are maintaining safety restrictions as 
they reopen despite the city’s now-limited ability to en -
force COVID-19 guidelines.
The High Dive, a music venue in downtown 
Gainesville, will reopen with strict mask and distancing 
policies in place, said its facility and event manager, Pat -
rick Lavery. 
“This isn’t going to be a free-for-all,” Lavery said. 
“We've very carefully considered what we need to do, 
and we've created guidelines and we're gonna stick to 
them.”
He said the High Dive will enforce a masks-at-all-times 
policy indoors, and before people enter, they must be cov -
ered. He said the High Dive will provide — and eventu -
ally sell — masks to customers who need them.
With live music mostly obsolete this year, the High 
Dive was closed for over six months, which Lavery said 
was devastating. It cost about $10,000 every month to 
remain closed.
He said reopening shouldn’t be a black or white issue, 
because while the health risks are real, so are the personal 
and economic impacts of businesses like his remaining 
closed.
“It's gut wrenching,” he said. “You're basically spend -
ing your entire day, every day just trying to figure out 
how you're going to survive, and you know, trying to 
lobby politicians.”
Lavery said they will provide indoor, seated shows in 
the coming weeks. Capacity will be reduced, and mask 
guidelines will be enforced, he said. People will only be 
allowed to drink in the outdoor beer garden, so there’s no 
reason to take masks off indoors.
Some businesses have received criticism for neglecting 
COVID-19 guidelines with their reopenings.
A controversial photo circulated around social media 
of about 40 people lined up outside of DownTown Fats 
Bar Sept. 21, tightly packed and maskless. The bar’s man -
ager that night said the crowd gathered before the bar 
opened, so employees weren’t able to enforce distancing 
guidelines yet.
That night, the bar underwent a “soft relaunch,” only 
marketing through word of mouth. The manager said 
staff addressed the distancing problem as soon as the bar 
opened.
Other bars have had similar crowds lined up outside, 
maskless and non-distanced, including Lit at Midtown. 
The bar’s Facebook page has numerous pictures of people 
grouped together without masks.
Lawrence Clay, owner of Bricks Nightclub and Lit at 
Midtown, said customers’ temperatures are checked at 
the door and they will need masks to enter, but he will 
not enforce any capacity, distancing or mask policies in -
side either nightclub. 
“People can choose to wear masks when they come 
in; we do require masks when they come in,” he said. 
“But they can take them off when they get in there, and 
it is what it is.”
He said because student house parties haven’t had dis -
tancing or capacity restrictions, his nightclubs shouldn’t 
have to either.
“They’ve been having house parties for the last six or 
seven weeks, and all these kids have already caught it 
[COVID-19],” he said. “There's no difference when you 
congregate to a nightclub.”
Lit at Midtown has been open since the summer, and 
Bricks opened Thursday. Both nightclubs’ full capacities 
allow for several hundred people at a time. Clay said he 
isn’t concerned about spreading COVID-19 because even 
more students are partying elsewhere, and he thinks the 
virus will never go away anyways.
“The governor had a stance and to me it made sense,” 
he said. “When does this s--- end? It’s not going to end 
bro — it’s not going to go away.”
@thomasjohnweber
tweber@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 6
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinion Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett MullenaxMixed reactions to 
Florida Phase 3 reopeningMONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
#Gators FightFlu
Get Vaccinated!  
UF students, faculty and staff are 
encouraged to receive their flu 
vaccine Sept. 14 – Oct. 30.  
Flu shots are by appointment only.  
Visit my.shcc.ufl.edu/vaccines or  
call 352.392.1161 to schedule.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
BECAUSE OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC, THE 
U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT’S VISA PROCESSING 
HAS  COME TO A STANDSTILL
By Steven Walker
Alligator Staff Writer
A white lace custom-made wedding dress, two golden wed -
ding rings and a sage green suit have sat unworn in Matthew 
Baldwin’s closet for more than a year.
In March, the U.S. Department of State shut down travel and 
immigration to the U.S. from other countries in an attempt to 
slow the COVID-19 pandemic. The shutdown included limiting 
visas like the one Baldwin, a 35-year-old UF assistant psychol -
ogy professor and U.S. citizen, was trying to get for his fiancée, 
Stephanie Rüegg.
Baldwin and Rüegg are part of a nationwide lawsuit with 
184 other couples against the State Department in the D.C. Dis -
trict Court. The lawsuit filed Sept. 17 claims the State Depart -
ment illegally shut down the processing of K-1 fiancé(e) visas. 
In July, the State Department started processing visas again, 
but gave K-1 visas the lowest priority, according to the lawsuit. 
Rüegg submitted her visa paperwork almost eight months ago, 
Baldwin said.
The State Department has not filed a response to the lawsuit 
as of Sept. 28.
Baldwin met Rüegg on a surfing trip to Morocco in March  
2017. Rüegg is a 35-year-old Swiss citizen living in Germany. 
The couple planned to get married as soon as Rüegg received 
her visa and arrived in the U.S., but the COVID-19 pandemic 
changed everything. 
“It’s like these people are fighting to the very end to literally 
block me from starting a family,” Baldwin said.
Jeff Joseph, the 48-year-old lead legal counsel for the plain -
tiffs of the lawsuit based out of Aurora, Colorado, said the 
change in immigration policy is not uncharacteristic of the 
Trump administration. The State Department’s reasoning be -
hind the change is to keep the labor pool to U.S. citizens be -
cause of the pandemic’s effect on the economy, he said. 
“They’re coming here on a family-based visa,” Joseph said. 
“To use an economic justification for why you’re restricting it 
doesn’t make sense.”Joseph said the justification for the stoppage of K-1 visas 
is not fair because most fiancé(e)s are not coming to the U.S. 
simply for work. Even so, Joseph said most employers would 
not hire someone on a K-1 visa until they obtain an actual work 
authorization card, which could take four to five months.
Although Joseph represents 370 plaintiffs in the case, the 
number of people nationwide waiting on K-1 visa applications 
is unknown because they are still waiting on data from the State 
Department, he said. The State Department processed about 
45,000 K-1 visa applications in 2019, according to department 
data.
One of the plaintiff’s main arguments cites the State Depart -
ment’s own foreign affairs manual, which classifies fiancé(e)
s as spouses during visa interviews, Joseph said. Because the 
State Department gave spousal visas top priority, so should K-1 
fiancé(e) visas, he said. Additionally, the complaint argues the 
State Department was only directed to restrict the entry of non-citizens, not restrict the issuing of visas.
A hearing on the case could come in the next few weeks, 
Joseph said.
The couple is optimistic about the case. Baldwin said he 
hopes to spend this Christmas with his fiancée in the U.S.
Before the lawsuit, Baldwin said he begged and pleaded to 
elected officials and on social media for help. Once he joined the 
lawsuit, he began to feel real change, he said.
“I was not anticipating how good it would feel to have some -
one sort of fighting for what’s right, like on my behalf,” Baldwin 
said.
The couple moved to Gainesville in July 2019 when Baldwin 
took his job at UF. In October 2019, Rüegg’s Electronic System 
for Travel Authorization visa expired, and she returned to Ger -
many. 
Baldwin spent last Christmas in Germany with his fiancée, 
but didn’t see her again until August when they went on a short 
trip to the Dominican Republic. The couple has only seen each 
other four weeks in 2020. 
The distance, complicated even further by the pandemic, 
has made it hard for the couple to stay in touch. Keeping con -
nected over FaceTime for 11 months is virtually impossible, he 
said. A six-hour time difference separates Florida and Germany, 
so when Rüegg settles down after work, Baldwin is just sitting 
down for lunch.
They want to start a family, buy a house and settle down, he 
said, but it’s just not possible right now.
“It’s like our American dream has sort of been stolen from 
us,” Baldwin said.
Before the shutdown, Rüegg said the immigration system 
was complicated, but she and Baldwin had mastered it and 
made it work. But after trying to navigate the system during the 
shutdown, she now believes it’s broken. 
Rüegg said once she gets to the U.S., she is looking forward 
to doing everyday things with her fiancé, like cooking and cud -
dling on the couch. She also wants to meet their nine-month-old 
blue heeler, Ziggy, for the first time.
“There’s so many insecurities that are just making you anx -
ious about the future,” Rüegg said. “You just want to be with 
your partner when you’re anxious, right?”
@swalker_7
swalker@alligator.org 
TEACHERS WITH 
IMMUNOCOMPROMISED 
FAMILY MEMBERS SAY THEY 
CAN’T RISK BEING IN 
THE CLASSROOM
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
Eric Baez misses tying his tie each morn -
ing before heading to Eastside High School.
The 33-year-old computer science teach -
er played jazz or lo-fi hip hop in his class -
room while his students worked. Now, the 
teacher left the profession after his first year 
due to health dangers. 
Baez is one of a growing number of edu -
cators around the U.S. who left the class -
room due to COVID-19. This trend has 
also been seen in Alachua County Public 
Schools. In the school district, 40 staff mem -
bers have retired or resigned since August, 
said ACPS spokesperson Jackie Johnson. 
Based on a review of school board agen -
das from 2019, the number is about double 
the number of resignations and retirements 
for the same period last year. 
Forty-two instructional personnel were 
listed as resigning or retiring, according to 
four agendas from August through October 
2019. There are 85 instructional teachers 
who are listed as resigning or retiring in the 
five agendas for the same time period this 
year. Teachers across the U.S. say they are 
more likely to leave their jobs, according 
to a survey conducted by EdWeek, a news 
site focusing on education. Exact numbers 
of the national number of teachers who 
have resigned or retired are not available, 
but 21% of those surveyed by EdWeek said 
they were more likely to leave because of 
COVID-19. 
A different poll by the National Education 
Association found similar results. About 
30% of respondents said the pandemic has 
made them more likely to retire or leave 
teaching.
The trend in Alachua County mirrors 
these findings. For some teachers, the deci -
sion to quit comes from personal concerns. 
For others, they must look out for family 
members who are more susceptible to the 
virus. 
Baez said he decided to resign because 
his wife is immunocompromised. 
“I had to make a choice between my ca -
reer and my family,” he said. 
He said he feels like he let his students, 
former colleagues and profession down. 
Despite taking professional development 
courses over the summer, he made the dif -
ficult decision to resign after he found out 
he couldn’t teach virtually. State Education 
Commissioner Richard Corcoran released 
an emergency order requiring schools to 
operate outside of a strictly digital fashion. 
Baez said Eastside didn’t have many re -
mote positions available.He now spends his days teaching his 
elementary-aged children, who are tak -
ing classes through Alachua eSchool. His 
9-year-old son is entering fourth grade, and 
his 5-year-old twins are entering kindergar -
ten. His fourth grader switched over to Digi -
tal Academy because he missed seeing his 
friends.
Baez said he wants to return to the class -
room because he only taught for a year. He 
said he thought he found his career and 
niche.
He was approved as an ACPS volunteer 
and hopes to begin virtual computer science 
projects soon. 
While Baez has heard of teachers retir -
ing, he said there’s a larger issue.  
“What’s not really spoken about are the 
teachers that are not going to be coming 
back to the classroom, like myself, who are 
just beginning their career,” he said.
Victoria Holmes was also a former teach -
er at Eastside. 
The 39-year-old, who has been teaching 
English since 2009, began working at East -
side two years ago. Before that, she taught 
at Lincoln Middle School and other schools 
across the state. Now, she resigned and is 
away from the classroom. 
Holmes lives with her mother who has 
medical conditions that make her more sus -
ceptible to COVID-19. 
She reached out to Eastside about a digi -
tal position but was also told there weren’t 
many.Holmes misses being there to see her stu -
dents realize they are good writers.
One of her favorite lessons was having 
students develop a creative writing portfo -
lio. Students could write poetry, short sto -
ries or biographies. 
“I think those are the most intriguing to 
me because they realize not only that words 
are powerful, but they were impactful,” she 
said. “They were healing. They were liber -
ating.”
Holmes also focused lessons on Black 
history, showcasing a variety of Black jour -
nalists, poets and composers.
Holmes said it was sad to leave her stu -
dents. She’s still trying to stay in touch with 
them, even writing recommendation letters 
or coaching them through their college ap -
plication essays. 
While out of the classroom, Holmes has 
been working more at her businesses, Liter -
ary Impressions, an editing firm, and More 
Than Expected Publishing, a boutique that 
helps writers get their stories to the market -
place.
 Holmes said she isn’t sure if she will re -
turn to the classroom.
“When it comes to the safety and health 
of anyone, I think that’s the most important,” 
she said. “And I don’t think you should be 
forced to jeopardize that for anything.”
@feinberg_sophie
sfeinberg@alligator.orgUF professor fights, sues to see his fiancée again
COVID-19 pushed some Alachua County teachers to quitCourtesy to The Alligator
Matthew Baldwin and Stephanie Rüegg read a poem at 
their engagement party in Kiefersfelden, Germany, in 
July 2019.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
this year.”
UF students already stationed in 
Gainesville also celebrated the win.
Nick Weber, a 19-year-old UF 
mechanical engineering sophomore, 
hosted a watch party of about 20 
people, where fellow students drank 
and watched the game outside 
around a TV he set up in the trunk 
of his van.
This was his first game day at UF 
after moving there for the semester, 
he said. Most people at the party 
were from UF’s surf club, which he 
joined last Spring.
“We’re pretty far from the beach, 
so it’s more of a drinking club than 
a surf club,” Weber said.
Other parties grew to hundreds 
of people.
Off-campus houses pumped 
music, cheers and bodies into the 
street. Cars lined the road and scoot -
ers zipped around pedestrians.
Tarps hiding crowds of partygo -
ers hung over outdoor gates, and 
blankets covered house windows 
on Ninth Road south of Sorority 
Row. Below the tarps, hundreds of 
sneakers and heels crowded togeth -
er while beer cans dropped to the 
ground.
At another outdoor house 
party on Southwest Sixth Avenue, 
students stood on rooftops singing 
along to an EDM remix of “Bohemian 
Rhapsody,” and the thumping bass 
could be heard from blocks away.
GPD’s Party Patrol
The Gators’ wins come with con -
sequences for the rest of the college 
town outside of the university.  
Despite DeSantis’ orders, Ala -
chua County’s mask ordinances are 
still in place, said Graham Glover, 
a Gainesville Police Department 
spokesperson. A volunteer police 
task force known as the GPD Party 
Patrol continues to enforce county 
protocols.  
Although GPD has power over 
Gainesville’s public businesses, it’s less likely to take action against 
mask violations on private residenc -
es, said Lt. Michael Schibuola, an of -
ficer who has been a part of GPD’s 
Party Patrol since it was created. 
GPD founded the Party Patrol 
almost 20 years ago in response to 
game day parties that resulted in 
fights, Schibuola said. The effort is 
an extra duty assignment on week -
ends that officers can volunteer to 
help out with.  
The patrol responds to noise 
complaints and reports of late-night 
parties, he said. 
Last weekend, close to 20 
complaints were reported to GPD, 
Glover said. A majority were noise 
complaints as opposed to parties, 
and no arrests were made by GPD 
officers on the party patrol.
For the Gators’ first game of the 
season, a win in Oxford, Missis -
sippi, on Sept. 26 over the Ole Miss 
Rebels, Fat Daddy’s and Tatu Res -
taurant and Bar reached capacity 
by 9:30 p.m. Bar-goers stood in an 
hour-long line for Fat Daddy’s. 
It’s up to bars to require masks 
inside or keep patrons from moving 
between tables and dancing on the 
dance floor. Only half of the bar-
goers wore masks on the sidewalks. 
Inside the bars, people packed to -
gether on the dance floor, holding 
their drinks without masks on. One 
patron hugged the bouncer without 
a mask on. 
The officers both agree that this 
number is higher than usual. How -
ever, Glover said he’s unsure if this 
can be attributed to game day.
During a home game, the party 
patrol usually notices an increase in 
complaints and reports, Schibuola 
said. The first football weekend of 
the season was busier than normal 
as officers patrolled apartment com -
plexes and the nightlife in Down -
town Gainesville and Midtown.
Even after the first home game 
against South Carolina, Glover said 
he’s confident that future home 
games will be different and doesn’t 
anticipate a significant increase in complaints or reports.
With reduced capacity in the 
stadium and no tailgating, he said 
the circumstances are different, but 
the party patrol’s role will stay the 
same.
“We’re in uncharted territory,” 
Glover said. “We don’t know what 
will happen until we see it.”
Students cluster at bars in Midtown 
and Downtown
The partying didn’t end after the 
Gators’ win.
As the sun set, students climbed 
— and fell — over fences to escape 
dying house parties, leaving back -
yards full of empty beer cans. A trail 
of cans and masks led to the crowd’s 
next stop: the newly reopened Mid -
town and downtown bar scene.
Sweaty partygoers in mini skirts 
and orange-and-blue jerseys blew 
vape clouds while they waited in 
sardine-packed lines.
By 10 p.m., cars filled with more 
passengers than seats honked and 
revved their engines at stumbling 
students. Passengers, some with 
their legs hanging outside of win -dows, kicked the night air as they 
screamed slurred hellos and other 
inaudible chants at passersby.
Downtown, about 40 mostly un -
masked people stood outside White 
Buffalo and about 50 outside Down -
Town Fats. More than 20 people 
approached by The Alligator did 
not speak or want to be identified 
because of fear of social retribution. 
A partygoer who was overheard 
said the party scene was hectic as 
they stood in a line with six other 
friends.
They said the scene was definite -
ly not “COVID conscious” and felt 
like partygoers should be wearing 
masks. 
People inside the bars weren’t 
respecting the recommended 6 feet 
distance from one another.
“But everyone’s trying to live 
their life the best they can and still 
be as safe as they can without los -
ing sight of what life is right now,” a 
partygoer said.
At 11 p.m., about 150 people 
clustered around UF Plaza, located 
across the street from campus. Very 
few people near JJ’s Tavern and The Rowdy Reptile wore masks, and 
an even smaller number of those 
wearing masks had them over their 
nose. Partiers toppled and broke 
traffic signs, barriers and newspaper 
boxes.
This was similar to last weekend, 
when  students made their way to 
the Midtown bar scene to celebrate 
the win against Ole Miss Sept. 26.
Carlos Daireaux, a 23-year-old UF 
general business senior, came out to 
Midtown bars at about 10 p.m.
“I live at the bars practically,” he 
said. “Now that they’ve reopened, 
we’re coming out again.”
Daireaux said he supports wear -
ing masks and temperature checks 
but thinks they won’t be enough.
“Realistically, there will be an -
other outbreak,” he said. “But if 
we’re all responsible, we can make 
it through.”
Alan Halaly, Asta Hemenway, 
Thomas Holton, Lianna Hubbard, 
Jack Prator and Thomas Weber 
contributed to this report. GAME DAY,  from pg.1 Definitely not  ‘COVID-conscious’
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Contributor
A person is seen standing by a crowded line to enter DownTown Fats, located on University Avenue, 
on Saturday, Oct. 3 during the first home football game.
IT’S NOT TOO LATE
Dancer Registration ends
Oct. 11thOct. 11thDancer Registration ends
Register now!
Come see for yourself why CAMPUS is better than a bank!As a not-for-profit financial co-op, owned by our members, it’s in our DNA 
to support the community and the organizations that support them.
campuscu.com/community-ad
Membership is open to students, faculty and staff of the University of Florida, UF Health, and all residents of Alachua County!3 
CAMPUS does not endorse the organization or cause in this ad. Offer may not be combined with any other offer. Offer subject to change without notice. One bonus per household. Offer not available to 
members with an existing CAMPUS checking account. 1. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member must elect to receive eDocuments. 2. Within the first 90 days, member must 
elect to receive eDocuments and establish Direct Deposit of at least $200 per month. If the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $300 reward will be made available 
to the member. $300 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT.  3. Credit approval and initial $5 deposit required. Other restrictions may apply. Federally insured by the NCUA.
This ad space donated by CAMPUS USA Credit Union. Visit campuscu.com/community-ad  for more info.
(Promo code: C300) Visit us online to learn how to open a Free Checking Account1 and earn up to $300!2
grifolsplasma.comNew Plasma Donors EARN $300 for 4 donations!*
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!004IA
New donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.
 Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!*
* when applicable
*fees subject to change without notice. We DO NOT pay by WEIGHT!
004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 7/16/20   12:27 PM7/16/20   12:27 PMDownload the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
WHY SOME STUDENTS DECIDED 
NOT TO RETURN TO UF AND HOW 
THEY ARE COPING WITH BEING 
AWAY FROM CAMPUS
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alyssa Pearson finds that every time 
she’s in one of her Zoom classes, one of 
her family members peeks around the 
door, asks her about what she is doing and 
attempts to carry a lengthy conversation.
The 21-year-old UF digital arts and 
science junior said she used to only visit 
her middle school bedroom littered with 
stuffed animals during vacations. Now, 
she’s there all the time.
“I feel more distracted here than I do 
on campus,” Pearson said. 
Pearson was one of the 3,568 students 
who made the decision to cancel their on-
campus housing contract for the 2020-2021 
academic year. This year saw about 1,000 
more on-campus housing cancellations 
than most years following the university’s 
decision to make most classes fully online, 
wrote UF Student Affairs Director Sara 
Tanner.
Pearson had plans to be a resident 
assistant in Beaty Towers this Fall, but she ultimately decided to resign for her health 
and safety. The prospect of coming into 
contact with every individual going in and 
out of the building seemed dangerous. 
RAs frequently have to be on call and 
respond to emergencies in person, which 
became an added risk, she said.
“I understand why it’s necessary 
because if there is an emergency, you 
can’t just handle it over the phone 
sometimes, but I just didn’t necessarily 
feel comfortable in that position,” Pearson 
said.
Though she feels safer at her home in St. 
Augustine, Pearson said she experienced 
technical challenges over the Summer 
when her laptop was not fully equipped 
to complete the assignments necessary for 
her 3D animation course. Upgrading her 
computer would have been too expensive.
“It’s kind of frustrating, and it’s even 
more isolating when you are the only 
person you feel like is going through these 
issues, and you can’t even meet with your 
professor,” Pearson said.
Pearson is not the only student who 
feels their online classes are more difficult 
from home.
Alexandra Vitiello, a 19-year-old UF 
biology sophomore, currently resides at 
home with her parents and two dogs, far 
away from the quiet campus. Vitiello said now that the professors know they won’t 
be switching to an alternative format in 
the middle of the semester, she feels they 
are taking advantage of the situation by 
giving more work.
“They are making their lectures longer, 
or more lectures, and I’m just having a 
hard time keeping up with that in general,” 
Vitiello said. 
Vitiello decided to stay home primarily 
because she is able to work more hours 
with her job at Publix in Pembroke Pines 
than at the Publix she normally works 
at in Gainesville. However, she plans to 
move back into her dorm room in the on-
campus Keys Complex next semester with 
her two best friends.
“They do things like have Disney movie 
nights and good food,” she said. “I don’t 
want to miss that.”
Though she appreciates sleeping in 
a bigger bed at night and eating home-
cooked meals, Vitiello said she misses 
some of the responsibilities that living 
away from home offers. 
“It is what it is, I chose to stay home, 
so that’s what I’m stuck with,” Vitiello 
said. “But I would love to have my own 
space again, because living on your own is 
fun and a learning experience, and I don’t 
feel as independent at home.”
However, not every student is planning a return to UF in Spring.
Emily Jones, a 19-year-old UF 
microbiology sophomore, said she 
witnessed her mom and stepdad suffer 
through severe symptoms of COVID-19 
after contracting it over the summer. Her 
stepdad was admitted to the AdventHealth 
DeLand hospital at one point due to 
breathing complications.
Jones spent most of the Summer 
confined to her room. After her mom 
became infected with COVID-19, Jones 
communicated with her primarily through 
text messaging, despite being in the same 
house. 
“It was just really stressful, and I 
felt kind of helpless during this because 
there’s nothing you can really do,” Jones 
said. 
Jones believes it’s part of her 
responsibility to stay home because it 
keeps others safe and it’s the best way 
for her to stay socially distanced. She also 
didn’t trust UF’s reopening plan given that 
COVID-19 rates soared across Florida over 
the summer.
“I feel like now we’re more learning 
to live with COVID, rather than trying to 
combat it,” she said.
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org
THE HISPANIC/LATINX 
COMMUNITY WEIGHS IN HOW 
TO LABEL THEIR IDENTITIES
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
Choosing one word to define the lived 
experience of millions of people isn’t an 
easy task.
Some people of Latin American or Span -
ish descent opt for Hispanic, others Latino, 
Latina or Latinx. There are also people 
who shy away from using any pan-ethnic 
term because they feel it erases their na -
tional identity. To some, the introduction 
of the term Latinx in everyday speech is 
just an attempt to force U.S. ideals into the 
Spanish language. For others, it signals a 
genuine attempt at fostering inclusivity.
Jessi Aaron, a professor skilled in so -
ciolinguistics from the UF Spanish depart -
ment, sees nuance in these terms.  
“Using a word like that can be power -
ful to unite people as a front,” Aaron said. 
“But at the same time, it can also erase 
huge differences in Spanish-speaking pop -
ulations.”
A pan-ethnic term associates different 
ethnic groups together based on geograph -
ic, linguistic, religious or racial similarities, 
she said. People from the Latin American 
diaspora typically identify themselves with 
two major pan-ethnic terms: Hispanic and 
Latino.
Latino, the male default of the term, 
has been a term used to describe people 
from the Spanish and Portuguese-speak -
ing countries of Latin America, though it 
excludes those from Spain and Portugal, 
Aaron said.
Some scholars believe the term Hispanic 
was popularized by former U.S. President 
Richard Nixon in the 1972 presidential 
election after he discussed winning the 
“Hispanic” vote. The term was received 
positively and later added to the 1980 Cen -
sus. With time, gender neutral iterations of 
the word Latino, such as Latin@, emerged 
but one gained traction in 2004: Latinx.
At UF, this term is used in student orga -
nizations like Hispanic-Latinx Affairs and 
the Caribbean, Latinx, and Latin American 
Exchange.
The widespread use of Latinx coincides 
with an international movement to intro -
duce gender-neutral nouns and pronouns 
into gendered languages, Aaron said. Mer -
riam-Webster Dictionary added the word 
Latinx to its English dictionary in 2018, cit -
ing gender inclusivity. 
However, some oppose these changes. 
The Real Academia Española, the long -
standing official authority on Spanish lan -
guage and grammar, publicly denied the 
attempt to undo the gendered structure of 
the language that same year.
To some opponents, the use of an x as 
a gender-neutral alternative in Spanish will 
change words like “amigos” to “amigxs,” 
making them more difficult to pronounce.
Another alternative that better follows 
the structure of Spanish and is also com -
monly used is an o-to-e substitution instead 
of o-to-x for words like amigos, Aaron said.
One instance of resistance to the gen -
dered structure of Spanish that stands out 
to Aaron is when a committeewoman in 
Spain caused controversy for intentionally 
using the word “miembra.” The only gram -
matically correct form for the word is the 
masculine “miembro.”  
While one in four U.S. Hispanics have 
heard of the term Latinx, only 3% of them 
actually use it, according to a 2020 Pew Re -
search Center study. Women aged 18 to 29 
are most likely to identify with the term.
The small percentage of people who use 
Latinx may be attributed to the organized 
opposition to use of the term in English 
and Spanish.
To Kaylinn Escobar, an 18-year-old UF 
public health freshman, using the term 
Latinx is an easy switch to be more inclu -
sive of the LGBTQ+ community. 
“When I’m talking about a group of people, I prefer the term Latinx,” she said. 
“If it’s in an attempt to make non-binary 
people feel comfortable, why would you 
take away someone’s comfort just because 
you are opposed to the idea of it?” 
Many indigenious languages utilize gen -
der neutral identifiers, Escobar said, so this 
is a natural extension. 
When Luis Murillo, a 19-year-old UF in -
dustrial and systems engineering freshman, 
first heard of the term about five years ago, 
he dismissed it as linguistic imperialism. 
But after observing gender dynamics in 
school and educating himself on LGBTQ+ 
issues, he now favors using it. He said he’s 
more likely to use the term in a formal set -
ting where he knows people of varying 
gender identities will be present but still 
identifies with Latino. 
Catherine Gomez-Thompson, an 
18-year-old UF art freshman, uses both Hispanic and Latina to define her identity 
as a Colombian American woman.
“I enjoy using these terms to identify 
myself because it makes me feel like I 
belong to a community,” Gomez-Thomp -
son said. “When I discovered Latinx at a 
speech and debate competition, I thought 
it was brilliant.”
Gomez-Thompson feels that addition of 
the x will help the Latin American com -
munity be accepting of more gender identi -
ties and help undo the patriarchal nature of 
Spanish-speaking culture. 
“It comes down to how people are 
raised and how they grew up,” she said. 
“If we start now with the new generation, 
the word will become more widely used in 
the future.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgChecking in with students who chose to remain at home this Fall 
Hispanic, Latino, Latinx: The struggle to name a common identity 
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
FIRST-GENERATION 
STUDENTS CONTINUE 
WORKING TO BE AN 
EXAMPLE IN THEIR 
FAMILIES AND AT UF 
AMID COVID-19
By Aurora Martinez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Sarah Gutierrez’s parents 
couldn’t tell her what to expect 
from college.
Gutierrez, an 18-year-old UF 
psychology freshman, is the first 
person in her family to attend 
college, though her experience so 
far has been online only.
Since COVID-19 began to 
spread in the U.S. in March, 
Gutierrez’s and the plans of other 
first-generation students have had 
to readjust. Navigating UF without 
familial guidance is challenging, more so in the middle of a 
pandemic, but they have found 
ways to push forward.
Gutierrez is a UF Machen 
Florida Opportunity Scholarship 
and a Bright Futures recipient, 
which means all her educational 
expenses are paid for. Although 
she wanted to live on campus, 
she decided to stay home in 
Miami during the Fall due to the 
pandemic. 
Before starting college, she 
said she was excited about 
finally arriving on campus and 
experiencing Preview, UF’s 
student orientation, in person. 
When the semester went mostly 
online, she worried about not 
being able to meet people.
“I really wanted to at least 
know someone before going to 
college,“ Gutierrez said.
Gutierrez’s dad is Honduran and her mom Guatemalan. She 
said that as a first-generation 
student, their hard work and 
encouragement has kept her 
moving forward. 
The First-Generation Leadership 
Program, an organization founded 
over the Summer, has taught the 
freshman the ins and outs of UF. 
FGLP focuses on expanding the 
access of first-generation freshmen 
to resources and leadership 
opportunities at UF.
“Even though everything is 
virtual, I feel like this is enough 
for me,” Gutierrez said. “This 
program really is about lifting 
each other up and not competing 
with one another.” 
As the first in his family to 
attend college, Daniel Badell, 
FGLP founder and 19-year-old UF 
political science sophomore, said 
he understands the struggles other 
first-generation students may go 
through and wants to help them 
succeed from their early stages at 
UF.
“I knew that freshmen 
stepping into the program 
weren’t going to have the same 
university experience that I had 
as a freshman,” Badell said. “We 
were creating the program in the 
developments of COVID — in the 
development of the world turning 
virtual.”
This Fall, about 85 first-
generation freshmen applied to 
be part of FGLP and only 30 were 
selected to ensure that mentor-
mentee relationships will be 
strong throughout the year, Badell 
said. The program will conduct all 
of its meetings through Zoom.
It is important for first-
generation students to have a 
community of people who have had similar struggles as them to 
empower, support and motivate 
each other, Badell said. 
About 15% of UF’s student 
population is first-generation, 
wrote in an email Erica Aguiar, the 
assistant director for the Machen 
Florida Opportunity Scholars 
program and First-Generation 
Student Success.
Andrea Jorratt, a 20-year-old 
UF anthropology and microbiology 
and cell sciences junior, said the 
Summer was hectic. She was 
taking four UF online courses 
while at home in Davie. 
“It was a lot of adjusting to new 
ways of taking classes,” Jorratt 
said. “Adjusting to new definitions 
of what it means to be a student 
at the university while there’s an 
ongoing pandemic.” 
As a first-generation student, 
it felt difficult to meet new people 
and remain involved on campus 
this Summer, she said. However, 
she felt more productive because 
all she could do while at home 
was studying.
Being a first-generation student 
means setting an example in the 
family for future generations to 
follow, Jorratt said.
“It’s a lot of fun,” she said. 
“It’s a lot of stress because you 
always have that weight on your 
shoulder.”
Jorratt is now back in 
Gainesville but said if things 
become too stressful at any point 
in the semester, she could go 
home if she wanted. 
For Mombo Ngu, an 18-year-
old first-generation UF sociology 
sophomore, going online when 
the pandemic hit was difficult 
because she prefers learning in an 
in-person setting.She had to adjust to online 
learning and being back home in 
Jacksonville with her mom and 
her 16-year-old sister.
“Trying to adjust back to living 
with your parents after you’ve 
been in school for so long could 
be like ‘Ah!’ kinda difficult,” Ngu 
said. “But I was able to adjust over 
time.”
Ngu didn’t have a designated 
space to study and take exams at 
home because her family lives in a 
small house and the three of them 
were always there, she said. 
Though Ngu’s situation wasn’t 
optimal, she took two Summer 
A courses: statistics and medical 
terminology. Both courses went 
better than her courses in Spring 
because they were designated to 
be taught online, she said.
“Having that already virtual 
kind of expectation helped,” Ngu 
said.
Now, Ngu said she is glad to 
be back in Gainesville because 
she has her own space and more 
independence.
Ngu said being a first-
generation student has taught her 
to be resilient when things don’t 
go as expected, which has helped 
her cope with COVID-19. When 
she realized the pandemic was not 
something she could change, she 
decided to move forward and focus 
on things she can control, such as 
her academic performance.
“You’re always pushing for 
success and pushing for a better 
life for yourself and your family,” 
Ngu said.
@AuroraCeciliaM
amartinez@alligator.orgUF first-generation students navigate college in the midst of a new reality
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Views from Ben Hill Griffin during COVID-19
Sports reporters Zachary Huber and Noah Ram sat in the stands 
at Ben Hill Griffin during Saturday’s game to observe Florida’s 
social distancing policies, pg. 11MEDICAL EXPERTS RECOMMEND CHANGING AND 
WASHING YOUR MASK OFTEN
By AJ Bafer
Avenue Staff Writer
The COVID-19 pandemic has created plenty of everyday 
problems, like having to decide to order takeout for the fifth 
time this week, struggling to choose which show to binge 
and —  most irritatingly — “maskne.”
Mask acne, or maskne, refers to skin impurities caused 
by the friction and rubbing in one’s mask, said Dr. Marjorie 
Montanez-Wiscovich, a dermatology clinical assistant pro -
fessor at UF’s College of Medicine. 
The now Instagram-famous affliction is a special type of 
acne called acne mechanica. The same condition occurs un -
der sports players’ helmets, Montanez-Wiscovich said. It can 
be prevented by frequently washing cloth face masks and 
changing disposable masks often.
Oil control face wash brands like Neutrogena oil-free acne 
wash and Cetaphil oil control wash can be used to prevent 
oil accumulation and mask acne, she said. Some of her pa -
tients have also benefited from using sulfur-based soaps.
If those initial measures are not helpful, Montanez-Wisco -
vich said people can consider using acne treatment products 
containing benzoyl peroxide or glycolic acid. She said wipes 
with these ingredients are available online and at stores like 
Sephora.
“All of them revolve around keeping the skin clean,” she 
said.
As for makeup, Montanez-Wiscovich said people who 
wear it can try taking a break if they’re getting rashes under 
their masks.
The placement of a mask can also cause maskne. Some 
masks rest at the chin and others rest below it; if a breakout 
occurs in one of those areas, she said to try the alternative. 
“It’s mostly a friction problem,” she said. “For the masks 
to be effective, they have to fit well.”Face shields are an even better way to prevent maskne, 
she said, because they don’t touch the face but still pro -
tect from COVID-19. Montanez-Wiscovich encouraged and 
recommended that people still wear masks even if they’re 
breaking out.
People who follow these recommendations and still have 
issues might be using the wrong mask. 
Dr. Richard Sadove, a Gainesville-based plastic surgeon at 
Sadove Plastic Surgery, said some masks are more likely to 
irritate you than others. He has been exposed to many types 
of medical masks as a surgeon and said people experiencing 
maskne should explore the many alternative brands.
For those wearing face coverings instead, Sadove said it’s 
best to choose a soft, cotton mask. 
People prone to dry skin should use an oil-based moistur -
izer before they put their mask on, and people with a history 
of acne and eczema can use cold compresses to reduce in -
flammation, Sadove said. Using aloe-based toners and mois -
turizers before putting on a mask can help prevent irritation, 
while fragrant and scented cleansers should be avoided.
At the end of the day, most people should put on a clean 
mask after wearing it three times and face coverings should 
be washed overnight, he said. Using spray alcohol on a mask 
and letting it dry before use is an additional measure that can 
be taken for cleanliness.
Everyone’s body is different and people should adjust 
their routine accordingly, Sadove said.
Izzie Brownandia, a 21-year-old UF anthropology alumna, 
did just that. She has had acne since she was about 12, and 
said she’s prone to breaking out whenever anything touches 
her skin — she doesn’t even wear glasses. 
She has, however, personalized her mask regimen.
Brownandia used disposable masks at first because it kept 
her acne a little lower, but said she switched to cloth masks 
to her own detriment to be more eco-friendly. She has been 
washing her cloth masks but said if she doesn’t delicately 
wash them by hand, they build up lint and begin to look 
worn. She tries to wash them at least a couple of times a 
week.
One of her personal strategies is making sure to take her 
mask entirely off her face when she’s eating instead of leav -ing it below her chin, where it can collect food and create 
irritation later. 
“I’m just trying to have the proper, extra vigilant mask 
etiquette along with the cleaning I need to do in between,” 
she said.
While the concern for maskne remains, Brownandia said 
wearing a mask comes with an unexpected perk.
She used to get “unsolicited advice” about her skin from 
work clients and friends, but said she doesn’t get any com -
ments while wearing a mask. The downside is when she 
goes home, she still has to deal with pain and her skincare 
routine.
She has combated the negativity by getting a dermatolo -
gist. Since it’s “mask season,” and her skin can heal while no 
one sees her face, she said it was a good time for her to seek 
professional help for her skin.
“Hopefully, when this is all over, I have a brand-new, 
fresh face to show everybody,” Brownandia said.
@ajbafer
abafer@alligator.org
STEPHEN ELIA STARTED 
“LOVE OR MONEY,” A 
ZOOM DATING GAME 
SHOW IN MAY
By Avery Lotz
Avenue Contributing Writer
Only two squares remained on El -
lie Rader’s computer screen. In each 
Zoom window, a man looked at her 
with a curious gaze.
Rader, a 20-year-old UF advertis -
ing junior, said she knew her deci -
sion from the beginning. It was so -
lidified when one of the competitors 
contending for her affection wrote 
her a poem mid-episode. 
She quietly whispered her 
thoughts to her friends, who sat on 
her leather couch just outside of the 
camera’s line of vision and sent in 
her final response. 
The winner was announced.
Rader was the bachelorette on the Sept. 21 edition of “Love or Money,” 
a Zoom-based dating game show 
started by Stephen Elia, a 21-year-
old UF finance senior, in May. What 
began as a boredom-induced quar -
antine endeavor became a sensation 
among UF students, he said.
“I was definitely – no matter 
what – was going to do at least a few 
episodes,” Elia said. “But when it 
started, I wasn’t sure whether I was 
going to continue doing it in the Fall 
or not.”
Elia, the founder and host of the 
show, streams hour-long episodes 
on Monday nights at 9. Each week, 
he finds seven bachelors or bache -
lorettes to compete for a date with a 
featured guest, or sometimes guests. 
Not all of the contestants are 
competing for love, though. About 
half of the competitors are instead 
vying for a cash prize. 
Elia said the money comes from 
the show’s generous donor: his wal -
let. As a Twitch affiliate, he is paid to 
upload content, so “Love or Money” has paid for itself.
Viewers are unaware of the con -
testant’s intentions until they are 
booted off the show by the featured 
guest at the end of the round or are 
crowned the winner of the episode.
 Rader found out about the show 
when she received an Instagram fol -
low request from the “Love or Mon -
ey” page, she said. 
She said she decided to take a 
chance and become a bachelorette. 
“I genuinely felt like I was there 
with them just hanging out with a 
big group of friends,” she said. “It 
felt like a real game show.” 
Even though it started as a proj -
ect among friends, Love or Money is 
now being streamed by 250 strang -
ers on average, with many watching 
in watch parties or groups, Elia said. 
Elia said interacting with fellow 
students was an important part of 
his life that he lost in March due to 
the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
By late May, the boredom was 
all-consuming, Elia said. One day, he found himself scrolling through 
social media influencer’s videos on 
Twitch, a live-streaming platform 
commonly used by amateur and pro -
fessional gamers.
One video caught his attention, 
he said. 
“Love or Host,” streamed by 
Twitch user AustinShow, is a Zoom 
game show where multiple influenc -
ers speed date for a chance at ro -
mance.Elia decided to put his own 
twist on the idea.
Determined to see his idea come 
to fruition, he reached out to a friend 
and asked her to be on the show, he 
said. She agreed.
Within a week of Elia’s spark of 
creativity, the first episode was up -
loaded on YouTube.
Danielle LeVine, a 19-year-old UF 
marketing junior and the first person 
to hear Elia’s idea, said she expected 
the episode to be a one-time thing.
“I know he had trouble finding 
contestants at first,” she said. “Now, 
people are asking him to be on his show.”
Elia said his direct messages are 
flooded with women and men ask -
ing to compete on the show. A proj -
ect that initially started as a dream 
for one seven-episode season on 
YouTube is now filling the void the 
“The Bachelor” hiatus left in stu -
dents’ television guides. 
From the beginning, Elia’s goal 
has been to bring people together 
during strange times and illicit 
laughter — whether it is among best 
friends or strangers.
 “The show is definitely not that 
serious,” he said. “It’s a lot about 
just having fun and making people 
laugh, so that feels good, and it defi -
nitely validates what I’m doing. And 
during the tough times that we’re 
in, it’s definitely helped me, and I’m 
happy it’s helped other people.”
@ajlotz8
alotz@alligator.orgHow to manage ‘maskne’
Will you accept this Zoom? UF student starts Bachelorette-themed game show
MUSICMUSIC
ENTERTAINMENTENTERTAINMENTAubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Café Risqué
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
352- 466- 3803
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Cooks / Waitresses / Managers / Performers
Apply NOW
11-2-8-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                            10-5-2-15
Alyssa Evagash Photography
Specializing in Portrait, Couples, Maternity, 
and Family sessions
Visit AlyssaEvagashPhotography.com for 
more details                                   10-5-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Tyler Burnett
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/05/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/05/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 5, 2020
ACROSS
1 Grocery store 
sack
4 Outdoor dining 
spot
9 Sauce fruit
14 Secluded plight 
on a desert 
island, say
16 Stacked
17 Big Ten school 
with eight 
national football 
titles
18 Stretched out like 
a sharpshooter
19 Good thing for a 
film’s audio and 
video to be in
20 Presidential 
period, say
21 Dueler’s choice
22 Tolstoy’s 
Karenina
24 Enjoy dinner
25 Contacted on a 
cellphone
28 AP’s Co-driver 
of the Century 
Mario
33 Burn-soothing 
creams
34 Socket insert
35 Small amount
36 Fix, as a fight
37 Mickey, to Rocky
40 Pair in London?
41 Somber news 
item
43 Mining finds
44 Water bill basis
46 Rival of 
17-Across
48 Defeated
49 Before, in poetry
50 Santa’s naughty-
and-nice record, 
e.g.
51 Illicit romance
54 “Psych!”
55 Protein-rich egg 
part
59 Ransacks
60 Rival of 12-Down
62 French school
63 Far-reaching
64 Displeases 
James Bond, at 
the bar?
65 When “the mouse 
ran down”
66 Fancy marble
DOWN
1 Playbill listings
2 Like an unswept 
fireplace3 Enter
4 Partners for mas
5 Show up at
6 Headpiece at the 
Miss America 
website
7 Greek “i”
8 Free throw value
9 Show up
10 Robbed at sea
11 Alka-Seltzer 
sound
12 Car-collecting 
comic Jay
13 Garden with a 
taboo 9-Across
15 Site
21 Lettuce serving
23 Egg-laying  
spot
25 Billiards bounce
26 Suspect’s story
27 Science that 
involves 
reasoning
28 Out of this  
world
29 “Finale Ultimo” 
chorus in “The 
Sound of Music”
30 Word that excites 
a dog
31 Trace of color
32 “Peer Gynt” 
playwright  
Henrik34 Prefix with 
trooper or legal
38 Federer of tennis
39 Regrets
42 Broadway 
destination
45 Lecherous man-
goats
47 Flowers in 
a van Gogh 
masterpiece
48 Like a mosquito 
victim
50 Powerball, e.g.51 “__ well that ends 
well”
52 Rival of 
28-Across
53 Central points
54 Ariana Grande 
album “thank  
u, __”
56 Fail to put in
57 Volcanic output
58 Had down pat
60 Pasture
61 Opposite of 
WSW
By Catherine Cetta
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/29/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/29/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2020
ACROSS
1 URL ending for 
MoMA
4 Early film legend 
Greta
9 Pie crust fat
13 Even __: 72, 
often, in golf
14 Perfect
15 Off to the side, 
at sea
17 Dye type
18 *Where a strike 
usually isn’t lucky
20 “Madam 
Secretary” star 
Téa
22 Meadow sound
23 Sales rep’s 
customer: Abbr.
24 1,760-yard runner
27 Eggy cakes
29 *Dinner guest’s 
gift
33 Garbage can 
emanation
34 Feature of higher-
numbered pool 
balls
35 Shoulder-
shrugging 
syllable
38 Tim who played 
pro football and 
pro baseball
40 2,000 pounds
41 Take care of
43 Opposite of NNW
44 Danish birthplace 
of Hans Christian 
Andersen
47 Cut short
48 *Fencing may 
mark it
50 Whac-A-Mole 
setting
53 Take to lunch, 
say
54 Buddies
55 Bond creator 
Fleming
58 Sky-supporting 
Titan
61 *Orthopedist’s 
concerns ... and 
what you’ll find in 
two parts in the 
answers to the 
starred clues
65 Before, in verse
66 Lop off
67 100-meter 
freestyle, e.g.68 Black or Caspian
69 Blacks’ foes in 
checkers
70 Shabby
71 H.S. challenge
DOWN
1 Down Under 
gem
2 Demolish
3 Man at the altar
4 1944 law for 
returning vets
5 Bustle
6 DVR button
7 Lip soother
8 Mishmash
9 Transmission 
delay
10 Like trumpeting 
trumpets
11 Laugh at a joke, 
say
12 Hula or hora
16 Yanks’ crosstown 
rivals
19 “Reward” for poor 
service
21 TNT component
25 Wide shoe sizes
26 Bad to the core
28 Small bills
29 Spammers, often
30 Poetic tributes31 Fern leaf
32 Comes out on 
top in
35 Good for nothing
36 George Orwell’s 
alma mater
37 Optimism
39 Outdated tennis 
racket material
42 Panache
45 Scheduled to land
46 Slip up
48 Lolled on a beach49 Like bread dough
50 PD alerts
51 Less common
52 Garlic unit
56 Stand lookout for, 
as a heist
57 Flaring star
59 __ code
60 Pants part
62 Busy hosp. areas
63 Tennis court 
essential
64 Tolkien creature
09/28/2020
solution on page 10Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-131For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. ABSOLUTELY 
HUGE! Gorgeous Wood Floors, central 
AC/HT, dishwasher, laundry room, fenced, 
pets OK $1,890 per month. 352-665-8166
10-26-20-8-2
Available Immediately. Blocks away from UF 
& shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes utilities 
& wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call Brenda 352-
672-8657  10-12-20-4-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY10 For Sale
readread
answers below1. What Argentinian tennis player defeated 
Steffi Graf to win the US Open women's 
singles championship in 1990?
2. Name the broadcaster who earned the 
nickname "The Voice of God" as narrator for 
NFL Films from 1966-84.
3. What Boston Bruins great won the Norris 
Trophy for the NHL's best defenseman eight 
years in a row from 1968-75? 
4. Before serving as head coach of the Min -
nesota Vikings, Bud Grant won four Grey 
Cups as coach of what CFL team?
5. Hadi Saei won two Olympic gold medals 
and one bronze medal for Iran as a competi -
tor in what sport?
6. What bespectacled Cincinnati Reds third 
baseman was named NL Rookie of the Year 
in 1988?
7. Dutch performance artist Iepe Rubingh 
and French comic-book artist Enki Bilal are 
credited with creating what hybrid sport?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
11..    ________  mmaacchhiinnee
11..    AAlltthhoouugghh55..    TTaakkee  wwiitthh  yyoouu
22..    DDoouubbllee  ________66..    AAuutthhoorr  JJoohhnn  SSiimmmmoonnss
33..    HHoommee  ttoo  AAbbuujjaa  77..    SSeenndd  bbaacckk
44..    WWhhiittee  ________NNDDAAGGIIDD
EEBBLLAAIITTRRNNIIBBGG
RRAABBTTHH
BBIIDDLLEEBBRR
RRNNAAIIGGEEIINNAAMMRREEDD
DDRRIICCOOHHAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AAddddiinngg    55AA--BBrriinngg    66AA--BBaarrtthh    77AA--RReemmaanndd
11DD--AAllbbeeiitt    22DD--DDrriibbbbllee    33DD--NNiiggeerriiaa    44DD--OOrrcchhiidd    BB--AAbbrrooaadd    BB--AAbbooaarrdd1100--33--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
BONUSDOUBLE
TThhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss
ccaann  bbee  uunnssccrraammbblleedd
ttoo  ffoorrmm  ttwwoo  ddiiffffeerreenntt
BBOONNUUSS  aannsswweerrss..
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd  uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..
WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,  uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBoonnuuss..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC  JJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
CLUE: IInn  aa  ffoorreeiiggnn  ccoouunnttrryy
CLUE: ““AAllll  ________!!””11
6622
5533
7744
solution below
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
CryptoQuote  answerSports Quiz  answers1. Gabriela Sabatini. 
2. John Facenda.
3. Bobby Orr.
4. The Winnipeg Blue Bombers.5. Taekwondo.
6. Chris Sabo.
7. Chessboxing.
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.Trust in dreams, for in
them is hidden the gate
to eternity.
 — Khalil GibranFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
www.alligator.org/sportsDemarckus Bowman to transfer to Florida
Former Clemson running back Demarckus 
Bowman announced his intention to transfer to 
UF and play for the Gators on Saturday. Read the 
Alligator’s article here
UF junior Sam Riffice won all six 
of his matches at the Tiger Fall 
Invitational that began on Friday in 
Auburn, Alabama. The Gators went 
24-3 in singles matches and 6-6 in 
doubles matches.COVID-19
By Noah Ram and 
Zachary Huber
Sports Writers
For many UF freshmen, their 
experience on Saturday felt 
similar to many of those who 
passed through the gates of Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium for the first 
time.
At the end of the third quarter, 
the crowd of 15,120 still swayed 
side-to-side to “We Are the 
Boys” and belted out the lyrics 
to Tom Petty’s classic “I Won’t 
Back Down.” And following the 
Gators’ win over South Carolina, 
the team traveled to the band 
on the northeast side of Steve 
Spurrier-Florida Field to sing UF’s 
alma mater.
Laurie Andrews, 54, and Julian 
Andrews, 59, of Jensen Beach, 
Florida, have a daughter who is 
a senior at UF. They said they 
have gone to games for years and 
wanted to see Florida play one 
last time before their daughter 
leaves.
“It’s nice to see that students 
are still able to get that experi -
ence and see what it is like to 
be a Gator when so many plac -
es are allowing no fans,” Laurie 
said. “Especially when there is 
so much negativity in the world. 
When you come here, everybody 
has one point of view — Gator Nation, and all the politics goes 
away and all the negativity goes 
away and you just enjoy a nice 
day.”
But besides the usual, every 
fan and cardboard cutout at The 
Swamp for Saturday’s home 
opener encountered something 
different from their predecessors.
With the COVID-19 pandemic 
still ravaging the nation, 
Florida’s home football season 
began Saturday with 17% of its 
maximum stadium capacity and 
enhanced COVID-19 protocols.
The first changes presented 
themselves on the drive to the 
stadium. Areas of campus that 
are usually filled with tailgaters, 
such as those in the vicinity of 
Southwest Recreation Center 
and Fraternity Row, were eerily 
quiet an hour before kickoff. 
Florida announced Sept. 3 that 
all on-campus tailgating would be 
banned for the 2020 season.
Closer to the stadium, it felt 
more like a typical gameday. Even 
preachers were seen maskless on 
Gale Lemerand Drive, explaining 
where non-believers would go if 
they didn’t convert to Christianity. 
It was hard to miss the clus -
ters of 10 fans or more trying to 
locate which gate they should en -
ter through or just mingling with 
each other. While many fans out -
side were wearing masks, nearly half were not, and there was vir -
tually no social distancing going 
on. 
Inside the stadium near the 
Official Gator SportShop, Florida 
fans gathered around a rack of 
Gators merchandise with no 
stadium staff members to ensure 
they were socially distanced. 
Despite the booming voice 
heard every five minutes from 
the public address announcer 
telling fans to social distance and 
wear their masks — as well as 
the signage posted warning them 
about COVID-19 — clusters of 
fans could be seen all around the 
stadium. 
It was more of the same at the 
Midtown bars, which were packed 
with patrons getting in one last 
drink before the noon kickoff after 
Gov. Ron DeSantis said bars and 
restaurants in Florida can operate 
at 100% capacity last week.
Face coverings at the student 
entrances were abundant, as UF 
requires. There were markers 
telling fans where to stand to 
remain 6 feet apart when fans 
were approaching security for 
entrance to the game.
Across the stadium, chair 
backs set up in groups of two to 
four were 6 feet apart from other 
seats.
Last Sunday, The Alligator 
reported that the University Police 
Department wasn’t in charge of 
social distancing. But during the 
first half, the Security, Athletic 
Facilities & Events (S.A.F.E) 
management were quick to tell 
any fan not wearing a mask to 
put it on. However, some fans 
promptly removed their masks 
when S.A.F.E wasn’t looking. 
As Florida’s lead over South 
Carolina diminished, so did the 
enforcement of safety regulations. 
By the fourth quarter, with UF up 
14, S.A.F.E. employees seemed 
to look the other way. More 
face coverings came off, and by 
the end of the game, it looked 
as though nearly half of the 
attendees remaining in Section 45 
were maskless. Policies further 
unraveled once fans started 
making their way to the exit.
UF did not seem to have a plan 
in place to alleviate the avalanche 
of people leaving The Swamp at 
the same time. The concourse 
and ramps were filled with fans crammed in like sardines. All the 
good work the university did dur -
ing the three-hour-plus game fell 
by the wayside in just five min -
utes.
Outside the stadium, the 
scene was similar to the crowd 
before the game, albeit a little 
worse. Numerous members of 
the orange-and-blue faithful 
congregated along University 
Avenue to celebrate the double-
digit win. The bars of Midtown 
were jammed with even more 
maskless customers who stood 
close together in long lines to 
enter famed establishments such 
as Fat Daddy’s and The Social at 
Midtown.
This had been the concern of 
Justin Horbacz. The 22-year-old is 
a first-year grad student at UF who 
graduated from the university in 
August and is now an employee 
at the O’Connell Center. He liked 
how the protocols were being 
followed during the game but was 
worried about everything that 
happened after the game.
“You have 15,000 people com -
ing from around the state and 
staying in our hotels and eating 
in our bars and restaurants,” he 
said. “I haven’t seen it yet, but I 
was looking at pictures of Mid -
town this weekend and it was dis -
gusting. I was planning on taking 
a drive tonight, and I’m afraid of 
what I am going to see.”Horbacz’s fears seemed to 
have been realized, as Midtown 
and Downtown Gainesville were 
loaded with students, seemingly 
returning to pre-pandemic levels.
Two UF freshmen Justin Bailey 
and Aidan Henriksen enjoyed 
themselves, despite their first 
game being so abnormal.
“I can only imagine how fun it 
would be if it was packed,” Bailey 
said. “There’s not as many people 
here, but it’s still a fun experience 
and we’re still doing all the same 
traditions.”
Horbacz also would come 
again but would like to see 
another venerable event take 
place in The Swamp.
“They are doing this, but took 
away our graduation,” he said. 
“There are so many kids that 
wait their whole life. They're 
first-generation students, they 
just want to walk that stage, and 
they didn't get the chance to, and 
I understand why they're upset 
seeing a lot of fans here today.”
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.org
@Noah_Ram1
nram@alligator.org Obedience of COVID-19 protocol varied in home opener
Zachary Huber / / Alligator Staff
Social distancing was scarce once fans exited the stadium after 
UF’s win over South Carolina on Saturday.
Zachary Huber / / Alligator Staff
A S.A.F.E. staff member instructs fans in the student section to put 
on their masks at Saturday’s home opener.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2020
SOCCER
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
In a tale of two halves at the Diz, Florida overcame a sloppy 
and toothless first-half performance to notch a 2-1 victory over 
No. 15 Alabama. 
During a rainy Sunday afternoon in Gainesville, the Crimson 
Tide used the weather to their advantage early on, pressing high 
up the pitch from the opening kickoff and disrupting Florida’s 
possession-based style of play. The Gators ceded possession several times deep in their de -
fensive third, granting Alabama chance after chance.   
UF was undone just five minutes into the contest after a 
Georgia Eaton-Collins back pass was intercepted by Sidney Vin -
cent. The Crimson Tide striker slotted a composed finish past 
keeper Susi Espinoza to give her team a 1-0 lead. 
Florida should have equalized moments later, as following a 
nice bit of interplay down the left wing, Alivia Gonzalez’s cross 
pinballed around the penalty area. The ball found its way inside 
the 6-yard area to an unmarked Maddy Rhodes, who failed to 
convert the tap-in.
UF looked better after conceding the goal, becoming more 
sure-footed in possession and direct in its passing. However, 
the Gators failed to create further clear-cut opportunities in the 
attack. 
Espinoza was called to action in the 22nd minute, as a de -
flected shot from the Crimson Tide looked destined for the bot -
tom corner. Espinoza reacted quickly and forced the ball wide, 
maintaining Florida’s one-goal deficit. 
UF was fortunate to trail by just one at the half, register -
ing just one shot on goal and being outplayed and out-hustled 
through the first 45 minutes.
The Gators were much improved out of the locker room, 
putting Alabama’s back line under siege. A 49th-minute penalty 
shout and a curling effort from Cassidy Lindley in the 52nd min -
ute were the most potent attempts following the restart. 
Coach Becky Burleigh applauded her team’s second half per -
formance, giving all the credit to the players. 
I’m not sure it was our message in the locker room,” Bur -
leigh said. “I just thought our girls did a great job stepping up 
to the challenge.”
Florida scored an equalizer in the 62nd minute after a well-
worked attacking movement. 
Kouri Peace won possession in the midfield and ran at the 
center backs before releasing Rhodes down the right flank. 
Rhodes played a driven ball across the face of goal, which Madison Alexander forced across the line with a tidy back-heel 
finish. 
In the final 30 minutes, UF looked more likely to break the 
deadlock, surging forward, winning tackles and testing Ala -
bama keeper McKinley Crone. 
The crowd at Donald R. Dizney stadium clamored for a pen -
alty in the 80th minute when Parker Roberts went down in the 
box. The senior midfielder made a strong run from deep and ap -
peared to get pushed over in the penalty area. The referee was 
on top of the action and instructed Roberts to get up, preserving 
the deadlock. 
UF continued to pile on the pressure, as Cameron Hall found 
herself unmarked in the box, only managing a tame effort to -
ward Crone’s goal. 
Six minutes later, Gonzalez rose the highest for a header, 
but she was unable to generate enough power, as Crone made 
a comfortable save. 
But, as the game appeared destined for overtime, UF 
snatched a win at the death. 
Kouri Peace was instrumental in this goal’s buildup and 
played a pass to Kit Loferski, who lofted a service toward the 
far post.  Gonzalez made no mistake this time, attacking the 
cross and firing a left-footed finish into the net two minutes 
from full time. 
Gonzalez’s goal completed a remarkable turnaround for the 
Gators, but it was a situation Florida prepared for. 
“We had worked on this situation (playing a goal down) in 
training just yesterday,” Gonzalez said. “We didn’t panic and 
we knew how to respond.”
Florida will hit the road for the first time Oct. 11, taking its 
unbeaten record into College Station, Texas, to play Texas A&M 
at 2 p.m. on the SEC Network.
dwalsh@alligator.org
@dawalsh_UFGonzalez scores late winner for UF against No. 15 Alabama
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Sophomore forward Alivia Gonzalez nailed a game-
winning shot in the 88th minute to protect Florida’s 
unbeaten record.
