We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperUF PROFESSORS SAY FOREIGN 
LANGUGAGES CAN’T BE TAUGHT 
WITH MASKS ON, PUSH FOR 
ONLINE CLASS 
By Kalia Richardson
Alligator Staff Writer
Face masks have added an additional 
roadblock to the pathway to in-person language 
classes, but UF administration isn’t buying 
professors, chairs and directors’ reasoning to 
stay online. 
Japanese, Spanish and Russian professors 
said they would prefer to teach through a 
digital screen rather than lose the ability to 
read students’ lips, but Provost Joseph Glover 
argues otherwise. 
Four UF language chairs and directors sent 
a letter to Provost Joseph Glover on Oct. 13 
asking for non-English courses to remain online 
during the Spring. Glover wrote that he wasn’t 
convinced by their reason to stay online and 
that they should redirect their questions to the 
dean, according to a public records request.
“Based on experience, I don’t buy the 
argument that students six feet apart cannot 
communicate,” Glover wrote in response to the 
letter. 
President Fuchs pledged on Oct. 9 to increase in-person Spring courses. UF administrators 
have encouraged Hyflex, short for Hybrid-
Flexible, which offers courses online and face-
to-face simultaneously. 
By doing so, language professors will have 
to wear a face mask. They argue it will make 
foreign language apprehension more difficult. 
Brittany Wise, UF director of 
communications, said that the administration 
is planning to give students and language 
instructors clear face masks for in-person 
instruction but is not sure when. 
Spanish lecturer Kathryn Dwyer Navajas, 
who has taught at UF for two decades, 
said language learning relies on close 
communication. Students sitting 6 feet apart 
with clear face masks would be an impediment, 
Navajas said.
She can’t envision standing in front of 
a fraction of students as the majority log in 
online in the Spring. It abandons effective 
communication, she said. 
“It’s a little bit like being in the circus with 
the poles and the plates,” Navajas said. “We 
can only teach effectively one group or the 
other.”
Some students struggle with the letter “R,” 
which sounds more like a “D” or is rolled to 
create the “erre” sound in Spanish. Face masks 
will only make it more challenging, she said.
“Even in English, it’s hard to hear people with masks when they talk,” she said. “Can 
you imagine students who are a little bit timid 
about projecting in a second language?”
 Navajas said that students in language 
classes also have to group-up with other 
students to practice conversing. Most language 
courses have a 25-student capacity and with 
CDC guidelines, the smallest classrooms can 
hold as few as two. As a result, in-class students 
will be limited to less students, she said.
While she looks forward to being back in 
the classroom, she finds the Hyflex format to 
be ineffective.
“I don’t know that there’s any research 
that establishes that this is an effective way of 
teaching anything, never mind languages,” she 
said.
Japanese lecturer Yasuo Uotate said his 
assigned 25-person Spring classroom in 
Matherly hall doesn’t allow for much social 
distancing. 
“Do you want to sign up for a class with 
only you and another classmate?” he asked. 
“No, right.”
He added that in Japanese, words like 
“Florida” and “computer” are borrowed, 
but the pronunciation is not. The F-sound is 
replaced with the H-sound in hoop, forcing the 
lip to pucker.
“In person, I can say HOO-OR-I-DA pointing 
out my lip,” he said. “But if I’m wearing my mask, students cannot see it.”
Spencer Farfante, an 18-year-old UF 
exploratory engineering freshman, is taking a 
Spanish intensive communications course this 
Fall and said masks in the classroom would 
be an added challenge when understanding 
pronunciation.
“That would be awful,” Farfante said. “If 
the Spanish is just a little muffled, that would 
just be very difficult because it’s not your native 
language.” 
UF professor Alexander Burak also sees 
teaching in a Hyflex format with face masks as 
a hindrance and technological inconvenience 
during his Russian course. 
It’s important to see what’s happening with 
students’ lips, tongues and facial expressions, 
he wrote in an email.
A petition, initiated by UF faculty in the 
history department, has circulated rejecting 
face-to-face classes in the Spring semester. 
More than 820 faculty members have signed it, 
including Burak. 
“Under the current dire circumstances, 
teaching language synchronously/remotely on 
Zoom as a temporary measure would be the 
best solution,” he wrote.
@Kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.org
A UF instructor speaks out on the failures of HyFlex
“Gators, we de serve better,” wrote an anonymous doctoral 
student , pg. 6
Women elected to office at local and national levels
The Alachua County Commission is now majority female,  pg. 4Gators Soccer drops sixth straight game
UF soccer continued a disastrous skid after 
falling to the Missouri Tigers, 5-2,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 11
FOOTBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
…What do you do now?
First, you celebrate, 
because if you’re Dan 
Mullen, you’ve just beaten 
a team that has bested you 
every year of your tenure 
thus far. 
On top of that, you’ve 
defeated your toughest 
opponent on the road to 
the SEC Championship.
Then, you get back to work.
There is certainly lots to 
be proud of for the Gators, 
but even so, the road 
ahead spans many more 
miles before Mullen and 
company finally reach that 
SEC Championship they’ve 
been chasing for so long. 
While there is plenty of 
good to talk about in a 
16-point victory against 
what is perhaps UF’s 
biggest rival, Florida still 
has some issues to address across the board if it wants 
to make noise at the end of 
the season.
 
So, you have a record-
breaking offense…
…How long can you 
lean on it?
It’s no secret that 
quarterback Kyle Trask 
has been a menace this 
season. He’s thrown four 
touchdown passes in five 
straight games (an SEC 
record) and, after the win 
on Saturday, finds himself 
squarely in the Heisman 
conversation.
In addition to Trask, 
running back Dameon 
Pierce tacked on another 
touchdown Saturday 
evening, proving that 
Florida’s scoring potential 
expands beyond its ability 
to pass. For a half of 
football, the Gators’ offense 
looked truly dominant as it 
has shown the potential to 
be throughout the course FOUR DAYS AFTER ELECTION DAY, 
THE RESULTS WERE KNOWN: JOE 
BIDEN IS THE PRESIDENT-ELECT
By Steven Walker
Alligator Staff Writer
A new generation of voters made it clear 
— the country needed change. The historic 
election brought about record-breaking voter 
turnout amid one of the most deadly and 
polarized points of the 21st century.
Former Vice President Joe Biden secured 
the 270 Electoral College votes needed to 
become the 46th president of the U.S. on 
Saturday morning, according to The Associated 
Press. Sen. Kamala Harris became the first 
woman and person of color elected to the vice 
presidency
Biden, 77, is the oldest U.S. president ever 
elected, but his victory was secured by voters 
aged 18-29, who voted overwhelmingly for 
Biden by 25 percentage points, according to 
AP polling.
While record numbers of voters wondered 
who would win, the U.S. set records in new 
COVID-19 cases. Biden received the most votes 
for any presidential candidate ever at more 
than 75 million and won the popular vote by 
about 4.4 million as of Sunday.
Many of Biden’s proposed policies speak to 
issues championed by college-aged voters like 
his plans for higher education, climate change 
and health care.
He has said he supports creating an affordable publicly funded 
health care option under 
the Affordable Care 
Act. The plan would 
also protect abortion, a 
constitutional right under 
Roe v. Wade.
He has plans to 
provide two years of free 
community college. 
The president-elect 
said he’s against the “defund the police” 
movement, focusing instead on criminal 
rehabilitation and eliminating systemic racism.
He would have the U.S. re-enter the Paris 
Climate Agreement, an agreement between 
nations to reduce global emissions, after his 
inauguration.
Trey Hemond, a 21-year-old political 
science senior and UF College Democrats 
spokesperson, said young people should be 
excited about Biden. 
“Trump’s rhetoric has really contributed to 
some of the divisions people feel in politics,” 
Hemond said. “People really showed up to the 
polls to voice their opinion on that.
Although Trump lost the election, he won 
Florida’s 29 Electoral College votes. Biden won 
Alachua County by 27 percentage points, about 
38,000 votes. The Democratic presidential 
nominee has won Alachua County in every 
election since 1992. 
@swalker_7
swalker@alligator.org So, you’ve just beaten the Georgia Bulldogs…Former Vice President Joe Biden wins 
the 2020 presidential election
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 11Courtesy to The Alligator
UF coach Dan Mullen after Saturday’s win over Georgia.
President-Elect Biden
Provost doesn’t agree with foreign language professors’ requestsT oday’s Weather
ISSN 0889-24232   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 11
THE ONLINE GROUP HAS ALMOST 
100,000 MEMBERS
By Kara Guillame
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Facebook group formed by a UF student with a goal 
of reaching 100 members quickly became a viral online 
community.
The Born Zillenial Facebook group created by Matthew 
Duffy, a 22-year-old UF mass communications master’s 
first-year, rapidly took off in early October and now has 
over 100,000 members. The group primarily consists of 
“zillenials”: people who were born sometime in the ’90s 
but were shaped by the early 2000s, Duffy said. 
The online community serves to bridge the gap 
between two rigidly defined generations, millenials and 
Gen Z, he said. Members range from 18 to 29 years in 
age, but there is not a restriction on who can be a part 
of the group. 
“Being a zillenial is just a mindset,” he said. “Anyone 
who can relate is welcome to join.”
The private Facebook group is a community where 
members post nostalgic content and reminisce on 
different aspects of their childhood. Members network 
with one another, share advice and bond over familiar 
memories.
Those who want to join must agree to the group rules 
and answer questions. Before being admitted, people 
must state their year of birth, what their first cell phone 
was and what they hope to get out of the group.  
Posts shared by members include photos of toys that 
bring feelings of nostalgia and clips from childhood TV 
shows such as “Hannah Montana” and “The Suite Life 
of Zack and Cody.” Group members have also created 
shared playlists of songs that they grew up listening to.
 “It’s been incredible to see how everyone is 
connecting even beyond shared childhood experiences,” 
Duffy said. 
Duffy created the group as part of a semester-long 
project for his Social Media Community Management 
course. The class aims to teach students how to build 
and manage communities of people on social media, 
said Justin Kings, the UF College of Journalism and 
Communications Online professor who teaches the 
course. 
Although this is only the second time he has taught 
the course, the success of the Born Zillenial Facebook 
group exceeds that of any other group that students have 
created for this class, Kings said. 
“The rapid growth of Matt’s group would be regarded 
as successful in a professional context, let alone for a 
class course,” he said. “It’s been very exciting for me as a 
professor and for the rest of the class as well.”
The goal of the assignment was for students to 
practice what they’ve learned in class by developing their 
own social media communities based on a unique idea. 
“The idea for this group came to me because I always 
felt lost between the two generations,” Duffy said. 
Keeping his target demographic in mind, Duffy used 
TikTok to recruit young group members. Duffy’s existing followers on the app, which was then about 18,000, 
came to his advantage. 
Duffy posted an original TikTok video on Oct. 8 in 
which he introduced the concept of the Facebook group 
and encouraged people to join. 
“I basically told people to pity me and join my group 
so that I could get a good grade,” Duffy said. “But now, 
the group means so much more to me.”
The original TikTok video that Duffy posted now has 
over 1.5 million views and over 250,000 likes. Less than 
two days after the video was posted, the Born Zillenial 
group had over 53,000 members.
Duffy has enjoyed being a community manager 
but has been overwhelmed with having to oversee all 
aspects of the group. Because time management has been 
difficult to maintain, Duffy appointed five moderators on 
Nov. 2 to help him approve pending posts and facilitate 
discussion, he said. 
“I think I’ve spent more time on Facebook in the past 
three weeks than I have in the past five years,” Duffy 
said. 
Christie Allison, a 21-year-old nursing senior at 
Pittsburg State University in Kansas, came across the 
video on her TikTok feed and was immediately eager to 
learn more about the community.
“I don’t think anyone outside of our generation can 
relate to this,” Allison said. “I feel heard.”  
Duffy has also used the success of Born Zillenial to 
help his classmates spread the word about their groups. 
Endless Love Harris, a 24-year-old mass communications 
master’s student who is also in the class, says Duffy 
helped her grow her online community.  
Harris created a mid-size fashion community where 
mid-size women can share fashion advice and connect 
with one another. The group now has over 450 members, 
she wrote in an email. 
“My community originally started off with about 50 
close friends and family,” she wrote. “But with the help 
of Matt, who shared a link to my group on his group’s 
page, my community grew tremendously overnight.” 
While the positive feedback and high engagement of 
the group have been exciting, Duffy has had to find a 
balance between meeting the assignment requirements 
and engaging his online community.  
“It’s been tough at times because although I’m 
having fun with this, I have to make sure that I’m doing 
everything right to get a good grade,” he said.
Although the class ends on Dec.13, Duffy plans 
to continue the growth of Born Zillenial beyond the 
assignment. He said he hopes to expand the community 
to Instagram and Twitter.
“There are so many opportunities to mobilize us,” he 
said. “I have a million ideas but just have to see where I 
want my vision to go.” 
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinions Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett MullenaxBorn Zillenial: UF graduate student 
creates a viral online community
Facebook screenshot
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
MACHEN SCHOLARSHIP TO GIVE 
FIRST GENERATION
 STUDENTS FREE 
CAPS AND GOWNS
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
A parking ticket forgiveness day 
is in the works within UF Student 
Government, but UF Parking and 
Transportation Services isn’t in on the 
plans. 
Student Body President Trevor Pope 
announced the Spring 2021 forgiveness 
program in his State of the Campus 
Address Oct. 27. He also announced a 
cap and gown scholarship for students 
this Fall 2020 graduation.
“The parking ticket forgiveness day 
is obviously in its early phases, seeing 
that it’s months away,” Pope wrote in 
an email. “We expect progress to be 
made in the Spring.”
Transportation and Parking Services 
Director Scott Fox wrote in a text 
message that the department hasn’t 
been consulted yet.
“TAPS has no knowledge of this 
concept and no plans to implement any 
such program,” he wrote.
Pope declined to respond to Fox’s 
comment.
In Spring 2018, TAPS offered a 
ticket amnesty program where parking 
tickets would be forgiven in exchange 
for a donation to the Food and Fork 
Pantry, an on-campus food pantry for 
students and employees.
Also at the State of the University 
speech, Pope announced that Machen 
Florida Opportunity Scholars, low-
income, first generation scholarship students, graduating this semester will 
receive free caps and gowns from UF 
Student Government. 
The scholarship applies to the 47 UF 
Machen Scholars who are graduating 
with their bachelor’s this semester, 
said Erica Aguiar, assistant director of 
the scholarship. 
“This is just a good way to make 
sure they’re covered, not just for the 
actual ‘100%, I need this,’ but also for 
the things that are so important to the 
UF experience,” Aguiar said.
The Machen Scholarship is offered 
to first-generation undergraduate 
students with less than $40,000 of 
annual family income and less than 
$25,000 in assets. Aguiar said that 
Machen seniors often can’t afford to 
participate in graduation along with 
paying for college and home costs.
“I can’t tell you how many students 
have said, ‘Well, I’ve lost my job’ or 
‘I’m helping my family pay the rent and 
also paying my rent in Gainesville,’” 
she said.
UF SG will pay for the regalia with 
money from the student fees budget’s 
special projects section, which was 
allocated $179,698, Pope wrote.
“The program is not only 
intended to celebrate the academic 
accomplishments of our students, but it 
also increases resources going towards 
students with financial insecurities,” 
Pope wrote in an email.
UF bachelor’s regalia cost about $49 
plus tax, according to the UF Bookstore. 
“Depending on the success of the 
program, we intend on expanding it to 
more students in the Spring of 2021,” 
Pope wrote.
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.orgTHE CENTER HAS OPENED 
ITS DOORS VIRTUALLY 
TO STUDENTS WHO 
MAY NEED HELP WITH 
COURSEWORK 
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Due to the health risks 
of meeting in person during 
COVID-19, the UF Teaching Center 
has offered collaborative settings to 
students online.
 The Teaching Center, located in 
Broward Hall, has continued from 
this summer and offers remote 
drop-in appointments, test reviews, 
Q&As and scheduled private 
appointments, said Leesa Lloyd, 
an administrative support assistant 
at the center. The center remains 
closed to students and staff, but 
in the virtual world, any student is 
welcome.
It hosts remote test reviews for 
different calculus and chemistry 
courses and posts the material on 
their website afterward, Lloyd said. 
This means that students are able to 
go back and watch the recordings 
as much as they would like.
“I don’t think anybody was 
ready for this pandemic,” Lloyd 
said. “But I think as a whole the 
center has adjusted really well for 
that.” 
The center’s exam review for 
Chemistry 1 reached nearly 2,000 
views, she said. She also said 
private appointments have reached 
the full capacity of 80 appointments 
a week, and they see around seven to 10 students per day in math labs. 
Lloyd said that before 
COVID-19, they would see about 
150 students in reviews, depending 
on the subject. She said the center 
plans to implement more online 
resources after the pandemic due to 
the increase in turnout at reviews.
The tutoring program is 
still hiring students for the Fall 
semester but has been interviewing 
applicants remotely, Lloyd said. 
Tutors are expected to have an 
overall 3.5 GPA, an A in the class 
they are applying to tutor for and 
strong recommendations.
However, they still face 
challenges, one being getting the 
word out to students that the center 
is still open. 
“I like to say we’re the best-kept 
secret on campus,” Lloyd said. “It’s 
a shame that more people don’t 
realize it.”
The service relies on professors, 
social media and word of mouth 
to spread information, Lloyd said. 
It also partners with First Year 
Florida, a course that helps first-
year students transition to UF, 
to give virtual tours to connect 
students, who may not be able to 
go on campus, with the center.
The center made the switch 
to virtual tours with FYF during 
the Summer, said Denise Dixon, 
administrative services specialist 
for the center.
She said that the service is 
especially helpful for students who 
are tackling challenging math and 
science courses, which they have 
to pass for their major. 
“Even though we’re not in 
person, we’re still here to help,” Lloyd said.
Lloyd said it’s important for 
students to use free services like the 
Teaching Center, especially now.
“The university is so big and 
especially if you start as a freshman 
and may not have the foundation 
of the best study services or you’re 
on your own for the first time,” 
Lloyd said.
Hao Wang, a 20-year-old UF 
economics sophomore, used the 
center for the first time this Fall. He 
watched a recorded exam review 
from the Teaching Center to study 
for a Calculus 3 exam. Using both 
the center’s and his professor’s 
reviews, he was able to pass the 
exam.
He said the center provided 
additional examples and sample 
questions for him to study.
“The method they use aligns 
with what the teachers are 
teaching,” Wang said. “It’s pretty 
easy for me to understand.”
Wang also said he felt the 
review covered nearly all of the 
exam material. He said he plans to 
watch the next review whenever 
it’s posted.
Sophia Prendiville, a 19-year-
old UF mathematics sophomore, 
appreciated that the reviews were 
recorded because she could review 
for Calculus 3 when she had time 
for it.
“It reiterated a lot of material 
that was just stuff that you have to 
practice to really feel comfortable 
with,” Prendiville said. “I felt like 
it was pretty accurate to what was 
on the exam.”SG promises parking ticket forgiveness , 
UF parking didn’t agreeUF Teaching Center offers remote services4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020
ALACHUA COUNTY TO BE 
REPRESENTED BY WOMEN ON THE 
COUNTY COMMISSION, IN CONGRESS 
AND IN THE WHITE HOUSE 
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
Tuesday night’s election was historic for 
representation in local, state and national 
politics. Women now hold a majority on the 
Alachua County Commission, more seats in 
Congress nationwide and the vice-presidency. 
Both Democrat and Republican women 
won big Tuesday night in several Florida and 
Alachua County races. Three newly elected 
representatives will join other female officials 
who currently serve Alachua County, such as 
County Manager Michele Lieberman, County 
Attorney Sylvia Torres and Supervisor of 
Elections Kim Barton.
Kamala Harris, who is Black and Indian 
American, will be the first woman and person of color to serve as vice president.
Prior to the 2020 election, women made 
up only 23.7% of the U.S. Congress and 
29.3% of state legislatures nationwide, 
according to a report from Rutgers University’s 
Center for American Women and Politics. 
Congresswomen of color only filled 9% of 535 
seats.
Now, after Tuesday’s election, women make 
up 25% of the total seats in Congress as of Nov. 
8, including several Black, Native American, 
Latinx and Muslim women. Prominent 
congresswomen of color reelected include 
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Deb Haaland, 
who will be joined by congresswoman-elect 
Cori Bush.
Kat Cammack, the 32-year-old former chief 
of staff for former Rep. Ted Yoho, is now the 
youngest Republican woman elected to serve 
District 3 in the U.S. House of Representatives. 
The district encompasses Alachua, Clay, 
Bradford, Union, Putnam and Marion Counties.
Anna Prizzia, 43, and Mary Alford, 59, 
both Democrats, won seats on the Alachua County Commission. All four county 
commission candidates on the November 
ballot were women. Prizzia and Alford will 
go on to comprise a new female majority on 
the Alachua County Commission along with 
District 2 County Commissioner Marihelen 
Wheeler. 
Both seats were formerly held by men. 
Commissioner-elect Alford said she spent 
most of her career in the male-dominated 
field of engineering, and she was often the 
only woman in the room. She’s hopeful 
that the female majority commission will 
address inequities in Alachua County, such as 
homelessness and the divide between smaller 
cities in the county and Gainesville.  
“Women are used to picking up the kid 
with the skinned knees or taking care of 
someone that’s sick,” Alford said. “I want to 
give everyone in our county a virtual hug, and 
the other women on the commission want to 
do the same.”
Wheeler spent two years as the only 
woman on the commission. She said she’s 
excited to work with a new slate of empathetic, 
passionate leaders who are willing to listen to 
one another. 
“We’re going to be rocking the house,” 
Wheeler said. “With the pandemic, we’re 
going to have to be thinking as creatively as 
we can, and I think women do that well. We’re 
creative and empathetic problem-solvers.”
When women are represented by other 
women, they may feel that their voice is 
heard, said Beth Rosenson, a UF political 
science professor. People can also feel more 
represented by elected officials of the same 
race and ethnicity.
Research shows that female elected officials 
are more likely to be better listeners and more 
empathetic, Rosenson said. She referenced 
studies where political scientists studied 
hearings with female legislators. They found 
that women were less likely to interrupt and 
more willing to listen.
However, Rosenson said party affiliation 
plays a role in perceived representation. 
Women also generally tend to be more liberal, 
she said, adding that the newly elected county 
commissioners could signal a shift to the left in 
local decision-making.
“One caveat is that partisanship matters, 
too,” Rosenson said. “For women who aren’t 
Republican, descriptive representation only 
goes so far. Just the fact that she’s a woman 
alone may not make certain female voters feel more represented.” 
Latalyia McKnight, a 33-year-old Gainesville 
resident, said she feels a connection to Harris 
not only as a woman of color, but as a member 
of the same sorority: Alpha Kappa Alpha. Her 
nieces, who are 6 and 7, now have a woman 
of color in a position of power to look up to.
“I feel a sense of hope again,” she said. “For 
every Black, brown, white, Indian and other 
child in the country — this is something they 
can look at and say ‘It’s possible.’”
A first-time voter, Amy Nicholas was 
inspired by how many female candidates were 
on her ballot this year.
The 19-year-old UF political science and 
natural resource conservation sophomore said 
she hopes to bring about systemic change 
through the local and state political sphere one 
day as an elected official.
“In any situation that you see injustice, 
you have a chance to either complain or 
take action,” she said. “Women who are also 
fighting for not just female values but using 
their platform for all is what I truly think is 
inspiring beyond just females being in office.”
LaRaven Temoney, a 23-year-old UF 
American politics doctoral student, feels 
hopeful because of the outcome of Alachua 
County’s elections. Temoney said she thinks 
it’s important that all elected officials reflect 
the identities and interests of the people they 
represent.
“As children, we can only go by what we 
see and what we hear,” Temoney said. “If a 
child is thinking about politics and all they see 
are people who don’t look like them, who don’t 
come from where they come from, who don’t 
speak like them — they may feel excluded and 
be politically disengaged.”
Although she doesn’t agree with 
Cammack’s views, Temoney said she applauds 
her ambition and commitment despite sexist 
attacks against her during the crowded 
Republican primary. 
When attending county commission 
meetings, Temoney said she’s noticed that 
some male commissioners are less willing to 
compromise and listen to other perspectives. 
“I’m hoping that the two new female 
commissioners don’t get unnecessary pushback 
just because they’re women,” she said. “I don’t 
want people to get caught up in sexist rhetoric. 
Instead, we should focus on policy.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgWomen win big in Alachua County, Florida and national politics 
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
From left: Kamala Harris, vice president-elect; Anna Prizzia (top), Alachua County 
Commissioner-elect; Kat Cammack (bottom), elected to serve District 3 in the U.S. 
House of Representatives; and Mary Alford, Alachua County Commissioner-elect
GATORS FANS DISCUSS 
STEVE SPURRIER’S 
FOOTBALL LEGACY
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
Expectations rise as Spurrier’s 
Gridiron Grille nears kickoff.
The restaurant and bar, 
envisioned by “Head Ball Coach” 
Steve Spurrier, the former Gators 
Heisman-winning quarterback 
and coach, was first announced in 
summer 2019, and the operating 
partner was declared last February. 
The grill geared up for a fall 
premiere, but due to COVID-19-
related construction setbacks, the 
multimillion-dollar project is likely 
to open in March or April of 2021 
at 4949 Celebration Pointe Ave.
“We really felt like Gainesville 
was a big enough city and a good 
enough city, of course, to have a 
restaurant of this size and have my name on it.” Spurrier said. “It is a 
place where I can put my trophies 
on display, Heisman and SEC 
championships.”
Spurrier and the rest of the 
executive team are in the process 
of finalizing the American food 
lineup of burgers, pastas and 
salads and drafting a cohesive 
team of waitstaff and bartenders 
for a winning restaurant, said 
Freddie Wehbe, business manager 
for the grill.
“When you walk in, you’re 
gonna feel a factor of ‘Wow,’” 
Wehbe said. “You’re going to see 
contemporary design with an old 
school look to it.”
Promises of a Spurrier 
memorabilia exhibit served up 
with a menu of some of the former 
football coach’s favorite dishes 
have whetted the appetites of 
some longtime Gators fans eager 
to experience the polished casual 
gridiron.“That in itself would be worth 
the trip for me, to see that kind of 
memorabilia that might not be in 
the public eye,” said Tyler Hadden, 
a 29-year-old Jacksonville-based 
business analyst.
The son of two UF alumni, 
Hadden inherited Gators pride. He 
often visited Gainesville as a child 
for football and basketball games, 
and he still drives down to the city 
several times a year.
Hadden said he’s most looking 
forward to soaking up ‘90s Florida 
Gators nostalgia and drinking 
with friends at the rooftop bar, 
“Visors,” which he called a “city-
esque feature,” uncommon in 
Gainesville.
Visors is named after the coach’s 
signature football game headwear 
of choice, a breathable and more-
difficult-to-dirty hat alternative 
that will be part of the restaurant 
displays. Spurrier said the rooftop 
bar was also his favorite touch.“You can look out over the 
interstate and all the way to the 
University of Florida to Century 
Tower and so forth,” Spurrier said. 
“That’d be a fun place to spend a 
couple hours.”
Spurrier said he hopes the 
grill will be a comfortable place 
for Gators fans to watch games 
while enjoying quality service and 
dining.
Kenny Wise, 45, first noticed 
the initial workings of Spurrier’s 
Gridiron Grille while on his way 
to The Keys Grill & Piano Bar with 
extended family.
Wise, a pharmacist who was 
born and raised in Gainesville, 
watched the 1996 national 
championship game in which 
coach Spurrier led UF to victory 
over FSU. The same year, 
quarterback Danny Wuerffel won 
the coveted Heisman trophy. 
Wise firsthand witnessed how the 
former head coach transformed the 
team.
“Florida football was kind of 
ho-hum until Spurrier got here,” he said. “From the year before to 
when Spurrier became coach, it 
was like night and day.”
Wise said he envisions the grill 
and bar as a fun, open atmosphere 
for all UF sports fans.
He doesn’t know what he’ll 
order, but he does know what 
food he doesn’t want to see on the 
menu: turnovers.
“Nobody likes turnovers,” Wise 
said, jokingly referring to a term 
used to describe when a football 
team loses possession of the ball.
Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille is one 
of the latest additions to a number 
of food businesses inspired by 
famous former football coaches, 
like Don Shula, Urban Meyer and 
fellow former Gators coach Jim 
McElwain.
As Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille 
prepares for its opening in the 
coming months, Gators fans await 
their chance to reminisce on the 
coach’s glory days.
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgHow is Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille shaping up?MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
NOTICE
APPLICATION FOR
CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
TO THE
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION PLANNING 
ORGANIZATION FOR THE GAINESVILLE 
URBANIZED AREA
     The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area invites interested persons to apply for its 
Citizens Advisory Committee.  The Citizens Advisory Committee 
reacts to planning proposals and provides comments with respect to 
the concerns of various segments of the population in regard to their 
transportation needs.  The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area has also outlined 
additional functions of the Citizens Advisory Committee as defined in 
its bylaws.  Citizens Advisory Committee members usually serve a 
three-year term.  At its December 16, 2019 meeting, the 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will make five appointments to fill vacancies on its 
Citizens Advisory Committee.
     The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area, composed of the Mayor and six City of 
Gainesville Commissioners and the five Alachua County 
Commissioners, is responsible for the continuing, cooperative and 
comprehensive transportation planning program for the Gainesville 
Metropolitan Area.  
     Public participation is solicited without regard to race, color, 
national origin, sex, age disability, familial status, religious status, 
marital status, sexual orientation or gender identity.
     Applications and/or additional information may be obtained by 
writing or calling: Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization 
for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, 2009 NW 67 Place, Gainesville, 
Florida 32653; telephone 352.955.2200; or from its  website at 
www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo.  Applications must be received no later than 
Monday, December 2, 2019.
THE FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF 
CORRECTIONS ALLOWED VISITATION 
TO RESUME OCT. 2 WITH 
COVID-19 RESTRICTIONS 
By Asta Hemenway
Alligator Staff Writer
Patricia Molinaro glanced at a giraffe painted 
on the wall of Lowell Correctional Institution’s 
visitation area in Ocala on an October Saturday 
morning as she prepared what to say to her 
daughter. When she spotted her youngest 
daughter, the only words that came to mind 
were “I love you.”
Molinaro, who is 63 years old and lives in 
Salt Springs, couldn’t hear her daughter very 
well but was greeted with an air hug and a 
smile she hadn’t seen in six months. She isn’t a 
fan of the plexiglass shield that separated them, 
but she was glad to see her daughter’s face at a 
socially distanced table for a few hours. 
The Florida Department of Corrections 
suspended visitations for all state correctional 
institutions March 11 after Gov. Ron DeSantis 
declared a state of emergency following the 
worsening COVID-19 pandemic. After a six 
month closure, visitation reopened Oct. 2 — 
despite prisons being a hotspot for the virus. 
All contact during visitation is banned — 
including hugging, kissing, holding hands 
and even sitting beside a loved one without a 
divider.
No walk-in visits are allowed. FDC suggests 
scheduling appointments on its online visitation 
request form. Once inside the visitation room, 
inmates sit across from their visitors separated 
by a plastic divider. 
Visitors can bring along one non-immediate 
family member or personal friend for a three-
hour visit on a weekend, as of Oct. 27 according 
to a FDC Facebook post. While there isn’t a 
maximum age limit, children younger than 12 
aren’t allowed to visit out of worry they would 
disrupt social distancing rules.
Visitors must wear face masks, wash their hands or use sanitizer and pass a health 
screening, including a temperature check, upon 
entering, according to FDC’s rules. Only inmates 
who aren’t considered to have health risks are 
eligible for visitation.
Lowell, about 30 miles south of Gainesville, 
where Molinaro’s daughter is serving her 
sentence, has had two inmate COVID-19-related 
deaths, according to data from the Florida 
Department of Health. 
Lowell had 1,005 positive inmate tests and 
74 positive staff tests as of Sunday, according 
to data from FDC. Columbia Correctional 
Institution, which had 1,369 positive tests, and 
Lowell are the only Florida prisons to have over 
1,000 positive tests. Other prisons like Putnam 
and Lawtey have no positive inmate tests.
Visitation restrictions are reasonable as 
COVID-19 precautions, UF law professor Bob 
Dekle said. FDC is doing the best it can in his 
eyes to maintain security, protect prisoners and 
allow visitation.
“Not being able to hold hands is not real high 
on the spectrum of things to be unhappy about,” 
Dekle said. “If it’s reasonable for a nursing 
home or hospital, why isn’t it reasonable for a 
prison?”
These restrictions are essential to the safety of 
inmates, guards and visitors, he said. If visitors 
had to wear something extreme like hazmat 
suits and come between midnight and 1 a.m., 
then he said he would oppose the restrictions. 
To Dekle, visitation is important for inmates 
to secure their connection to the outside world. 
Molinaro has visited her daughter at Lowell 
twice since prisons reopened in October. She 
said she was among the first people to enter the 
visitation room on Oct. 3 and visited again Oct. 
24. 
She now wakes up on Mondays at 5 a.m. 
to secure a Saturday morning spot to see her 
daughter at Lowell. While she can’t bring her 
granddaughter, who is under 12, she said her 
husband will tag along next time to see his step-
daughter. 
“Just to be able to look at each other means 
a lot,” Molinaro said. After emailing and calling FDC, the 
department declined to directly speak on the 
visitation restrictions. 
Visitation can be isolating and emotionally 
difficult for inmates and their visitors, said 
Philip Daniels, a mental health counselor at UF 
Counseling and Wellness Center. People will 
feel what they feel about the restrictions, but 
safety is a concern.
“Isolation is difficult, but I think that was a 
difficult decision to make in the sense of safety,” 
Daniels said.
Environmental factors, such as not being 
able to touch someone, can exacerbate mental 
illnesses, especially if someone is already 
experiencing anxiety, psychotic symptoms, 
depression or suicidal thoughts, he said. Daniels 
added that there isn’t research on inmates to 
determine whether the visit restrictions can 
directly cause a mental illness.  
While the FDC is restricting visitation 
because of safety, Florida prison decisions 
are never in the best interests of inmates, said 
Kevin Scott, an organizer with Florida Prisoner 
Solidarity who served four years in prison. 
“While I’m sure they’re gonna point to some 
scientific stuff,” Scott said, “I’m suspicious of 
everything they do, so I can just assume that 
they’re going to use this, spin the virus to their 
own advantage to serve their own interests 
because that’s all they’ve ever shown me.”
To Scott, visitations are breaks from the 
constant dehumanization inmates feel while 
incarcerated. He said the first time he was 
hugged was after six months was indescribable.
“The visits that I had when I was in prison 
were the things that carried me through my 
sentence,” he said. “It was absolutely crucial 
to my psychological state, to my emotions — 
everything.”
Scott said he can’t imagine how difficult 
visitation must be for those incarcerated during 
the pandemic. It can be tortuous and agonizing 
even though inmates get to see their loved ones.
“Holy s---, you can’t hug them?” he said. 
“That’s rough.”
While state prisons recently reopened visitation, the Alachua County Jail reopened 
May 18.
Visits were closed March 13, but inmates 
were allowed two free outgoing phone calls for 
the following 30 days, administrative supervisor 
Chris Whatley said.
The visitation schedule hasn’t changed, 
Whatley said. All inmate visits must be 
scheduled a day before through the scheduling 
website or kiosks in the jail’s lobby. Inmates 
who aren’t in disciplinary confinement can 
have visitation each week for up to two hours 
of no contact. 
Visitation is almost the same as before 
COVID-19, he said, but there are some 
restrictions.
Only three people can go in the lobby at the 
same time, he said. Visitors must wait outside 
until called in. Face masks are required.
Like before the pandemic, inmates are 
separated from visitors by glass, Whatley said. 
They use phones to speak when face-to-face.
Some visits can be done online through 
Renovo Software digital video system, which 
was purchased in 2014. Video calls must also 
be scheduled a day in advance. People visiting 
online can pay $4 for a 10-minute video call or 
$10 for a 25-minute video call. 
Whatley said he hasn’t heard any negative 
comments about changing visitation.
“A lot of places didn’t have it until Oct. 2, 
so that goes to show you that Alachua County 
has made it a priority,” he said. “Inmates need 
visitation.”
As a mother of someone in prison, Molinaro 
agrees that visits are important. Prison visits 
reopening is a “win-win situation” because 
closing visitation was hard on everyone, she 
said, adding that inmates are forgotten, and we 
need to remember they’re human. 
“Because there she was, and the smile on 
her face was just so incredible,” she said. “And 
it was beautiful. It was wonderful.”
@astahemenway
ahemenway@alligator.org Florida relaxes prison visitation restrictions to allow non-immediate family and friendsEditorialMONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinionsBiden’s victory shows us that 
normalcy triumphs chaos
The COVID-19 pandemic has largely disrupted our lives 
and has required us to adapt to these historic and 
ever-changing times.
I have a special understanding of this. I am a 
contact tracer with UF Health Screen, Test & Protect, 
so I see this pandemic from a perspective many others do 
not.
While navigating this uncharted territory can be daunting, 
public health officials are working around the clock to slow 
the spread of the virus and ensure the safety of the population. 
Contact tracing, a time-honored and highly reliable practice, 
is at the heart of this effort through directly conducting 
investigations and providing up-to-date information and 
education to the public.
Here are a few things that my colleagues and I would like 
you to know:
You should get tested if you have symptoms or have been 
exposed.
This helps us identify and contact you as soon as possible 
to gather information that will help slow the spread of the 
virus in your community. Although discovering that you are 
positive can be unsettling, it also means you will not need to 
be tested or quarantined if you have another exposure within 
the next 90 days due to short-term immunity from the initial 
infection.
All positive test results for reportable diseases, including 
COVID-19, are required to be sent to the health department.
All laboratories send these results to the appropriate 
health department, regardless of where the test is done. Once 
we receive these results, we are required to contact you.All information shared with us remains confidential.
We will ask you a variety of questions to help us to better 
understand the disease and help us slow the spread by 
reaching out to individuals who may have been in contact 
with positive cases during their potential infectious period. It 
is important because we will then reach out to these contacts 
as soon as possible to alert them of the potential exposure 
and ask them to quarantine in an effort to prevent further 
potential infections. This information is fully protected by 
health privacy laws and will never be shared with anyone 
outside of the officials handling your investigation. Your 
name will also not be shared with any potential contacts 
without your permission.
If you were in contact with a positive case during their 
infectious period and test negative during your quarantine 
period, you still need to quarantine. 
While this may seem counterintuitive, this protocol is 
in place due to the incubation period of the virus. When a 
person is exposed to the virus, they may develop an infection 
anywhere between two and 14 days post-exposure. This 
means you can potentially test negative on day five but then 
begin experiencing symptoms and test positive on day seven.
While answering our questions and providing information 
can be uncomfortable, it is extremely important. Our efforts 
are only successful with accurate and timely information. 
You play a key role in helping us to combat this pandemic.
We can’t do it without you.
Emily Klann has her master’s in public health and 
is a third-year doctoral student in the Department of 
Epidemiology. She is currently working part-time as an 
epidemiologist for the UF Screen, Test & Protect program.Dear UF Students, 
When I finish teaching my Zoom classes, I check 
my attendance, I read each student’s name and I 
worry about them. 
I worry because I hear my students talking about 
next semester. Some of them are freshmen, and they’re 
excited to finally move to Gainesville. Others, upperclassmen, 
may look forward to being in seminar classes again. Some 
students believe that our return to campus will give them a 
better learning experience. UF has tried to convince us that it 
has students’ best interests in mind as we return.
I worry because UF is lying to students, and there’s nothing 
that instructors like me can do about it. 
Students, you deserve to know the truth, and UF has failed 
to provide you with the information you need to make an 
informed decision about your studies before it’s too late. Many 
of you are looking for spring leases. Many of you are planning 
to celebrate milestone events and rejoin student organizations 
in Gainesville. So, what do you need to know? 
First, most students won’t return to campus. With 
classroom capacities capped but a directive from our state 
government to have the same number of in-person sections, 
UF is relying on a model of teaching called “HyFlex.” The 
“HyFlex” model of teaching means that in smaller classes up 
to 40 students, there will be a single digit number of students 
physically in the classroom. Awkward, I know. The rest of 
the students will watch the lesson from a webcam. Instructors 
will teach two classes (one online section, one face-to-face) 
without being paid for the double workload. Because your 
instructors will be doubly as busy, you will likely receive less 
personal attention and feedback from those instructors. 
Which students will be in the classroom? Likely, 
international students or honors students will be given these 
in-person spots. Other students may not have the choice to 
opt-in for face-to-face classes, even if they wanted to. The rest 
of you will have to pay extra distance learning fees just to 
watch the lecture from home.
Second, the university has promised that all classrooms 
will be cleaned and well-ventilated. This is another lie. While 
UF has installed hand sanitizer units throughout academic 
buildings, administrators have not stated how these classrooms 
and desks will actually be cleaned. Many classrooms, such 
as some of those in Turlington and Matherly, don’t have 
windows or other adequate ventilation options. As numerous 
health professionals and journalists have noted, environments 
without windows or strong ventilation are dangerous. The 
virus sits stagnant in the air.Third, UF has boasted about the quality of its HyFlex 
classes. I have taught for almost seven years, and I have a 
professional interest in instructional technologies. UF may 
promise that each classroom will be equipped with the 
technology to host a HyFlex class, but this is (ding, ding, 
ding) another lie. UF has not yet trained instructors like me 
on how to use this technology. Many of us are planning our 
courses for next semester without knowing any details about 
how to operate a HyFlex class. To our knowledge, UF has not 
purchased this technology yet. We haven’t seen it, and we 
have no clue when — or even if — the university will actually 
install webcams and microphones in each classroom. We are 
not being reimbursed for buying our own technology to teach. 
Most classrooms at UF are simply not optimized for online 
teaching. Think about it, students. Imagine how many times 
you’ve been kicked off Eduroam or the guest network or how 
many times you’ve struggled with the library VPN. UF cannot 
maintain the technology it currently has. 
Fourth, UF has said that students, staff and faculty want to 
return to campus. However, UF never released a university-
wide poll to ask students what they want before President 
Fuchs announced this transition to have face-to-face classes. 
UF has not grappled with the reality that the students I care 
about, the students I see every day, will get sick.
The university has not asked instructors or staff if they 
want to return, either. Instructors have no choice. One of 
my colleagues is regularly exposed to the virus because her 
spouse works with COVID-19 patients in a hospital. She isn’t 
exempt from teaching in-person. Other colleagues are caring 
for parents with cancer. They, too, are being forced to teach 
in-person, forced to put their family members (and you, 
students) at risk. To my knowledge, most instructors who 
have requested COVID-related accommodations under the 
ADA have been denied.
UF has tried to convince us that we, the Gator community, 
want to have face-to-face classes. This is perhaps the most 
disgusting lie of all. 
You deserve to be in the know, students. Some of this 
information will likely change if the virus peaks again, if the 
university encounters other funding issues or if UF is shamed 
into rethinking its reopening plan. Ask administrators what 
your learning situation will be like next semester. Question 
your dean about why UF is not being transparent.
Gators, we deserve better. And that’s no lie. 
The author is a doctoral student 
who currently teaches at UF.
What a contact tracer wants you to know I’m an instructor. Here’s what you should know about in-person classes
ColumnColumn
Alachua County voted for the winner. Florida 
voted for the sore loser. 
To many of us, the results of the election were 
bittersweet. The country voted for change, but 
Florida missed the mark. Alachua County is a 
speck of blue in a massive ocean of red.
Young people will have to live with the results of this 
election. It is frustrating to see our voices overshadowed 
in a state where so much has been done to mobilize the 
youth vote. Although we won the war, the battles we 
lost are cause for concern. The U.S. proved it is ready to 
change the xenophobic rhetoric of the last four years. Yet 
our area voted for Kat Cammack, a local champion of the 
same ideas as the outgoing president. 
North Central Florida was not aligned with the country’s 
overall plea for change.
But still, we will finally have a president who will 
acknowledge issues such as climate change and the 
ongoing pandemic.
It is our hope that Biden will engage with the 
international community and bring the U.S. back into the 
Paris Climate Agreement, eliminating the vision of our 
home state underwater within our lifetimes.
It is our hope that Biden will take the reins when it 
comes to stopping this pandemic. Listening to scientists and 
passing another COVID-19 relief bill will help struggling 
Americans, including those within our community. 
Thousands of Floridians, including many of our family 
members, have died due to the political mishandling of 
this pandemic.
It is our hope that Biden will address the $1.5 trillion 
student debt crisis. Little attention has been paid on that 
front over the last four years. Biden can ease the burden 
on millions of Americans that also rests on the backs of 
those who graduate from UF.
It is easy for a young person to feel frustrated with 
a system that only occasionally listens to youth voices. 
However, the passage of Amendment 2, which will bring 
a $15 dollar minimum wage to Florida by 2026, serves as 
a silver lining: a reminder that the youth vote mattered. 
Amendment 2 passed the 60% threshold by less than a 
percent, as of Saturday afternoon. In this case, about 85,000 
votes made the difference. In Alachua County, 89,277 
people out of 138,650 people voted for the amendment. 
Given that young people overwhelmingly voted blue, 
one can easily see how Amendment 2 would not have 
passed without the votes of a group that was silenced by 
the Electoral College.
Our country elected a progressive president in large 
part thanks to young people. Our state got a progressive 
minimum wage, also in large part thanks to young people. 
But our state representatives don’t represent our values.
The arch of the moral universe bends ever so slowly 
back toward justice, but Florida still has work to do. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.April Rubin
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORRosmery Izaguirre
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORZachariah Chou
OPINIONS 
EDITORDana Cassidy
NEWS 
MANAGING
EDITORKyle Wood
EDITOR IN 
CHIEF
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to 
fact-check and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also 
welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Over the hump
Despite what coach Dan Mullen said Saturday, the Gators’ win 
in Duval finally put him and his squad “over the hump” and on 
their way to a possible SEC Championship berth,  pg. 10
FIVE ARTISTS DISCUSS MAKING 
MUSIC IN ONE OF GAINESVILLE’S 
EMERGING GENRES
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
When hip-hop artist Quincy Osborne, 
known musically as itsQObaby, played 
open-mic shows in Tampa, people he met 
thought he was local. When he told them 
he was from Gainesville, those connections 
immediately fizzled.
The 32-year-old Gainesville native has 
been writing songs since he was 8 but began 
writing professionally three years ago. He 
said entering the hip-hop community opened 
his eyes to a side of the city he had yet to see.
“I didn’t really feel like Gainesville was 
the spot,” Osborne said. “I wasn’t even 
paying attention to it. Now, I feel like we should build it from the ground up.”
Osborne is one of many hip-hop artists 
breaking barriers in Gainesville’s music 
community. Local names like Azazus, DJ 
Mellow Blendz, Edgar Brann and more have 
grown in popularity as the artists hustle to 
expose their platform to the world.
DJ Mellow Blendz, also known as 
Anthony Showell, has lived in Gainesville 
for nine years. As a veteran DJ, he said he 
often volunteers his help to aspiring artists, 
sometimes DJing for free to support local 
venues and businesses.
“I like to inspire the next generation the 
way I was,” Showell said. “I like to consider 
myself that charity go-to guy.”
In Gainesville, the hip-hop community 
faces particular challenges. Hailing from a 
city that has churned out successful rock 
and alternative bands like Tom Petty and the 
Heartbreakers, Against Me!, Less Than Jake and Sister Hazel, the genre faces the risk of 
being overshadowed by its more mainstream 
counterparts.
For Gainesville musician Brandon 
Register, known professionally as Edgar 
Brann, the disconnect between local hip-
hop music and listeners stems from the 
lyrical content found in the genre. He said 
relatability also contributes to the disparity 
between rock and indie listeners and hip-hop 
listeners.
“These indie bands who are talented 
because they’re playing instruments, they’re 
normally not speaking upon stuff like that,” 
Register said. 
Rapper Brian Williams, known 
professionally as thepsychogen, also tries 
to incorporate these relevant issues in his 
content. Williams said rap and hip-hop 
face ridicule when the line between the two 
genres is blurred.“Hip-hop is oversaturated,” Williams 
said. “These artists need to get more involved 
with community projects and showcasing 
their other talents. Show them they’re not 
just a rapper.”
R&B artist Kelsea Martinez said being 
a woman in the industry makes finding a 
foothold in hip-hop even tougher. While 
currently located in Jacksonville, Martinez 
made music in Gainesville for four years 
while attending Santa Fe College. 
“Something about being a female artist 
in a hip-hop world makes people think that 
you’re not going to be as good or that you’re 
going to rap about something that has to do 
with your body,” Martinez said. 
Regardless of gender, Martinez said any 
young artist can benefit from the hip-hop 
community found in Gainesville. She said 
the obstacles persevere as well.
“It’s a good thing I like a challenge,” 
Martinez said.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgA look at Gainesville’s hip-hop community
MUSICMUSIC
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist.
BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info
12-7-20-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         11-16-7-15
“The liberty of the press is essential to 
the security of the state.” – John Adams
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-131For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
The MC Hot-N-Happy Home School 
Supplies for Tools needed for Online 
Learning. Over 1,000 items of cheap sup -
plies. https://www.mchotnhappy.com  
11-30-20-4-10  
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.10 For Sale
readreadmeme
By Kurt Krauss
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/09/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/09/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, November 9, 2020
ACROSS
1 Tooth trouble
5 Omar of “In Too 
Deep”
9 Place to 
exchange vows
14 Debit card reader 
opening
15 Nasty
16 Chili con __
17 *Doctor’s visit, 
back in the day
19 “Good grief!”
20 “The Tomorrow 
Show” host Tom
21 Many a 
psychedelic 
T-shirt
22 Was in first place
23 *Perry Mason’s 
secretary
26 Takeoff ests.
28 Bone-dry
29 Rehab 
symptoms, for 
short
30 Chemical relative
33 From the __: at 
the start
36 Plea for divine 
guidance ... and 
hint to the ends 
of the answers to 
starred clues
39 Golf gimme
40 Mama Cass __
43 “Send help!” 
message
46 Brings to a close
48 Beige look-alike
49 *Rural station at 
which trains need 
to be flagged 
down
54 German “a”
55 Fragrant 
compounds
56 Rise into view
58 Like many attics
59 *Expatriate 
American poet 
who was a 
WWII fascist 
collaborator
62 Muse of poetry
63 Dutch South 
African
64 Mega- or giga- 
unit
65 New Jersey’s __ 
Hall University
66 Mannerless one
67 To be, in LatinDOWN
1 Baseball bat 
wood
2 Coat-hanging 
places
3 Elvis classic
4 Website for 
artisans
5 Show host
6 Oyster gems
7 Amigo
8 NBC’s “Weekend 
Update” show
9 Nail the test
10 Popular beer
11 Swapped
12 “But still ... “
13 Turns back, as a 
clock
18 Onetime Leno 
announcer Hall
21 Scary African fly
22 Island garland
24 Stories of the 
Loch Ness 
Monster, e.g.
25 Side squared, for 
a square
27 Struck, old-style
31 Actress Longoria
32 Drives back
34 Hodges of the 
Dodgers35 Eye wolfishly
37 Coal site
38 They “finish last,” 
per the title of 
Leo Durocher’s 
autobiography
41 Points in the right 
direction
42 Wine cask
43 Stockholm natives
44 “Yeah, right!”
45 Occupies, as a 
desk47 Sound 
investment?
50 Small squabble
51 Check for fit
52 Horoscope 
columnist Sydney
53 Gusto
57 After-bath wear
59 Tidal recession
60 Place to observe 
animals
61 Actor Billy __ 
Williams
By Debbie Ellerin
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/03/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/03/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 3, 2020
ACROSS
1 Pacific island  
host of two 
“Survivor” 
seasons
6 Caustic solution
9 Indeed.com 
listings
13 Maker of Glide 
floss
14 Blacken a bit
15 Luminous glow
16 Roughly
18 Military group
19 SoCal cop  
squad
20 Machu Picchu 
builders
21 Like medicine 
not requiring a 
prescription
27 Truth alternative, 
in a game
28 Like rice and 
potatoes
29 Homeric epic
31 Wipe the slate 
clean
32 Stat for Clayton 
Kershaw
35 With 37-Across, 
Election Day 
practice ... and 
a hint to this 
puzzle’s theme
37 See 35-Across
39 Screeners at 
ORD
40 Like nostalgic art 
forms
44 Fitness system 
incorporating 
martial arts
45 Mozart rival
47 Part of, as a plot
48 Debater for the 
opposition, at 
times
51 Smear with ink?
52 “__ the Parents”: 
2000 film
53 Revered pop star, 
say
54 Place sheltered 
from reality
60 Chunky Monkey 
buy
61 Name of 12 
popes
62 Conjure up
63 Eyelid ailment
64 Fitting
65 __ over the  
coalsDOWN
1 Faddish ’90s 
disc
2 “All Things 
Considered” host 
Shapiro
3 Loo
4 Pub drink
5 A bike lock may 
be shaped like 
one
6 Indy pacesetter
7 Tibetan beast
8 Middle of the 
“Able-Elba” 
palindrome
9 Lively
10 Part of a pound
11 Prickly shrub
12 Coll. entrance 
exams
14 Fla. coastal city
17 Cheers at a bowl
20 Ready to mate
21 Writer of poetic 
praise
22 Lowlands
23 CNN journalist 
Hill
24 Backside
25 60 minuti
26 State school near 
L.A.
30 Get off the track
32 Justice Kagan33 R2-D2, for one
34 Make up (for)
36 Poker player’s 
giveaway
38 Of the flock
41 Apt “it’s” 
anagram
42 Read the riot act
43 Cooks fill them
45 Gracefully 
slender
46 Tony winner 
Judith
48 Finished the work49 Magazine that 
has had Lena 
Horne and 
Michelle Obama 
on its cover
50 River mammal
51 Kissers
54 Pub drink, briefly
55 Skybox guest
56 Eggs in a lab
57 Stir-fry pan
58 Squeeze (out)
59 Like Rupert 
Grint’s hair
11/02/2020
solution on page 10
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Sports Quiz  answersMega Maze  solution
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
11..    HHeeaalltthhyy,,  ssttrroonngg
11..    AAnnnnooyy,,  iirrrriittaattee55..    FFaammoouuss,,  eemmiinneenntt  
22..    EEssppoouussee  66..    1188tthh--cceennttuurryy  ccaarrdd  ggaammee
33..    SSppiinnooffff,,  ooffffsshhoooott  77..    ________  ttrreeee
44..    PPrroobbaabbllee  SSUUTTBBOORR
KKAARRNNEELLDDEEOOTTNN
MMEERROOBB
OOEETTBBHHRRTT
AARRIIDDSSEEBBYYHHRREECCRR
LLEEKKYYLLIIAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--RRoobbuusstt    55AA--NNootteedd    66AA--OOmmbbrree    77AA--CChheerrrryy
11DD--RRaannkkllee    22DD--BBeettrrootthh    33DD--SSiiddeebbaarr    44DD--LLiikkeellyy    BB--MMeell  BBrrooookkss1111--99--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  wwaass  aann  UU..SS..  AArrmmyy  ccoorrppoorraall  
iinn  NNoorrtthh  AAffrriiccaa  dduurriinngg  WWoorrlldd  WWaarr  IIII..
BONUS
1. Big Red.
2. Holly Holm.
3. The Florida Panthers.
4. 108. 5. Australia.
6. Lennox Lewis.
7. "North Dallas Forty."MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9
answers below1. What is the name of the fuzzy blob that 
serves as mascot for the Western Ken -
tucky University Hilltoppers?
2. What mixed martial arts fighter won a 
major upset at UFC 193 in 2015 and gave 
Ronda Rousey her first loss? 
3. What team selected goaltender John 
Vanbiesbrouck with their first pick in the 
1993 NHL Expansion Draft?
4. How many double stitches are hand-
sewn on the cover of an official Major 
League baseball?
5. The Hopman Cup tennis tournament is 
named after Harry Hopman, a player and 
coach from what country?
6. Who did unheralded boxer Hasim Rah -
man knock out to win the unified heavy -
weight championship in April 2001?
7. Nick Nolte and country music artist 
Mac Davis starred in what 1979 football 
comedy film?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020
www.alligator.org/sportsGators move up to No. 6 on the AP Poll
After defeating the Georgia Bulldogs, UF moved from No. 8 to No. 6 on the 
AP Poll on Sunday. The Gators sit right below Texas A&M, who defeated 
them earlier in the year, and they sent UGA down to 12th.
Quarterback Kyle Trask  became 
the first UF quarterback to throw 
four touchdown passes in five 
consecutive games. Trask was also 
eight yards away from breaking Tim 
Tebow’s single-game passing yards 
record at UF.SOCCER
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The keepers took center stage against a 
dark and windy backdrop in Florida’s regular-
season finale at Missouri.
UF’s Alexa Goldberg made her first career 
start, and Mizzou’s Sophia Worth made her 
collegiate debut Sunday afternoon as the 
Gators fell 5-2 to the Tigers at Audrey J. Walton Soccer Stadium. The result extended 
Florida’s all-time record for consecutive losses 
to six.
With the Gators stuck in 13th place out of 
14 teams in the SEC overall standings, they 
had no chance to move further up the table 
and avoid the opening round of the conference 
tournament. Therefore, coach Becky Burleigh 
decided to rest redshirt senior Susi Espinoza.
Espinoza has been the first-choice keeper the entire year, having started in each of UF’s 
previous seven games. This time, though, 
it was Goldberg between the sticks against 
Missouri.
Donning Florida’s all-pink keeper kit and a 
pair of blacked-out gloves, Goldberg managed 
six saves but allowed five goals to a relentless 
Mizzou attack highlighted by midfielders 
Cassidy Nurnberger and Bella Alessi.
Nurnberger and Alessi scored two goals 
apiece for the Tigers after UF’s Parker Roberts 
headed the ball into her own net in the eighth 
minute to tie the game at 1-1.
Goldberg’s inexperience at the collegiate 
level was evident throughout the afternoon. 
The first-year keeper hesitated to come off 
her line and gave the ball away on multiple 
occasions trying to play out of the back.
Worth, on the other hand, put together an 
inspiring performance in the Missouri net.
Coach Bryan Blitz, who was already 
without starting keeper Isabella Alessio, 
turned to Worth in the 10th minute after 
backup McKenna Sheehan left the game 
following a collision with UF forward Madison 
Alexander.
In just over 80 minutes of action, Worth made eight saves and conceded only once.
Mizzou’s freshman shot-stopper looked 
more comfortable than her counterpart in 
Goldberg, commanding her back line from the 
moment she stepped onto the pitch.
When UF midfielder Nicole Vernis found 
the back of the net against Sheehan just four 
minutes into the contest, it seemed as if the 
Gators were in store for a productive day 
offensively. However, Worth’s presence in 
the 18-yard box proved the difference-maker, 
as Florida scored just one goal the rest of the 
way to end a forgettable regular season.
“As much as this one hurt, we are going to 
have to find a way to get past it and draw a 
line under it,” Burleigh said in a release after 
the defeat. “It will be up to us to find our way 
back to a winning mentality, and it will take 
all of us together to do it.”
The 13th-seeded Gators will return to 
action Friday night against 12th-seeded 
Kentucky in the opening round of the SEC 
Tournament.
 
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgUF suffers sixth-consecutive loss against Missouri in regular-season finaleOnly two Florida coaches, Will 
Muschamp and Charley Pell, 
lost their first three tries against 
Georgia.
On Saturday, Gators’ coach 
Dan Mullen faced the possibility of making 
the illustrious list, which was gaining on 
him faster than DK Metcalf hunting down 
a potential pick-six. Instead, he finally 
conquered his demons, beating UGA for the 
first time as a head coach, 44-28.
Was he worried about getting over the 
hump? 
“Uh, I don't know about that,” Mullen said. 
For three years, Georgia stood as the Southeastern 
Conference’s East Division gatekeeper. Those bold enough 
to approach the Bulldogs ran the risk of getting bit. But for 
the first time coaching the Gators, Mullen bit back. 
Now, UF stands on the precipice of its first conference 
championship appearance since 2016. 
“I know it’s been a very tough, difficult year for 
everybody in every aspect of things,” Mullen said. “But 
when great things happen to you, like this win for us 
tonight, we still got to be able to put a smile on our face 
and enjoy it.”
Mullen doesn’t believe in the past affecting the future. 
In fact, his thoughts are not set on what games are played 
this winter. 
“It’s put us in position to get ready to go beat Arkansas,” 
Mullen said of beating No. 5 Georgia. 
But it’s not about the Razorbacks, is it? Not now, at 
least. 
Florida is not a program that loses sleep because of 
Arkansas, and Mullen wasn’t hired to stop the Razorbacks’ 
dominance. 
He was brought in to redirect a rudderless program that lost its way after Urban Meyer cited 
health concerns and left Florida, only to pick 
up the same job at Ohio State a year later. 
A 44-28 victory with his Heisman-
hopeful quarterback passing for 474 yards 
is a good direction to steer the ship, even if 
the course took two years longer than fans 
hoped. 
Mullen’s win did everything to wipe 
the slate clean of doubts and reaffirm that 
the Gators can contend with the nation’s 
toughest teams. 
The win provokes a convincing argument 
that the Gators’ offense, which put up more than 570 
yards against a tough SEC defense, can do more than beat 
up middle-of-the-pack defenses. 
Even though the game’s first play blew the Gators 
apart for a 75-yard touchdown run, Florida’s defense 
carried a second-straight standout performance against 
the 57th-best total offense in the country.
Athletes’ careers in college are finite. Some coaches are 
lucky to hold talent for four years, many more are grateful 
to see three seasons of quality play before thoughts of NFL 
stardom lure top athletes to the draft. 
While two straight New Year Six bowl wins can 
command attention from the type of talent that holds 
success year after year, two straight losses to bitter rivals 
can also repel them. 
A passing comment along the lines of “remember that 
win against Georgia” grants Mullen new bragging rights 
and a means to load his roster with the talent needed to 
break even against the nation’s best competition. 
But the coach who used spring game attendance 
to mock Georgia doesn’t want to get caught up in any 
hoopla over the win, even if that win means a shot at a 
destination only three other SEC schools reached.Mullen got over the hump, even if he says there never was oneOrtega Genesis
Courtesy to The Alligator
Gators Coach Dan Mullen greets fans prior to Florida's home game 
against Mizzou Oct. 31. UF beat the Georgia Bulldogs for the first 
time with Mullen at the helm on Saturday.
Alligator File Photo
Gators head coach Becky Burleigh made her return to in-person coaching this weekend 
when Florida played Kentucky on Friday and Missouri on Sunday. UF dropped both out-
of-town games.
Christian Ortega
twitter: @unofficialchris
email: cortega@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11 
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$15 Haircut with Student ID
of the season.
But none of those touchdown 
passes from Trask or that rushing 
touchdown from Pierce happened 
in the second half. In fact, Florida 
managed just six points in the 
second half thanks to the foot 
of Evan McPherson (though it 
would have been nine had he 
not missed one). This stagnating 
offense allowed Georgia multiple 
chances to catch up to UF in the 
third and fourth quarters of the 
game, and if the Bulldogs’ offense 
hadn’t been so anemic, it might 
have come back to bite them.
That was uncharacteristic of 
this Florida team. Prior to this 
game, UF averaged 20.5 points in 
the second half, but this contest 
alone brought that average down 
to 17.6. A probable contributor 
is the absence of tight end Kyle 
Pitts after a particularly nasty hit 
in the second quarter. Tight end 
Kemore Gamble stepped up for 
a TD a few plays after, but the 
absence of who many consider 
to be the best tight end in the 
nation could be a factor in why 
the offense was so slow out of the 
gates in the second half.
“At the end of the day we 
came out, I feel like we executed 
on what our coaches told us to 
do,” receiver Trevon Grimes said 
after the game. “A lot of it was 
the time management and getting 
the ball in the right spots. And, 
you know, at the end of the day 
things work out and things don’t, 
but we came out with a win.”
Championship-caliber teams 
have to be able to keep the same 
pace through four quarters. The offense should be proud of what 
it accomplished in the first half, 
but in Grimes’ own words, things 
may not work out for much longer 
if the team begins struggling to 
put games away.
 
So, your defense is improving…
…How long will it continue to 
do so?
Last week, Florida’s defense 
had a stellar game against 
Missouri. This week, after a 
particularly rough patch where 
the Gators found themselves 
down 14-0 in the first quarter, 
the defense answered by not 
only giving up as many points 
for the remaining three quarters 
but netting three interceptions to 
boot.
“It was something going into 
the game that we said we were 
going to do, and we did it,” 
cornerback Kaiir Elam said after 
the game. “Our goal was to get 
three, and we accomplished it. So 
it was real big.”
For the second week in a row, 
the same defense that struggled at 
the beginning of the year turned 
in a very good performance, 
though its competition may have 
had something to do with it.
Georgia’s quarterback play 
prior to meeting Florida hadn’t 
been stellar. Before this game, 
starting quarterback Stetson 
Bennett had seven touchdowns 
to five interceptions and 878 total 
passing yards. D’Wan Mathis, 
who came in as relief for Bennett 
after he finished the game 5 for 
17, hadn’t dazzled in his only 
appearance before this game 
against Arkansas, either.
Credit is earned where credit is due, though. Georgia is 
notoriously a run-first team, but 
it didn’t have a running back 
that rushed over seven times 
on Saturday (Zamir White was 
a 100-yard rusher, but that’s 
mostly due to the fact that his first 
rush was a 75-yard touchdown). 
UGA only had a single rushing 
touchdown on the day, and that 
is certainly due to the effort of 
the defense forcing the Bulldogs 
to move away from their strength 
and start to throw the ball toward 
the end of the game.It seems as if defensive 
coordinator Todd Grantham’s 
unit has found its groove at 
least to some degree, and 
UF’s next few opponents — 
Arkansas, Vanderbilt, Kentucky 
and Tennessee — aren’t exactly 
known for their electrifying 
offenses. If Florida continues its 
trend of strong defensive play, it 
can look forward to a potential 
SEC Championship bid at the end 
of the year.
That possible momentum from 
the end of the regular season could be key. Because a team like 
Alabama will absolutely have an 
electrifying offense, and they are 
very likely to be who UF meets 
in the SEC Championship, should 
they make it. And if the Gators 
want to beat a team like that, 
they will need to make sure the 
defense of games past doesn’t 
rear its head again this year.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgCourtesy to The Alligator
Gators quarterback Kyle Trask daps up linebacker Andrew Chatfield Jr. at TIAA Bank Field in 
Jacksonville, Florida, on Nov. 7. Florida beat Georgia for the first time since 2016 on Saturday 44-28.
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1UGA QBs were 9 for 2912   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2020
Stream your 
favorite movies, 
TV shows, and 
Amazon Originals.
Start your 6-month trial,
no cost to you
amazon.com/UofFlorida