www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaWe Inform. You Decide.
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Comic series: Facing Race
Kristen Louder reflects on her experience as a Black student 
at UF,  pg. 4
SG official will no longer serve
His offensive messages resurfaced,  pg. 3What We’re Missing
Among all of the sporting events canceled by 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the cancellation 
of the Little League World Series hits close 
to home for Declan Walsh, pg. 8
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news -
Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
PROTESTERS LEARN ABOUT CITY’S 
HISTORY
By Kaelyn Cassidy and Tristan 
Wood
Alligator Staff Writers
A family of three stood together in a tight 
circle. Trenita White held an umbrella while her 
daughters, Joanna and Juanita, passed back and 
forth a cardboard sign that read “Black Lives Mat -
ter. ”  It ended at Joanna, who held it for the ma -
jority of the march.
As minutes passed, the women quieted. They 
peered into the center of the crowd where a 
group of organizers prepared to speak.
“I want to march already, ” said the younger 
sister, Juanita, an 18-year-old UF management 
freshman.
Soon, they would.
Almost 1,500 people marched Saturday eve -
ning in protest of police violence and systemic 
racism. Protesters blocked sidewalks and inter -
sections and listened as organizers illustrated how decades of gentrification and inequal -
ity impact the experience of Black people in 
Gainesville today.
The protest began in front of the O’Connell 
Center.
O’Connell Center, 6:10 p.m.
“Stephen C. O’Connell was a racist, ” said Al -
exandra St Tellien, a member of the GoDDsville 
Dream Defenders. O’Connell was the president 
of UF from 1967 to 1973, too.
St Tellien told the story of Black Thursday, 
when members of the Black Student Union held 
a sit-in at the UF president’s office on April 15, 
1971, to demand a Black cultural center on cam -
pus and other programs to improve the lives of 
Black UF students.
Sixty-six protesters were arrested, 60 of whom 
were put on academic probation. O’Connell de -
nied the arrested students amnesty, saying that 
doing so “would be admitting that the sit-in in 
my office was proper conduct now and in the 
future, ” according to an article in Alternative UF, 
a 2009 exhibition created by undergraduate stu -
dents focusing on campus activism at UF.“UF speaks about diversity, but having these 
monuments is kind of contradicting themselves, ” 
Juanita said.
She grabbed her sister’s shirt sleeve and 
pulled as the crowd made its way to the next 
stop.
University Avenue and 13th Street, 6:50 p.m.
In the center of the intersection, Wallace Ma -
zon, a 25-year-old UF alumnus and Dream De -
fenders member, asked protesters to kneel for 9 
minutes of silence—about the amount of time 
former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin 
knelt on George Floyd’s neck.
During the silence, three young Black men 
wearing hoodies lay face-down on the pave -
ment. They held their hands together behind 
their backs, simulating being constrained by 
handcuffs. All three chanted, “I can’t breathe, ” at 
each minute interval of the moment of silence.
Nine minutes later, the crowd got to their 
feet. Juanita and Joanna helped their mother off 
the asphalt and followed the procession north 
down 13th Street. The chants continued.Laura San Juan contributed to this report
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.org
@TristanDWood
twood@alligator.org
Read the rest online at alligator.org, or by 
scanning the QR code:“Who are you protecting?”: Gainesville’s past spotlighted
VOLUME 114 ISSUE 82SPECIAL
EDITIONT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW 66°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 15, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Sunday’s Top AP Headlines
Atlanta officer fired after fatal 
shooting of Black man
Atlanta police said Sunday the 
department fired one officer and 
placed another on administrative 
duty for the fatal shooting of a Black 
man who resisted arrest after failing 
a field sobriety test—a death that re -
kindled fiery protests in the city and 
also caused the police chief to re -
sign. On Sunday, body camera foot -
age showed Rayshard Brooks ap -
pearing good-humored and largely 
cooperative with the two white 
officers after being found sleeping 
alone in a car blocking a Wendy’s 
drive-thru lane. The Georgia Bureau 
of Investigations said Brooks wres -
tled a taser from the officers and be -
gan to run. The GBI released security 
camera footage from the restaurant 
that showed a running Brooks turn 
and point an object in his hand to -
ward an officer a few steps behind 
him. The video shows the officer pull 
his gun and fire as Brooks runs, even -
tually falling to the ground in the 
parking lot. Keisha Lance Bottoms, 
the mayor of Atlanta, said that she 
saw the instance was an unjust 
use of deadly force. Officer Garrett 
Rolfe was terminated while officer 
Devin Brosnan has been placed on 
administrative duty, an Atlanta po -
lice spokesman, Sgt. John Chafee, 
said in a brief statement Sunday. 
Additionally, the Atlanta police chief 
resigned on Saturday after the inci -
dent. 
Trump rally called dangerous move 
in the age of coronavirus 
After several months off the cam -
paign trail, U.S. President Donald 
Trump plans to have a campaign 
rally Saturday in Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
Although Oklahoma has seen 
relatively few cases of COVID-19, 
health experts are questioning 
the president’s decision. The Tulsa 
City-County Health Department’s 
director told the Tulsa World over 
the weekend that he wished the 
Trump campaign would move the 
date back because of a “significant 
increase in our case trends. ” Other 
health experts also cite the dan -
ger of infection spreading among 
the crowd and sparking outbreaks 
when people return to their homes. 
The Trump campaign itself acknowl -
edges the risk in a waiver attendees must agree to, absolving them of 
any responsibility should people 
get sick. Trump’s rally will be held 
indoors, at a 19,000-seat arena 
that has canceled all other events 
through the end of July. Scientists 
believe the virus spreads far more 
easily in crowded enclosed spaces 
than it does outdoors, where circu -
lating air has a better chance of dis -
persing virus particles.
Floridians mark Trump’s birthday 
with flotillas, caravans
Trump supporters in Florida cel -
ebrated the president’s birthday 
Sunday with a boat parade in Palm 
Beach County — home of President 
Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort. 
Separate caravans of trucks, motor -
cycles and boats were riding along 
highways and the intercoastal wa -
terway at various times in the morn -
ing. The organizers were part of the 
president’s Florida re-election effort. 
The Palm Beach Post reported that 
an anti-Trump caravan was also rid -
ing through the county Sunday to 
protest racism and to call for police 
reforms. In The Villages, a massive 
Republican-friendly retirement 
community northwest of Orlando 
where golf carts are the vehicles of 
choice for many residents, Trump 
supporters held a golf-cart parade 
in honor of the president, who is 
turning 74.
Care-free days at theme parks giving 
way to virus safeguards 
Amusement parks of all sizes are ad -
justing everything from selling tick -
ets to serving meals while trying to 
reassure the public and government 
leaders that they’re safe to visit amid 
the COVID-19 crisis. Across the coun -
try, a handful of theme parks have 
opened since Memorial Day week -
end. Universal Orlando became 
the first of Florida’s major theme 
park resorts to reopen in early June. 
Disney’s nearby parks will wait until 
next month, but there won’t be any 
parades, firework shows or character 
greetings. Disneyland in California 
plans to reopen on July 17, pending 
government approval. Theme parks 
are some of the last businesses to 
open due to the large crowds that 
they attract. Ohio’s two biggest 
amusement parks filed a lawsuit last 
week challenging the governor's 
authority to shut them down. Cedar 
Fair Entertainment, which operates theme parks across North America 
including Ohio’s Cedar Point, will 
require guests to fill out health 
screenings before they show up and 
to go through temperature checks 
at the gate. Among the changes 
at Six Flags parks are touch-free 
bag checks with high-tech, walk-
through machines.
Some pubs closing temporarily as 
Florida virus cases rise
In Florida, bars and restaurants are 
temporarily closing their doors af -
ter being open for just a few weeks 
because workers and customers 
have tested positive for COVID-19. 
The closures come as the number 
of new daily coronavirus cases in 
Florida on Sunday exceeded 2,000 
cases for the second day in a row. In 
the Orlando suburb of Altamonte 
Springs, a restaurant closed tem -
porarily after some patrons notified 
the owner about testing positive 
and some staffers started exhibiting 
symptoms, though not at work.The 
Florida Department of Health re -
ported that Florida had 75,568 total 
cases and 2,931 related deaths. The 
surge in positive coronavirus cases 
comes as Florida is set to become 
a hub for major sports leagues. 
The NBA, Major League Soccer, the 
Amateur Athletics Union Junior 
Olympics and others plan to hold 
games and events in Florida, poten -
tially drawing thousands of people 
to the state from around the world. 
Theme parks, such as Universal 
Orlando and Seaworld Orlando, 
reopened this month. Walt Disney 
World plans to reopen next month. 
On Sunday, about 5 percent of peo -
ple in Florida who were tested for 
COVID-19 tested positive. 
Off-duty Florida wildlife officer found 
fatally shot
Florida Wildlife Conservation officer 
Julian Keen Jr. was found fatally shot 
in rural Hendry County, and three 
suspects were in custody, accord -
ing to the Hendry County Sheriff’s 
Office and the Florida Department 
of Law Enforcement. Law enforce -
ment agencies provided no further 
details. Keen, 30, grew up in LaBelle, 
Florida in Hendry County, according 
to the Fort Myers News-Press. 
Florida coronavirus cases rising as 
state reopens
Cases of COVID-19 continue to rise 
in Florida as the state reopens. On 
Saturday, the state reported more 
than 2,500 new cases. The numbers 
reported by the state Department 
of Health mark the 10th out of 11 
straight days in which new cases 
have topped 1,000. Gov. Ron 
DeSantis and local officials began re -
laxing rules on businesses, beaches, 
theme parks and gatherings in May. 
Deaths from the virus now stand 
at more than 3,000 with a total of 
73,552 positive cases since the pan -
demic began.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 82
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Renee Hancock, J.P. OprisonMarianna Colon, mcolon@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgZora Viel, zviel@alligator.org
Noah Ram,  nram@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 15, 2020
LOOKING INTO HISTORY IS 
IMPORTANT IN UNDERSTANDING 
RACIAL TENSION TODAY, 
STUDENTS SAY
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Gabriella Paul flipped through notes she had 
written as a UF student in 2018. One in particular 
caught her attention: “UF ties to slavery?”
Paul, a UF journalism alumna, never imagined 
that one-inch note would turn into a research 
project uncovering UF’s expansive history with 
slavery, she said.
“I think that it is a testament to what a few peo -
ple can do when they care about justice, ” Paul said. 
“If we can do something even as little as discov -
ering what that history is and see it continue to 
live on, it would be the proudest moment I would 
have looking at my alma mater. ”
UF Student Government passed a resolution, 
or a declaration of opinion, June 2 that asks the 
university to investigate its history. The resolution 
garnered almost 45 sponsors, including history 
professors, student organizations such as the In -
digenous American Student Association and SG 
senators. 
However, the research began over a year be -
fore the resolution passed. In Fall 2018, Paul wrote 
a research paper for a special topics class headed 
by Jon Sensbach, a UF professor of history. The pa -
per was about how other schools were research -
ing their ties to slavery and what they did to rec -
oncile with their past, Paul said.
In Spring 2019, Sensbach asked Paul and three 
other students to work in an independent study 
to look into UF’s history with slavery. At the end 
of their study, they had created a 50-page report 
named “Slavery and the University of Florida: Af -
rican Americans, Seminoles and the Origins of 
Higher Education in Florida” that was published 
physically in Smathers Library.  The report exam -
ined slavery and the removal of indiginous people 
spanning from 1853 to 1866.
They found East Florida Seminary in Ocala, 
which moved to Gainesville in 1866 and merged 
with three other schools in 1905 to become the 
University of Florida, was built by proceeds from 
the sale of former Seminole Native American land, 
Paul said.
Land that was seized by the Armed Occupa -
tion Act of 1842, which encouraged any person 
who could defend the land to forcefully take it, 
was sold to create the Seminary Land Fund, which 
was used to build the East Florida Seminary, said 
Adreanne Martinez, a Spring 2020 UF graduate 
who co-authored the resolution to look into UF’s 
history.
They also found that members of the Board 
of Trustees in the 1850s collectively owned 219 
slaves during that time. The families on the East 
Florida Seminary’s commencement ceremony list 
in 1861 owned a total of 197 slaves, Martinez said.
Their biggest barrier in research was the 
lack of records, Paul said. They mainly worked in 
Smathers Library, and they went to the State Li -
brary and Archives of Florida in Tallahassee to look 
at census records, she said.
They found firsthand accounts of people liv -
ing during the 1800s and one written record of a 
commencement ceremony held by East Florida 
Seminary. Then, they cross examined the names 
from those documents with census and slave re -
cords from that time, Paul said.
Although Martinez, a UF political science and 
history alumna, was not involved with the original 
research done in Spring 2019, she advanced the 
movement to study UF’s history by co-writing the 
SG resolution that suggested UF acknowledge its 
past by researching it further, she said.
Martinez started working on the project for 
her senior history thesis. She also looked into 
UF’s history with slavery, relying mostly on Paul’s 
research, and examined how other schools, such 
as Harvard University, Georgetown University and 
Clemson University, recognized and reconciled 
their histories in slavery, she said.
During her studies, Martinez noticed that UF 
hadn’t done anything to recognize its history. She 
realized no one had fully investigated or reported it either, she said. 
Students were the driving force behind in -
stitutional change in the schools that Martinez 
researched because they were the ones starting 
the research into the school’s history and pushing 
for the research to be done, she said. So when she 
noticed the gap in UF’s history, she decided to ini -
tiate change, too. 
The SG resolution that Martinez co-wrote asks 
the university to assemble a working group of 
students and faculty to further research UF’s his -
tory with slavery and Native American removal, 
she said.
The resolution also requests the creation of 
university-level curriculum and courses on the 
topic, where students and faculty can research 
UF’s history for the class, she said.
Martinez had been trying to get the resolution 
passed since April, she said. But she had difficulty 
getting it into the Senate chamber for a vote. 
It was postponed twice and then failed by the 
Judiciary Committee, a group of senators who de -
cide what non-budget legislation goes to Senate 
to be voted on. 
But when a co-author of the resolution, Sen. 
Claudia Tio (Independent, District C), added it to 
the agenda and called for a vote, the resolution 
passed unanimously.
Judiciary Chair Seth Longland wrote in an 
email to The Alligator June 1 the Judiciary Com -
mittee initially failed the resolution because they 
determined it overstepped the Senate’s powers. 
He said he was concerned about the Senate “not 
having the authority to order higher level admin -
istration to create a work group. ”
However, during the same meeting, the com -
mittee passed a different resolution that asked UF 
administration to adopt a food purchasing pro -
gram that encourages buying local food.
He wrote in an email to The Alligator two days 
later that the Judiciary Committee never intended 
to fail the bill because it overstepped the Senate’s 
powers. But when they postponed it for a third 
time, it failed due to Senate rules.
Eight out of nine of the Judiciary Committee 
members were present at the meeting when it fi -
nally passed in Senate, but no one objected when 
it was voted on. None of the Judiciary Committee 
members present for the vote answered ques -
tions from The Alligator asking why they passed 
the bill just three days after failing it. 
The Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, 
which conducts oral interviews with people to 
preserve and promote history, will be part of fu -
ture research. The program is directed by UF his -
tory professor Paul Ortiz, and it will let research -
ers use its more than 1,000 oral history interviews 
with Native American people of the Southeast 
and more than 1,000 with African American elders 
in their studies.
UF has ignored the impact of slavery and 
genocide of Native Americans for too long, Ortiz 
said. By ignoring this history, people grow more 
frustrated. People cannot move forward until they 
acknowledge the past, he said.
Other universities, such as Georgetown Uni -
versity, are ahead of UF because they’ve started 
researching, Ortiz said. UF should be taking the 
lead on this initiative instead.
“Can we really realistically talk about having an 
equitable society or having a democratic society if 
we continue to hide the truth that that society is 
built upon?” Ortiz asked. “My hope is that we bring 
out the full story, we learn from it and we shake 
hands together. ”
Confronting this history can be difficult, Mar -
tinez said, but it is necessary if schools want to be 
more diverse and inclusive. The legacies of slavery 
and Jim Crow segregation still affect society, she 
said, and the death of George Floyd, Ahmaud Ar -
bery and other black people have shed a light on 
inequality today.
“I’m hoping that it brings more diversity and 
inclusivity in the present, but I definitely think it’s 
going to bring more diversity and inclusivity in 
the past as well, ” Martinez said. “We’re adding this 
history that’s kind of been kept quiet for so long. ”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgStudents push for more research into UF’s historyMONDAY, JUNE 15, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
alligatorSports launches a new series: What We’re Missing
All about events that aren’t happening because of the 
COVID-19 pandemic , pg. 8ARTISTS AND 
FILMMAKERS STRIVE 
TO PROMOTE EQUALITY 
THROUGH ARTISTIC 
EXPRESSION
Thomas Holton
Avenue Staff Writer
The Art Festival at Thornebrook was 
where things changed.
Gainesville resident Yvonne Fergu -
son, 33, was painting “something in -
consequential, ” as she tells it, when she 
turned to see a young Black girl stand -
ing nearby with her family, enthralled 
by what she was painting. In speaking 
with her mother, Ferguson learned 
of the girl’s desire to be an artist, and 
that she had never seen someone who 
looked like her do that in real life before.
Ferguson’s upbringing was different 
than hers. From a young age, her home 
was filled with nothing but Black art, lit -
erature and music. She said that grow -
ing up surrounded by art that reflected 
her reality validated her as she entered 
the world.
“Everything that I experienced in 
my home reinforced my wholeness, my 
value, my worth, ” she said.
This celebration of Black culture is 
something that has come to define 
Ferguson’s work, specifically the count -
less portraits she’s painted of iconic 
Black figures such as Malcolm X, Nina Simone, Angela Davis, James Baldwin 
and Tupac Shakur. She believes that 
children like the one at the festival, 
and Black people in general, need to 
see these figures as icons so they can 
recognize that same greatness within 
themselves.
Her focus on painting took hold 
when she moved into her own place 
for the first time. She needed artwork 
to fill the walls, but when she went into 
stores to find some she would see noth -
ing but pictures of heralded white ac -
tresses like Marilyn Monroe and Audrey 
Hepburn. With the encouragement of 
her mother, she decided to create her 
own art to fill the empty space. Friends 
began asking for pieces, and the busi -
ness snowballed from there.
She’s been painting full-time for 
over a year under the Diasporic Pig -
ments brand name, shipping pieces to 
New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta and Tex -
as, to name a few. She said she’s grateful 
for the platform she’s built up, yet is still 
wary of the business side of art, which is 
largely controlled by wealthy collectors.
“In general, the Black perspective 
in this country is really neglected un -
less there’s some sort of profitability for 
other persons involved, ” she said.
She’s painted two murals in 
Gainesville, the second of which de -
picts Don King, the city’s first Black fire 
chief. Ferguson is drawn to the per -
manence of murals and the different 
meanings it can inhabit in communi -
ties, and wants to make more in the fu -ture. Above all, she wants to display her 
culture proudly and inspire real change 
in those who consume it.
“I want to be that Black art pollina -
tor, ” she said.
Amia Davis, a 20-year-old UF tele -
communication junior, remembers 
the excitement of learning about the 
behind-the-scenes of her favorite film, 
“Avatar, ” and being inspired to take TV 
production classes throughout high 
school.
She also remembers a recurring 
feeling of sitting in the backseat in high 
school film clubs, where the leadership 
was almost exclusively white and male. 
Going into UF, she never felt like 
there was a group that fully represent -
ed her until she found F.E.M. Films in 
her sophomore year. F.E.M. Films, which 
stands for the Female Entertainment 
Machine, is an independently run or -
ganization of UF students that encour -
ages women to turn ideas into action. 
Although it’s centered around film, the 
organization welcomes musicians, art -
ists and dancers into their circle, creat -
ing a bubble of creativity.
Davis’ ultimate goal is to become a 
director, and she’s currently taking act -
ing classes, writing and doing videog -
raphy to become a more well-rounded 
asset in a production. She said she con -
stantly looks to directors like Ava Du -
Vernay, Jordan Peele and Barry Jenkins 
as inspiration that she can make prog -
ress in the film industry, which she said 
has a history of suppressing Black and female voices.
In her own work, she said that much 
like in Jenkins’ film, “Moonlight, ” she 
wants to create in a way that captures 
Blackness in totality. She said that while 
stories that detail Black oppression and 
struggle are important, it’s equally im -
portant for there to be stories about 
Black joy.
“We’re more than just our history, ” 
she said.
The connections she’s made with 
F.E.M. Films have given her greater con -fidence to pursue her own projects and 
build up a network of support that will 
continue for years to come, she said.
“We have the freedom to do any -
thing we want, ” Davis said. “We can do 
projects that are associated with what’s 
going on in the world right now with -
out worrying about how that’ll make 
people feel. ”
@thomas__holton
tholton@alligator.org
CAN YOU DISREGARD 
POLITICS FOR LOVE?
Alyssa Archard
Staff Writer
It would be an understatement 
to say that these have been some -
what divisive times. 
These days, we are facing the 
politicization of the killing of BI -
PoC, wearing masks in public and 
everything in between. On top of 
all this, we are in the midst of an 
election year, which of course only 
aids the bitter divide that seems 
to grow larger every four years. 
With more than 50,000 students 
enrolled here at UF, the spectrum 
of political philosophies is under -
standably broad. But, what role 
do they play in romantic relation -
ships? Are cross-party, cross-ide -
ology relationships likely to hap -
pen? For Vance 
Osteen, a 
19-year-old UF 
telecommunica -
tion junior, the 
answer is a little 
more nuanced 
than a simple yes or no, blue or 
red, left or right.
“I think whether or not I’d date 
someone whose politics don’t co -
incide with my own would be con -
ditional to whether or not I was 
already romantically interested 
in that person, ” he said. “It would 
also depend on how extremely 
their politics differ from my own, 
I think. ”
For Osteen, romance, connec -
tion and attraction are of the ut -
most importance before politics 
can get in the way. Yet on the 
other hand, the prospect of dating 
outside party lines is simply a no-
go for many. Mary Grace Gunnels, a 19-year-
old UF communication sciences 
and disorders junior, finds that 
politics and identity are often in -
tertwined and cannot be easily 
separated. 
“I don’t think I would date 
somebody of too differing politi -
cal beliefs because in my opinion, 
it tends to boil down to morals, ”  
she said. “If our views differ on the 
rights of any group of people, it 
will have to be a hard pass. ”
One look at your Twitter feed 
will show you that Gunnels’ view -
point is not out of the ordinary. It 
can be difficult to find common 
ground with someone on the oth -
er side of the aisle, let alone invite 
them to the other side of your bed. 
Even if politics are not essen -
tial to your relationship, the rela -
tionship itself can be politicized 
by others, as pointed out by Ryan 
Karczewski, a 20-year-old UF ar -chitecture junior.
“Being a gay male, people can 
consider my act of having a same-
sex relationship as political, ” he 
said. “Therefore, I feel that pretty 
much cancels out a lot of people 
who would have largely opposing 
viewpoints from me. ”
 At the same time, there’s still 
some wiggle room for Karczewski.
“Given that I have dated some -
one in the past who had some op -
posing viewpoints from me, I can 
personally get past them, only 
in small cases, though, ” he said. 
“Overall, I would date someone 
with opposing viewpoints, but 
only very small and minor things. ”
It looks like opinions on politi -
cal views in relationships are just 
as varied as the political philoso -
phies themselves. Whether you 
extend your hands across the 
aisle or keep it within party lines, 
be honest about your views, for yourself and for your partner, and 
don’t forget to vote in November.
@Alyssa_Archard
alyssaarchard@ufl.eduBlack visual artists create art for the times
Orange & Boo: Dating across party lines
ART & THEATERART & THEATER
LOVE & SEXLOVE & SEXCarley Noll / / Alligator Staff
This story is part of an Avenue series called “The 
Voices of Gainesville” meant to spotlight Black-owned 
businesses, Black artists and Black musicians in Gainesville. 
For more stories visit alligator.org/the_avenue.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Check out the Avenue’s 
playlist of songs from our 
favorite movies and TV 
shows
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Carley Noll
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 15, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
7-13-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     7-13-43-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap! 373-FIND
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
7-13-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
7-13-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
7-13-43-13
Wanted to Buy or Trade
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient. 
Certified Professionals. Call 312-634-6652 or 
visit RefrigerantFinders.com            6-15-1-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  7-13-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    7-13-20-43-14
 Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
7-27-20-14
Homework coach wanted for bright but un-
motivated ADHD student. He is 16 yrs old. 
Hrs/Days flexible. 3 hrs 2 X week to help 
complete assignments for this school year 
thru summer. e-mail qualifications to ss-
mills@hotmail.com                      7-6-20-5-14
Cleaning company looking for help with 
residential homes Mon-Fri 8-5. Use our 
vehicles and supplies. Call 352-336-8570 or 
come to 4605 NW 6th St. suite B Gainesville 
between 8-9 and 2-4.                6-29-20-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   7-13-
20-43-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)1For Rent
furnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
7-13-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       7-13-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
Lake view condo for rent at Bivens North. 
2BR 2BA 1,760 sq ft. W/D water included. 
2514 SW 14th Dr. $1,400 per month Contact 
Rosemary 352-372-6576.     6-15-20-2-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of pos-
sible buyers!
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
7-14-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 15, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Mark McClain
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/15/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/15/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, June 15, 2020
ACROSS
1 The “M” in STEM, 
briefly
5 Bistro offerings
10 Darkened for 
emphasis, as 
text
14 New York canal
15 Quiver  
projectile
16 “Buy It Now” site
17 *Price a 
discarded item 
might fetch
19 Zonk out
20 Snail’s protection
21 Directs
23 “__ on Down the 
Road”: “The Wiz” 
song
26 Bus sked info
27 *Preliminary 
book copy for 
editing
33 Corp. money 
exec
35 Medical pros
36 Take great 
pleasure in
37 Ship frame
39 “__ one is 
better?”
42 Great Pyramid 
site
43 Physicist  
Newton
45 Surrey slammer
47 Butterfly  
catcher
48 *Salon job often 
shortened to its 
first four letters
52 RVer’s stopover
53 Interstate hauler
54 Glam or punk, to 
rock
59 Cinderella’s 
sweepings
63 Horror film 
assistant
64 Earthquake 
echo, or where 
the last words 
of the answers 
to starred clues 
might go
67 Sunscreen 
additive
68 Stale-smelling
69 Grape soda 
brand
70 “Well, I’ll be 
darned!”
71 “Family Ties” 
mother
72 Asian wheat 
noodleDOWN
1 Total disorder
2 Word with enemy 
or rival
3 Grow weary
4 Shaman, for one
5 Dallas NBAer
6 Important period
7 Woody’s singing 
son
8 Shutter with 
slanted slats
9 Sugary goodies
10 Places to sleep
11 Flute’s orchestral 
neighbor
12 Lounge (around)
13 Hair salon colors
18 Flannel shirt 
pattern
22 Knocks loudly
24 Winter forecast
25 Mark 
permanently
27 Kind of ice cap
28 Endorse digitally
29 Cleaner’s cloth
30 Like sheep
31 Move like 
molasses
32 Greek campus 
group
33 Short golf shot
34 Firecracker-
lighting cord
38 Perp’s escape40 Webber musical 
based on Eliot 
poems
41 Sewing machine 
inventor Elias
44 Wedding 
reception 
centerpiece
46 Buddhist 
teachers
49 Generic
50 Probably more 
than you wanted 
to hear51 Hindu deity
54 Thailand, once
55 Like eyesores
56 Explosive sound
57 Western writer 
Zane __
58 Crafter’s website
60 Worked the soil
61 Cavern 
phenomenon
62 Largest human 
organ
65 Sci-fi series extras
66 Whiskey grain
By Kurt Mengel and Jan-Michele Gianette
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/09/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/09/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 9, 2020
ACROSS
1 “Funny!”
5 Sea of Cortez 
peninsula, 
informally
9 Some Apples
14 Very much
15 Employs
16 Carne para un 
taco
17 Worshipped 
object
18 Chat leisurely
20 Suffer a power 
outage
22 Greek known for 
paradoxes
23 They often pop 
up in windows
24 Appear to be
26 Hagen of 
Broadway
28 Refrain from 
saying something 
unpleasant
35 Tennis replay
36 Hotelier Helmsley 
and singer Lewis
37 Start of Hamlet’s 
question
38 Works at, as a 
trade
40 Is able to
41 Fur tycoon
42 Second to __: 
unbeatable
43 Patrol vehicle
45 Lao Tzu’s “way”
46 Fall into a trap
49 Prefix with plus or 
pass
50 African antelope
51 One more than 
bi-
54 U.S. Army E-3s
57 Words spoken 
laterally?
61 Have some 
humble pie
64 Seep
65 “Goldengirl” star 
Susan
66 First-rate
67 “Look, amigo!”
68 Broadway 
composer Jule
69 Lads
70 ER “Hurry up!”
DOWN
1 Reagan 
secretary of state 
Alexander __2 Designer Gucci
3 Car engine cover
4 Finally
5 Ohio State 
athlete
6 Bat wood
7 “Oh, man!”
8 “Even __  
speak ... ”
9 Old Apple app 
for pics
10 Homer’s 
bartender
11 NATO alphabet 
“A”
12 Dressed
13 Boozers
19 Letter-shaped 
fasteners
21 Film units
25 Milk giver, in 
totspeak
27 Busy crawlers
28 “Look out __!”: 
“Heads up!”
29 Memoir featuring 
Ike Turner
30 Not appropriate
31 __ Cucamonga, 
California
32 Gangster dubbed 
“The Teflon Don”
33 German WWII 
sub34 Gateway 
Arch designer 
Saarinen
35 ICU caregivers
39 Slender fish
41 Chain known for 
roast beef
43 Greek isle
44 Fizzes up
47 Patti who won a 
Tony as Evita
48 Math postulates
51 Afternoon socials52 Go ballistic
53 __-bitty
55 Complain like a 
shellfish?
56 “Begone!”
58 “Stop wasting 
time!”
59 “Fantastic 
Beasts” actor 
Miller
60 Chair or sofa
62 Partner of hither
63 “__ questions?”
06/08/2020
answer on page 7
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/FDA approved brand name medications for 
$49/month per medication. 
Apply online at prescriptioncare.com/fl or 
call Prescription Care at 866-399-5352.      
6-15-1-16
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesMONDAY, JUNE 15, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
11..    ________  sseeccttiioonn
11..    PPaayymmeenntt,,  pprriizzee55..    CCoonnttrrooll,,  uussee
22..    GGaavvee  iinn66..    SSoouutthheerrnn  ________
33..    FFiirree  ________77..    AAlltteerreedd
44..    SShhiippppeedd,,  sseennttYYHHMMTTRRHH
RRAADDEERRWWEELLWWIIDD
AALLWWDDRR
IIEEDDDDYYEELL
AAYYDDHHTTNNRRDDEEEETTDDII
AAMMEEIILLDDAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--RRhhyytthhmm    55AA--WWiieelldd    66AA--DDrraawwll    77AA--EEddiitteedd
11DD--RReewwaarrdd    22DD--YYiieellddeedd    33DD--HHyyddrraanntt    44DD--MMaaiilleedd    BB--NNeeww  DDeellhhii66--1155--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  cciittyy  wwaass  ddeessiiggnneedd  bbyy  BBrriittiisshh  aarrcchhiitteeccttss  
SSiirr  EEddwwiinn  LLuuttyyeennss  aanndd  SSiirr  HHeerrbbeerrtt  BBaakkeerr..
BONUS
solution below answers below
1. U.S. STATES: Bay Staters hail from which 
U.S. state?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capital of 
Lebanon?
3. HISTORY: Which major World War 
II battle was known by the code name 
"Operation Detachment"?
4. MUSIC: Which rock group had a 1960s hit 
with the song "Incense and Peppermints"?
5. MEASUREMENTS: What does a 
chronometer measure?
6. ADVERTISING SLOGANS: Which 
automotive company had the slogan, 
"Quality is Job 1"?
7. MOVIES: Which movie won the 1991 
Oscar for Best Picture?
8. SCIENCE: What kind of adaptation allows 
an organism to blend into its environment?
9. LANGUAGE: What does the Latin phrase 
"amor vincit omnia" mean?
10. TELEVISION: What is the capital of the 
Seven Kingdoms in "Game of Thrones"?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
1. Massachusetts
2. Beirut
3. Invasion of Iwo Jima
4. Strawberry Alarm Clock
5. Time
6. Ford Motor Co.
7. "Dances With Wolves"
8. Camouflage
9. Love conquers all
10. King's LandingTrivia Test  answers
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
In order to be happy oneself it is necessary to make at least one other person happy.
—Theodor ReikCryptoQuote  answer
PUZZLE PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONSSOLUTIONS
solution belowTight end Kyle Pitts was named 
a Walter Camp Preseason 
All-American. Pitts caught 54 
passes for 649 yards and five 
touchdowns last season.Why college football is better than the NFL
Read Zachary Huber's rebuttal online at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JUNE 15, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
For a 12-year-old baseball 
player, this is supposed to 
be a magical time. 
School has just gotten 
out, the weather is beauti -
ful, and every day is lived on the 
diamond.
The district tournaments are 
only three weeks away, and thou -
sands of kids across the country 
dream of going on an improb -
able run and storming into Williamsport, Penn -
sylvania, for the Little League World Series. 
But not this year. 
On April 30th, it was announced that the 
2020 Little League World Series would be can -
celed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Sports, especially at the youth level, are a 
fleeting pursuit. 
Kids grow up quickly, and generally there 
aren’t a lot of do-overs. You’re only 12 once. 
These kids will miss the chance to live out the 
dreams of every Little Leaguer, and as someone 
with great memories of travel ball, I feel for ev -
ery one of them.
But even to the general sports-watching 
public, this cancellation robs us of one of the 
most unique and entertaining events of the 
year. 
The debate between professional and col -
legiate sports is a long-standing one, and sup -
porters of the college game often argue there is 
greater passion from the players and the crowd. 
But I would assert the passion in the LLWS 
trumps all of them. Once the competition reaches the Williamsport stage, 
the athletes are living out a 
one-in-a-million dream, and the 
stands are often full of relatives 
that have been there every step 
of the way.
The players aren't media-
trained athletes or wealthy su -
perstars, either. They're just kids, 
even if some of them look 25. This 
leads to iconic characters like Big 
Al, but it also emphasizes the human aspect of 
the game. 
The spectacle also offers a level of relatability 
that doesn’t exist in a lot of the major sporting 
events. As much as I dream about being LeB -
ron James, I was never going to be 6-foot-9. 
However, while the LLWS unquestionably has 
great athletes, there are also kids who look like 
12-year-old me making great plays. 
A spotlight is also placed on the coaches 
who led the kids to Williamsport. In contrast 
with the multimillionaire coaches who usually 
dot your TV screen, the managers at the Little 
League World Series are regular people. They 
have day jobs and generally pretty modest 
means, and their desire to coach stems from 
passion for the game and their community.
While the quality is much lower than ESPN’s 
regular programming, the Little League World 
Series is something I always look forward to. 
For a week, ordinary people are superstars, and 
the dreams of so many young people are rein -
vigorated. It’s the only event of its kind, and the 
LLWS will be missed this year. What We’re Missing: Little League World SeriesSuite Life on DeclanFOOTBALL
WHY THE BIG 
LEAGUE NFL REIGNS 
SUPREME OVER 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL
By Noah Ram
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s a Saturday in the fall, and 
you are sitting on your couch or 
in your apartment. You turn on 
the TV to see what games are 
being played on college cam -
puses throughout the country. 
You see that perennial power -
houses like Alabama, Clemson 
and Ohio State are crushing 
their lower-level conference 
opponents like a wrecking ball 
slamming into an old building. 
Then, you realize you’re better 
off getting work done instead. 
The next day, you turn on 
the TV to see what NFL games 
are on, and you realize there 
is a plethora of great games 
featuring teams with playoff  
chances. Then, you recognize 
the football played on Sunday 
is better than the one played on 
Saturday.
In the 2019 college football 
season, excluding conference championship games, there 
were only nine games played 
between teams ranked in the 
top 10. Compare that to the 
NFL, where there was a meeting 
between playoff teams every 
week during the season, with 
many weeks having more than 
one. I know that the NFL has 
more playoff teams, but that 
just increases the parity we see. 
With only four teams making it 
to the College Football Playoff, 
the same teams tend to make it 
every year. In six years, Alabama 
and Clemson have made it five 
times, Oklahoma four times and 
Ohio State three times. Since 
the College Football Playoff sys -
tem began in 2014, no team has 
started the season outside the 
top 20 and made the CFP .
Meanwhile, the NFL has 
seen at least four new teams 
advance to the playoffs since 
1990, and no team has repeat -
ed as champions since the New 
England Patriots in 2003 and 
2004.
Not only does pro football 
see more turnover and new 
teams competing for a Super 
Bowl each season, the talent is 
worlds better. There’s a reason 
NFL players are called profes -sionals and college players are 
called amateurs. NFL Sundays 
have a cornucopia of excellent 
players on both sides that col -
lege football Saturdays simply 
can’t match.
NFL games are also notice -
ably shorter than their college 
counterparts. While the aver -
age game length may not seem 
like a lot (3 hours and 8 minutes 
for the NFL vs 3 hours and 24 
minutes for college football), 
in reality, the big-time college 
games are much longer. Any -
one who has ever watched an 
“SEC on CBS” game or an ABC 
“Saturday Night Football” game 
knows that all too well. Even 
the biggest football game of 
them all, the Super Bowl, can 
be shorter sometimes than a 
major college football game, 
despite being arguably an en -
tertainment event as much as a 
sporting event.
Basically, you are watching 
a better product in less time. It’s 
a win-win and another reason 
the NFL sacks college football.
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgThe NFL is better than college football
Declan Walsh
Twitter: @dawalsh_UF