T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  59°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.SUNDAY’S AP HEADLINES
‘Cartels are scrambling’: Virus 
snarls global drug trade
An AP investigation revealed 
that numerous cities and 
hotspots at the center of the 
global drug trade, including 
Wuhan, China, have suffered 
from the COVID-19 outbreak, 
causing a slowing of the drug 
trade. Virtually every illicit 
drug has been affected by the 
outbreak, including the drug 
fentanyl, as a great deal of 
it comes via mail-order from 
a state-subsidized company 
in Wuhan that shut down 
after the outbreak earlier this 
year. In America, cocaine 
prices are up 20 percent or 
more in some cities. Heroin 
has become harder to find in 
Denver and Chicago, while 
supplies of fentanyl are falling 
in Houston and Philadelphia. 
In Los Angeles, the price 
of methamphetamine has 
more than doubled in recent 
weeks to $1,800 per pound. 
Mexican drug cartels have 
also reportedly held back their 
methamphetamine supplies in 
order to manipulate the market 
in their favor. President Donald 
Trump announced earlier this 
month that Navy ships were 
being moved toward Venezuela 
as part of a bid to beef up 
counter-narcotics operations in 
the Caribbean following a U.S. 
drug indictment against Nicolás 
Maduro.
Evolving aid package offers 
billions for hospitals, testing
The Trump administration 
and Congress are nearing an 
agreement as early as Sunday 
on an aid package of up to $450 
billion to boost a small-business 
loan program that has run out 
of money and add funds for 
hospitals and COVID-19 testing. 
The government’s Paycheck 
Protection Program for small 
businesses would get around 
$300 billion under the proposed 
deal, and $75 billion would go 
to U.S hospitals that are hit 
with many COVID-19 cases 
or are financially struggling. For COVID-19 testing, $25 
billion would also be added — 
something states have said was 
urgently needed. An additional 
$50 billion in the proposed 
plan would go toward disaster 
loans. Further aid to local and 
state governments is not a part 
of the bill, though Treasury 
Secretary Steven Mnuchin said 
President Donald Trump is 
considering aid to that area in 
a future relief bill. Democratic 
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo 
recently criticized the Trump 
administration for its lack of 
funding to state governments 
that he believes is needed in 
order to ramp up testing.  
At least 10 killed in shooting 
rampage in Canada
A suspect in an active shooter 
investigation was arrested 
Sunday at a gas station in 
Nova Scotia after a shooting 
in the Canadian province 
left multiple victims, and 
at least ten people killed, 
including a policewoman. 
Several building fires were 
reported by residents as well, 
but police didn’t immediately 
confirm details. The Royal 
Cavalry Mounted Police Chief 
Superintendent Chris Leather 
said he expects the death 
count to rise beyond 10 as 
more information is gathered. 
The shooter was identified as 
51-year-old Gabriel Wortman, 
who authorities said died after 
the shooting. Authorities said 
he disguised himself as a police 
officer in uniform at one point 
and mocked up a car to make 
it seem like a Royal Canadian 
Mounted Police cruiser. 
Wortman was known locally 
as a denturist who divided 
his time between a residence 
in Halifax, and an individual 
with the same name is listed 
as a denturist in Dartmouth 
by the Denturist Society of 
Nova Scotia. RCMP Cpl. Lisa 
Croteau confirmed on Twitter 
that there were multiple 
victims in the shooting but did 
not specify if anyone had been 
killed.Sports leagues seek to return to 
play but with no guarantees
While many sports leagues 
are publicly hoping to return 
to action before the beginning 
of summer, some are looking 
at alternatives behind the 
scenes. All 30 MLB teams 
playing in Arizona, home run 
contests to decide tie games, 
the Stanley Cup being hoisted 
in an empty arena and end-of-
season soccer standings decided 
by vote are just a few options 
that major sports leagues are 
considering amid the COVID-19 
pandemic. College football has 
been considering a scenario in 
which part of the season would 
be played in spring, but it is 
generally agreed that athletes 
should not play if it wouldn’t 
be safe for them to do so. This 
prospect could hurt thousands 
of other collegiate athletic 
programs that rely on money 
from football teams. Before 
setting anything in motion, 
all the leagues are waiting for 
a consensus to emerge from 
government and health experts, 
to say nothing of players and 
owners. Dr. Anthony Fauci 
has recommended if sports 
are to return sometime within 
the next few months, there 
should be no fans in arenas and 
constant testing for the players, 
who would likely need to be 
quarantined in hotels for weeks 
or months.
North Korea denies that Kim 
sent Trump ‘a nice note’
After President Donald Trump 
said North Korean leader Kim 
Jong Un sent him a ‘nice note’ 
in a COVID-19 press briefing on 
Saturday, North Korea dismissed 
the comment, referring to it as 
“ungrounded.” A press release 
from North Korea’s foreign 
ministry derided the comment as 
“meeting selfish purposes,” and 
it would investigate the matter 
further. Kim and Trump have 
met three times and exchanged 
letters and envoys on many 
occasions since 2018 when they 
began talks on North Korea’s 
nuclear weapons program, 
and the leaders have built up 
a political relationship since. 
Despite this, a breakdown of 
their second summit in Vietnam 
in early 2019 has somewhat 
slowed efforts of nuclear 
diplomacy. In March, North 
Korea revealed that Trump had 
sent a personal letter to Kim, 
and the letter was confirmed by 
the Trump administration. The 
administration said the letter 
was consistent with Trump’s 
efforts to engage world leaders 
during the pandemic.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 76
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorCopy Desk Chiefs
Katelynn Joyner, kjoyner@alligator.org
Renee Hancock, J.P . OprisonEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Calvin Martin, MD
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
NOW OPEN WEEKENDS 9am - 2pm
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation and 
treatment for:
• Respiratory Illness, Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Mon-Fri 8:00am-5:00pm, Sat-Sun 9:00am - 2:00pm
SIMEDHealth.com
BellyDance
352-384-9200
www.ethnicdanceexpressions.com
By Alex DeLuca and Lina Ruiz
Staff Writers
For our last print issue of the Spring 
semester, we decided to provide a guide of 
COVID-19 resources and a roundup of what 
we know thus far about the virus. Displayed 
on this page is a visual of the number of 
county cases organized by age and sex, as 
reported by the Florida Divison of Emergency 
Management, along with frequently asked 
questions about the virus. 
As of Sunday evening, the number of 
positive cases in Alachua County has reached 
210 cases with 27 hospitalizations. Local health 
ofﬁ  cials say these cases appear to be ﬂ  attening, 
but a downward shift is not yet apparent. 
UF currently totals at 38 cases, which 
include students, faculty and staff. On March 
17, after Gov. Ron DeSantis recommended 
universities to move online, students were 
asked to leave campus and return home to 
self-quarantine. A 30-day statewide stay-at-
home order soon followed, which went into 
effect April 2.    
Here’s what we know: 
What is the difference between 
coronavirus and COVID-19?
Coronaviruses refer to a family of viruses 
that can cause disease in humans and animals. 
These viruses can cause the common cold or 
diseases such as COVID-19.
COVID-19 refers to coronavirus disease 
2019, which is caused by the virus SARS-
CoV-2.  
How does the virus spread? 
COVID-19 can be spread through 
respiratory droplets from a cough or sneeze 
from an infected person to another person, 
according to the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. Spread can happen if these 
droplets land in a nearby person’s mouth or 
nose, especially if the person is within 6 feet of 
someone infected. 
How do I protect myself 
from COVID-19? 
Although there is no vaccine, the illness can 
be prevented by practicing social distancing, 
washing your hands often, disinfecting frequently touched surfaces, and covering your 
mouth and nose with a mask or face cover 
when in contact with other people.
I think I have been exposed to COVID-19. 
What do I do?
Watch for symptoms: fever, cough or 
shortness of breath may appear two to 
14 days after exposure. People concerned 
about exposures should call their physician 
or the county health department at 352-
334-8810. 
Physicians can test patients or patients 
can request an appointment to be tested 
through the health department, according 
to Paul Myers, administrator for the county 
health department. 
Where can I get tested 
for COVID-19? 
A list of local testing sites has not been 
released to the public, but drive-thru 
testing is being offered by the Alachua 
County Health Department. 
The drive -thru testing is by appointment 
only – residents can reach out to the county 
health department’s call center at 352-334-
8810 to make an appointment. 
Why doesn’t The Alligator report the 
names of infected residents 
or students? 
Because of the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act, or 
HIPAA, which protects patient privacy, 
The Alligator doesn’t have the names of 
infected residents or UF students. 
How does the federal 
stimulus package affect UF? 
The university will receive more than 
$30 million from the Department of 
Education via the coronavirus aid bill. 
More than $15 million of this will be 
allocated to students in need of ﬁ  nancial 
aid.
Will my classes be online 
for the Fall semester?
While it’s currently unknown if UF or 
Santa Fe College classes will be online 
for Fall semester, several universities across the country are in talks about the 
possibility of Fall classes remaining online. 
In his most recent column to The 
Alligator, UF President Kent Fuchs wrote 
that the university expects to make 
decisions about the status of Fall semester 
in June or July.
What grocery stores in Alachua County 
have reported cases of the virus?
Two Publix stores in Gainesville – one 
in Tower Square and one in Williston 
Plaza – each has an employee who has 
tested positive for the virus, The Alligator 
conﬁ  rmed Saturday. 
On Sunday, Whole Foods conﬁ  rmed 
that a team member of its Gainesville store 
located in Butler Town Center has tested 
positive for the virus.Which long-term care facilities in 
Alachua County have reported cases of 
the virus?
Oak Hammock at UF and Parklands 
Care Center each have conﬁ  rmed cases of 
COVID-19 among their residents or staff, 
according to the Florida Department of 
Health. 
The Alligator previously reported 
12 conﬁ  rmed cases of the virus at Oak 
Hammock among six residents and six 
staff. 
Though it’s unknown how many cases 
are at Parklands Care Center, the county 
has a total of 21 cases of infected residents 
or staff in long-term care facilities as of 
Sunday evening. Frequently asked questions regarding COVID-19
Hope Dean // Alligator Staff
Although COVID-19 affects more men than women, the number of female cases 
outpaces male cases in all but one age group in Alachua County. The number of 
cases in young people, especially those aged 25 to 34, is also much higher than 
those associated with people of retirement age. Data from the Florida Division of 
Emergency Management. 
4  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2020
I remember the 
ﬁ  rst time I en-
tered The Al-
ligator news-
room as a staff 
writer. I felt small 
despite the hospi-
tality and limited 
square footage of 
the gloriﬁ  ed closet. 
A skinny, wild-
haired man in an orange 
and blue hoodie gave me 
the breakdown for my job 
as a metro news assistant. It 
was the middle of the Spring 
2019 semester, and I felt like 
the awkward straggler at a 
family reunion. But this family 
quickly adopted me with open 
arms. 
Devoun Cetoute — my 
editor, mentor, friend and 
colleague — taught me 
everything I know about the 
fundamentals of reporting 
and journalism outside a 
classroom. And less than a 
year later, the woman who 
edited one of my ﬁ  rst stories 
ever as a contributing writer 
recruited me to help her run 
one of the largest independent 
student newsrooms in the 
country.   
Whoa. How the hell did 
that happen? 
Now, as a retiring digital 
managing editor, I’m trying to 
ﬁ  nd the words to say goodbye 
to the place that brought 
me passion, friendship and 
an abundance of La Tienda 
chicken quesadillas.  
Especially because it wasn’t 
supposed to end like this. 
I was supposed to record 
Christina Morales popping 
open a bottle of champagne 
and making a toast to the 
newsroom. I was supposed to waddle into the 
printing press at 2 
a.m. to watch the 
ﬁ  nal paper travel 
through a series of 
big machines and 
conveyor belts. I 
was supposed to 
embrace my staff 
and take selﬁ  es to 
look back on. 
But COVID-19 took that 
away, leaving us to produce a 
ﬁ  nal paper remotely with staff 
scattered across the country 
with an improper farewell. 
The ﬁ  nal Zoom call among 
editorial and production staff 
will last more than six hours, 
and the conclusion of my time 
as “Big 3” will be marked by 
the blue rectangular banner 
reading, “Leave Meeting.” 
I never imagined in a 
million years I would help 
manage a newsroom during 
a global pandemic, but 
here we are. Continuing to 
inform. Continuing to cover 
dailies and chase long-form 
enterprise stories. Continuing 
to share stories that need to be 
shared.  
These aren’t great 
circumstances, but I’m 
thankful to leave my mark on 
this byline and this masthead 
before passing the torch to 
the next crazy bunch — who 
will continue to make history 
while writing the ﬁ  rst drafts 
of it.
To The Independent Florida 
Alligator: You will always hold 
a piece of my heart. Thank 
you. 
Lina Ruiz was the digital 
managing editor of 
The Alligator.Journalists don’t have a lot of free time. If 
they date you, they must really like you. 
I consider myself extra special because 
I was able to get a journalist to ﬁ  t me 
in her abundant agenda ﬁ  lled with in-
terviews, writing, meetings and editing all the 
time. While I do feel special, there was also a 
lot I learned by dating Christina Morales for 
more than two years during her Alligator ca-
reer. 
I didn’t know much about journalism be-
fore meeting Christina, let alone about girls because I went 
to an all-boys Catholic high school. All I knew about the 
news was that my parents were subscribers of the Tampa 
Bay Times and that the movie “Spotlight” was a master-
piece. 
Christina and I study two completely different subjects. 
I study economics and she writes. While I struggle to spell, 
I have to teach Christina how to ﬁ  nd a derivative of a func-
tion. I taught Christina that college guys can cook almost 
anything. I don’t know if Christina is joking when she goes 
to football games and asks me how many points a touch-
down is.  
But she’s taught me a lot, too. 
First off, I learned pretty early that journalists can be 
intimidating. If you walk into The Alligator’s ofﬁ  ce, you 
would’ve seen a 5-foot-nothing Latina editor-in-chief eat-
ing a pastelito at her desk. But don’t let that fool you; this 
lady is ﬁ  erce. 
I learned that Christina is determined to have The Alliga-
tor bulletproof to the best of her ability. Before COVID-19, 
Christina would spend three days a week at the ofﬁ  ce 
working with her staff editing the paper. While the ofﬁ  ce is 
closed, The Alligator is still printing. Christina continues to 
edit throughout the night. If you are interested in a journal-
ist and wondering why they left you on read, don’t worry 
— you’re not ugly. The odds are that they probably haven’t 
slept in days, so they are taking their time off to sleep and 
dream about their next interview. 
From my experience, it is in your best interest to let 
journalists sleep. I try to make sure to give Christina plenty 
of sleep time for my own safety. People are always asking 
her for favors, piling on more tasks that she was not ex-
pecting in her day. I know if I added something to her list 
with already a million things to do I would earn my ticket 
to heaven way earlier than I would like. 
When print nights go past 2 a.m., Christina reminds 
me of a character from the Snickers campaign, “You’re not 
you when you’re hungry.” So instead of asking Christina 
annoying questions like, “Can you edit my economics re-
search paper right now?” I cook her dinners, bake pretzels, 
make ice cream and deliver her comfort food to the ofﬁ  ce. 
Before making my food deliveries, I went through Chris-
tina’s Miami Spotify playlist and ﬁ  nd the perfect Latin song 
to blast in The Alligator’s parking lot. I showcased my aver-
age dance moves. 
So far, my biggest enemy in dating Christina is break-ing news. Sometimes, I feel like breaking news is an ex-
boyfriend trying to get their old relationship back. If a story 
breaks during a romantic dinner at La Tienda when we’re 
stufﬁ  ng our faces with chips and salsa, sorry, 
breaking news has won. It might win some 
battles, but I always win the war. 
Aside from the frequent naps and constant 
ringing of her phone, there is a lot to love about 
Christina. She has a great sense of humor and 
gives the best hugs. She can be weird some-
times and go on hour-long tangents about a 
topic, repeating the same thing but somehow 
ﬁ  nding different words to describe it.  
Before she publishes a story of her own 
she makes sure to get opinions from various 
people, including her mom and me. I get excited, but some-
times I am surprised that she wants me to review her drafts 
because before meeting Christina, I was confused about 
how to use “to,” “too” and “two” properly. 
Journalists are not perfect, including Christina. Mistakes 
do happen, but Christina does everything she can to avoid 
them. Even though The Alligator is a student newspaper, 
Christina and the rest of the staff take it as seriously as any 
other major news outlet. People can be overly critical of 
journalists and blame them for things they have no control 
over. When Christina makes an error, it upsets her just as 
much as some readers. Instead of getting down on herself, 
she learns from it. 
However, sometimes instead of pointing out a problem 
respectfully, people can sometimes make their comments 
toxic. Christina has received racist emails about how her 
Latina descent makes her stories biased when writing 
about immigration or how she and The Alligator are fake 
news. It is frustrating to know there are people who take 
time out of their day to put others down with personal at-
tacks that have no business being said. 
It is important for people to know you are not always 
going to like what you read, but without the news, this 
country would be much worse off. It’s something else I 
don’t think I would’ve learned if I didn’t date Christina. 
Right now, Christina is leading The Alligator on CO-
VID-19 stories. With the constant updates from health 
experts and local governments, Christina has been busier 
than ever. I’ve never seen Christina drink so much coffee 
— two sugars and a splash of Coffeemate vanilla creamer. 
But without journalism, the virus would damage more 
lives than it already has. Journalists break the silence on 
important issues taking place in the world today. I am 
thankful to live in a country that values the freedom of 
the press because I’ve learned that it makes my daily life 
much better. 
I want to encourage whoever is reading this to send a 
thank-you email to a journalist and show them your ap-
preciation. I guarantee it will make their day, like it will 
Christina’s. 
Tyler Pratt is a food and resource economics senior 
and the boyfriend of Christina Morales, The Alligator’s 
editor-in-chief.Pop the champagne Boyfriend-in-ChiefLina La Vida Loca Pratt’s PerspectiveThere used to be an old man who tucked in his aqua button-up shirt into his 
khaki pants every day. He looped a leather belt, shined his shoes and slicked 
back the little white hair he had left. 
When there was a knock on the door from his granddaughter, he walked 
quickly and waved at her from the window. The wrinkles in his eyes met the 
corner of his glasses as he smiled and smacked a kiss on her cheek.
Her Ayaya handed her a bowl of creamy garbanzo bean soup, and she sat down 
with her Abuelo to eat in a tiny kitchen nook. He taught her to drink her soup along 
the outer edge of the plate and blow the steam away to not burn her tongue. Her 
Ayaya then taught her how to whip cafecito before she grew over the countertop.
That girl is me, the Spring 2020 editor-in-chief of The Alligator. 
Before I was a journalist, I made memories in a one-bedroom apartment that smelled like 
Tide laundry detergent and fried plantains. I ate mini pastelitos and croquetas at birthday parties. 
I spoke Spanish at my abuelos’ apartment but English at home. I learned the little things that 
shaped me as a person.
And at 20 years old, I wept in the Reitz Union when my mom called to tell me my Abuelo died 
before an interview for an internship.  
Journalists are people, with real emotions, character and humanity. They’re made by their 
hometowns, their culture, their education and their circumstances. But most importantly, they’re 
made by people. 
My family’s roots didn’t start in the United States, but we’ve certainly grown into a large 
family tree. My abuelos and parents left Cuba, the only place they called home, for dreams of a 
better life in the United States. My mom and abuelos worked as custodians cleaning at a phone 
company. 
They started at the bottom, but they told me that dreams weren’t just dreams if I worked hard 
enough and if I helped others. That’s what I do every day in journalism. 
My mom was once a little girl like me. But she moved to a new country with nothing. When 
she drove from Los Angeles to Miami with my abuelos, she ate canned food in her car. And be-cause of this,  she showed me that it was important to help others.
She led efforts to buy my classmates their school uniforms or fund their ﬁ  eld trips 
to Universal by dragging out a cart of Blue Bunny ice cream sandwiches to sell after 
school. She sweated in the Florida heat until they sold out. 
She was bullied in school for not knowing English. She couldn’t even ask her 
teacher if she could use the restroom. So, my mom taught me to be kind and stand 
up for the voiceless.  
And in journalism, I have to do that.  
I heard my dad leave for work before it was even time for me to get up for school. 
He came back in with circles under his eyes. The hair he had left was mangled. But 
when my siblings and I ran to him every night, he smiled and hugged us tightly. 
He’s supported me through anything, including internships at home and across the 
country. 
All my life, my dad has worked two jobs: in a corporate building in downtown Miami and 
doing taxes at our dining room table on the weekends. 
My dad’s dream was a family. He was a single child for most of his life, and he took care of 
his dying parents in New Jersey when he was young. He showed me the value of hard work. 
And in journalism, I have to do that.
After Friday night dinners, Abuelo sat on the couch cushion next to Ayaya’s recliner. We all 
watched Telemundo to catch up on Latin American affairs. At 90 years old, Abuelo was passion-
ate about staying informed. 
But any second we had together was time Abuelo spent telling me stories about Cuba, a place 
I’d never been to. My mom said he could talk to a rock. 
In high school, I wrote my ﬁ  rst story for my journalism class on Ayaya and Abuelo’s love 
story. He laughed when he told me that Ayaya ate her lunch and his every day.
Sometimes, he retreated to the closet to pull out the worn leather suitcases to show me brown-
ing photos of family, friends and life in Cuba. His eyes turned watery when he showed me.
Ayaya loved to cook. But Abuelo loved to tell stories, and I always wanted to listen. 
And in journalism, I want to do that.
Christina Morales was The Alligator’s editor-in-chief.Journalists are made by peopleLetter from the Editor
Christina Morales
twitter: Christina_M18
editor@alligator.org
Lina Ruiz
twitter: @Lina_Ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org
Tyler Pratt
twitter: @Ty_Pratt_MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Rate and Review: DaBaby’s “Blame It On Baby”
The “young CEO” falls flat, and that’s not cap. Read the story 
on the Alligator’s website. WEAVER DISCUSSED 
BREAKING UP THE 
“BOY’S CLUB” IN 
CINEMATOGRAPHY
Julia Collins
Avenue Staff Writer
A California girl in the ’90s bor-
rowed her family’s camcorder 
and started making her own mov-
ies. Though “Cheese Quest” and 
“Aliens” have never been shown 
in theaters or on Netﬂ  ix, they were 
how now-established cinematogra-
pher Chloe Weaver got her start.
On Wednesday, UF telecommu-
nication professor Iman Zawahry 
interviewed Weaver on a College 
of Journalism and Communica-
tions Facebook livestream. The ﬁ  rst 
event in the college’s new series, 
“Great Storytellers: Women and the 
Art of Film,” lasted from 4-5 p.m. 
At its peak, 34 people watched the 
livestream. The series will feature four more 
livestreams on Facebook Live show-
ing different accomplished and di-
verse women in ﬁ  lm. The live events 
will be held every Wednesday at 4 
p.m. for the next month. 
“The College of Journalism and 
Communications wanted to create a 
series for the students and our com-
munity to stay uplifted and engaged 
during quarantine, so they asked me 
what I thought about doing a wom-
an in ﬁ  lm series,” Zawahry wrote in 
an email.
According to Zawahry, the next 
speakers in the series include Li 
Lu, an Asian American director in 
documentary and narrative ﬁ  lm; Jesi 
Rojas, a Venezuelan American ﬁ  lm 
editor and recent graduate from the 
UF College of Journalism and Com-
munications; Lena Khan, an Indian 
American Muslim director and the 
ﬁ  rst hijabi director in Hollywood; 
and one more unnanounced ﬁ  lm-
maker.
Zawahry and Weaver are friends and colleagues and met on the set of 
Zawahry’s feature ﬁ  lm, “American.
ish.”
Weaver, 35, is a well-established 
cinematographer who has worked in 
the industry for ten years. She shot 
the Netﬂ  ix show “Chef’s Table” in 
Australia and ﬁ  ve other countries, 
and the series ended up lasting seven 
years.
Aside from talking about her ca-
reer journey and how she’s worked 
her way up the ladder, Zawahry and 
Weaver also discussed what it’s like 
to be a woman in the ﬁ  lm industry. 
“I feel like we don’t treat wom-
en like they’re inferior in the same 
way as it had been happening for so 
many years in the industry,” Weaver 
said. “I feel mostly completely em-
braced by my male counterparts, like 
they’ve always raised me up.”
One viewer of the livestream was 
Amanda Deery. Deery, 23, a recent 
UF telecommunication graduate, 
was Zawahry’s teaching assistant 
and got to work in New York City on the “American.ish” set.
“Chloe’s a huge mentor and in-
spiration for me,” Deery said. “Ev-
erything she says is always some-
thing I kind of like to write down and 
keep in the back of my mind.” 
Soﬁ  a Seidel, 20-year-old telecom-
munication sophomore and co-presi-
dent of FEM Films, is also passionate 
about furthering the conversation of 
women in ﬁ  lm and is a fan of the 
idea of speaker events.
“You can read about (ﬁ  lmmak-
ing) all you want,” Seidel said. “So, 
having the speakers talk about how 
they got into ﬁ  lm and where they 
ended up...is motivating to people so 
they know that there’s not a speciﬁ  c 
route to take.”
More information about the se-
ries and Weaver’s livestream can be 
found on the UF College of Journal-
ism and Communications’ Facebook 
page. 
@JuliaAnnCollins
juliacollins@uﬂ  .eduCJC hosts ﬁ  rst Women and the Art of Film speaker
MOVIES & TV
Courtesy of Amanda Deery
Chloe Weaver (left) and 
Amanda Deery (right) 
on the set of “American.
ish. ” The livestream with 
Weaver marks the ﬁ  rst in 
the College of Journalism 
and Communication’s new 
series, “Great Storytellers: 
Women and the Art of Film. ”
THIS FOLLOWS ALACHUA 
COUNTY’S STAY-AT-HOME 
ORDER
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
In a museum on East University Avenue, 
a donation box sits empty.
Matheson History Museum, a nonessen-
tial business forced to close after a county-
wide stay-at-home order issued on March 23, 
relies on this box and membership costs to 
stay aﬂ  oat. With the growing need for social 
distance, those funds are harder to come by. 
 “We can’t make a normal pitch for people 
to help donate or renew their memberships,” 
said Dixie Neilson, executive director of the 
museum. “So this is having a huge ﬁ  nancial 
impact on us.”
The museum, located at 513 E. University 
Ave., has a full schedule of programs pre-
pared for when it is safe to open, and it is 
planning to start doing walkthrough videos 
of exhibits on Facebook. 
Local museums like this one aren’t the 
only businesses facing hardships due to the 
global pandemic.
Wunderland Custom Tattoo, Anthem Tat-
too Parlor, Addiction Tattoos and Anatomic 
Body Piercing are all closed. Leann Campas, 
the owner of Anatomic Body Piercing, said 
the shop was already closed before the man-
dated order.
“There is no possible way to do a pierc-
ing or change out a piercing maintaining a 
six-foot distance,” Campas said. “We cannot 
control the airborne factor.”Since April 5, the piercing shop started to 
offer curbside pickup for in-stock products, 
according to the shop’s Facebook.
Clean Cut Barber, Supercuts, Kutters Mill-
hopper and Athletic Cuts are all closed as 
well, according to the shops’ automatic voice-
mails or Facebook pages. The owner of Ath-
letic Cuts, Chip Ratliff, said the shop closed a 
week after the mandated order when a ﬁ  re 
marshall informed them they had to close. 
“I think we will be a better country when 
we come back,” Ratliff said. “I think there 
is going to be a struggle ﬁ  nancially, but 
Americans love to work. We will come back 
strong.”
With uncut hair, locals also have to stick 
with online streaming services to watch mov-
ies and shows. 
Both the local Regal movie theaters and 
the Hippodrome State Theatre are closed. 
The Hippodrome’s artistic director, Stephanie 
Lynge, said the theater has managed to keep 
its staff on payroll with money from previous 
shows and donations.
“I think we are all worried because we 
don’t know what comes next, and it’s hard 
to plan for that,” Lynge said.
Lynge said the theater closed the show it 
was running, Marie and Rosetta. The theater 
will continue to make adjustments to adapt 
and keep the staff and clients safe during and 
after the pandemic. 
“Theater started back up after the 
plagues,” Lynge said. “We will exist after 
this. We just need to ensure the safety of ev-
eryone ﬁ  rst.”
@anna_wilder
awilder@alligator.orgEMPLOYEES SAY THEY’VE BEEN 
TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF AND 
UNDERPAID
By Hannah Phillips
Staff Writer
A bank teller handed Lee Davis back her check. 
Insufﬁ  cient funds, he told her. Davis shook her 
head and asked him to try it again. 
She’d heard rumors from co-workers that the 
boss was short on money. They couldn’t cash their 
checks, and if they could, they weren’t paid for all 
the hours they worked. 
She’d heard the rumors, but it had never hap-
pened to her. The teller handed back the check a 
second time. 
Davis left the bank, furious. She’d worked 83 
hours that week, but her paystub only said 72. 
She drove to Mother’s Pub and Grill and found her 
boss sitting at the bar. 
Patrick Schaller, the owner, waved her over. 
Davis made herself smile and pulled him aside. 
“You need to give me my money right now,” 
she told him quietly. She threatened to sue. 
Schaller remained calm and gave Davis cash 
out of the register to cover her check, she said. As 
for the missing hours, he said they’d handle that 
later. 
They never did. 
Davis, 20, is one of eight current and former 
employees who said they were routinely under-
paid and taken advantage of by Schaller. Some ac-
crued overdraft fees with each attempt to deposit 
their paychecks. Others cut their losses and never 
looked back. All told the story of a toxic work en-
vironment. 
When contacted by The Alligator, Schaller 
texted in response: “Mother’s values our employ-ees and our customers more than anything. If any 
individual staff member has concerns I would wel-
come them to come speak with me directly.” 
The opposite is true, said Jonathan “Woody” 
Woodward, 39 and a former manager at Mother’s. 
He quit in February.
“Chevy is refusing to work tonight and Trevor 
refuses to stay until close,” Woody said in a text to 
Schaller. “Why can’t they cash the checks?”
“Money is tight, but everyone thinks there is 
an endless supply,” Schaller responded, 10 days 
later. “Everyone wants money but no one wants 
to work for it.” 
People do work for it, Woody said. But it’s hard 
to run a restaurant when cooks quit in the mid-
dle of a shift because they don’t know if or when 
they’ll be paid next. 
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Schaller was accused of 
mishandling funds. American Express Bank sued 
Schaller in 2013 for refusing to pay $24,625.57 
worth of credit charges, according to court docu-
ments. Schaller lost the case and was ordered to 
repay at least $19,027.57 to the bank.
Schaller announced April 10 that Mother’s Pub 
on University Avenue would permanently close. 
This came after Mother’s was cited for serving 
drinks inside rather than through to-go only, a new 
measure meant to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Five days later, Schaller announced that with 
the help of the city manager, Lee Feldman, the pub 
would remain open. 
“We are doing this for our staff and customers,” 
he wrote in a Facebook post.
Those who spoke with The Alligator disagreed. 
“Pat made that decision for him,” said Elvin 
Baxter Jr., a 50-year-old Mother’s cook. “He ain’t 
making no decisions for us.” 
@haphillips96 
hphillips@alligator.orgNonessential businesses suﬀ  er ‘A horror show’: Mother’s Pub reopensScan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.
org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-22-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
Wanted to Buy or Trade Freon Wanted: 
We pay CA$H for cylinders and cans. R12 
R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient. Certified 
Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 or visit 
RefrigerantFinders.com                  4-20-1-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
5-12-20-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Calling Artists, Engineering, Construction, 
Education & Community Majors! Maker 
Summer Day Camp Now Hiring! Do you like 
making crazy things, Getting dirty, Playing 
with kids, with Lots of Laughs along the way? 
Come work with us this summer! F/T $12/hr 
More info at www.masterbuildercamp.com      
5-14-20-20-141For Rent
furnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
LAW SCHOOL/ GOLF COURSE ADJACENT
5BR/3BA
Available August 1st. Rent $2100/mo
Call 904-862-1009    3-30-20-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of pos-
sible buyers!
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels? Want 
to sell? Try the Alligator Classifieds!BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Joe Kidd
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/20/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/20/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 20, 2020
ACROSS
1 Open spaces
5 Ancient Roman 
orator
11 Tablet download
14 “This doesn’t look 
good!”
15 “The old-
fashioned way” to 
make money, in 
an old ad
16 Hawaiian 
welcome
17 Like a versatile 
wardrobe
19 Implore
20 Mark of Zorro
21 Gloomy thinkers
23 Sub detection 
device
26 Devious
27 The “E” in Q.E.D.
28 Partner for the 
big high school 
dance
30 Full of pluck
32 Place for a bud or 
a plug
33 Solves, with “out”
35 Seafood-based 
party bowlful
38 Chess game 
blunder
42 Hastily donned
44 Geese flight 
formation
45 Alabama seaport
48 Dined
51 2010 Apple 
debut
52 Butter serving
53 Young women
54 Sell for
57 Bikini top
58 Little hill crawler
59 Frantic rush, or a 
hint to each set of 
circles
64 Hair-stiffening 
stuff
65 Not ready to eat, 
as fruit
66 Fairway club
67 Before, in verse
68 Up-and-down 
playground fixture
69 Auction-ending 
word
DOWN
1 Chewing __
2 Sushi tuna
3 Quaint curse4 Captain Marvel’s 
magic word
5 Formally hand 
over
6 Beatles’ “__ the 
Walrus”
7 Seafood item 
needing to be 
cracked
8 Way to get in
9 Puerto __
10 Roman emperor 
for three months
11 Physicist 
Einstein
12 View with interest
13 Pen for porkers
18 Unhip type
22 Reason-based 
faith
23 Blueprint detail, 
briefly
24 Daunting exam
25 Romance writer 
Roberts
26 R.E.M. frontman 
Michael
29 Blazing
30 Three-legged 
piano
31 Color of Hester 
Prynne’s “A”
34 WWII naval 
threat36 Crete’s highest pt.
37 UPS competitor
39 Mind-matter link
40 __ marsala: 
Italian restaurant 
choice
41 Sniggler’s catch
43 Doodad
45 Desert illusion
46 First game in a 
series
47 War movie scene
49 Taj Mahal city50 Great Lakes 
natives for whom 
an Ohio county is 
named
52 Mission priest
55 Irreverent Don of 
talk radio
56 Turnpike division
57 Make, as tea
60 Tax whiz, briefly
61 Sis’ sib
62 Online “Ha-ha!”
63 Come to a close
By Debbie Ellerin
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/14/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/14/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 14, 2020
ACROSS
1 Do sum work
4 What Santa’s 
making and 
double-checking, 
in song
8 Little nails
13 “__ out below!”
15 Up the __: raise 
the stakes
16 Minty Derby 
drink
17 *Longtime 
Nabisco cookie
19 Wafer named for 
its flavor
20 Totally lost
21 *Badgers’ school
23 MD you don’t 
need an 
appointment to 
see
25 NYC’s Park, e.g.
26 Verdi opera 
based on a 
Shakespearean 
play
29 Like pre-
revolution Russia
33 *Outback choice 
named for a bone
36 California’s  
Big __
37 Angry, with “off”
38 Anthem 
contraction
39 “Twittering 
Machine” artist 
Paul
40 “Ben-__”
41 *One on a “Most 
Wanted” list
45 New car’s bells 
and whistles, say
47 Overacts
48 Hit the slopes
49 Note above F
51 *Pour on the 
criticism
55 Pisa place
59 Speechify
60 Go-between ... 
and a hint to each 
set of circles
62 Roman robes
63 Britney Spears’ 
“Oops!...__ It 
Again”
64 Flood barrier
65 Bullish sound?
66 Many a phone 
message 
nowadays
67 “__ who?”DOWN
1 __ Romeo: 
sports car
2 “Stop stalling!”
3 Boxers and pugs
4 Practice in USA’s 
“Suits”
5 Halved
6 Unflappable
7 Bills with 
Hamilton
8 Ryan Howard 
portrayer on 
“The Office”
9 Spoiler
10 Start of a 
Shakespearean 
title
11 Knish seller
12 Bridge
14 Prepared to 
propose
18 Ahead of 
schedule
22 Hombre’s house
24 Forest female
26 Big name in 
garden products
27 Bottleneck 
consequence
28 Roger who wrote 
“Your Movie 
Sucks”
29 Actress Hatcher
30 Archipelago part31 “So I was 
wrong!”
32 Long shots, in 
hoops lingo
34 Sheds many 
tears
35 __ Aviv
39 Secured with a 
bowline, say
41 Least speedy
42 Textbook 
section
43 Animation frame
44 Phishing line?46 Beatty/Hoffman 
flop
49 Museum escort
50 N.J. army base
51 Trio in Fiji?
52 Monopoly token 
replaced by a cat
53 Palm starch
54 Cut out
56 French friends
57 Erie or Huron
58 Santa __ Valley: 
Cal. wine region
61 Banned pesticide
04/13/20
answers on page 7MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
NOTICE OF VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a virtual public meeting via 
communications media technology to which all 
interested persons are invited.
DATE AND TIME: April 20, 2020 at 3:00 p.m.
PLACE: For Information To Access the Virtual 
Public Meeting Telephone 352.955.2200, ex-
tension 114 or Visit the Following Website
http://ncfrpc.org/mtpo/index.html
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning) or 
may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida one week prior to the 
meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a virtual meeting 
via communications media technology The 
meeting is a virtual public meeting, as permit-
ted by Florida Governor’s Executive Order No. 
2020-69. The public may submit comments 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area through email (escalante@ncfrpc.org) or 
by calling into the public comment message 
line when prompted to call during the meeting. 
Public comment will be taken by telephone for all 
non-ministerial items on which the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area votes. Once public 
comment is opened for an item under discus-
sion, please call the public comment telephone 
number and follow the instructions to leave 
your recorded message for the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area. Callers should 
leave their name and limit comments to 
two minutes. In addition, the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization will open 
telephone lines for one 30 minute public com-
ment session for the public to discuss items not 
on the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area 
agenda. Public comment during the public com-
ment session will be limited to two minutes per 
each caller. The public is encouraged to submit 
any written or photographic documents prior to 
the meeting to escalante@ncfrpc.org. Any ques-
tions regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area 
Office at 352.955.2200., extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommodations 
under the Americans with Disabilities Act or 
persons who require translation services (free 
of charge) should contact Michael Escalante at 
352.955.2200, extension 114, at least 48 hours 
prior to the public meeting.             4-13-20-1-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low 
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person 
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-30-20-6-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
AVIATION Careers start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification in airframe and pow -
erplant. Financial aid if qualified. No experience 
required. Call AIM 888-242-2649.    4-13-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.14 Help Wanted 20 Events/Notices
1.  Crest
1.  Plenty5.  Around longer
2.  ____ story6.  ____ Sea
3.  Meriting7.  Account book
4.  WealthierBEELMM
GENHOUROELD
ISHIR
EMIEBDT
RNEINAGELGRED
ECRHRIANSWERS: 1A-Emblem  5A-Older  6A-Irish  7A-Ledger
1D-Enough  2D-Bedtime  3D-Earning  4D-Richer  B-Sierra Leone4-20-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The official language of 
this country is English. BONUS
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
ScrabbleGrams  solutionIf you're someone people 
count on, particularly in 
difficult moments, that's 
a sign of a life lived 
honorably
–Rachel MaddowCryptoQuote solution1. "Sometimes I underestimate the magnitude of me" is a 
quote from what 1993 inductee into the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame?
2. In March, what NFL star announced the establishment of 
media company 199 Productions, named after his selection 
number in the 2000 NFL Draft?
3. What martial art was introduced as an official medal 
event at the 2000 Summer Olympic Games in Sydney, Aus -
tralia? 
4. The Indianapolis Colts selected Tennessee quarterback Peyton Manning with the No. 1 overall pick in the 1998 NFL 
Draft. What player was drafted at No. 2 by the San Diego 
Chargers?
5. True or false: On April 20, 1986, the Chicago Bulls' Mi -
chael Jordan scored an NBA record 63 points in a first-round 
playoff win over the Boston Celtics.
6. At what track did motorsports pioneer Danica Patrick win 
her first and only IndyCar race?
7. NHL great Wayne Gretzky concluded his playing career on 
April 18, 1999, as a member of what team?  answers below© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
1. Who was the last Oakland A’s 
player before Khris Davis in 2018 to 
lead the American League in home 
runs for a season?
2. How many times has a Tampa Bay 
Rays pitcher won 20-plus games in a 
season?
3. Who scored the first rushing 
touchdown in Super Bowl history?
4. Name the last Division II men’s 
college basketball player to be select-
ed in the NBA Draft.
5. Which player won the most Stan-
ley Cups without ever playing for the 
Montreal Canadiens?
6. In 2019, the U.S. women’s nation-
al soccer team set a record for biggest 
margin of victory in a World Cup 
game (13 goals). Which country had 
held the mark?
7. Of WBC heavyweight boxing 
champion Deontay Wilder’s 43 pro 
bouts, how many have ended with 
Wilder recording a knockout?
Answers
1. Mark McGwire hit 52 homers to 
lead the A.L. in 1996. 
2. Twice — David Price won 20 in 
2012, and Blake Snell won 21 in 2018. 
3. Green Bay’s Jim Taylor, in the 
second quarter of Super Bowl I in 
1967.
4. Robert Whaley of Walsh Univer -
sity was selected with the 51st pick in 
2005.
5. Red Kelly won eight Stanley 
Cups, four with Detroit and four with 
Toronto, between 1950 and 1967. 
6. Germany won a World Cup match 
by 11 goals in 2007.
7. Wilder has recorded 41 knockouts 
on his way to a 42-0-1 record.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
  solution below
• A single human hair can hold up 
to 100 grams in weight, while an en -
tire head of hair could bear up to 12 
tons -- the equivalent of two African 
elephants.
• The first real shampoo dates back to the 1500s. In India, "sapindus," aka 
soapberries or soapnuts, were boiled with dried Indian gooseberry and 
other herbs. The extract created a lather and resulted in soft, shiny hair.
• Ben & Jerry learned how to make ice cream by taking a $5 correspondence 
course (which they split between them) offered by Penn State.
• U.S. park ranger Roy C. Sullivan had the flabbergasting distinction of 
being struck by lightning the most times and surviving: seven times be -
tween 1942 and 1977.
• Speaking of distinctions, Buzz Aldrin holds the curious title of being the 
first man to urinate on the moon, shortly after stepping onto its surface.
• On April 1, 1974, black smoke was seen rising from Mount Edgecumbe, a 
volcano in Alaska. When a Coast Guard pilot came closer to investigate, 
he found 70 tires burning and the words "APRIL FOOL" spray painted 
into the snow.
• Thought for the Day: "Sometimes you put walls up not to keep people 
out, but to see who cares enough to break them down." -- Anonymous• It was famed cultural anthropolo-
gist Margaret Mead who made the fol-
lowing sage observation: “One of the 
oldest human needs is having someone 
to wonder where you are when you 
don’t come home at night.”
• It’s been estimated that a million 
pigeons live in New York City.
• When pop star Christina Aguilera is 
on tour, she insists on having a police 
escort. She hates to be stuck in traffic. 
• Next time you’re heading to Illinois, 
you can stop off in Metropolis and visit 
the self-declared birthplace of Super -
man. In honor of their hometown super -
hero, the citizens erected a 15-foot 
bronze statue of him on Main Street.
• It was Abraham Lincoln who signed 
into law the legislation that created the 
Secret Service. That very night, he was 
assassinated. 
• Those who study such things 
say that on the 13th of every month, 
triskaidekaphobia causes a loss of $83 
million to American business due to 
absenteeism from work and other dis-
ruptions.
• In the United States, more babies 
are born on Oct. 5 than on any other 
day of the year. If you do the math, 
you’ll find that New Year’s Eve is 9 
months and 5 days before that. 
***
Thought for the Day: “Show me a 
hero, and I will write you a tragedy.” 
— F. Scott Fitzgerald
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
By Samantha WeaverKing Features Weekly Service
January 27, 20201. Reggie Jackson.
2. Tom Brady.
3. Taekwondo.
4. Ryan Leaf, Washington State quar -
terback.
5. False. Despite Jordan's playoff re -
cord 63 points, the Celtics defeated the 
Bulls 135-131 in Game 2 and went on to 
sweep the series 3-0.
6. Twin Ring Motegi. Patrick won the 
Indy Japan 300 in 2008.
7. The New York Rangers.Sports Quiz  answers
By Lucie WinbourneBy Ryan A. Berenz
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.Former UF cornerback C.J. Henderson 
may be a top-10 pick in this week’s NFL 
Draft, according to Bleacher Report. 
Rumors link him to the Jaguars, who 
lack depth at defensive back and have 
the No. 9 pick.Florida earns ﬁ  rst 2023 commitment
Shawn Russ, a defensive back from Dunbar High School in Fort Myers, 
committed to UF Sunday. His commitment comes a day after he was 
offered by the Gators.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
1 728 WEST UNIVERSITY AVENUE
1 728 WEST UNIVERSITY AVENUE
1 728 WEST UNIVERSITY AVENUE
takeaw ay orders
available
F rom t he b a ck pat io
hours: 11 a m-8 pm
@TheSocialMidtown
www.thesocialgnv.com@TheSocialGNVIndecisiveness has plagued me for most of my life. And about four years ago, that 
lack of conviction set me on a path I never intended on walking.
In 2016, I was accepted into the UF College of Journalism and Communica-
tions and planned on joining The Alligator when I arrived as a transfer student. 
Unsure if journalism was the path for me, I elected not to enroll in UF and spent 
the better part of the next two years trying to ﬁ  gure out a career path.
I arrived at UF in 2018 as an English major and decided to enroll in a sports report-
ing class as an elective. I fought it for as long as I could, but I found myself falling in 
love with it again.
Telling stories did something for me that nothing else could: It helped me.
It gave me the purpose that I thought my indecisiveness had taken away from me. 
It gave me structure, focus and an end goal that I could chase.
I wanted to be the best writer I could, and when I joined The Alligator in the sum-
mer of 2019 as a senior, I made the conscious choice not to let my doubt hinder what I wanted 
anymore. Over the next year, I gave everything I had to that newsroom so when I inevitably left, 
I wouldn’t have any regrets. 
And it worked.
I thrived and made friendships that I hope will last a lifetime. This summer was going to be 
when I reaped everything I worked tirelessly for.
I couldn’t wait for the end-of-year party with the rest of my Alligator cohorts or to ﬁ  nally walk 
across that stage in the O’Dome six years after graduating high school and to start the internship 
I was awarded.
But COVID-19 changed everything.
I haven’t seen my coworkers in over a month, I may not be able to walk across that stage and 
that internship may not happen.
I’ve asked myself the inevitable question: Why couldn’t you have just enrolled in 2016? If I did, 
I would have graduated into a strong economy and could’ve ended my time at The Alligator right.
I thought about it. I second-guessed my actions — or lack thereof — and played out the endless 
scenarios in my head. Now, as I’m graduating into what will likely be a recession as an aspiring 
sports writer without any sports in the world — I wouldn’t change a thing.
If I joined The Alligator in 2016, Sam Campisano and River Wells wouldn’t have hired me dur-
ing my ﬁ  rst summer in Gainesville. They wouldn’t have opened the backdoor to the newsroom for 
me on my ﬁ  rst day and introduced me to the best job that I ever had.
I wouldn’t have met Dylan O’Shea, an incredibly creative writer, and one-of-a-kind friend, who never ceases to put a smile on anyone he’s around.
I wouldn’t have worked under Tyler Nettuno and Mari Faiello, who, besides being great writers 
and leaders, were my friends who showed me what it took to be editors in the best student-run 
newspaper in the country.
I wouldn’t have been able to strive to be as good as a writer as Kyle Wood and watch as he took 
on the once-in-a-lifetime challenge of being a sports editor without any sports. And 
to watch him succeed at it.
I would have never met Payton Titus; a wide-eyed freshman turned budding story-
teller whose work ethic and passion rival anyone in front of her.
I don’t regret a single sleepless night or hour-long interview.  
If I could do it all over again, I wouldn’t change a thing. My only regret is that I 
have to say goodbye.
Joseph Salvador was a sports writer for The Alligator.
@JosephSalvador_
jsalvador@alligator.orgThe best decision I never madeCup of Joe
Joseph Salvador
twitter: Jsalvadorsports
jsalvador@alligator.org
Sam Thomas // Alligator Staff
The Alligator sports staff group photo from fall semester. Joseph Salvador was on 
staff for three semesters.
