We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperInside a changing industry
Pet adoptions decrease, pg. 3
Orange & Boo
Online dating in college, pg. 4Paying it forward
Former UF offensive lineman Shannon Snell 
is using his pitmaster skills to give back to 
frontline workers across the state, pg. 4
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 80
A GUN WAS FOUND 
IN HIS CAR, BUT NO SHOTS 
WERE FIRED
Tristan Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
A man drove through a crowd of 
protesters Saturday afternoon on Main 
Street, according to eyewitnesses. 
The protesters were part of an off-
shoot demonstration that happened after 
more than 1,000 people marched from 
Depot Park to Bo Diddley Community 
Plaza Saturday morning to protest the 
death of George Floyd. Floyd, a black 
man, died Monday after an ex-Minneap-
olis police officer knelt on his neck for 
more than eight minutes. 
William John Connelly, 64, was ar-
rested and charged with six counts of 
aggravated assault after driving into the 
crowd of demonstrators, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report. He was 
released on $30,000 bond Sunday. 
GPD Lt. Robert Fanelli said he saw 
the aftermath of the incident.
Protesters threw water bottles at the 
car, chasing it while it drove away, Fanel-
li said. The driver drove four blocks, then 
looped around to return to the scene. The 
driver told police he returned because he 
was afraid and was looking for an officer, 
Fanelli said.
  Fanelli said he spoke with six wit-nesses and victims after the incident. 
Witnesses told him that the suspect drove 
toward the crowd after passing two cars 
on a road protesters were blocking.
According to Fanelli, two or three of 
the witnesses said someone on a bike 
was hit by the vehicle. No one has come 
forward to GPD about being hit by the 
car, Fanelli said.
Witnesses told Fanelli the driver ap-
peared to be holding a gun. He said a sil-
ver semi automatic pistol was found with 
the driver, but no shots were fired.
GPD Chief Tony Jones also confirmed 
no shots were fired.
“That’s a weapon itself,” Jones said. 
“That car is a weapon.” 
Sam Houle, a 21-year-old UF graduate, 
was participating in the offshoot demon-
stration when the incident occurred. He 
and other protesters were spread across 
Main Street to prevent traffic from pass-
ing and to make “as big a scene as we 
could” when the car drove through. 
The driver shouted incoherently at pro-
testers from his window, Houle said. He 
looked red in the face and angry, and Houle 
said he wasn’t sure if the man was agitated 
by the March for Our Freedom movement. 
The investigation into the incident is 
ongoing.
@TristanDWood
twood@alligator.orgELEMENTARY AND MIDDLE 
SCHOOL CEREMONIES WILL BE 
INDEPENDENTL Y PLANNED
Natalia Galicza
Alligator Staff Writer
The towering metal bleachers at the Gainesville 
Raceway will remain empty as car after car 
delivers graduates to the stage at the end of the 
strip—this is graduation for the class of 2020.
Alachua County Public Schools has arranged 
for all seven of its district high schools to hold 
their graduation ceremonies for the class of 2020 
at the Gainesville Raceway between June 8 and 
June 10. 
Elementary and middle school celebrations 
will be independently organized by each school, 
according to ACPS spokesperson Jackie Johnson.
Only one vehicle is allowed per graduate. As 
the vehicles come onto the raceway, the names of 
the graduates are announced over the speakers. 
Students will get out of their cars and walk across 
the decorated stage in their caps and gowns to 
pick up their diplomas and take a picture with 
the principal. Students will make a final victory 
lap along the raceway before leaving the facility, 
Johnson said.
The only people allowed outside a vehicle are 
school employees working the event, graduates 
while they cross the stage and law enforcement, 
according to Gainesville High School principal 
David Shelnutt.
Planning the graduation ceremonies for the class of 2020 has been difficult due to many 
factors being out of the district’s control, Johnson 
said. 
“We knew it was going to be a challenge, and 
we knew that we weren’t going to be able to find 
a solution that was going to satisfy everybody,” 
Johnson said. “But we are determined to make 
this as meaningful a graduation ceremony as 
possible.”
Students like Malena Brinson, a graduating 
senior from Gainesville High School’s class of 2020, 
said they are grateful for the opportunity to have a 
commencement even when it’s far from ideal. 
“My parents have been divorced for years 
now, and they really haven’t been in the same 
room together,” Brinson said. “Trying to think 
about them sitting in the same car together for 
four hours while waiting for me to walk across the 
stage for one minute is a little bit unconventional.”
Cory Tomlinson, principal of Lawton M. 
Chiles Elementary School, said that his school’s 
team plans to celebrate their fifth grade class with 
a drive-through graduation. Students and their 
families must remain in their cars while driving 
around the school’s bus loop while teachers and 
staff hold signs to celebrate.
“It has been tough,” Shelnutt said. “Students 
have shown a great deal of perseverance and 
tried to make the best out of what is a challenging 
situation, so I’ve been very, very proud of them.”
@GaliczaNatalia
ngalicza@alligator.orgMan drives through protesters Gainesville Raceway to host Alachua 
County high school graduationsLaura San Juan // Alligator Staff
More than 1,000 people marched from Depot Park to Bo Diddley Plaza Saturday morning in the March for Our Freedom protest, joining a string of national demonstrations. “I’m not only grieving for George 
Floyd, but I’m grieving for Ahmaud Arbery and Philando Castile and my uncle and my father and my friends,” said Aeriel Lane, a 36-year-old Gainesville resident and local activist who organized the protest. 
PROTESTT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  68°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Sunday's AP Headlines
Protest over police killings 
rage in dozens of US cities
Tense protests over the death 
of George Floyd and other po-
lice killings of black people 
grew Saturday. From New 
York to Tulsa to Los Angeles, 
police cars were set ablaze and 
reports of injuries increased on 
all sides as the country expe-
rienced another night of un-
rest after months of COVID-19 
lockdowns. The protests began 
in Minneapolis, Minnesota, af-
ter George Floyd died after a 
police officer knelt his knee 
on Floyd’s neck for more than 
eight minutes. Across the 
country, thousands of people 
continue to protest. These 
protests have raised concerns 
from health officials due to the 
lack of social distancing and 
some protesters choosing not 
to wear a mask. Many protests 
have started with racially di-
verse crowds peacefully pro-
testing, with some descending 
into potentially violent situa-
tions. 
SpaceX’s historic encore: 
Astronauts arrive at the 
International Space Station 
SpaceX successfully deliv-
ered two astronauts to the 
International Space Station 
on Sunday. The historic lift-
off occurred on Saturday at 
the Kennedy Space Center in 
Cape Canaveral, Florida. It 
was the first time in almost 
20 years that a privately built 
and owned spacecraft carried 
astronauts to the orbiting lab. 
The arrival at the space station 
occurred 19 hours after lift-
off. It was the first astronaut 
launch to orbit from the U.S. 
in almost a decade. Despite 
the COVID-19 pandemic, thou-
sands of people gathered in 
the surrounding beaches and 
bridges to watch SpaceX make 
history. 
Protest near White House 
mostly peaceful
People protesting in front of 
the White House on Sunday appeared to be mostly peace-
ful. The protesters, who are 
demanding justice for George 
Floyd who was killed early 
last week by a police officer 
in Minneapolis, were chanting 
“Black Lives Matter” in front 
of the White House. Local po-
lice and U.S. Secret Service 
were preventing protesters 
from getting close to the White 
House. White House staffers 
were encouraged to stay home 
today amid the protest.
Many states scrambling to 
update hurricane plan for 
virus
In the U.S. South, many offi-
cials are scrambling to adjust 
their hurricane plans. Many 
are questioning where those 
fleeing their homes would go. 
The Associated Press surveyed 
more than 70 counties and 
states from Texas to Virginia, 
and more than 60 percent of 
coastal counties surveyed as 
of late May stated that they’re 
still solidifying plans for public 
hurricane shelters. Hurricane 
season begins today, though 
there have already been two 
tropical storms, Arthur and 
Bertha. Forecasters are expect-
ing a busier-than-usual season 
this year. 
Trump postpones G7 meetings, 
seeks expansion of members
U.S. President Donald Trump 
announced Saturday that he 
is postponing the upcom-
ing G7 meeting until the fall. 
The meeting was set to be 
held by the end of June. He 
said he plans to invite Russia, 
Australia, South Korea and 
India as he again advocated 
for the group’s expansion. 
Trump told reporters while 
on Air Force One that he feels 
the current group of countries 
involved is “very outdated.” 
He expressed concerns that 
these members don’t properly 
represent “what’s going on in 
the world.” A new date for the 
summit has not been set, but 
Trump suggested in September 
or after the U.S. 2020 presiden-
tial election. NCAA offers guidance for bring-
ing athletes back to campus
The NCAA released a detailed 
plan Friday to help schools 
bring back athletes to cam-
pus during the pandemic. The 
plan does not recommend 
testing athletes upon their ar-
rival, but does require testing 
and surveillance plans to be in 
place. The NCAA’s Division I 
Council voted last week to lift 
a moratorium on athletic ac-
tivities starting Monday. That 
cleared the way for voluntary 
workouts and training to be-
gin at team facilities. Despite 
not requiring it, many schools 
have developed plans to test 
their athletes, coaches and 
staff anyway. The NCAA says 
its plan is for guidance that is 
consistent with local and fed-
eral health authorities. 
Protesters in some cities target 
confederate monuments
Monuments in North Carolina, 
South Carolina, Tennessee, 
Mississippi and Virginia 
were defaced during pro-
tests demanding justice for 
George Floyd and other black 
Americans who have been 
killed due to police brutality. 
The words “spiritual genocide” 
in black spray paint, along 
with red handprints, stained 
the sides of a Confederate 
monument on the University of 
Mississippi campus Saturday, 
The Oxford Eagle reported. 
One person was arrested at the 
scene. 
Twitter obscures, warns of 
Trump tweet ‘glorifying vio-
lence’
Tensions between U.S. 
President Donald Trump and 
Twitter escalated on Friday 
after Twitter added a warning 
to his tweets for the first time. 
Twitter said that the tweet, 
which suggested protesters 
in Minneapolis could be shot, 
violated the platform’s rules 
by glorifying violence. Earlier 
last week, Twitter added a 
fact-checking button to the 
president’s tweets about mail-
in ballots. Twitter said Friday 
it posted the warning label on 
Trump’s tweet “based on the 
historical context of the last 
line, its connection to violence, 
and the risk it could inspire 
similar actions today,” but 
left it up “given its relevance 
to ongoing matters of public 
importance.” On Thursday, 
Trump signed an executive or-
der challenging the laws that 
protect social media from li-
ability for materials that users 
post on their platforms. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 80
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Renee Hancock, J.P . OprisonMarianna Colon, mcolon@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.org
Noah Ram, nram@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.orgEmma Bautista
Alligator Staff Writer
Curtis Murray sits rigidly in the chair at the dentist for 10 long 
minutes. Suddenly, he moans in distress and leaps from the seat. 
He runs straight from the room to his mother’s car.
The 31-year-old from Lake City, Florida, has autism and has 
been in pain for years. He developed severe acid reflux disease 
when he was a teenager, which decayed his teeth over the years. 
Now, brushing his teeth is nearly unbearable. 
Over the course of a year, he sat through appointments with 
two different dentists. Neither had the resources to treat him. His 
mother, Susan Murray, said she was consistently being referred 
to other dental surgeons.
According to the Florida Developmental Disabilities Council, 
there are about 472,644 people in Florida living with an intellec-
tual or developmental disability. The National Center for Biotech-
nology Information found in 2012 that adults with intellectual 
disabilities struggle to find quality oral health care and said that 
32.2 percent of patients had untreated cavities while 80.3 percent 
had severe gum disease.
The Center for Autism and Related Disabilities (CARD) at UF 
is working on increasing access to oral health care for people with 
disabilities. Robin Byrd, coordinator of educational programs at 
CARD, said some doctors are discouraged to treat patients with 
special needs because of increased treatment costs, fear of the 
unknown, time-consuming procedures, untrained staff and the 
need for special equipment.
In Gainesville, the Tacachale Dental Clinic, which is part of a 
developmental disability center that cares for people with special 
needs, also helps bring dental care to this population. With few 
dentists in Florida that cater to people like Curtis, Dr. Timothy 
Garvey, a dentist at the clinic, said patients from all over the state 
come to the center for treatment. 
Due to COVID-19, Garvey said he is currently unable to see 
patients in the clinic, which is under strict lockdown to prevent 
the spread of the virus. The shutdown has left many, like Curtis, 
with canceled dental appointments.
Instead, Garvey has been doing emergency dental surgeries 
three days a week in the College of Dentistry at UF.
Garvey called Susan two weeks ago to set an emergency 
surgery date for Curtis after his appointment was canceled at 
Tacachale. Garvey had to extract nine of Curtis’ teeth during sur-
gery on Friday. Susan said Curtis is currently in recovery and is 
starting to feel better.Curtis needs to be sedated to receive dental care. The biggest 
issue, his mother said, is finding someone who can properly treat 
him and also accepts his insurance.
Curtis uses Medicaid, a federal and state program that pro-
vides insurance for people with low incomes, to cover dental care 
costs.
After bouncing between different dentists, Susan said the in-
surance under Medicaid allowed her to see Garvey in Gainesville.
“Let’s not make him suffer any longer—this kid was in pain 
for months and months and months,” Susan said. “I don’t even 
know how long I was trying to get him to Garvey, which thank 
God we did.”
Due to COVID-19, Garvey said he is unable to see patients in 
the Tacachale Dental Clinic, which is under strict lockdown to 
prevent the spread of the virus. Instead, Garvey has been doing 
emergency dental surgeries three days a week in the College of 
Dentistry at UF.
Garvey called Susan two weeks ago to set a surgery date for 
Curtis after his appointment was canceled at Tacachale. Garvey 
had to extract nine of Curtis’ teeth during surgery on Friday. Su-
san said Curtis is currently in recovery and is starting to feel bet-
ter.
In order to successfully treat people with disabilities, Garvey 
said he has to be creative. He uses sedation to treat many of his 
patients but also uses an adult wrap made from velcro to keep 
some patients from moving during procedures. 
Garvey said he makes sure to talk to his patients throughout 
the procedure and gives them his phone number to check on 
them after surgery.Most dentists, Garvey said, are uncomfortable with perform-
ing this kind of treatment because they were never taught in 
school. He also said Medicaid can discourage dentists from treat-
ing certain patients because of the lower insurance payments 
they receive.
“If you go to your doctor somewhere and they take your tooth 
out, you’ll pay anywhere from probably $130 to $250 or some-
thing like that,” Garvey said. “Well, traditionally Medicaid pays 
me $27.”
One of the ways to fix this issue, Garvey said, is to teach the 
new generation of dentists how to treat people with disabilities. 
While Garvey is performing surgeries at the College of Dentistry, 
he brings in UF students to assist him and learn. 
“Now we’re expecting our students to have a higher level of 
understanding about this, and therefore a better level of comfort 
with providing this kind of care,” Garvey said.
Garvey said he would like to set up dental offices specialized 
in treating people with disabilities strategically around Florida so 
there is easier access. He said the key to avoiding emergency 
surgeries is maintaining routine dental care. In order for patients 
to have routine dental care, they need to be close to dentists that 
have the resources to treat them.
Byrd said CARD helps patients with disabilities tolerate treat-
ment by developing a behavior plan specific to each patient. Be-
fore a dental appointment, Byrd will show the patient pictures of 
the procedure and talk them through it. Byrd said she also some-
times takes the patient into the room prior to the appointment so 
they can get used to the environment. 
“It just really depends on the patient,” Byrd said. “I think each 
person with autism is unique, and each plan should be unique.”
CARD, Byrd said, also helps families find community health 
care services in Florida. When the family attends their dental ap-
pointment, Byrd said she helps direct them to other useful re-
sources like speech language or occupational therapy. The team 
then helps the family transition back into their own community. 
“I’ll say, well, let’s come up with a plan—let’s get you some 
support,” Byrd said. “And they just cry.”
Even with these resources, Susan said she is unsure whether 
Medicaid will cover Curtis’ surgery because her plan does not 
include services from UF. But, the mother said she is relieved her 
son finally received the treatment he needed. And, Susan said, 
she is grateful for Curtis.
“I had the blessing of having a child with a disability,” Susan 
said. “It gave me a voice because I have to be his voice.”
@emma_V_bautista
ebautista@alligator.orgMONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
Gainesville facilities help people with intellectual disabilities
MORE PEOPLE ARE 
FOSTERING ANIMALS, 
BUT LESS ARE ADOPTING
Hannah Bobek
Alligator Staff Writer
Rachel Bender found herself 
painting to get through the 
quarantine, but she craved a 
companion.
Her response was to foster 11 
dogs over the last four months. She 
eventually adopted one: an 8-year-
old beagle named Bagels.
The 20-year-old UF psychology 
junior fostered from Faithful Friends 
Pet Rescue and Rehoming and the 
Humane Society of North Central 
Florida in her Gainesville apartment.
Just as Bender’s loneliness drove 
her to adopt a dog, Alachua County 
residents have caused a spike in the 
number of animals being fostered 
from shelters and rescues in the 
area. However, adoptions remain 
stagnant in some shelters despite 
the growing trend of fostering and 
adopting throughout the U.S.
Fostering at the Humane Society 
of North Central Florida rose 
100 percent, Leesha Baumann, 
the organization’s development 
coordinator, wrote in an email to The Alligator. All of the 276 animals 
in the foster program were sent 
to homes between March 18 and 
March 21.
Even though the number of 
animals fostered has risen, adoptions 
have decreased. A year ago, 
adoptions at the shelter amounted to 
just under 400 animals around this 
time, Baumann wrote. This year, the 
shelter has only found homes for 300 
cats, dogs, guinea pigs, rabbits and 
ferrets since mid-March.
Haile’s Angels Pet Rescue 
experienced both increased fostering 
and adoptions. Out of the shelter’s 
153 animals in the foster program, 75 
percent of them are in foster homes. 
In February, only 34 percent of these 
pets were placed with families, 
according to Cassie Wheeler, director 
of the rescue.
Wheeler also said adoption rates 
in April were up 75 percent from last 
year, jumping from 33 adoptions to 
68.
Despite this, Wheeler said she 
expects adoption rates to go down as 
people return to work.
“The reason that people were 
able to do this and to open their 
homes is because they are home,” 
she said. “I think that it will decline 
again just for the simple fact that 
they don’t have time.”Unlike Wheeler’s rescue, Robin 
Tjiong, director of the House of the 
Happy Cats and Dogs Rescue in 
Levy County, said more people are 
offering to foster, but adoption rates 
remain slow compared with large 
shelters. However, she said she 
doesn’t usually have high adoption 
rates at her rescue.
Last year, six cats were adopted 
in March and six in April. This year, 
five were adopted in March and eight 
in April. She said there hasn’t been 
a noticeable change in adoptions 
because of the size of her rescue.
Sam Kephart, a 19-year-old UF 
criminology sophomore, fostered 
six kittens from House of the Happy 
Cats and Dog Rescue this past 
month. While she said some people 
are ready to foster or adopt, she also 
said there are others who aren’t.
“Some people in some cases 
probably shouldn’t because they’re 
bored, and they want an animal,” 
she said. “I know a lot of people do 
impulse adoption or impulse buying 
animals.”
Although people seem more 
interested in rescuing animals than 
in previous years, the Levy County 
rescue is having trouble finding 
families to take in the cats and dogs, 
Kephart said. She believes this is 
happening because the organization is lesser-known than other animal 
shelters in the area.
While COVID-19 hasn’t affected 
adoption rates at the rescue, it has 
impacted the amount of money 
Tjiong receives from PetSmart in 
preparation grants. 
Tjiong said PetSmart hosts 
National Adoption Weekend four 
times a year. During that time, 
animal shelters and rescues receive 
grants based on how many animals 
are brought to the event. The director 
said the June event was canceled.
“That’s $2,000 I’m not going 
to get,” she said. “For a group like 
mine, it’s hurtful.” 
She said she uses this money to 
spay and neuter her cats and dogs 
and give them vaccinations. 
Tjiong meets people who want 
to foster or adopt her pets in person. 
She said she has continued in-person 
interaction with those interested in 
adopting or fostering because this 
has been an integral part of her 
rescue, but the way she’s carried out 
these meetings has changed.
The owner takes a series of 
precautions while maintaining 
face-to-face interaction. Instead of 
meeting with families and groups, 
she interacts with one person at 
a time and asks where the person 
has been. She also said she always wears a mask and sometimes 
meets potential owners at PetSmart 
rather than the rescue as an extra 
precaution.
Tjiong believes the rising 
adoption rates in the country will 
open up more people to the idea of 
taking in animals in need.
“In some ways, this has been 
good because people have seen how 
easy it is because they have more 
time, and I think they’re saying now, 
‘It’s a breeze,’” she said.
The Humane Society has 
approached meetings in a different 
way. Rather than opening the shelter 
for adoptions, which is what the 
organization usually does, Baumann 
wrote that meet and greets are 
available by appointment every 
day of the week. The adoption 
application and paperwork must be 
done online.
While the animal shelter directors 
look to life after quarantine, 
Baumann wrote that she’s hopeful 
adoption events will resume soon 
and foster rates will continue to rise.
“Over the last three months, we 
have seen an amazing outpouring 
of support from the community,” 
she wrote. “We are incredibly 
grateful.”
@hannahbobek
hbobek@alligator.orgInside a changing industry: animal rescues
Shannon Ahern // Alligator StaffFinding routine dental care can be challenging for this populationFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sports
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Read the rest of the above 
story by scanning this code.PICTURE WITH A DOG? 
SWIPE RIGHT.
Alyssa Archard
Avenue Staff Writer
Dating apps. We’ve all been there. They 
have become an integral part of the col-
lege experience. Whether used to find love, 
something to do on a Friday night, some-
one to hook up with and never speak to 
again or something to give your thumbs to 
do when you’re bored, college students are 
no strangers to the online dating game.
Mario Bennetti, a 21-year-old 
UF marketing junior, said he 
has been active on the apps 
all through college, with little 
luck in the love department. 
“I have not had anything seri-
ous out of one, but have gone on 
the typical dates,” Bennetti said.
His response made me think about the 
nature of dating apps and young adult-
hood. Have dating apps been created to act 
more as “hook-up apps” or have we con-
strued them into something more casual 
to save us from sadness or rejection? Well, 
when I unloaded these questions onto Ben-
netti, he responded simply with, “I’d say I 
never really intended to have it be serious 
either.”
Clearly, I’m a romantic. But Bennetti’s 
experience is certainly not isolated. We 
are all busy with class, work, internships, 
friends, families and lives. Young adult-
hood is all about laying down a foundation 
to stabilize the remainder of our profes-
sional lives. That’s a huge deal. And it’s 
time-consuming. Many of us don’t have 
time for the seriousness that a relation-
ship can bring. Instead of apps hindering 
our ability to connect with others, they only aid it. With dating apps, you can have 
bite-sized bits of connection with people: a 
chat, a date, a hook-up or even a friend, all 
on-demand.
But of course, this type of usage isn’t 
everyone’s experience either. Jorge Gutier-
rez is a 21-year-old UF finance junior who 
lucked out in the dating app department.
“I have not been recently using it be-
cause I currently have a boyfriend that I 
met through a dating app, and it’s been go-
ing extremely well considering that we met 
online,” he said.
A modern day fairy tale, if you ask me.
While I was at it, I figured I’d 
also ask about the current cli-
mate of dating apps consider-
ing the current climate of our 
world.
“I have heard people say 
that there has been a lack of peo-
ple on Tinder/Grindr because of the 
scare regarding COVID-19,” he said. “There 
might be an increase of users in these sites, 
but physical interactions amongst people I 
believe have substantially dropped because 
of the epidemic.”
To say we’re living in some challenging 
times would be an understatement. From 
pandemics to protests, people have more 
important things to worry about than how 
many “Super Likes” they have. 
As the Fall semester starts back up (fin-
gers crossed), students will inevitably be 
back in the dating app game, using them in 
any way that works for them. Casual con-
nections, good friends or long term part-
ners can all come from a simple swipe. Al-
though these are woefully uncertain times, 
perhaps the fun of dating apps is the uncer-
tainty of what you’ll get.
@Alyssa_Archard
alyssaarchard@ufl.eduDating apps and the 
college experience
LOVE & SEX
feeling 
    down?
here are the Avenue staff’s top 
picks to brighten your mood.
SPOTIFY
LIFE AFTER FOOTBALL
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Shannon Snell used to make pancakes 
on the gridiron, but now he does a different 
kind of cooking: barbecuing. 
When the state of Florida went on lock-
down because of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Snell saw the opportunity to make a differ-
ence, and help those in need, with his bar-
becuing.
Before he made his transition to cooking, 
Snell played offensive guard at Florida from 
2000 to 2003.
He was a three-year starter for the 
Gators, earning first-team All-American his 
senior year. Then, he played in the NFL for 
two years with the Denver Broncos, Minne-
sota Vikings, Dallas Cowboys and Jackson-
ville Jaguars. 
After his football career was over, Snell 
went to school to become a certified pitmas-
ter, and he eventually wound up at Sonny’s 
BBQ.
He said he developed this passion at a 
young age from his grandfather who would 
cook ribs at holiday gatherings. He also 
added that those times reminded him of a 
conversation he had with his mother when 
he was in high school.
“My mom asked me what I wanted to do. 
I told her I wanted to cook,” he said. “And 
she didn’t know what that meant and nei-
ther did I at the time, but I just always revert 
back to that time of my grandpa cooking 
those ribs, and he would be smoking stuff 
on a smoker. I was like, ‘One day I want to 
become good at that.’”
Snell said his wife told him that foot-
ball wasn’t going to last forever and that 
he needed to find something to do after his 
playing career was over.
So, he went to school to learn how to 
become a certified pitmaster.
“It was actually years of long classes that 
I had to take, and it was different kinds of 
tests,” Snell said. “A lot of times people say, 
‘How do you become a certified pitmaster?’ 
because you could cook them in your back-
yard. 
“Sonny’s is really an intensive long pe-
riod, that you have to do this kind of stuff 
to become a certified pitmaster, not just a 
title that is given. It is something that people 
have done.” 
He added that the position of a certified 
pitmaster shouldn’t be taken lightly.
“A pitmaster is somebody that is looking 
to perfect their craft in barbecue, and a cer-
tified pitmaster is somebody who has done 
the right things to take those steps,” Snell 
said. “Not all barbecue is the same.
“It is a learning process every single day 
because not every person is going to cook the same way. So we have good briskets 
and bad briskets, have great ribs and bad 
ribs, so it’s just trying to perfect every single 
day to have that perfect bite, that perfect 
brisket, that perfect piece of pork, that you 
cook and somebody will say, ‘Man, this is 
amazing.’”
After becoming a certified pitmaster, 
Snell has worked at Sonny’s BBQ for the 
last 13 years.
Since mid-April, Snell has used his tal-
ent and platform as a former Florida foot-
ball player to give back to frontline workers. 
He has traveled around Florida to deliver 
barbecue to nurses, doctors, police officers, 
Gators fans and people in need.
He said the movie “Pay It Forward” in-
spired him to perform these random acts of 
kindness.
“I was watching a movie, ‘Pay It For-
ward,’ watching the kids do random acts 
of kindness,” Snell said. “Everyone seemed 
kind of gloom and doom, and I wanted to 
kind of spread some positivity and kind-
ness around. Hopefully, that gets the mes-
sage across to everybody that a small act of 
kindness can really change a person’s day, 
a person’s life, and I want everyone to try to 
pay it forward.”
Snell said his barbecue drive-by deliver-
ies make people have to worry about one 
less thing.
“There’s a lot of uncertainty and people 
are nervous about life,” he said. “The last 
thing I want is someone to be nervous about 
grabbing some food.”
Snell said he visited Gainesville Police 
and UF Health Shands Hospital during Na-
tional Nurses Week in the second week 
of May.
“I was out at GPD where I visited them 
this past week, and we just did National 
Nurse Week, where we delivered 450 meals 
to the Shands nurse unit out there,” he said. 
“So, we want to make sure that we target 
people that are in need or people that need 
their spirits lifted a little bit.”
He added that it was important to make a 
stop to visit frontline workers who are sac-
rificing their family and personal health for 
strangers.
“It was one of those things where really 
I think it’s a thankless job where everybody 
is worried about their own health and the 
health of the family,” Snell said. “You’re 
talking about people that find a way to go 
in and really put their lives on the line when 
it’s not really asked of them either when 
they sign up for the job.”
Ahmad Black, a former safety at UF from 
2007 to 2010, never played a down with 
Snell but has gotten to know him because 
they are both former Gators...From All-American offensive 
lineman to certified pitmasterwww.alligator.org/sports www.alligator.org/the_avenueMONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020
Read the rest on alligator.org/sportsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
7-13-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     7-13-43-10
HOMEOWNERS WANTED! Kayak Pools 
looking for Demo Homesites to display new 
maintenance free Kayak Pools. Save thou-
sands of $$. Unique opportunity! 100% financ-
ing available. 1-888-788-5464        5-18-18-10
Public Online Auctions of seized cars & 
vessels on behalf of U.S. Customs & Border 
Protection, U.S. Treasury, U.S. Marshals 
Service. www.appleauctioneeringco.com. 
Auctioneer Kevin C. Scully, FL#AU4328      
5-18-1-10
HOMEOWNERS WANTED! Kayak Pools 
looking for Demo Homesites to display 
new maintenance free Kayak Pools. Save 
thousands of $$. Unique opportunity! 100% 
financing available. 1-888-788-5464 6-1-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap! 373-FIND
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
7-13-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
7-13-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
7-13-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders 
and cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. 
Convenient. Certified Professionals.  
Call 312-634-6652 or visit 
RefrigerantFinders.com                 6-1-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  7-13-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    7-13-20-43-14
 Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
7-27-20-14
Homework coach wanted for bright but 
unmotivated ADHD student. He is 16 yrs 
old. Hrs/Days flexible. 3 hrs 2 X week to 
help complete assignments for this school 
year thru summer. e-mail qualifications to ss-
mills@hotmail.com 7-6-20-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   7-13-
20-43-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)1For Rent
furnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
7-13-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       7-13-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of pos-
sible buyers!
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
7-14-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels? Want 
to sell? Try the Alligator Classifieds!BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Jesse Goldberg
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/01/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/01/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, June 1, 2020
ACROSS
1 Antacid brand 
named for the 
organ it soothes
5 “Same as always, 
bartender,” with 
“the”
10 Slow-cooked 
dish
14 Cognac letters
15 Size above 
medium
16 Frosty coating
17 *Where hockey 
punishments are 
served
19 Jason’s ship
20 Situation lacking 
clarity
21 Selling point
22 *Local retailer
25 Sharp-
wittedness
29 Spanish painter 
Francisco
30 Part of “Hey 
Jude” that lasts 
nearly four 
minutes
31 Slavic prefix
33 Intel missions
36 *Insignificant 
amount
40 MSNBC rival
41 Damp
42 Info in a folder
43 Highlands native
44 In the arms of 
Morpheus
46 *Car rooftop 
attachment for a 
Schwinn
51 Febreze targets
52 Like a very close 
relationship
57 Scarlett’s 
plantation
58 Reinvigorates, 
as an economy 
... or a hint to the 
beginnings of 
the answers to 
starred clues
60 Gab
61 WWII bomber __ 
Gay
62 Lock openers
63 Putter’s target
64 Post-workout 
pains
65 Norwegian 
capitalDOWN
1 Freq. sitcom 
rating
2 One logging on
3 “__ Lisa”
4 Fix, vet-style
5 “Avengers: Age 
of __” (2015)
6 Ending with nay 
or sooth
7 Citified
8 Gone by
9 Evil Luthor
10 Soda named 
for a California 
mountain
11 Trunk of the body
12 Raring to go
13 “Murder, She __”
18 Delicate fabric
21 Words before 
wish or were
23 “Snowy” heron
24 Eddard Stark’s 
heir on “Game of 
Thrones”
25 “High Voltage” 
band
26 On-the-cob 
veggie
27 Japanese noodle
28 Image in an atlas
31 Subway entrance32 “Say what?” 
sounds
33 Texan’s neighbor
34 Legendary 
soccer star
35 Ladder rung
37 Apple desktops
38 Holiday carol
39 Calgary 
Stampeders’ org.
43 Swing one’s hips
44 Plays the role of
45 Amusing sketch46 Bungle
47 Boise’s state
48 Reef material
49 Big name in 
copiers
50 Bracelet spot
53 Speedy shark
54 Greek god of war
55 Texter’s sign-off
56 Standard Oil 
brand
58 Mauna __
59 Business mag
By Craig Stowe
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/26/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/26/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, May 26, 2020
ACROSS
1 “Happy Motoring” 
gas brand
5 Puppy love
10 Contemptuous 
sound
14 Long (for)
15 Hang __ dry
16 Make really 
upset
17 *Usual burger 
component
19 Periods often 
named for 
presidents
20 Young insects
21 “Baby back” 
morsel
22 Risqué message
23 Board in a  
salon
24 In a row
26 Morales of 
“Ozark”
28 Metaphors for 
inner turmoil
31 Takes into 
custody
34 On sale, say
37 Ruby or  
emerald
38 Big Aussie bird
39 *British afternoon 
tradition
41 Broody music 
genre
42 Opel compact 
car whose name 
means “stars” in 
Latin
44 Literary 
governess Jane
45 Forehead
46 Bottom lines
48 In addition
50 Narcissist’s 
indulgence
53 Blow away
57 Poet Byron’s  
title
59 Fled
60 Black furs
61 Recon target
62 “Magic” toys ...  
or what the 
answers to 
starred clues  
add up to?
64 Leave no room in
65 Didn’t show for 
a date with, with 
“up”
66 Hitchhiker’s  
hope
67 Texting farewell
68 Satisfies
69 Faculty headDOWN
1 Philadelphia 
NFLer
2 “Get lost!”
3 Jersey __: 
coastal vacation 
area
4 Bodies of work
5 Hammurabi’s 
creation
6 Cuba libre liquor
7 Wombs
8 What a Tide 
to Go pen can 
remove
9 Area of rapid 
growth
10 Take for granted
11 *Military might
12 Linen fiber 
source
13 Word with sniff or 
taste
18 Those opposed
24 Respected feudal 
figure
25 __ vu: familiar 
feeling
27 Boxer Laila
29 Lost fish in a 
Pixar film
30 Sluggish
31 “Fun!”
32 “I __ confused”
33 *Monarch or 
viceroy35 Like a wallflower
36 Seat belt, e.g.
39 Ring of light
40 Ribbonlike fish
43 Hit for Aerosmith 
and The 4 
Seasons 
(different songs, 
though)
45 Overwhelm, as 
with questions
47 Add emphasis to
49 Former Swedish 
automaker51 Yogurt-based 
condiment served 
to cool hot curry 
dishes
52 Bar of gold
54 Kate’s TV 
sidekick
55 Video game 
princess
56 German steel city
57 Hitchhiker’s hope
58 “Don’t count __!”
60 Norms: Abbr.
63 Clod buster
05/25/2020
answer on page 6
BUSINESS OWNERS-GET CASH 
NOW!! GET YOUR PAYMENT CARD 
CLASS ACTION SETTLEMENT MONEY 
IMMEDIATELY. CLAIMS ACQUISITIONS 
GROUP WILL PURCHASE YOUR RIGHTS 
FOR IMMEDIATE CASH. CONTACT 
CLAIMS ACQUISITIONS GROUP TODAY.  
800-327-7821 www.claimsacquisitionsgroup.com   
6-1-1-21
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
FDA approved brand name medications for 
$49/month per medication. Apply online at 
prescriptioncare.com/fl or call Prescription 
Care at 866-399-5352. 6-1-1-1615 Services1. John Hancock
2. Doc
3. 1,000
4. Billy Connolly
5. Tanzania
6. Eye floaters
7. University of Oregon
8. Johnny Cash
9. The Statue of Liberty
10. The Hungry HeiferSports Quiz  answers1.  Kayak ____
1.  Grassy plains 5.  ____ show
2.  ____ camera6.  Motif 
3.  Reading desk 7.  Drop
4.  Split fromALEDPD
SAAPPMICMGA
TEEHM
AIGLIDT
LRCEENTNGPELU
CESDEEANSWERS: 1A-Paddle  5A-Magic  6A-Theme  7A-Plunge
1D-Pampas  2D-Digital  3D-Lectern  4D-Secede  B-Madagascar6-1-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ became part of the French 
colonial empire in 1897. 
BONUS
ScrabbleGrams  solution Sudoku  solution
Without friends no one would choose to live, though he had all other goods.
–AristotleCryptoQuote  answersolution below
solution below
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020
answers below1. HISTORY: Who was the first to sign the 
Declaration of Independence?
2. MOVIES: Which dwarf wore glasses in 
Disney's "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs"?
3. MEASUREMENTS: How many years are 
in a millennium?
4. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which stand-up 
comedian once said, "There are two seasons 
in Scotland: June and winter"?
5. GEOGRAPHY: Which country is home to 
Mount Kilimanjaro?
6. MEDICAL: What is the common condition 
known as "muscae volitantes"?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Which university's 
athletic teams are known as the Ducks?
8. MUSIC: Which singer/songwriter is 
known as the "Man in Black"?
9. MONUMENTS: Which U.S. monument is 
known as the Mother of Exiles?
10. TELEVISION: What was the name of Norm's 
favorite restaurant in the "Cheers" sitcom?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
20 Events/NoticesMONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
UF is committed 
to reopening 
and welcom-
ing students 
back to cam-
pus for the Fall semester. We 
are not waiting for COVID-19 
to disappear, or for a cure or 
vaccine. We have decided 
that we must learn to live, 
study and work in the midst 
of COVID-19.
On Tuesday, UF’s draft plan for re-
opening will be available for comment 
and input on our COVID-19 website 
www.ufl.edu/health-updates. I encour-
age everyone in the UF community to 
review our draft plan and provide in-
put by email to reopen@ufl.edu. The 
Board of Trustees will provide its input 
on Friday.  
The Board of Governors for the State 
University System this past Thursday 
provided a three-page blueprint for re-
opening the system. That blueprint is 
also available on UF’s COVID-19 web-
site.  Each university will submit its 
Board of Trustees-endorsed plan to the 
Board of Governors on June 12, and 
the Board of Governors will vote on all 
plans on June 23. 
Please know that UF’s plan will 
evolve as the status of COVID-19 
evolves. Also, the plan is not intend-
ed to address all of the thousands of 
important questions that students, 
faculty, staff and families will have. 
Nor does it provide all the details on 
the hundreds of issues and decisions 
that will continue to be made as we 
approach the Fall semester.  Our plan 
is intended to provide an overview of 
our strategy and plans as guided by the 
system’s blueprint.
In reality, UF has been reopening 
since the beginning of May, when we 
launched our UF Health Screen, Test & 
Protect program. We are in the midst 
of providing opportunities for every 
employee to be tested and to return to 
work on campus.  As of May 29, we 
had tested approximately 4,500 em-
ployees, with four positive COVID-19 
cases.  Our COVID-19 website, cited by 
the Chronicle of Higher Education this week for UF’s transparency, 
will provide weekly updates 
on the total number of tests 
and number of positive cases.
We all owe a great debt of 
gratitude to the thousands of 
employees who never had the 
opportunity to leave campus, 
particularly our health care 
workers, grounds and facili-
ties employees, custodians, 
food providers, university housing staff 
and campus police.  
More than any university I know, 
UF has the opportunity to lead in safely 
reopening.  
We are one of the few universities 
that owns world-class hospitals with 
an academic health center.  We have 
faculty and staff who are experts in epi-
demiology and public health. We have 
faculty leading research on vaccines, 
therapies and modeling COVID-19. Our 
Gainesville campus is in a community 
that has flattened the curve and has not 
had a surge of cases that threatened the 
capacity of our hospitals.   
Today, Thomas Holton, a staff writer 
for The Independent Florida Alligator, 
shared that he is working on a story 
documenting what students miss most 
about UF.  
For me, since Linda and I live on 
campus, I miss the people of UF. I miss 
seeing new and old friends on Turl-
ington Plaza and Plaza of the Ameri-
cas. I miss the sounds of the marching 
band practicing and the sight of ham-
mocks filled with students studying 
and resting.
I know that when our students, staff, 
and faculty have returned this Fall, life 
will not be the same. We will practice 
physical distancing, and we will use a 
lot of hand sanitizer and learn to con-
sistently wear our masks. Many classes 
will need to be taught online to keep 
students and professors as safe as pos-
sible. However, I will gladly do all the 
things I can to keep our UF community 
healthy as long as I can once again see 
all the people back and enjoying and 
benefiting from our wonderful campus.   
Now is the time for Florida Gators to 
lead. We are, and we will.UF’s reopening plan moves forwardColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgSarah Mandile
Staff Writer
Last summer, siblings Connor and Tate 
Hankla took a road trip from Chicago to Ar-
kansas. Now, Connor remains in Chicago, re-
flecting on the last 19 years of his brother’s 
life.
Tate died in his Gurnee, Illinois, home on 
May 3. The cause of his death is still under 
investigation, according to a Gurnee Police 
Department Report. He had just finished his 
freshman year at UF.
One year earlier, Connor and Tate began 
that road trip to Arkansas to visit their grand-
father before a cousin’s wedding in Georgia’s 
Appalachian Mountains. Connor remembers 
driving most of the way while Tate was the 
DJ, filling the car with hits by Mac Miller and 
Tyler, the Creator. 
They visited 
the Gateway Arch 
in St. Louis, Mis-
souri, and camped 
by their grandfa-
ther’s house near 
Fort Smith, Arkan-
sas, before heading 
to Georgia, Connor said. They even deviated 
from their route to fuel up at a gas station 
in Birmingham, Alabama, just because they 
wanted to visit the city. 
While in the car together, Connor, at the 
time a junior studying accounting at the Uni-
versity of Illinois, gave Tate advice for his 
freshman year. He told Tate stories about his 
own college experiences, advised him about 
classes to avoid and bantered about college 
parties and girls. 
More than 1,000 miles away from his 
hometown, Tate’s memory is cherished by the 
brothers of Sigma Chi at UF. Carson Black, the 
president of the fraternity, confirmed Tate’s 
membership to The Alligator. He said Tate 
joined Fall 2019.
The 21-year-old UF finance senior remem-
bers returning to the Sigma Chi house after a 
late-night study session at Library West. Black 
said when he went upstairs, he found six or 
seven UF students hanging out in room 11, 
where Tate lived. No matter how many people Tate was with, 
he would always greet Black and ask him how 
he was doing.
“He just makes you feel comfortable,” 
Black said. Black said Tate acknowledged ev-
eryone, giving them a hug or “dapping them 
up” — even if he didn’t know them well. 
Tate wasn’t originally supposed to stay in 
room 11, said John Mazanec, a 20-year-old 
UF advertising junior. When Mazanec’s room-
mate went to study abroad in London, Tate 
asked if he could be his new roommate. 
  “Everyone has friends here and there, but 
that’s the one that you want to keep after col-
lege,” Mazanec said about Tate. 
Room 11 was the only room upstairs with 
a microwave, which initially caused a lot of 
traffic, Mazanec said. After warming up food, 
brothers would eat and catch up. Their room 
was also unique because it was the only one 
without a TV.
“You didn’t go 
in there to play vid-
eo games or watch 
movies,” Mazanec 
said. “You went in 
there to hang out 
and just talk.”
UF Spokesperson Steve Orlando confirmed 
Tate was enrolled at UF and listed as a con-
struction management major. Connor said his 
brother recently switched from majoring in 
business to construction management because 
he didn’t want to spend his career in an office. 
“When he told me, I was just so excited for 
the kid,” Connor said, “His entire life he’s just 
not been able to sit down.”
Tate is survived by his brother Connor, his 
sister Peyton and his parents Todd and Lisa 
Hankla. 
Reflecting on a life taken after only 19 
years, Connor said Tate “lived every day to 
the fullest,” doing more than most people do 
in 60 years. 
Tate’s brother was the last person to speak 
with him before he died. Connor said he was 
“as happy as he could be.”
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgTate Hankla remembered
He died days after finishing his freshman year at UF
“Everyone has friends here and there, 
but that’s the one that you want to 
keep after college.”
John Mazanec
T ate Hankla’s roommate8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 1, 2020
