T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW 73°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 20, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Letter from the Editors:
This Summer marks the beginning of 
an exciting chapter in The Alligator’s 
history. We’re launching El Caimán, 
the new Spanish section of our 
newspaper. Within El Caimán, readers 
will find translated copies of the most 
important news surrounding Alachua 
County and UF, including original 
stories about the Spanish-speaking 
community within our county.
We believe it's important that we keep 
our community informed. All of our 
community. Through the creation of 
El Caimán, we hope to do just that — 
not just for one of the most important 
times in recent history, but the future 
that’s to come.
We appreciate your continued support 
as we improve and adapt our coverage 
to keep you, our readers, informed.
Mucho mucho amor,
The Alligator Editorial Board
The Alligator's Editorial Board is 
made up of Christian Ortega, the 
editor-in-chief; Alyssa Feliciano, 
the engagement managing editor; 
Hannah Phillips, the digital managing 
editor; and Ellen Bausback, the news 
managing editor.
Find stories online by visiting alligator.org/
spanish , and k eep up with the latest by 
following @_ElCaiman_  on Twitter.
Sunday’s Top AP Headlines
The Latest: Global death toll for 
pandemic now above 600,000
Johns Hopkins University reported 
on Saturday that COVID-19 deaths 
had surpassed 600,000 worldwide. 
The university’s tally as of Saturday 
night says the United States tops 
the list with 140,119 deaths. It is 
followed by 78,772 fatalities in Brazil 
and 45,358 in the United Kingdom. 
Worldwide cases of COVID-19 have surpassed 14.2 million. The U.S. has 
3.7 million, Brazil has more than 2 
million and India has passed more 
than 1 millions cases. 
Florida hits new coronavirus death 
mark with 156 in one day
Florida reached another ominous 
mark July 16 with a record 156 
deaths from COVID-19 reported in 
a single day as the state continues 
to experience a swift rise in cases. 
Officials in the hard-hit Miami area 
were weighing another blanket 
lockdown. In the current epicenter 
of the outbreak, Miami-Dade 
County, there were more than 
3,100 cases of COVID-19 reported. 
One hundred and fifty-six deaths 
on July 16 beat out the previous 
record — 132 reported deaths on 
July 14.
Social media for Rubio, Sullivan 
confuses Cummings, Lewis
Social media of Republican Sens. 
Marco Rubio of Florida and Dan 
Sullivan of Alaska mistakenly 
posted photos of the late U.S. Rep. 
Elijah Cummings with comments 
meant to honor the late U.S. Rep. 
John Lewis. The post — which 
was quickly removed from Sen. 
Rubio’s Twitter — were replaced 
with photos of Lewis, a Democrat 
senator who died on July 17. Sen. 
Rubio acknowledged the mistake 
on Twitter.
Police capture kangaroo hopping 
through Fort Lauderdale
Fort Lauderdale Police caught 
an unlikely suspect July 16. After 
receiving a call about a kangaroo 
running loose, Fort Lauderdale 
police officers managed to capture 
him and place him in a squad car. 
The marsupial was taken to a barn 
where the agency keeps its horses.
Anthony Macias, who claims to 
be the kangaroo’s owner, told the 
Sun Sentinel he had been hoping 
to bring his pet, Jack, home, but 
police told him the animal won’t be 
returned, because Fort Lauderdale 
isn’t zoned for kangaroos.Rapper Kanye West draws crowd 
to first event as candidate
Rapper Kanye West made his 
first appearance as a presidential 
candidate Sunday night. West 
delivered a lengthy monologue 
Sunday touching on topics 
from abortion and religion to 
international trade and licensing 
deals. It is unclear whether he 
is actually planning a run for 
president. West said that while 
he believes abortion should be 
legal, financial incentives to help 
struggling mothers could be a way 
to discourage the practice. The 
event, held in North Charleston, 
South Carolina, was only for 
registered guests and had several 
hundred people in one venue. West 
has missed the deadline to qualify 
for the ballot in several states, and 
it’s unclear if he is willing or able to 
collect enough signatures required 
to qualify in others. Last week, he 
qualified to appear on Oklahoma’s 
presidential ballot, the first state 
where he met the requirements 
before the filing deadline. In order 
to appear on the South Carolina 
ballot, West has to collect 100,000 
signatures by Monday at noon. 
West, who is married to reality 
television star Kim Kardashian West, 
initially announced his candidacy 
on July 4.
Twitter: Hack hit 130 accounts, 
company ‘embarrassed’
Twitter says the hack that 
compromised the accounts of 
some of its most high-profile 
users targeted 130 people. The 
hackers were able to reset the 
passwords of 45 of those accounts. 
The July 17 attack broke into the 
Twitter accounts of world leaders, 
celebrities and tech moguls in one 
of the most high-profile security 
breaches in recent years. The 
attackers sent out tweets from 
the accounts of the public figures, 
offering to send $2,000 for every 
$1,000 sent to an anonymous 
Bitcoin address. Chief research 
officer from cybersecurity firm 
221B Alison Nixon said that the 
people behind the Twitter hack 
were looking for “OG” Twitter 
handles, such as “@a, ” or “@b. ” While 
the attack focused on the Bitcoin 
tweet, it left people questioning 
Twitter’s ability to secure high 
profile accounts, such as the 
account of the U.S. President ahead 
of the 2020 election. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 86
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
El Caimán Editors
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chief
Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgLonnie Numa, lnuma@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.org
Noah Ram,  nram@alligator.org
Gabriella Guez,  gguez@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.orgMONDAY, JULY 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Transfer roundup
Even outside of football and basketball, the Gators have been 
busy acquiring players from the transfer portal for next season 
and beyond, pg. 8THEY DISTRIBUTE TO 
MORE THAN 350 PEOPLE 
A WEEK
By Katie Delk
Avenue Staff Writer
On any given night before the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the Civic Me -
dia Center could be found hosting 
yoga, meditation, open mic nights and concerts. Now, it hosts a single 
event — Free Grocery Store.
The mutual aid effort began out 
of dumpsters. One of the CMC’s vol -
unteers would go to nearby grocery 
stores in hopes of finding discarded 
food that was still good to eat, coor -
dinator JoJo Sacks said. 
Eventually, grocery stores began 
to give the CMC expired goods in -
stead of discarding them. Most of 
the food is still good to eat, even while labeled “expired. ” Volunteers 
recycle the produce that is not ed -
ible into compost for the CMC’s plot 
in the McRorie Community Garden 
and to other gardens, Sacks said. 
Every Tuesday and Friday at the 
CMC, volunteers distribute food and 
produce to those in need. Before 
the COVID-19 pandemic, Free Gro -
cery Store donated food to 30 to 50 
people in a week. Now, they donate 
to more than 350 people a week, or -
ganizer Em Arnold said. 
In addition to grocery stores, Free 
Grocery Store obtains food from lo -
cal farms like Siembra Farm and 
Rainbow Produce along with local 
bakeries. GNV Herbal Aid supplies 
herbal supplements. Volunteers will 
also purchase produce with money 
raised from the CMC fundraiser for 
Free Grocery Store held through the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition’s 
action network, Arnold said.
The produce includes vegeta -
bles, fruits and dry food. Once vol -
unteers gather the produce, they 
package it, and ready-to-eat food is 
distributed to families without ac -
cess to kitchens.  
Families can request specific 
foods or items by calling the CMC 
or filling out a survey and record -
ing their family size and address. Personal hygiene products are espe -
cially important since many families 
cannot afford them and food stamps 
cannot pay for them, volunteer Al -
fredo Morales said.
Morales recalls scraping at boxed 
flaky mashed potatoes from church 
donations over the holidays as a kid. 
Growing up with food stamps and 
donations, he can relate to those the 
CMC is helping.
“I’ll make sure that the bag feels 
heavy because I know what it’s like 
to receive the food, ” he said. “I know 
what it’s like to be thankful for the 
food that you’re getting, but also, 
pre-planning on how you’re going 
to stretch it. ”
Volunteers deliver food directly 
to homes and the Highlands Presby -
terian Community Church. The food 
left at the church is given to families 
of vulnerable immigration status or 
undocumented immigrants by the 
local grassroots immigrant-led orga -
nization, Madres Sin Fronteras.
Ally-member of MSF Liz Ibarrola 
said giving food to the immigrant 
families is not a charity, but a re -
ciprocation of what they do to aid 
Gainesville.
“There are a lot of people you 
know who work in roles that go 
unrecognized, but I think undocu -mented folks tend to fill those roles 
by the nature of their legal status, ” 
Ibarrola said. “What we’re doing now 
is a reversal of those typical roles. It 
feels like a thank you for the work 
that they have done supporting the 
community in normal times. ”
Ultimately, food insecurity de -
rives from the unjust system, Arnold 
said.
For these members and the CMC, 
every day is an act of resistance, 
Sacks said. Even though there are 
only a few community and DIY spac -
es in Florida like the CMC, radical 
spaces are dying out and they are 
important, especially to Gainesville, 
Sacks said.   
“Without the CMC, I think that 
there would be a lot of community 
love that would be lost, ” Sacks said.
Now as the CMC struggles finan -
cially, they have raised thousands of 
dollars in donations from those in 
Gainesville and out. With hundreds 
of small donations from working 
people, Sacks said the support from 
the community is emblematic of this 
love.
@katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.org
SATCH SQUARED WILL 
SELL PIZZA, WAFFLES 
AND MORE
By Michelle Holder
Avenue Staff Writer
Ever since Satchel Raye and co-
owner Mark Rodriguez announced 
six months ago that they would be 
opening a second pizza location, 
their time has been filled with 
construction, permits and testing 
out new recipes for the restaurant, 
Raye said. 
“We had just gotten started in 
mid-March when we just applied 
for our permits and everything 
with the city, ” Raye said. “When 
the county shut down with the 
pandemic, we had to make a call. ”
Despite the risks, Raye and 
Rodriguez decided to continue 
their plans with the new restaurant. 
Customers have been dining by 
colorful stained glass windows and experiencing live entertainment 
from inside Satchel’s decorated van 
since 2003. Business dropped more 
than 50 percent at the beginning of 
the pandemic, but has recovered 
due to regular takeout orders and 
people coming in again, Raye said. 
Now, Satch Squared has officially 
opened its doors today.
Located at the 4th Ave Food 
Park in downtown Gainesville, 
Satch Squared sells yeast waffles 
and Detroit-style pizzas seven days 
a week, three meals a day. The 
restaurant also offers gluten-free 
options for waffles and pizza, as 
well as vegan cheese toppings for 
pizza. 
“I feel like we have this great new 
style of pizza that’s kind of popping 
up around the country that they 
don’t really have in Gainesville, ”  
Rodriguez said. 
The waffles start at $2, and a 
gluten-free waffle is only 50 cents 
more. Sides include bacon and 
maple syrup. Add on a glass of milk, or enjoy Raye’s homemade sodas or 
a variety of beer and wine.
The Gainesville community has 
been very supportive of the new 
restaurant, Raye said. Raye posted 
a photo of the restaurant front on 
Twitter and immediately received 
positive feedback with nearly 
500 likes as of Sunday evening. 
The restaurant’s instagram, 
SatchSquared, has more than 1,000 
followers.
Robb Eggleston, a 49-year-
old broadcaster, said he and his 
daughter thought the pizza was 
tasty and comes with enough for 
leftovers.
“I got a vegan pizza with 
mushroom and basil, ” he said. “My 
daughter got a pepperoni pizza, ”  
he said. “Unique Detroit-style and 
delicious pizzas, plus waffles? 
What’s not to love?”
Satch Squared will be taking 
health precautions to ensure the 
safety of its staff, Raye said. Masks 
are required for employees and customers inside the restaurant. 
The restaurant will also be 
frequently sanitizing their indoor 
bar seating and door handles, Raye 
said. 
The food park is designed for 
open-air seating and takeout style, 
Rodriguez said. 
“We’re utilizing the food park, 
which is all outdoor seating and 
socially distanced tables, ” he said.
The new location will also be 
accepting credit card payments 
and having a special program 
called Round Up for Charity (RUFC). 
Their first charity will be CS Direct, 
a program at Community Spring 
that gives cash directly to people in 
need, Raye said. 
Satch Squared started from the 
concept of creating a unique pizza, 
completely alien to Gainesville, 
and has evolved into a full fledged 
restaurant at the 4th Ave Food Park.
“We came into a basically blank 
canvas, and we had to imagine 
how we wanted things, ” Rodriguez said. “It’s been a pretty interesting 
experience. ”
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.orgCivic Media Center hosts Free Grocery Store during pandemic
Satchel’s Pizza opens second location today
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE
FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINKCourtesy of Em Arnold
The Civic Media Center’s Free Grocery Store donates to over 
350 people in need a week.
Heat up your summer 
romance with the 
Avenue staff’s favorite 
love songs.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Scan the code to follow the Avenue on Spotify
MONDAY, JULY 20, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
STUDENTS WILL BE GIVEN TWO 
CLOTH MASKS WHEN THEY 
RETURN TO CAMPUS
By Tristan Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
Returning UF students can expect face masks, 
quarantining and social distancing in the fight 
against COVID-19 in The Swamp. 
Staff and students will be required to wear 
masks when inside UF facilities, said UF Senior 
Vice President Charles Lane in a meeting with 
county and city commissioners Wednesday. 
UF currently has 1.4 million disposable masks 
and 140,000 cloth masks it intends to give out 
during the semester, Lane said. Each student will 
receive two UF-themed cloth masks in a welcome-back kit for all students, he added. 
Students who cannot wear masks because of a 
medical condition will be given face shields, said 
UF Health President David Nelson.
UF will be able to conduct 1,000 COVID-19 
tests a day, Lane said. About 72 percent of UF’s 
18,600 employees were already tested. 48 UF em -
ployees have tested positive.
While testing is optional for most UF stu -
dents, it will be mandatory for students who are 
symptomatic, as well as those who are learning in 
clinical and research settings like nursing students, 
Lane said. 
Students who test positive for the virus will be 
required to quarantine for 10 to 14 days, depend -
ing on their level of symptoms, Lane said. UF has 
set aside 136 beds on-campus and 150 beds off-
campus to quarantine students, Lane said. It is un -
clear where these beds will be.The county health department will help with 
contact tracing for students who test positive, Nel -
son said. 
“If I am positive, they are going to call me and 
say ‘Hey, David Nelson. I need you to walk me 
through the last few days of your life, ’” Nelson said.
Anyone who was within six feet of someone 
with COVID-19 will need to isolate and get tested, 
Nelson said. If they test positive, they will be quar -
antined and contact traced.
After UF’s presentation, some city officials 
raised concerns about student compliance with the 
county’s mask requirement.
The city will let the university know if any stu -
dents get cited for not wearing a mask or following 
safety procedures so UF can discipline them, said 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe. He said he doesn’t 
want any variation between expectations on or off 
campus.
However, Poe said local businesses should 
brainstorm on how to safely provide entertain -
ment for students to lessen the appeal of indoor 
house parties or large social gatherings during the 
school year.
“We have got to reimagine—and almost create 
from scratch—a new culture in Gainesville, not 
just for our students but for everybody, ” Poe said.
At the end of the meeting, the city commission 
directed the city and county to collaborate with UF 
to recruit more contact tracers. 
City Commissioner David Arreola also said lo -
cal government needs to create a “one Gainesville 
culture” to implement more safe community en -
tertainment options.
“If we don’t have an alternative, people are go -
ing to get sick at all those indoor house parties, ” 
Arreola said.
During public comment, callers disagreed on 
whether UF students would follow safety proto -
cols.
“To say that they are going to be ‘good after 
class’ is so naive it’s on the point of ridiculous, ” a 
caller said.
Another said she was hopeful because she saw 
more college-aged people following the county’s 
mask ordinance than older people.
“If they can be taught not to smoke cigarettes 
in class, I am certain they are smart enough to un -
derstand the importance of wearing a facemask on 
and off campus, ” the caller said.
Surveys showed that most UF students take 
wearing a mask and other safety protocols seri -
ously, Lane said. However, only the return of stu -dents will show how well they follow COVID-19 
procedures. 
“We are gonna find out when they come back 
just how serious they are about it, and they are 
gonna find out just how serious we are about it, ” 
Lane said.
@TristanDWood
twood@alligator.orgCity and county officials brace for student return amid COVID-19
Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
Your questions, answered: 
a Q&A with UF administrators 
on Fall reopening
Lianna Hubbard, Diane Hernandez
Staff Writers
Is workers comp available for employee and 
graduate workers who get sick during the 
reopening?
Any employee is welcomed to file a workers’ 
comp claim if he or she believes that work was 
the cause of the ‘injury.’ The state of Florida will 
determine if claims are compensable because 
UF is a state agency. - UF’s Issues Management 
and Crisis Communications Director Hessy 
Fernandez
What's going on with international students? 
The Trump administration rescinded ICE’s 
policies on Tuesday after being sued by Harvard 
and MIT. International students will not be 
required to take an in-person class to stay in the 
country anymore.
Will professors be allowed to hold in person 
office hours for online classes? 
Professors can host in-person office hours in 
the Fall, but they must wear masks and social 
distance. - Associate Provost for Academic and 
Faculty Affairs Chris Hass
What is happening to rush week for Greek life? 
UF sororities and fraternities still hope to 
rush in Fall. At least half of sorority rush will 
be virtual, according to guidelines posted on 
the Panhellenic Council Instagram. The IFC is 
currently forming their own plan for Fall rush. - 
Panhellenic Council President Alexa Young and 
Interfraternity Council President Stephen GreepBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-31-48-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-31-20-48-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-31-20-48-14
 Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
7-27-20-14
Looking for individuals to join our 
summer carpet cleaning team!
This is a temporary position great for college 
students. Must have good drivers license, 
and clean criminal background. Will be re-
quired to drive. Must be in good physical 
condition. This is a physically demanding 
job. Must be able to work long or variable 
hours and weekends. Starting pay $12 an 
hour. brad@professionalcarpetsystemsfl.
com   352-494-3464                 8-3-20-14-14Interested in earning in extra money while 
still being involved in the sports you enjoy? 
Big Eight Sports Officials Association in 
Gainesville is looking for volleyball and soft -
ball officials to work games throughout the 
area. Training is provided, no experience 
necessary. Please contact Barry Adams at 
904-796-7373 for more information.    
8-3-20-4-14 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-31-48-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
20 Events/Notices
Legal
DIAGNOSED WITH LUNG CANCER? You 
may qualify for a substantial cash award - 
even with smoking history. NO obligation! 
We've recovered millions. Let us help!! Call 
24/7, 844-960-0085                           7-20-1-20
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-31-48-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       8-31-20-48-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
2BR/1.5BA Condo $950/Mo 
Incl Water/Internet
2BR/1BA Single Family 
w/Private Porch $950/Mo
3BR/2BA 2 Story Townhouse 
w/Pvt Back Patio $1200/Mo
Call Shawn 352-494-3277   
8-3-20-3-2
5 Real Estate
Land Auction August 8, 2020 1:00 PM 16 
One - three acre lots. Gated communities 
Haywood County, North Carolina, 151 
acre mountain trac springs, lake sites. 3/2 
home. ERA Sunburst Realty www.sun -
burstauctions.net NCALCo# 10376 Randy 
Flanigan NCAL6421NCRE274318 Phone: 
706-207-2436                               7-20-1-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-31-20-48-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-31-20-48-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-31-48-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-31-48-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
7-13-20-24-12
Friends don’t let friends 
catch COVID-19.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Craig Stowe
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/14/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/14/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, July 14, 2020
ACROSS
1 Poindexter
6 Co. known 
for music 
compilations
10 Sign of things to 
come
14 Scarlett in love 
with a Butler
15 Folk singer 
Guthrie
16 Funeral rite heap
17 __ spray: 
decongestant
18 *Athletic brand for 
yoga class
20 Iron mine output
21 Look creepily (at)
23 Get up
24 *Beachgoer’s 
footwear
27 More, for Miguel
28 Smidgen
29 Like the simplest 
instructions
33 Portfolio item
36 Having all one’s 
marbles
38 Rap sheet abbr.
39 *Stops smoking 
suddenly and 
entirely, say
43 Coffee  
dispenser
44 Cheers for 
matadors
45 Must-haves
46 Kabul native
49 PC-to-PC  
system
50 Chair support
51 *Raid with a K-9 
unit, perhaps
56 “Let __ be light”
58 “No __”: “Beats 
me”
59 Whiskey barrel 
wood
61 Specialized 
unit seeking 
explosives ... or 
what the ends 
of the answers 
to starred clues 
comprise?
64 Poke fun at
66 Mine, in Montreal
67 Chomp or nip
68 Like recycled 
bottles
69 Italy’s capital
70 Blacken on the 
grill
71 Medicine 
amountsDOWN
1 “__ harm”: 
Hippocratic Oath 
principle
2 Pier
3 Canvas holder
4 Historic period
5 Kids’ play boxes 
with plastic 
spheres
6 Superman’s birth 
name
7 Cape Cod town
8 Building wing
9 Comical Costello
10 Verdi works
11 “I stand corrected”
12 God with a bow
13 Hawaii’s state 
bird
19 Poor, as an 
excuse
22 Young 
salamander
25 “Dream on!”
26 Lily pad habitats
30 Ice hockey target
31 __ out a living
32 Forks over
33 Color akin to 
turquoise
34 Steak : turf :: 
lobster : __
35 Divorced female 
parent36 State of matter
37 Part of IPA
40 Fast one, so to 
speak
41 At full strength
42 Contact lens 
solution brand
47 Grammy-
winning   
jazzman 
Hancock
48 Grows older
49 L, on clothes: 
Abbr.52 Gaucho’s rope
53 Milker’s handful
54 Serialized 
daytime TV
55 Sample, as  
food
56 Vanishing ski lift
57 __ sapiens
60 They open doors
62 Gridiron VIPs
63 180-degree turn, 
in slang
65 Fall Out Boy 
genre
07/13/2020
07/20/2020Release Date: Monday, July 20, 2020
answer on page 7
13 Wanted
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.answers below1. What Washington Bullets legend won both 
Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player 
for the 1968-69 NBA season? 
2. At the 2012 London Summer Olympics, 
what South African sprinter became the 
first amputee runner to compete in the 
Olympic Games?
3. In 1999, Cleveland Browns offensive line -
man Orlando Brown suffered an eye injury 
caused by what object?
4. What is the name of the horse ridden by 
Osceola during the pregame tradition at Flor -
ida State Seminoles home football games?
5. What former Major League Baseball pitch -
er/outfielder published a 2017 memoir called 
"The Phenomenon: Pressure, the Yips, and 
the Pitch that Changed My Life"?
6. Who was the last NHL player permitted to 
play without wearing a helmet?
7. What was the name of the football simula -
tion video game first published in 1988 by 
Electronic Arts for Apple II computers?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
21 EntertainmentMONDAY, JULY 20, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
solution below
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  answerSports Quiz  answers1. Wes Unseld.
2. Oscar Pistorius.
3. A weighted penalty flag.
4. Renegade.5. Rick Ankiel.
6. Craig MacTavish.
7. John Madden Football.www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
alligatoralligator
classifiedsclassifieds
Visit Visit alligatoralligator .org/classifieds.org/classifieds   
and submit your ad to one of and submit your ad to one of 
the following categories today!the following categories today!
1:   For Rent (furnished)1:   For Rent (furnished)
2:   For Rent (unfurnished)2:   For Rent (unfurnished)
3:   Sublease3:   Sublease
4:   Roommates4:   Roommates
5:   Real Estate5:   Real Estate
6:   Furnishings6:   Furnishings
7:   Computers7:   Computers
8:   Electronics8:   Electronics
9:   Bicycles9:   Bicycles
10: For Sale10: For Sale
11: Motorcycles/Mopeds11: Motorcycles/Mopeds
12: Autos12: Autos
13: Wanted13: Wanted
14: Help Wanted14: Help Wanted
15: Services15: Services
16: Health Services16: Health Services
17: Typing17: Typing
18: Personals18: Personals
19: Connections19: Connections
20: Events/Notices20: Events/Notices
21: Entertainment21: Entertainment
22: Tickets22: Tickets
23: Rides23: Rides
24: Pets24: Pets
25: Lost & Found25: Lost & Found
Gators men's golf coach J.C. 
Deacon captured his second 
Florida Open title in four years 
on Sunday. Deacon shot a 69 
in the final round to secure a 
four-stroke victory.Best seasons by Gators pitchers
Read Brendan Farrell's deep dive on what he found to be 
the five best seasons by Florida pitchers since 2013 at 
alligator.org/sportsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JULY 20, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
COVID-19
SEC NEWSBy Zachary Huber
Sports Writer Gyms are considered a second home for 
athletes because they spend multiple hours 
training there every day. 
When the COVID-19 pandemic reached the 
United States, it caused gyms across the country 
to close their doors for months. Brian Berdusco, a 
Florida men’s tennis player, is one of many Gators 
who had to improvise to stay in shape.
Berdusco said he has spent most of this 
offseason running to improve his endurance but 
wanted to work on other parts of his game. So, 
he turned to YouTube to find a tutorial on how to 
make his own squat rack.
His DIY projects don’t stop there, though. 
Berdusco and his brother found inspiration to 
keep building from a CrossFit documentary on 
Netflix.
“Me and my brother watched it, and we got 
into it, ” he said. “It's a lot of pull-ups with rings and 
rope climbing, so we set up a big rope climbing 
rope on our tree in our backyard, and we've been 
climbing it as a workout, just being creative with 
what we have. ”
The rising senior is not the only collegiate athlete in his family. His oldest sister, Ellie, was 
a swimmer at Notre Dame from 2015 to 2018. 
Berdusco also has traveled with her to the beach 
to do open-water workouts.
Berdusco said that a normal offseason feels 
like they are still in-season because players are 
constantly traveling for tournaments. During the 
summer, the team also likes to take a class so they 
can return to campus to train with coaches.
This all changed when the COVID-19 
pandemic turned the sports world upside down. 
The NCAA canceled all spring sports, ending 
Florida’s season. The Gators were supposed to 
play Georgia and Tennessee that upcoming 
weekend.
Berdusco said the team was disappointed 
when coach Bryan Shelton told them the season 
was over.
“Because we thought it was going to be their 
last opportunity to play, ” he said. “We were all 
devastated, especially for the seniors. It kind of 
got taken away from them, so we're all pretty sad. ”
However, this new reality hasn’t prevented 
Shelton and his staff from finding ways to make 
sure his squad is ready whenever sports resume. The strength coaches, trainers and nutritionists 
have sent players plans to keep them ready.
Athletes from other UF teams have conducted 
weekly Zoom meetings to stay in contact with 
each other. This is no different for the tennis team, 
except it has been a little less often.
Despite that, Berdusco stated the team has 
communicated with one another more than 
they have in past offseasons because they all 
have a consistent schedule due to the lack of 
tournaments.
Meanwhile, Shelton has preached to his team 
to not feel sorry for themselves because the world 
is in a similar predicament.
Berdusco said the team is ready to go 
whenever it is considered safe to play again.
“Even during this lockdown, everyone on the 
team is still extremely motivated to get better 
in any way, ” Berdusco said. “When we get back 
on court as a team, we're right where we left off 
pretty much. ”
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.org
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Voluntary in-person athletics ac -
tivities resumed on SEC campuses on 
June 8. However, NCAA regulations 
permit only strength and conditioning 
personnel to supervise these on-cam -
pus workouts.
With organized practices still pro -
hibited due to the COVID-19 pandem -
ic, Florida’s coaching staffs have kept 
busy on the transfer front, bringing in 
talent from across the nation to im -
prove their respective rosters.
Here’s a look at the latest additions 
to Gators sports teams, excluding foot -
ball and men’s basketball:
Women’s Basketball
Forward Emily Sullivan is the pro -
gram’s first graduate transfer since 
Paulina Hersler made the switch from 
UCLA for the 2017-18 campaign. 
Sullivan played in 52 games with 
North Carolina, appearing in 21 con -
tests as a freshman and 22 as a sopho -
more. She missed her entire junior year 
after undergoing shoulder surgery and 
only played nine games as a redshirt 
junior before suffering a season-end -
ing foot injury in practice.
The Evansville, Indiana, native av -
eraged 2.2 points per game, 1.8 re -
bounds and 0.7 blocks in her four sea -
sons with the Tar Heels. She figures to 
play a more prominent role at Florida, 
especially with forwards Zada Williams 
and Paige Robinson no longer at coach Cam Newbauer’s disposal after gradu -
ating from UF.
“Emily brings a level of maturity 
and experience to our roster, and we 
are excited to welcome her to our 
team, ” Newbauer said in a release. 
“Having competed for four years in the 
ACC, she will add to our culture with 
her personality and drive to take our 
program to the next level. ”
Guard Yasmeen Chang, who spent 
her freshman year with the Miami Hur -
ricanes, has also decided to join the 
Gators. She played in 18 games at UM, 
registering 1.4 points and 0.9 rebounds 
in 7.1 minutes of action per game.
“I’m super excited for this opportu -
nity, I’m really ecstatic, ” Chang said in 
a release. “I was familiar with the pro -
gram and knew what being at Florida 
had to offer dating back to when I was 
in high school. ”
Unlike Sullivan, however, Chang 
will sit out the 2020-21 campaign due 
to NCAA transfer rules. 
This will give the incoming sopho -
more some time to develop under 
the likes of redshirt senior guard Kiara 
Smith and sophomore guard Lavender 
Briggs, who led the team in scoring 
with 15 points per game last season.
Soccer
Coach Becky Burleigh had five mid -
fielders from last season’s roster gradu -
ate: Sammie Betters, Haillie Lower, 
Parker Roberts, Tess Sapone and Alex 
Stubblebine.
Roberts will be back for the Gators 
in 2020 while she completes her mas -ter’s curriculum. The other four, how -
ever, won’t be returning.
So, Burleigh snagged midfielders 
Shaye Seyfartt from Villanova and An -
sley Frazier from UMass to fill the holes 
at the heart of her lineup.
Seyfartt played in all 38 of Nova’s 
matches during her two-year tenure 
with the program, starting in 33 of 
them. The Ringoes, New Jersey, native 
registered two goals with the Wildcats.
While Seyfartt handles much of the 
defensive duties in the middle of the 
park, Frazier is more of a playmaker. In 
her only season with the Minutewom -
en, Frazier was selected to the Atlantic 
10 All-Rookie Team behind her one 
goal and conference-leading 12 assists.
Lacrosse
Florida enjoyed a 6-2 start to the 
2020 campaign before COVID-19 end -
ed it prematurely. 
The team, ranked 13th in the nation 
by Inside Lacrosse heading into the 
season, found itself at the No. 6 spot by 
the time spring sports were canceled.
Coach Amanda O’Leary found a 
way to keep things rolling in what 
many believed to be a rebuilding 
year without former players such as 
goalkeeper Haley Hicklen, midfielder 
Sydney Pirreca and attacker Lindsey 
Ronbeck—all of whom were regular 
starters during their time at UF.
The 11-year Florida coach has a 
knack for attracting the best players 
across the nation, and she may have 
found another mainstay to her lineup 
in midfielder Paisley Eagan, who spent two seasons at Boston College.
Eagan was redshirted in 2019 but 
started all seven of BC’s games in the 
shortened 2020 season. She posted 
one goal, caused five turnovers and 
won six draw controls for the Eagles.
The three-time US Lacrosse High 
School All-American has the poten -
tial to shine at UF, especially under 
the tutelage of assistant coach Taryn 
VanThof, who played midfielder for 
Loyola Maryland and the US Women’s 
Lacrosse National Team before coming 
to Gainesville.
Men’s Swimming and Diving
UF’s season was cut short due to 
COVID-19, but not before it took home 
its eighth-consecutive SEC title in Feb -
ruary. In order to repeat as conference 
champions this upcoming season, 
coach Anthony Nesty will have to re -
place the 11 seniors that were on his 
roster.
In April, the Gators welcomed two 
transfers that will be available imme -
diately for the 2020-21 season: Erik 
Harper and Anton Svirskyi.
Harper swam at the University of 
Hawaii for two years, competing in six 
meets as a freshman and earning two 
eighth-place finishes against Minne -
sota in the 50 free and 200 free during 
his sophomore season.
Svirskyi attended Saint Peter’s Uni -
versity last year, competing in only 
track and field. He made a name for 
himself in Ukraine, however, accumu -
lating 38 gold, 12 silver and four bronze 
medals in several diving competitions.
Nesty also strengthened his team 
with the addition of Leonardo Gar -
cia in June. Garcia will have to wait 
another year to don the orange and blue, though, with NCAA transfer rules 
forcing him to sit out the 2020-21 cam -
paign.
In his lone season at Missouri, Gar -
cia qualified for the NCAA Champion -
ships with a sixth-place finish on the 
3-meter springboard.
“He is a special diver with lots of 
drive and talent, as well as being a 
great young man, ” diving coach Bryan 
Gillooly said. “Expect some fireworks 
when he dives because he is capable 
of perfection. ”
Men’s Golf
Junior John Axelsen announced his 
decision to go pro in May, foregoing his 
senior season with the Gators. Much 
to coach J.C. Deacon’s relief, Florida 
added graduate transfer Carlos Bustos 
from Lynn University later that month.
Bustos helped lead the Fighting 
Knights to consecutive NCAA Division 
II national titles in his sophomore and 
junior seasons. The Santiago, Chile, na -
tive also earned NCAA Division II First 
Team All-American honors as a senior 
thanks to four top-10 finishes.
He will be allowed to compete next 
season for UF along with fellow Lynn 
transfer Giovanni Manzoni, who com -
mitted to the Gators in April.
Manzoni was named a PING Sec -
ond Team All-American and a PING 
Freshman All-American in his first sea -
son of collegiate golf. He also played in 
all seven tournaments for the Fighting 
Knights as a sophomore, placing inside 
the top 30 each time.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgHow UF athletes train during pandemic: Men’s Tennis
Transfer roundup: April to JulySamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Brian Berdusco tracks a return during the ITA 
Southeast Regionals last October. The junior was 
1-0 in dual singles last season before the season 
was canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
