We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperSeeking a keeper
The UF Quidditch team is headed to a regional championship 
this weekend, pg. 3
Love is concrete
The story behind a love message outside Matherly, pg. 7Florida begins its 2020 season at 
home tonight at 6:30
Our baseball beat writers give you an in-depth 
look at the team and its schedule, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 59
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
TWO YEARS LATER
Hope Dean // Alligator Staff
Members of March For Our Lives Gainesville pin up pieces of paper with information about the people who died in various mass shootings. The pinned papers included their 
names, ages and what loved ones said they were like.  The group says it’s meant to remind people of who the victims were besides what’s shown on TV after they’ve died.
GUN REFORM WILL BE A 
KEY ISSUE LEADING INTO 
NOVEMBER’S ELECTION
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
The ﬁ  rst time Brandon Abzug 
opened his criminology textbook 
at UF, he saw the name of the man 
who murdered his high school 
classmates.
“I just, I couldn’t read,” he 
said. “It was awful.”
Abzug, a 19-year-old political 
science and criminology sopho-
more, is one of 268 Marjory Stone-
man Douglas graduates enrolled at 
UF. 
His classmate Carmen Schen-
trup received a UF acceptance 
letter ﬁ  ve days before she died in 
Parkland, Florida. Her name is no-
where to be found in the textbook.
Schentrup shouldn’t have died in vain, Abzug said. Now, he 
ﬁ  ghts to honor her and all victims 
of gun violence through legislative 
action. 
It’s been two years since the 
school shooting that claimed 17 
lives and sparked the youth move-
ment, March for Our Lives. As the 
2020 presidential election draws 
near, Abzug and other student ac-
tivists are propelling gun reform 
to the forefront of the conversa-
tion through lobbying, vigils and 
voting.
“We took a tragedy and we 
decided to do something about 
it”: the activists
Five days after his classmates 
and teachers were killed, Abzug 
and his parents drove to Tallahas-
see.
He spent eight hours that day 
recounting his story — one of 
shock, terror and disbelief — to 
state legislators one-on-one. They talked about gun reform, the vi-
ability of universal background 
checks and raising the minimum 
purchase age to 21. 
He lobbied on behalf of his 
friends, his school and millions of 
people across the country, he said. 
He tweeted: “What did you do @
POTUS?”
Later, he lay awake in a hotel 
bed too exhausted to sleep, he 
said. Early the next morning, he 
had his ﬁ  rst interview with CNN. 
A makeup crew powdered his face 
and he recounted the horror once 
more. 
Finally, he sat in the back of 
his parents’ car as they drove back 
home to Parkland. 
“That was easily the most tiring 
day of my life,” he said. 
The Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School Public Safety Act took 
effect less than three weeks after 
Abzug met with state legislators. 
It allotted more than $69 mil-lion toward mental health resourc-
es; required every Florida public 
school to have at least one school 
safety ofﬁ  cer on campus; as well 
as increased surveillance of social 
media, law enforcement and juve-
nile justice records to identify po-
tential threats. 
It was a step in the right direc-
tion, Abzug said, but it didn’t go 
far enough. 
Since the act passed, Abzug has 
participated in nationally televised 
interviews and written opinion 
articles to advocate for the gun 
reform he believes is necessary: a 
semi-automatic assault weapons 
ban, universal background checks 
and a licensed psychologist in ev-
ery school. 
“Keeping guns out of the hands 
of people who shouldn’t have 
them,” he said. “That’s the No. 1 
priority.”
Abzug also helped launch a 
pen-pal program between the sur-vivors of the Parkland and Colum-
bine shootings. 
He texts Heather Martin and 
Jami Amo, two Columbine survi-
vors, often — sometimes weekly. 
They’re about 15 years older than 
Abzug, and he’s never met them 
in person. Still, their friendships 
are some of his most natural, he 
said. 
They help each other navigate 
situations that few of Abzug’s 
peers have experience with, he 
said. Like the question: Where did 
you go to high school?
“I say, ‘I went to Stoneman 
Douglas,’” he said. “Then you 
get the reaction. Their eyes get all 
wide and then they ask, ‘Oh, well 
you weren’t there, were you?’ and 
you say ‘Yeah.’”
People should keep some ques-
tions to themselves, he said.
Abzug still thinks about the Two years later, Parkland’s people and politics will shape 2020
SEE MSD,  PAGE 6T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  62° LOW  44°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.BLACK HISTORY MONTH
LGBTQ+ Affairs Celebrates 
Black History Month
Where: LGBTQ+ Affairs at 
UF, located at the Reitz Union 
Room 2210 
When: Friday and twice a 
week throughout February at 
1 p.m.
What: LGBTQ+ Affairs will 
showcase films that depict 
black queerness such as “I Am 
Not Your Negro,” “Moonlight,” 
“Brother Outsider” and “Paris 
Is Burning.” Trigger and con-
tent warnings will be placed 
throughout the viewing area. 
Event run times may vary.
Chef Empowerment’s Black 
History Month Pop-Up 
Restaurant
Where: Working Food, locat-
ed at 219 NW 10th Ave.
When: Feb. 28 from 5:30-8:30 
p.m.
What: Chef Empowerment’s 
Underground Kitchen partners 
with Working Food to host an 
all-you-can-eat Southern buf-
fet in collaboration with lo-
cal black-owned businesses. 
Tickets are $20. 
VALENTINE’S DAY 
Stop Light Valentine’s Day 
Party
Where: Big Top Brewing Co., 
located at 201 SE Second Ave.
When: Thursday from 7-11 
p.m.
What: At Big Top Brewing 
Company’s Stop Light Party, 
wear red if you are taken, yel-
low if you’re unofficial and 
green if you are single. Drink 
specials for the event to be an-
nounced soon. The event is 
free to attend.
My Bloody Valentine II
Where: The Midnight, located 
at 223 S Main St.
When: Thursday from 8 p.m. 
-midnight
What: The Midnight hosts its 
second “My Bloody Valentine” 
event which will have partici-
pants solving a murder mys-tery. Gather your friends or 
significant other and put to-
gether a team, drink and col-
lect clues to solve the case. 
Prizes will be given out. The 
event is free to attend.
Sally B’s Dashing Holiday 
Revue Featuring Live Music 
from Swing Theory
Where: High Dive, located at 
210 SW Second Ave.
When: Thursday from 9 p.m.-
midnight
What: Sally B’s Dashing 
Holiday Revue is a burlesque 
show featuring jazz music per-
formed by local swing band 
Swing Theory and burlesque 
performances by local and 
touring performers. Fancy at-
tire is encouraged. Doors open 
at 8 p.m., and tickets are $18 
in advance and $25 on the day 
of the show. The show is 18 or 
over unless accompanied by a 
parent or legal guardian, and 
there is a $3 cover charge for 
those under 21. 
Valentine’s Day Party and 
Singles Mingle
Where: Silver Q Billiards & 
Sports Bar, located at 225 W 
University Ave.
When: Thursday from 8-11 
p.m.
What: Silver Q will offer $3 
champagne on Valentine’s 
Day. Singles can come with 
friends or talk to others on the 
mezzanine. People 18 years 
of age and older are welcome, 
and there is no cover charge. 
Love and Laughter
Where: World of Beer, located 
at 3265 SW 34th St.
When: Thursday from 8-9:30 
p.m.
What: World of Beer’s “Love 
and Laughter” is a stand-up 
comedy show headlined by 
Harry Snover and featuring 
comedians Houston Wells, 
Zachary Weidner, Emma 
Porter, Weng Peng and more. 
The show is presented by Keg 
of Laughs and is free to attend.Heart-Opening Sacred Sound 
Concert with Lee Mirabai 
Harrington
Where: The Thomas Center, 
located at 302 NE Sixth Ave.
When: Thursday from 7-10:30 
p.m.
What: Lee Mirabi Harrington 
and friends Kas, Vick 
DeGiorgio, Larry Newcomb 
and Chris Coates lead a 
Valentine’s Day Kirtan spon-
sored by Gainesville Karma 
Thegsum Chöling, the City 
of Gainesville, Leonardo’s 
706 and American Universal 
Medicine. Kirtan is a Sanskrit 
call-and-response chant set to 
music. Harrington and friends 
will chant mantras from 
Tibetan Buddhist and Sowa 
Rigpa traditions. Vegan and 
vegetarian food will be pro-
vided during the performance. 
Tickets are $35 and include 
food.
Valentines Day Plant Sale
Where: UF Turlington Plaza, 
located on Newell Drive
When: Thursday from 9 a.m.-
2 p.m.
What: The second day of 
the Valentine’s Day Plant 
Sale presented by the UF 
Environmental Horticulture 
Club will feature a selection 
of succulents, cacti, house-
plants and other plants to gift 
to yourself or your significant 
other. 
Valentine’s “Couple Up” 
Dancehall Class
Where: 708 NW 23rd Ave.
When: Friday from 6-7 p.m.
What: This is a beginner-
friendly dance class focusing 
on Jamaican dance. It is rec-
ommended to dress comfort-
ably and bring water. There 
will be a complimentary toast. 
Admission is $15. 
Folk & Fire
Where: Karuna Cottage, locat-
ed at 3215 NW 17th St.
When: Friday from 6-8:30 
p.m.
What: Penn Johnson and 
1FireGirl will perform at 
Karuna Cottage for its “Folk 
& Fire” event on Valentine’s 
Weekend. The event is a cel-
ebration of love and will fea-
ture folk music and fire danc-
ing. A potluck will take place 
at 6 p.m with performers be-
ginning at 7 p.m. Tickets are 
$15 in advance and $25 at 
the door, though anyone who 
brings their own dish will re-
ceive a $5 discount for a door 
ticket. Bring your own chair 
and blanket.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 59
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Meagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Diane Hernandez, Lonnia NumaEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Calvin Martin, MD
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation 
and treatment for:
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• Abrasions & Lacerations
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Monday - Friday 7:00am - 6:00pm
SIMEDHealth.com
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Na#onal	Alliance	on	Mental	Illness	
Support	Groups	
Training	Courses	
Advocacy	&	Support	
www.namigainesville.org
352	320-0457	
Download the FREE
TapRide App 
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
THE TEAM WILL SEND 21
 STUDENTS TO COMPETE
By Tristan Wood
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Quidditch team might 
sweep their competition this weekend. 
The team is nationally ranked, 
and 21 students are going to the 
U.S. Quidditch 2020 South Collegiate 
Regional Championship on Saturday 
and Sunday in Haines City, Florida. 
Finishing in at least second place 
would send the team to a national 
competition this April, said Brandon 
Spence, a 20-year-old UF digital arts 
and sciences junior and the team’s 
president.
The team won the regional 
championship last year, Spence said. 
“I would like us to be seen as a real 
sport,” Spence said.
Quidditch is a co ed contact sport 
inspired from the popular “Harry 
Potter” book series by J. K. Rowling. 
Despite the sport’s origin, being a 
Harry Potter fan is not a prerequisite 
for playing the sport, Spence said.
In the books and movies, the 
“golden snitch” is a ﬂ  ying golden ball 
with wings that’s worth 150 points. In 
real life, however, it is a person who 
runs around with a yellow sock ﬁ  lled 
with a tennis ball dangling from his or 
her back, Spence said.
The team will compete against three of the other six Florida university 
Quidditch teams this weekend: 
University of Central Florida, Florida 
State University and Florida Gulf 
Coast University. The University of 
South Carolina will also be competing, 
Spence said.
The team has canvassed on 
Turlington Plaza to recruit new 
players, but Spence said many 
students are skeptical about it.
“A lot of people react to us out 
there like we are not legitimate or 
respectable as a sport,” he said.
The rest of Quiddich’s rules 
resemble a combination of other 
sports, said Jeremy Kowkabany, a 
21-year-old UF astrophysics junior 
and the team captain. 
Kowkabany said he ﬁ  rst saw 
Quidditch being played outside 
Jennings Hall as a freshman and 
joined the team despite not being a 
“Harry Potter” fan. He has been part 
of the team for three years.
 “I started playing because I’m a 
very competitive person, but I kept 
playing because of my teammates,” 
he said.
The team has improved from 
the disorganized and poorly funded 
group that existed three years ago, 
said Megan Cannan, a 22-year-old UF 
political science and sustainability 
studies senior. 
“Back then, we didn’t even have 
jerseys,” she said, “We would run around in torn T-shirts.”
Cannan said she never played 
Quidditch before coming to college, 
but has since played for UF’s team, 
as well as the Gainesville community 
team, the Gainesville Siege.
In the last three years, UF’s team 
has received $1,000 in funding from 
UF RecSports. The money went 
toward funding team equipment and 
helping cover travel expenses during 
the 2019-2020 school year.
The team has to raise $500 and 
hold team community service projects 
to maintain its classiﬁ  cation. The team 
sells T-shirts and other merchandise 
to meet its fundraising goals, Cannan 
said. 
The team’s progress has linked 
the group in more ways than sports 
inspiration, Cannan said.
“Though I like Harry Potter, it was 
the community aspect that keeps me 
here,” she said.
Gabriel Turmail, a 19-year-old UF 
computer engineering freshman and 
new member of the Quidditch team, 
said he hopes to travel with the team 
to the competition and continue to 
grow as a member of their community.
“I knew the people who would 
come out three times a week to run 
with broomsticks between their legs 
are probably similar to me.”Nationally ranked UF Quiddich team is heading to a championship  
Courtesy of the Alligator
T eam captain of the UF Quidditch team Jeremy 
Kowkabany, a 21-year-old UF astrophysics junior, runs 
through the ﬁ  eld with the ball.
IF PASSED, THE BILL WOULD 
REDUCE THE NUMBER OF 
FLORIDA’S PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES
By Stephany Matat
Alligator Staff Writer
Students are unsure of what could hap-
pen if the Florida Legislature passes a bill 
to merge UF and Florida Polytechnic Uni-
versity. 
The proposed bill passed in the Florida 
House Education Committee. If the legisla-tors pass it, it would merge Florida Poly-
technic University with UF and also the 
New College of Florida with Florida State 
University. The reason for the possible 
merger is to save on costs, Rep. Susan Val-
des, D-Tampa, wrote in an email. It would 
bring the number of 12 public universities 
in Florida down to 10. 
Florida Polytechnic University and New 
College of Florida both have high adminis-
trative costs compared to the low costs of 
UF and FSU, Valdes, who is on the com-
mittee, wrote. But Valdes also wrote that 
the bill has only received opposition on her end. 
“Trying to control costs is a reasonable 
and worthwhile endeavor,” Valdes wrote. 
“But we should look at all the options for 
doing so before undertaking an action this 
drastic.”
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando de-
clined to comment about UF’s stance in 
this merger.
Florida Polytechnic spokesperson Lydia 
Guzmán said the university opposes the 
merger because the additional costs of the 
school have a positive impact on the uni-
versity’s STEM educational opportunities.“It would be a profound mistake, for 
our current and future students — and for 
the state of Florida — to diminish Florida 
Poly’s role in meeting this important state 
objective,” Guzmán said. 
@StephanyMatat
smatat@alligator.orgProposed bill may merge Florida Polytechnic University and UF4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020
Jewish
UF Hillel 
All are welcome!
Reform & Conservative Friday 
Evening Services: 6pm
Free Shabbat Dinner: 7 pm
Join us for services, 
dinner, or both
2020 W. University Ave.
ufhillel.org
@UFHillel
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.org
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Presbyterian
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship: 8:30 & 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after 
Sunday worship
College Fellowship: Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, Bible 
study and recreation.
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.org
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482
RESEARCH SPENDING FOR THE 2019 FISCAL 
YEAR IS $928.6 MILLION
By Christopher S. Cann
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s research spending has reached a record high of $928.6 
million.
This is an increase of 7.3 percent, or $63 million, from 2018, 
according to a report released Monday by UF from the National 
Science Foundation.
The foundation assembles survey responses from all re-
search universities and publishes the results later in the year. 
In 2018, UF ranked 26th among public universities in research 
expenditures, according to the survey. 
The research spending amount was funded based on awards 
received from public and private sources. A public source in-
cludes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and 
the private source includes the Bill & Melinda Gates Founda-tion, according to Joe Kays, UF’s director of research. 
The largest UF projects currently underway include a project 
to reﬁ  ne an inedible seed into a renewable jet fuel, a project 
to keep Zika and other diseases from gaining a foothold in the 
United States and a project to study a type of heart disease that 
primarily affects women. 
Kays said that as the money UF is awarded increases, so 
does the university’s ability to spend on research and, in turn, 
beneﬁ  ts students. 
Maya Jimenez, a 20-year-old UF biology junior, said the in-
creased research funding and spending will help her to expand 
knowledge in her ﬁ  eld through intense and extensive research 
opportunities that UF provides.
“Increasing funding would allow me to continue collecting 
data in my lab and hopefully get published on a research pa-
per,” she said. “That would really strengthen my applications 
to vet school and set me on the right path.”
UF’s research spending has been steadily trending upward: 
$791.2 million in 2016; $801.4 million in 2017; $865 million in 
2018; and $928.6 million in 2019.The report does not focus on speciﬁ  c projects, but last year 
UF had about 100 new awards that exceeded $1 million, Kays 
said. 
Before UF receives money for research, funding agencies ask 
for proposals in a certain area of science� like diabetes or can-
cer,�and then faculty from many institutions submit proposals, 
which are reviewed by experts and awarded based on the mer-
its of the science being proposed.
Each research award includes a very speciﬁ  c budget for how 
the money is to be spent. UF Research has a team of people to 
help researchers manage grants according to that budget.
Engineering and computer sciences accounted for $121.2 
million. Life sciences research, such as agriculture and health, 
accounted for most of the spending at $689.6 million, according 
to a release from UF.
“This funding allows our faculty to conduct research that 
leads to new discoveries,” Kays said. 
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgReport: UF research spending breaks previous record
ONL Y INSPIRE PARTY 
CANDIDATES ATTENDED
By Chasity Maynard and Kaelyn 
Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writers
Three chairs remained empty onstage at 
the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. Realizing they 
wouldn’t be ﬁ  lled, Inspire candidates moved 
their chairs down to the ﬂ  oor.
The Gator Chapter of NAACP’s “A Guide 
to Higher Learning” SG debate on racial equity 
was converted into a town hall Thursday night 
after no one from Gator Party attended.
Gator Student Body presidential candidate 
Trevor Pope said he was unable to attend be-
cause he has a midterm today. 
“I didn’t feel like I could appropriately pre-
pare for my exam if I was doing this debate,” 
he said. “I just wanted to give them the respect 
they deserve.”
Gator Student Body vice presidential can-
didate Lauredan Ofﬁ  cial said he had an exam 
tonight and his best friend’s birthday dinner.  Gator Student Body candidate for treasurer Jes-
sica Jesurajan said she was in Tampa to visit 
her hometown dance studio. They all notiﬁ  ed 
the chapter’s president and event organizer, 
Mackintosh Joachim, ahead of time. 
Joachim said that he didn’t reschedule the 
event because he planned it in advance and he 
didn’t think he should have to.
“Regardless of anything, I don’t think I 
should have been able to reschedule because 
of the topic itself,” he said. “Why should racial 
equity be taking a second seat at the debate?”
Inspire candidates discussed racial equity 
issues on UF’s campus and their plans to im-
prove them. Moderators Joachim and the chap-
ter’s political action committee chair Stephon 
Adams asked candidates questions about their 
party’s plans to improve racial equity, and then 
the ﬂ  oor was opened to audience questions.  
About 20 people attended including Inspire 
Party candidate for Student Body President 
Matthew Diaz, candidate for Student Body 
Vice President Emily Hyden and candidate 
for Student Body Treasurer Matthew Barocas. 
Most of the audience members were afﬁ  liated 
with Inspire. Candidates discussed solutions to the stu-
dent organization funding crisis. Barocas said 
Inspire hopes to give student groups equal ac-
cess to information they need to secure and 
guarantee funding for keystone events on cam-
pus.
“These are big, annually reoccurring events, 
like the Black Student Assembly and the Asian 
American Student Assembly, that really mark 
people’s experiences here at UF,” Barocas said. 
Instead of spending $20,000 on the SG ban-
quet, Diaz said that money should be allocated 
to the Bridges program, which works with 
minority high school students to increase di-
versity on campus. He said supporting Bridges 
will start the process of raising UF’s “F” rating 
for racial representation, but it will take time.
Hyden said UF’s 2018 and 2019 undergrad-
uate demographics reﬂ  ect that the program is 
not reaching its potential. She said only 2 per-
cent of undergraduates are black males and 4 
percent are black females. According to UF’s 
enrollment facts website, in 2019, 4.76 percent 
of male undergraduates were black and 6.54 
percent of female undergraduates were black. 
An audience member asked Inspire candi-dates what they personally think is the biggest 
issue for students. Diaz said he plans to priori-
tize increasing accessibility to mental health re-
sources on campus and break down the “wall 
of formality” that stops students from using it. 
Hyden added that Inspire is already working 
to add information about these resources on 
Canvas. 
Hyden said she thinks the biggest issue 
facing the student body is campus safety, and 
she wants to expand SNAP hours, double the 
Uber Safe Rides discount to 50 percent off and 
provide students drink testing kits that test for 
drugs. 
In the closing statement delivered, Hyden 
said Gator Party only cares about diversity dur-
ing elections, but she hopes that Inspire will 
be able to ﬁ  ght for minority students for much 
longer. 
“Performative diversity is not diversity,” 
she said.
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.org
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.orgNAACP hosts “A Guide to Higher Learning” SG debateFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
FLORIDA WAS NAMED THE 
MOST DANGEROUS STATE FOR 
PEDESTRIANS IN 2019 
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
Four people were killed in pedestrian or 
bicyclist related crashes in Alachua County in 
January — a number authorities say is higher 
than usual for the time of year.
There were 156 pedestrian crashes in Ala-chua County in 2019, according to the Florida 
Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles crash dash-
board. Of these 156 crashes, 131 involved inju-
ries and 10 were fatal.
On Jan. 27, 16-year-old DJ Washington was 
struck and killed on SW 20th Avenue after get-
ting off a bus, said Sgt. Jorge Campos, spokes-
person for the Gainesville Police Department. 
Later that day, 21-year-old Denise Griffiths 
was hit by a vehicle while walking onto a cross-
walk on 2500 E University Ave. She was trans-
ported to UF Health Shands in critical condition 
where she died two days later from her injuries.
 On Jan. 28, William Moore, 45, was struck 
and killed by a milk truck while attempting to 
cross Highway 441 near Turkey Creek, said Lt. 
Patrick Riordan, Florida Highway Patrol spokes-
person.
Two days later, on Jan. 30, an unnamed 
female bicyclist was struck and killed in a hit-
and-run on Waldo Road, Campos said. He was 
unable to confirm her identity as of Tuesday af-
ternoon, as he said her next-of-kin hadn’t been 
notified.
“The year isn’t up yet, so we can’t tell you 
over the year,” Campos said, in reference to the 
uptick in deaths. “But it is higher than usual.”
Pedestrian people of color, especially black 
or African American and American Indian or 
Alaska Native people, are killed in crashes at 
higher rates compared to white, non-Hispanic, 
and Asian or Pacific Islander people, according 
to report from Smart Grow America, an organi-
zation that researches and advocates for com-
munity development across the nation.
According to the report, research also shows 
that drivers are more likely to yield to white 
pedestrians than to black pedestrians at cross-
walks.
Both Griffiths and Washington are black. 
The race of the bicyclist is still unknown.
The four pedestrian and bicyclist deaths set a new record in Alachua County for a single year, 
said Chris Furlow, president of Gainesville Citi-
zens for Active Transportation.
He called the trend and rising death toll “dis-
turbing.”
Furlow said Gainesville’s Vision Zero pro-
gram policies work to reduce deaths on the 
roadway to zero by evaluating every crash that 
occurs and the causes of them. Furlow said the 
program is a positive approach introduced in 
Gainesville last year. 
Under Vision Zero, the city of Gainesville 
and UF are working on a study to analyze the 
locations of crashes and traffic movements 
through the use of computers and cameras to 
determine what roadways are the most danger-
ous, Furlow said.
The study began after the city and university 
received a $2 million grant from the National 
Science Foundation in 2019.
Furlow said roadways deemed dangerous 
through this project will be examined for pos-
sible modifications to improve safety.
Although the city and the county are working 
to improve pedestrian safety through preventa-
tive measures such as well-marked and well-lit 
pedestrian crosswalks, Furlow said education is 
still needed to make these measures successful.
Most of the deaths are preventable, he said, 
if people stay off their phones, follow the speed 
limit and pay attention to the road. 
“It’s not just the families of the people who 
are being killed, who are being impacted,” Fur-
low said. “We all pay a huge price.”
Trends in Gainesville pedestrian crashes are 
influenced by several factors such as fuel costs, 
whether people are traveling or if schools are in 
session, said Dekova Batey, staff liaison of the 
City of Gainesville Bicycle/Pedestrian Advisory 
Board. 
Batey said the prevalence of students living 
in Gainesville who are from other countries, states and cities also plays a role in these trends, 
as many of them have to adjust to a different 
roadway network than what they’re used to. 
He said weather plays a large role for the 
prevalence of bicyclists and pedestrians in the 
city.
“Florida especially has several factors that 
can play into that issue, just because we have 
year round bikeable, walkable weather,” Batey 
said.
Arrive Alive, a state-wide data-driven traffic 
safety initiative, uses a “multifaceted approach” 
to make the roads safer, Riordan said. 
The Arrive Alive campaign website states 
that Florida’s “geography, increasing popula-
tion and thriving tourism industry” are leading 
causes of the state’s reputation of having one of 
the highest traffic fatality ranking in America.
Riordan said there is no current campaign 
through the FHP to specifically address pedes-
trian safety, and he is unsure if one will be cre-
ated in the future.  
The four incidents will be investigated over a 
period of 60 to 90 days, he said. 
A candlelight vigil was held for Washington 
Jan. 31 at SW 20th Avenue, where his loved 
ones gathered to remember and honor the 
16-year-old, as reported by WCJB TV20.
Cynthia Gainey, Griffiths’ grandmother, said 
in order to address the issue of pedestrian safe-
ty, “we got to come together as human beings.”
“There’s too many people dying for noth-
ing because no one wants to respect the rights 
of the pedestrians crossing the street,” Gainey 
said. “Something’s got to be done.”
@SLagmis
Slagmis@alligator.orgAlachua County pedestrian, bicyclist crash deaths on rise
GAINESVILLE CITIZENS FOR ACTIVE 
TRANSPORT ANNOUNCED ITS 
ENDORSEMENTS FOR THE ELECTION
By Grethel Aguilar
Alligator Staff Writer
Transportation keeps Gainesville moving and City Commis-
sion candidates thinking.
Ahead of the City Commission elections on March 18, 
Gainesville Citizens for Active Transportation, an advocacy 
group focused on active transportation, endorsed incumbent 
Commissioners Harvey Ward and David Arreola on Wednesday, 
said Chris Furlow, president of Gainesville Citizens for Active 
Transportation. The group also endorsed newcomer Reina Saco, Furlow said. 
Furlow said he trusts that Ward, Arreola and Saco will sup-
port active transportation and initiatives to make the streets of 
Gainesville safer. 
Despite Saco not having a track record of her own yet, Furlow 
said she seemed supportive of active transportation measures 
during a forum Monday.
During the forum at the downtown Alachua County Library 
District, seven candidates running for District 2, District 3 and 
At-Large seats discussed transportation, a topic on the minds of 
Gainesville residents following an increase in pedestrian and cy-
clist deaths this year. 
During the forum, candidates were asked questions about reg-
ulation of electric scooters, public safety, free rides on RTS buses 
and their visions for future transportation projects, Furlow said. 
Gainesville Citizens for Active Transportation was founded in 2013, when Gainesville residents felt that elected officials weren’t 
taking active transportation seriously enough, Furlow said. 
Scherwin Henry, Gabe Kaimowitz, Paul Rhodenizer and 
Reina Saco are running for City Commissioner Helen Warren’s  
at-large seat, which is up for grabs because she’s term-limited. 
If elected, Saco said her vision is to ensure accessible, safe and 
potentially free transit options for everyone in the city. 
Saco said she feels grateful to have support from a group that 
focuses on accessible and safe transportation for all residents of 
Gainesville, whether by RTS buses, skates, bikes or on foot.
“Having their support is an honor because it means the ex-
perts agree with my vision,” Saco said. 
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.org City Commission candidates attend forum, three endorsed  Alachua County Pedestrian Crashes 
2019 
Crashes: 156
Deaths: 10
Injuries: 131
2018 
Crashes: 128
Deaths: 10
Injuries: 114
Alachua County Bicyclist Crashes
2019
Crashes: 130
Deaths: 0
Injuries: 123
2018
Crashes: 133
Deaths: 4
Injuries: 122HARRY LEE IS DONATING A TOTAL OF 36,000 
“LOTS” OF SHELLS
By Michelle Holder
Alligator Contributing Writer
Harry Lee is a doctor, grandfather and, until recently, had a 
shell collection worth $1 million.
Lee recently donated the collection of shells to the Florida 
Museum of Natural History, making the museum’s collection 
the third-largest in the country. The museum follows the Acade-
my of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia and The Smithsonian in 
Washington, D.C., which holds the largest collection of shells, 
Lee said.
Lee has collected and studied shells throughout his entire life 
while also working as a physician in Jacksonville for 32 years. 
Since his retirement, when he’s not with his grandchildren, Lee 
spends his time studying shells. Lee began donating to the museum in 2012 piece by piece. 
He recently donated the $1 million value in shells because it 
would be good for students’ future research, he said. It is expen-
sive for a museum to absorb a large collection, he said.
The museum categorizes the shells into “lots,” and a single 
lot can possibly contain thousands of specimens. Lee is donat-
ing a total of 36,000 lots, and 60 percent of his collection has 
already been relocated to the museum. In 1974, the museum 
held a total of 37,000 lots of shells, and today there are 544,000 
lots and counting, he said.
He said that all shells have scientific value and are evaluated 
by their quality, size, rarity, colors and history. 
To transport his collection, Lee typically loads the shells in 
his car and drives it to Gainesville, he said. Other times, the 
museum helps Lee transport his collection.
Lee’s donation will advance the field of shell studies because 
there is so much for people to view and research, said Anthony 
Pirarunas, a visiting assistant professor teaching paleontology 
at UF. Pirarunas said he regularly takes his students out to Haile 
Quarry, well-established dig sites for fossils throughout Alachua 
County, to conduct hands-on research. He said Lee’s collection 
is extraordinary, and he is happy to have these shells in the 
museum. He said it is important because students who study 
geology or earth science may use them for research.
“It’s an incredible, incredible thing,” Pirarunas said, “Just 
the sheer time invested, it represents for [Lee] over the course of 
his life to put together such a great collection is extraordinary.” Florida Museum of Natural History receives $1 million in shells
Fun facts about shells:
The Florida Museum of Natural History has the 
third largest shell collection in the world.
Harry Lee has named 36 species of shells and 
has had 19 named after him by scientists.
Harry Lee has traveled to Ethiopia, Thailand, 
Australia and more researching shells. 6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020
shooting at least once a day. Loud noises send him into a 
momentary panic, and news of subsequent shootings feels 
like a stab in the back. 
Still, he said, things are getting easier. Staying politically 
active helps with that. 
Abzug will speak at a vigil hosted by March For Our 
Lives Gainesville today in remembrance of the people who 
died in the Parkland shooting. The vigil will begin at 6:30 
p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. 
There, the lives of the victims will be remembered: Aar-
on Feis, Alaina Petty, Alex Schachter, Alyssa Alhadeff, Cara 
Loughran, Carmen Schentrup, Chris Hixon, Gina Montalto, 
Helena Ramsay, Jaime Guttenberg, Joaquin Oliver, Luke 
Hoyer, Martin Duque Anguiano, Meadow Pollack, Nicholas 
Dworet, Peter Wang and Scott Beigel.
“They’re the ones that don’t have voices anymore,” Ab-
zug said. “We need to remember them. That’s how we’re 
going to create change.” 
Sindhu Kolla, an 18-year-old UF public health freshman, 
remembers when she and her classmates didn’t think about 
social change. One week before the shooting, they worried 
about their SAT scores and college acceptance letters. 
One week later, they stood at the doors of the state capi-
tol and rallied for gun reform.
“We were so, so broken by what happened,” she said. 
“But we took a tragedy and we decided to do something 
about it.”
This was her first taste of democracy, she said. She 
learned that her voice could make a difference, and she wanted to help other young peo-
ple feel that sense of empower-
ment, too. 
“We’re not all identical car-
bon copies of the same millen-
nial teenage tribe,” she said. “We 
all have different ideas, and our 
words have power.”
Kolla has helped register nearly 
120 people of more than 850,000 
that were registered by March for 
Our Lives chapters around the na-
tion. She canvasses on Turlington 
Plaza for two to three weeks ev-
ery month, informing students on 
how, when and where to vote. 
She and other March for Our 
Lives Gainesville members are 
in the process of planning events 
with NextGen UF, another organi-
zation that helps register voters, 
to encourage students to partici-
pate in the upcoming election. 
Julia Cordover is also regis-
tering student voters. She is the 
former senior class president of Marjory Stoneman Doug-
las and the current assistant director of programming for 
Chomp the Vote, a UF Student Government program that 
focuses on student voter registration. 
As a high schooler, Cordover got ready for prom with a 
microphone clipped to her collar and a camera crew in the 
corner of her room.
Cordover, now a 20-year-old UF public relations sopho-
more, helped award-winning documentary director Kim 
Snyder chronicle the aftermath of the shooting in a film 
called “Us Kids” to raise awareness for gun violence.
“It was definitely violating at times,” Cordover said. 
“But if I could do anything to help keep the momentum go-
ing and share my story, I was going to do that.”
The documentary followed Cordover as she helped begin 
a committee to register high school students to vote, spoke 
at vigils for the victims and spearheaded a yearbook dedi-
cated to them. 
Each page contained the person’s name and an empty 
box where their photo should appear. 
On Jan. 31, Cordover traveled to Sundance Film Festival 
in Utah to promote the documentary. She spoke on a panel 
to more than 400 people about her experience as an activist. 
“The whole point of the film is for people to feel moti-
vated to do something,” Cordover said. “To feel an urgency 
to vote for politicians who fight for gun control laws.”
It’s not just about Marjory Stoneman Douglas students, 
she said. It’s about everyone affected by gun violence. 
“That’s why it’s called ‘Us Kids,’” she said. “The issue is 
bigger than Parkland.”
“Half of getting there is believing you can do it”: the 
politics  
Dustin Fridkin, a Santa Fe College political science pro-
fessor, remembers having to pitch the idea that paying at-
tention to politics was worth his students’ time. 
That isn’t something he has to do anymore. 
The youth behind movements like March for Our Lives 
aren’t only passionate, Fridkin said. They’re also voting. 
The rise of youth activism is putting pressure on politicians 
and changing the political landscape. 
“Politicians have been able to basically ignore what 
young people have to say, in large part because they know 
that young people aren’t going to reward them or punish 
them at the ballot box,” Fridkin said. 
According to Census Bureau data, voter turnout among 
18 to 29-year-olds increased from 20 percent in 2014 to 36 
percent in 2018. 
The 16 percentage-point increase might not seem like 
a big jump, Fridkin said, but if it sustains into the 2020 
election, politicians will be forced to take young peoples’ 
concerns seriously.
In the meantime, ideological obstacles limit how far gun-
reform activism can go, he added. 
“It’s hard to have a conversation that doesn’t end up 
with hurt feelings,” Fridkin said. “The one side says you’re 
trying to kill us, and the other side says you’re trying to take 
our guns away in the service of tyranny.”
The idea that the government wants to confiscate peo-
ples’ guns can prevent conversations about what many gun control advocates are actually fighting for, he said, such as 
closing gun purchasing loopholes and strengthening back-
ground checks. 
These aren’t the starting points of a productive negotia-
tion, he said. Reform at the local level isn’t easy, either. 
In 2012, Harvey Ward lobbied an Alachua County Com-
missioner Robert Hutchinson for gun control. It was then 
that he learned just how little power local governments 
have on issues of gun reform. 
“I was blown away,” said Ward, a Gainesville City Com-
missioner. “It is really bizarre.”
He referred to chapter 790 of the Florida Statutes, which 
outlines Florida’s firearms and weapons policies. Section 33 
expressly prohibits or limits county, city, town or municipal 
ordinances from implementing distinct firearm regulations.
This is called preemption, and it’s intended to prevent 
local jurisdictions from creating abusive or unconstitutional 
regulations. It also maintains a standard across all counties 
for citizens to abide by, according to the state statute.  
“It doesn’t make any sense to have such preemptions in 
place,” Ward said.
Critics of the statute like Ward say that it prevents local 
governments from enacting laws tailored to their communi-
ties. The gun laws that govern rural Levy County are the 
same that govern urban Miami. 
Public officials who attempt to pass unique local leg-
islation are subject to fines of up to $5,000, lawsuits and 
removal from office, according to the statute.  
“If I wanted to take a stance and work on passing an 
ordinance, I wouldn’t be putting only myself in jeopardy, 
but also my staff,” he said.
Following the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas, 
Gainesville joined 30 municipalities, three counties, and 
more than 70 elected officials to sue the state. Preemption 
penalties, they claim, violate the Florida and U.S. constitu-
tions. 
In July, Coral Gables circuit court Judge Charles Dodson 
ruled in favor of the challengers, according to the judgment 
summary. State defendants appealed the decision and an 
oral argument to settle the case is pending. 
“Every time there’s another great big tragedy around 
guns, I always think, ‘Well, this is it,’” Ward said. “This is 
the one that’s going to affect change.”
So far, he said, it hasn’t happened. 
Abzug isn’t waiting for another mass shooting, he said. 
If tragedies changed gun laws, something would have been 
done after the lives of 20 children and six adults were taken 
at Sandy Hook elementary school.
Electing new officials is what it’s going to take, Abzug 
said. He is hopeful.
“Half of getting there is believing you can do it,” he said. 
Abzug still uses his criminology textbook, but now he 
skips the first few pages. There’s no point in looking down. 
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgMSD,  from pg. 1Activism rises since MSD
Carly Blum  //  Alligator Contributor
MSD alumna Anisha Saripalli, an 18-year-old biomedical engineering sophomore 
and the March for Our Lives Gainesville treasurer, writes the name of her friend on 
the gun violence victim board. Carmen Schentrup was a Marjory Stoneman Doug-
las student who died in the shooting just days after she was accepted into UF.
Where do 2020’s highest polling 
presidential candidates stand on gun 
control?
Donald Trump 
Trump’s stance on gun 
control has changed over the 
years:
• In 2017, Trump signed a 
bill that got rid of an Obama-
era regulation that made it 
hard for people with mental illnesses to buy guns
• In 2018, Trump suggested that some teachers 
should be armed following the Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas shooting
• In 2019, Trump’s order to ban bump stocks, 
which can turn semi-automatic weapons into 
automatic weapons, went into effect
Bernie Sanders 
Sanders wants to:
• Ban assault weapons
• Require instant 
background checks on gun 
sales
• Close loopholes for gun shows and internet 
sales 
• Invest in mental healthcare to curb gun 
violence and suicide
Pete Buttigieg 
Buttigieg wants to:
• Expand background 
checks to cover all gun sales 
• Require law enforcement 
to be notified when guns are 
lost or stolen 
• Take firearms from domestic abusers 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
Love is in the air and lines are out the 
door this Valentine’s Day at The Oaks Mall. 
Bill Volkmer was one of many shoppers car-
rying bags topped with ribbons and bows.
The 55-year-old retiree bought $1,200 of 
jewelry for his wife, and his spending has 
only gone up over the years.
“I’m just so lucky to have her,” he said “I 
feel luckier every year.”
Randi Senti, 20, said his girlfriend’s hap-
piness matters more than anything, so the UF electrical engineering junior is spending 
more than $200 for his girlfriend.
Senti’s spending is consistent with sur-
vey results released by the National Retail 
Federation and conducted by Prosper In-
sights & Analytics. The survey shows that 
the average U.S. consumer is expected to 
spend $196.31 this holiday, and total na-
tionwide spending is expected to be more 
than $27.4 billion.
“It’s a day where you really have to ex-
press how much you care,” Senti said. “It’s 
important to do something special.”
Valentine’s Day is the busiest day out of the year at The Flower Shop, located at 
3749 W University Ave. On Valentine’s Day, 
the shop generates about a month’s worth 
of sales, said Terri Parker, the ﬂ  ower shop’s 
owner.
This year has been especially good for 
rose growers, with rose prices increasing 
from $70 during the year to about $100 on 
Valentine’s Day. A typical customer at her 
shop spends $100 or more on ﬂ  owers dur-
ing Valentine’s Day, Parker said. 
The spending survey has been done 
monthly for the past 17 years, said Phil 
Rist, executive vice president of strategy 
at Prosper Insights & Analytics. He said it 
is the largest ongoing monthly consumer 
study, surveying 7,500 Americans on aver-
age monthly, which has above-average re-
spondents for a research study.
The survey had a sample size of 7,267 re-spondents from the U.S. and was collected 
by email from Jan. 2 to Jan. 9, Rist said. The 
people surveyed are anonymous and adjust-
ed proportionately to census statistics to ac-
curately represent the country’s population. 
“Our data has been highly predictive 
over the years,” he said.
The survey also found that 27 percent of 
respondents plan to purchase a gift for their 
pet. 
Aliana Dupuis, 20, is buying high-quali-
ty wet food, treats and catnip for her cats, 
Echo and Coal.  
Her cats show their appreciation for her 
with affection, the UF business administra-
tion junior said.  
“I know they don’t know it’s Valentine’s 
Day,” Dupuis said. “I like to spoil them any-
way.”
A LOVE MESSAGE WAS 
INSCRIBED IN 1977
By Tristan Wood
Alligator Contributing Writer
      UF students looking for a love 
poem this Valentine’s Day can ﬁ  nd 
one by looking down at their feet as 
they pass Matherly Hall.
An inscription etched into the 
concrete in front of Matherly’s steps 
reads, “Cheryl, if love could be like 
trees, you would be a forest. ‘77.”
Students, faculty and staff have 
passed over the text almost every 
day since it was written more than 
40 years ago. One of those people is 
Alisson Clark, a UF alumna and se-
nior writer for UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Strategic 
Communications and Marketing.
She said she ﬁ  rst noticed it on Dec. 
20 while walking to her ofﬁ  ce from 
lunch. The inscription piqued her in-
terest and pushed her to investigate 
its origin, and she was surprised that 
it has been around for so long despite 
being next to a manhole cover, she 
said.
“I was ﬁ  rst on campus in 1994 for 
my undergrad,” Clark said. “I never 
saw this in my four years.” 
Clark wanted to discover who 
wrote the note and who Cheryl was, 
so she recruited Emily Cardinali, her 
ofﬁ  ce’s communication strategist and  
a fellow UF alumna, to join her inves-
tigation.
“I had class in Matherly every day when I was in undergrad, and I never 
noticed it until Alisson pointed it out 
to me,” Cardinali said.
Facilities services employee Jimmy 
Ross, who has worked at UF since 
1978, conﬁ  rmed the inscription had 
been there since his employment be-
gan, Clark said.
Cardinali and Clark then tried to 
ﬁ  nd the right Cheryl from that time 
frame. They sought out UF’s archived 
yearbooks to try to ﬁ  nd her, but the 
university did not publish yearbooks 
between 1974 and 1983, Clark said. 
She said they searched The Alligator’s 
records but found no mention of the 
engraving.
“Both of our good beginning leads 
turned into dead ends,” Clark said.
They found 79 people named 
Cheryl from that time in the UF Alum-
ni Association directory, Clark said. 
They worked their way down the list 
of Cheryls — until Cheryl Schumach-
er, UF alumna from 1977 and current 
resident of Reno, Nevada, picked up 
their call.
“She did think it was possible it 
could be her,” Clark said. “But the 
person she had in mind as the creator 
never told her and is dead.”
Schumacher was a forestry major, 
which connected her with the forest 
theme in the inscription, Cardinali 
said.
Despite the connection, Clark said 
they cannot deﬁ  nitively prove the in-
scription was meant for Schumacher. 
It is possible the Cheryl referenced in 
the note did not attend UF, and ﬁ  ve wwof the Cheryls on the directory 
were deceased at the time of the in-
vestigation, Clark said.
The investigators releaseds their 
ﬁ  ndings in “Cheryl ’77,” a podcast 
published on UF’s SoundCloud and 
promoted on its social media plat-
forms. 
The ﬁ  rst episode received 457 
plays within two days of its release, 
and its Facebook promotional post 
was liked 834 times during the same 
time frame. Cardinali said this pod-
cast had students connect to their 
family members who may have seen 
the inscription while at UF.
“I’ve seen a lot of people tag-
ging their grandmas in our Facebook 
post,” Cardinali said.
The podcast caused some stu-
dents to look down at the inscription 
for the ﬁ  rst time, including Elizabeth 
McBride, a 20-year-old UF health sci-
ences sophomore. 
“I’m always walking on my phone, 
so I never even noticed it,” McBride 
said. “It’s really sweet. I’ll have to 
start paying attention to stuff around 
campus.”
Although Clark couldn’t ﬁ  nd out 
whose adoration inspired the note, 
she said she heard other UF love sto-
ries while interviewing people on the 
Cheryl list.
“We talked to people who met 
their spouses and lifetime friends at 
UF,” Clark said, “It was neat to see, 
40 years after this happened, their 
time at UF is still essential to who 
they are.”Valentine’s Day spending may break records this year
Who is Cheryl? A podcast aims to ﬁ  nd out
Courtesy to The Alligator
The inscription of a poem dedicated to a person named Cheryl is displayed in front of the steps of 
Matherly Hall.  A new podcast aims to discover who Cheryl was.
     This week, I 
have eagerly antici-
pated the Cheryl ’77 
podcast episodes by 
UF’s Alisson Clark 
and Emily Cardinali. 
Alisson and Emily 
are on a mission to 
discover the author 
and intended recipi-
ent of a love note inscribed in 
the concrete sidewalk just off 
University Avenue in the court-
yard by Matherly Hall  on UF’s 
campus.
 CHERYL,
IF LOVE COULD BE LIKE 
TREES, YOU WOULD BE A 
FOREST.
   ‘77
Alisson and Emily ask 
“Who was Cheryl, and who 
loved her enough to write 
this message?” So far in this 
week’s episodes, they have 
called dozens of Cheryls who 
were UF students in the 1970s 
and scoured the archives of 
The Alligator without luck. 
Today, on this Valentine’s 
Day, I’m hoping to learn with 
everyone else the identity of 
the author and of Cheryl and 
the story behind the love note.
This week, I have reﬂ  ect-
ed on two other love stories. 
These stories are about the 
lives of two important mem-
bers of our UF community we 
lost unexpectedly. Tuesday 
morning, Rabbi David Kai-
man led a memorial service at 
Congregation B’nai Israel for 
dentistry professor Marc Heft.  
I knew Marc as former chair 
of the UF Faculty Senate and 
a member of several search 
committees for UF presidents. 
Throughout my ﬁ  ve years at 
UF, Marc periodically sent 
me encouraging notes, which brightened my days.
On Wednesday 
last week, we cel-
ebrated in the Rion 
Ballroom of the Re-
itz Union the love 
story of the life of 
Denise Grifﬁ  ths. De-
nise was a College of 
Liberal Arts and Sci-
ences senior majoring in Eng-
lish. She died of injuries sus-
tained in an accident on East 
University Avenue.  Hundreds 
of friends from the many or-
ganizations in which she was 
involved and her CLAS class-
mates attended her memorial. 
Although his daughter had 
died just a few days before, 
her father spoke with love 
and humor about her, and her 
friends spoke of her impact 
on them and their organiza-
tions. Denise’s love for the 
written and spoken word were 
formally acknowledged when 
CLAS Dean Dave Richardson 
announced Denise would be 
awarded her bachelor’s degree 
in English posthumously.
I hope Cheryl knew about 
the love note inscribed in the 
concrete near Matherly Hall 
and that she knew how much 
she was appreciated. Words 
are powerful, particularly in a 
university community where 
we are constantly pushing 
each other to be better with 
criticism, evaluations and 
grades. It is good that we have 
one day a year when we are all 
reminded to write, speak and 
live lives of love. I wish for ev-
eryone at UF a Valentine’s Day 
ﬁ  lled with giving and receiv-
ing written and spoken words 
of care and encouragement.
Kent Fuchs is the president of 
UF. His column appears monthly.Cheryl ’77 – Love and Reﬂ  ectionLetter to the EditorLocal business owner says customers 
spend more than $100 on roses
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Red Cypress Brewery, LLC.
855 E. State Road 434
Winter Springs, FL 32708
Tuesday, February 18, 2020 at 11 AM
Taproom & Brewery Equipment including: 
Crawford 15 Barrel Brewhouse, Crawford 
& Minnetonka 30 Barrel Fermenters, Hot 
& Cold Liquor Tanks, Foeders, Walk-In 
Coolers, Cask 5 Head Canning Line, Brewfab 
Keg Washer, G&D Chiller, Hurst Boiler, 
Sasquatch Malt Handler, Dixie Can Seamer, 
Oak Barrels & Racks, Toyota Forklift, Pallet 
Jacks, Prestige Underbar Equipment, TV’s, 
Dining Tables & Chairs and More!
15% - 18% BP will apply.
$100 ref. cash deposit. “As is, where is”.
Preview: Feb 17th from
Noon to 5PM and 2 hour priors to auction
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      2-14-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
“The liberty of the press is essential to the 
security of the state.” – John AdamsUnload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
3-13-20-12-12
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertis -
ing. We suggest that any reader who responds to ad -
vertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Freon Wanted: We pay CA$H for cylin-
ders and cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. 
Convenient. Certified Professionals Call 
312-634-6652 or visit RefrigerantFinders.
com      2-14-1-13
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!1For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      3-13-
20-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
answers on page 9
By Garry Morse
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/14/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/14/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, February 14, 2020
ACROSS
1 Penthouses, e.g.: 
Abbr.
5 Smartphone 
downloads
9 Metaphor for 
responsibilities
13 Adriatic port
14 March Madness 
org.
15 “Beavis and  
Butt-head”  
spin-off
16 Bickering
17 Start of a  
Charles M. 
Schulz quote
19 Rub the wrong 
way
21 Twelve-step 
helper
22 Quote, part 2
24 Non-neutral 
atom
25 Light sleeper’s 
distraction
26 Living area in 
“The Martian,” 
with “the”
28 A Gabor sister
30 Acts of faith?
34 Classic sci-fi 
villain
38 Quote, part 3
41 1980s attorney 
general
42 Shade related to 
violet
43 Responsibility
44 Bend
46 Cope with
48 Dept. head
50 Quote, part 4
56 Source of a siren
58 “__ Mio”
59 End of the quote
61 Avian crop
62 Score symbols
63 “You’re kidding!”
64 Whodunit canine
65 Club with a 
blue and white 
diamond logo
66 Phillies slugger 
Hoskins
67 Nair rival, once
DOWN
1 Old counters
2 Hiking network3 Defense 
attorney’s 
concern
4 Be paid to watch, 
as children
5 Prefix with -gram
6 Techie training 
site
7 Caroline Islands 
republic
8 Dost speak
9 Legendary 
Carthaginian 
general
10 “You __ busted!”
11 Attach with string
12 __ City, Iraq
15 The Carpenters, 
for one
18 Deep-water fish
20 More wicked, in 
Worcester
23 Touching 
competition?
27 Guacamole fruit
28 Disease-stricken 
tree
29 Face off
31 Knee injury 
initials
32 Key letter
33 La preceder35 Long shot
36 Coming-in hr., 
roughly
37 Sales staff 
member
39 Romanov 
adherents
40 Lyricist Sammy
45 Tech tutorials site
47 ER diagnostic 
tool
48 Bucks
49 Sparkle51 Yellowish brown
52 “Brideshead 
Revisited” 
novelist
53 Assortment
54 Thrill
55 Unfamiliar with
56 Sharable PC files
57 Brain and spinal 
cord: Abbr.
60 Saints’ 
achievements: 
Abbr.
By Kevin Christian and Howard Barkin
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/13/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/13/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, February 13, 2020
ACROSS
1 Suffix for 
Wikipedia
4 Humiliate
9 Network with a 
“Cameras in the 
Court” page
14 Excessively
15 Where many 
watch the Beeb
16 Get to laugh
17 Crow
19 Plug-in Chevys
20 Series-ending 
abbr.
21 Lightning __
22 “Settle down!”
23 Delete for 
security reasons, 
say
25 Alphabetize, e.g.
26 Crow
32 Lapped (up)
35 Take to a higher 
court
36 Amana Colonies 
state
37 Copier pioneer
39 Taylor of fashion
40 Likely 2020 
Baseball Hall of 
Fame inductee
41 Composer Satie
42 Taco sauce 
brand
44 IRS identifier
45 Crow
48 In years past
49 Range that 
contains much of 
the Mark Twain 
National Forest
53 Temple with an 
upcurved roof
56 Blue-__: pain 
relief brand
58 “Allow me”
59 Meter measure
60 Crow
62 Electric car 
named for a 
physicist
63 Kirin competitor
64 Zero, in soccer
65 Get to the point?
66 Exorcist’s target
67 “Get how it’s 
done?”
DOWN
1 “Some __ time”
2 Waze 
recommendation
3 Lose one’s grip4 Delta hub code
5 Draft source
6 Pet food brand
7 Avoided a tag, 
perhaps
8 “Queer __”: 
revived style 
show
9 Frolic
10 Blended 
beverage
11 Yank
12 Bubbly city
13 Stick-y place to 
sleep?
18 Spill the beans
22 Slinky shape
24 Persuade with 
flattery
25 Title river in a 
Gershwin/Caesar 
song
27 Like Wyoming’s 
population
28 Start of the back 
nine
29 Quickly writes
30 Is in the red
31 It may get crewel 
treatment
32 x, y and z, in 
math
33 Polo of “The 
Fosters”34 Shillelagh’s land
38 Words that 
activate an 
assistant
40 “Empire State of 
Mind” rapper
42 White-bellied 
swimmer
43 First name in 
comedy
46 Make lovable
47 Souvlaki meat
50 Comes down51 2012 NBA 
Rookie of the 
Year __ Irving
52 Crab-walk
53 Miniature golf 
stroke
54 Riding the waves
55 [Oh no!]
56 Besides that
57 Word said with a 
tip of the hat
60 Evil
61 It’s all relatives
02/12/20
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Another Friday night without a date? Read 
The Alligator .
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an 
ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange -
ments or show off your bus and shuttle 
service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
SADIE'S FOOD CART
Needs part time help. Weekends. Need reli-
able, non-smoker. Perfect for students and 
single moms. Call Dave @ 352-470-4821    
2-14-20-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
AVIATION Careers start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification in airframe and 
powerplant. Financial aid if qualified. No ex-
perience required. Call AIM 888-242-2649.     
2-14-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
ScrabbleGrams  solution GoFigure!  solution1. Name the band that started with the 
name Mookie Blaylock.
2. Which album was "Rocky Raccoon" on?
3. Name the Billy Ocean song that was 
inspired by a line from Johnny Burnette's 
"You're Sixteen": "You walked out of my 
dreams and into my arms."
4. Which artist released the "Still Crazy 
After All These Years" album?
5. Name the song that contains this 
lyric: "I am glad you've finally called me 
on the phone, I've been waiting here to -
night but not alone."1. Pearl Jam. The real Mookie Blaylock was a basket -
ball player, and the band put one of his sports cards 
in their cassette tape cases. Eventually they realized 
they couldn't sell their merchandise with his name on it.
2. The Beatles white album, in 1968. The song, origi -
nally titled "Rocky Sassoon," inspired a comic cartoon 
character called Rocket Raccoon in 1976. 
3. "Get Outta My Dreams, Get into My Car," in 1988.
4. Paul Simon, in 1975.
5. "He'll Have to Stay," by Jeanne Black in 1960. This 
was an answer song to Jim Reeves' "He'll Have to Go," 
which came out six months earlier. Both songs did well 
on the charts.FlashBack  answers
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
1. Name The Who guitarist who 
is known for smashing his guitars 
during performances. How did that 
get started?
2. Why did Bob Dylan stop touring 
between 1966 and 1973?
3. What was Wicked Lester?
4. The Polka Tulk Blues Band ended 
up as what band?
5. Name the television show that 
used these lyrics in the theme song: 
“Just sit right back and you’ll hear a 
tale, A tale of a fateful trip.”
Answers
1. Peter Townsend. He accidentally 
broke the head off a guitar during a 
show and afterward continued break-
ing guitars (albeit cheaper ones).
2. He was seriously injured in a 
motorcycle accident, crashing his Tri-
umph Tiger 100SS. Later, however, he 
was quoted as saying he’d wanted to 
get out of the rat race.
3. The original name of Kiss, with a 
short period (1970-1971) being called 
Rainbow. Look for a 1972 bootleg 
album called “The Original Wicked 
Lester Sessions.”
4. Black Sabbath.
5. “Gilligan’s Island,” which aired 
for three seasons from 1964-67, a 
total of 98 episodes. The first season 
was in black and white. The storyline 
tells of castaways who ran aground on 
an island during a storm while on the 
charter boat SS Minnow.
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
January 27, 2020
answers below answers below
1.  Raised
1.  Find, detect 5.  Expertise, skill
2.  ____ duster 6.  Stockpile
3.  Vanilla ____7.  Author
4.  Andean ____ILEFDT
LAOECTFTRCA
ADHRO
AHFERET
ACXETTRERIWTR
NROCDOANSWERS: 1A-Lifted  5A-Craft  6A-Hoard  7A-Writer
1D-Locate  2D-Feather  3D-Extract  4D-Condor  B-Air Force2-14-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The U.S. ____ ____ can trace its roots back to 1907.
BONUS
1-c,   2-a,   3-d,   4-e,   5-bStickelers  answer
Wednesday
solution below   go figure!  By Linda ThistleFormer Gator and current 
Bears tight end Trey Burton 
announced his intentions to 
donate $100,000 to UF for its 
annual Gator Nation Giving 
Day. Kavanagh and Trombetta named to watch list
Gators midfielder Shannon Kavanagh and defender Cara Trombetta were 
named to the T ewaaraton Watch List on Thursday. The award is given annu-
ally to the top male and female lacrosse player in the country.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
SOFTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
Lions, Bison and mares, oh my!
This weekend, No. 8 Florida (5-1) will face 
North Dakota State (1-3), Longwood (2-2), 
Southeastern Louisiana (5-1) and Florida A&M 
(0-5) in the Bubly Invitational. 
The Gators have an all-time combined re-
cord of 31-3 against these four teams, with 
their most recent loss coming in 2006 at the 
hands of the Lancers. 
So, while the slate of opponents this week-
end is not as threatening as their mascots may 
seem to the casual observer, it should give the 
pitching staff a chance to build up some much 
needed confidence before the Mary Nutter Col-
legiate Classic next week, where they’ll battle four ranked opponents: No. 3 UCLA, No. 4 Ari-
zona, No. 21 Northwestern and No. 23 Arizona 
State.
In the exhibition against Team USA, all 
five Florida pitchers made an appearance in 
the circle. After a rattling second game against 
then-No. 17 Michigan, junior Natalie Lugo still 
looked fazed on the pitching plate. She leads 
the staff in earned runs with six in 14.2 innings 
pitched. 
While coach Tim Walton has noticed this 
trend, he continues to stand by the group, 
praising their performance against the Wom-
en’s National Team earlier this week. 
“We gave up five runs the other day with 
two outs against Michigan. We gave up four 
runs with two outs (Tuesday) against Team 
USA,” Walton said. “Same pitcher, so we’re going to have to do a little bit better job with 
certain things, but I thought all five of them, in 
some crucial situations, really did a good job of 
keeping this game.”
On the offensive side of the plate, catcher 
and power hitter Jordan Roberts has been the 
storied maturation of the season. After hitting 
nine home runs in 2019, the 5-foot-7 senior out 
of Live Oak, Florida, has walloped four on as 
many as four hits in the last three games. She 
is one of seven Division I softball players tied 
for first in the country in home runs and is the 
only batter in the SEC with that distinction.
Eight games in six days, spanning from 
Tuesday’s exhibition through Sunday’s final 
matchup versus FAMU. The Gators are clear-
ly in the thick of their 2020 campaign. When 
asked about the strategy moving forward and protracting his team’s focus, Walton echoed 
the mantra first relayed by Roberts in the pre-
season: playing mindful softball and taking 
things one game at a time.
“The thing that you worry about more than 
anything, is you get to this high of competing 
against a time like (Team USA) and you start 
to come downwards,” Walton said after Tues-
day night’s exhibition. “So we’ve really tried to 
prepare our players through our preseason to 
not really focus on the opponent, to always try 
to do a good job of focusing on who we are and 
what we do and not really get too far ahead.”
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgUF heads through Enchanted Forest slate for Bubly Invitational
GYMNASTICS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Jenny Rowland will always re-
member that date.
On May 9, 2015, the current 
Florida coach left her post as as-
sociate head coach at Auburn to 
become the seventh head coach in 
Gators gymnastics history.
She has made two visits back 
to the Plains since leaving. In 2016, 
No. 1 UF defeated No. 8 Auburn 
by slightly over a point (197.075-
195.900). Two years later, No. 5 
Florida got past No. 17 AU 197.40-
197.
On Friday night, Rowland will 
return to the Cotton State for the 
third time when the No. 2 Gators face the seventh-ranked Tigers. The 
meet will commence at 8:30 p.m. in 
Auburn Arena and can be seen on 
the SEC Network.
On Wednesday, Rowland spoke 
on her feelings about returning.
“I don’t know if it means more,” 
she said. “But it is always an emo-
tional trip but in a good way.”
Rowland said that she continues 
to remain grateful for the time she 
spent there.
“Roots were laid there and 
(I’m) really thankful for that op-
portunity,” she said. “Without that 
opportunity and stepping stone in 
my career, I definitely would not be 
here where I am today.”
Rowland did create some im-
pressive roots in her five years at 
Auburn.In her final season at AU, she 
won the 2015 National Assistant 
Coach of the Year as she helped 
lead the Tigers to their first NCAA 
Super Six appearance in 22 years.
Rowland had some massive 
shoes to fill when she arrived in 
Gainesville. She was replacing 
UF legend Rhonda Faehn, who 
coached from 2003-2015 and led 
the team to National Champion-
ships in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
Rowland has yet to reach that 
plateau since coming to North Cen-
tral Florida, but this season feels like 
it could be her best shot.
Florida enters the meet with a 
6-0 record (4-0 SEC). It is coming off 
one of its most impressive victories 
on the season last Friday night, a tri-
meet win over then-No. 4 Denver and No. 18 Iowa State.
In that meet, it put up the na-
tion’s fifth-best score this season 
(197.875). While that was impres-
sive, it was actually only the Gators 
second-highest total, scoring more 
against No. 9 LSU (198.375) on Jan. 
24.
The MVP for UF continues to 
be Trinity Thomas. The sophomore 
won her third-consecutive SEC 
Gymnast of the Week. It was her 
fourth of the season and seventh in 
her career.
Read the rest online at
alligator.org/sports
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgCoach Rowland and the Gators head back to Auburn
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Trinity Thomas has two perfect 10s this 
season.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Lavender Briggs held the ball at the top of 
the key and stared down Ole Miss guard Jayla 
Alexander with the game tied 72-72 in the final 
minute.
Briggs scanned the defense intently in search 
of a potential game-winning shot, but as soon 
as the freshman made her way to the basket, 
the referee blew the whistle.
Foul on Alexander. Two free throws for 
Briggs. 
Rebels coach Yolett McPhee-McCuin threw 
her hands up in the air and looked at the of-
ficial in dismay along with the rest of her staff 
and players. The entire Ole Miss team was left 
flabbergasted at the referee’s decision to call an 
apparent phantom foul in such a deciding mo-
ment of the game.Briggs went on to sink both of her free 
throws, and on the next defensive possession, 
she came away with a steal to secure a 74-72 
victory for the Gators on Thursday night at the 
O’Connell Center.
“For a freshman to do that, 24 games in, 
doesn’t bat an eye at anything you ask her to 
do, it's great to see,” Newbauer said.
Florida made it a point of emphasis to start 
off quickly against the Rebels after an abysmal 
offensive display in a loss to Georgia over the 
weekend, in which the Gators scored just 43 
points on 29.5-percent shooting from the field. 
UF made nine of its 14 shot attempts in the 
first quarter, including a perfect 3 of 3 from 
downtown, to take a 13-point lead heading into 
the second.
“We wanted to come out fast and we did 
that,” Newbauer said. “I was worried about 
coming out too fast and defensively letting up."The Gators struggled offensively in the sec-
ond period, however, going just 2 of 14 from 
the floor and 0 of 6 from beyond the arc.
Ole Miss, on the other hand, finally got 
things rolling and outscored Florida 18-8 in the 
period to cut its deficit to just three points at 
the break.
“It’s what they do,” Newbauer said in re-
gards to the Rebels mounting an early come-
back. “Once they settle in, they’re dangerous 
because they can hit shots.
After 21-point third quarters from both 
teams, the conference battle was determined in 
the latter stages of the fourth thanks to Briggs.
Read the rest online at
alligator.org/sports
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgBriggs propels Florida over Ole Miss in closing seconds
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Lavender Briggs scored a game-high 23 
on Thursday.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11
Florida began the 2019 season a consensus top-10 team. However, the Gators limped into the post-
season and were quickly eliminated from the Regionals. Now, with a No. 1 recruiting class in tow, UF is 
back in the top 10 with a No. 4 preseason ranking and returns talent on the mound and at the plate.
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Since Alfred A. McKethan Stadium 
opened in 1988, the Gators have won 12 
NCAA Regionals and eight Super Region-
als in front of their home crowd.
Florida’s eye-popping record of 903-
300 (.751) at the Mac has given the or-
ange and blue faithful much to cheer 
about, too.
With construction of the Florida Ball-
park set to be completed in June, how-
ever, time is running out for coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan and his players to provide their 
fans with unforgettable moments at McK-
ethan Stadium.
The 2020 schedule gives No. 4 UF a 
chance to do just that, as it plays 33 games 
inside the friendly conﬁ  nes of its 32-year-
old stadium for the last time before mov-
ing to its new one in 2021.Florida’s home slate consists of ﬁ  ve se-
ries against SEC opponents, including one 
against defending national champion No. 
1 Vanderbilt in early May.
The Gators will also be hosting series 
against non-conference foes such as Mar-
shall, Troy and South Florida. The rest of 
UF’s home contests are made up of in-
state rivals and scattered throughout the 
schedule: Jacksonville (2), Florida A&M 
(2), Florida State (1), Stetson (1), North 
Florida (1), Florida Atlantic (1) and Bet-
hune-Cookman (1).
Marshall will be the ﬁ  rst of the afore-
mentioned teams to take on the fourth-
ranked Gators, as it travels to Gainesville 
on Friday for the ﬁ  rst meeting in history 
between the two programs.
After opening the campaign against 
Marshall over the weekend, and a home 
and away with Jacksonville midweek, the 
Gators will make their way down south for a matchup with No. 5 Miami.
The Hurricanes headline Florida’s slate 
of away games, and it will be the ﬁ  rst true 
test for O’Sullivan’s team. They won the 
series in 2019, 2-1.
UF’s much-anticipated showdowns 
against No. 12 FSU have three dates: 
March 10 in Gainesville, March 24 at a 
neutral site of Jacksonville and April 14 
in Tallahassee. 
Last season, the Gators came out vic-
torious in each of the three games against 
the Seminoles, outscoring them by a 27-
10 margin.
UF also has weekend series against 
No. 5 Georgia, No. 7 Arkansas, No. 8 Au-
burn and No. 25 Ole Miss.
Overall, Florida plays seven top-25 op-
ponents throughout the season, so Gators 
fans across the nation will have plenty of 
opportunities to watch their team vie for 
its second ever national championship.By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
A team’s pitching staff is a good measuring stick to predict where it 
will end up during a lengthy and grueling baseball season — which ex-
plains Florida’s worst performance from the mound since 2008 last year.
The Gators’ disappointing 34-26 season in 2019 was thanks in no 
small part to the team’s 5.37 ERA.
UF, a perennial threat to make a College World Series run every year, 
struggled mightily from the mound last season and had the second-worst 
ERA in the SEC — better than only South Carolina (5.51).
“Our pitching was just not good,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It’s 
that simple.’’
Nevertheless, the Gators have found themselves ranked in the top 10 
in multiple preseason polls largely because of a pitching staff ﬁ  lled with 
young talent and returning veterans.  
Junior right-handers Tommy Mace (5.32 ERA) and Jack Leftwich 
(5.31) will start the season at the top of the rotation for UF but have 
chips on their shoulders before the opening pitch of the season has been 
delivered.
“I think everyone is kind of pissed off about last year on the pitching 
end,” Leftwich said.
He ended last season with 62 strikeouts in 62.2 innings but missed 
signiﬁ  cant time due to a blister on his right hand.
The Orlando native didn’t make excuses because of the injury but will 
have something to prove in 2020.
Mace, the Friday night starter, started every weekend series for UF last 
season and ﬁ  nished with an 8-5 record over 16 starts to go along with a 
team-high 74 strikeouts.
Sophomore Nick Pogue will be Florida’s No. 3 after posting a 1-1 
record in 2019 with a 4.15 ERA and freshman Hunter Barco will also be 
an option for O’Sullivan.
The lefty from Jacksonville  posted a 1.84 ERA and a 5-0 record in 38 
innings in high school.
Junior lefty Jordan Butler (5.76) and sophomore David Luethje (3.86) 
will also see midweek starts with the possibility of relieving on the week-
ends as well.
Graduate transfer Trey Van Der Weide (4.29) from South Carolina-
Upstate, junior Justin Alintoff (4.3) and sophomores Ben Specht (5.49) 
and Christian Scott (5.19) round out the bullpen for O’Sullivan.
The 13th-year Florida coach made it a point that his lineups and each 
of his pitchers’ roles will surely change as the season goes on and he has 
“no idea how it’s going to shake out.’’
Only time will tell if this pitching staff will live up to expectations or 
repeat a disappointing 2019.By Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
The Gators’ bats have a chance to be electric this season.
No. 10 Florida will look to emulate last season’s potent of-
fensive performances.
UF’s offense was ranked fourth in the SEC in 2019; often 
times picking up the slack for an underperforming pitching staff.
During the 2019 season, the staff placed constant pressure on 
the offense. That pressure didn’t create diamonds, but it did pro-
duce one of the most resilient offenses that Gators coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said he’s seen.
Florida’s sluggers stormed back against early deﬁ  cits time 
and time again over the ﬁ  nal 11 games of 2019, posting seven-
plus runs in each contest.
Returning hitters that can apply pressure to opponents’ pitch-
ing staffs this season are left ﬁ  elder Austin Langworthy, center 
ﬁ  elder Jud Fabian and ﬁ  rst baseman Kendrick Calilao.
Langworthy is the only senior projected to suit up as an ev-
eryday starter in 2020. His 10 home runs in 2019 are the highest 
of any returning player, and he can provide key leadership to 
Florida’s 15 new faces.
Fabian posted a .232 batting average last season, but was tied 
with Cory Acton for the team lead in walks with 28. Fabian also 
notched 26 RBI over his freshman campaign. He was the only 
Gator named to the coaches’ preseason All-SEC team.
Jacob Young, who posted a .311 batting average last season, 
has the ability to provide constant trafﬁ  c on the basepaths for 
Florida. 
When it comes to Calilao, youth didn’t prevent him from 
leading Florida in RBIs as a freshman with 49. He also hit a solid 
.276 to help spark the team’s offensive surge in 2019.
While these players are expected to be key contributors this 
spring, there’s no such thing as a foolproof plan in baseball. 
Some players go into slumps. Other players exceed expectations 
and become key cogs in the lineup down the stretch. 
O’Sullivan said he knows Friday’s opening-day lineup won’t 
be the same at the end of the season.
“I’m hoping that some guys that are not in the lineup open-
ing night understand the big picture,” he said. “But the bottom 
line is the lineup is not going to be the same at the end of the 
year as it is in the beginning. I’m just trying to put the pieces of 
the puzzle together to give us the best opportunities to win this 
weekend.”Florida Baseball Season Preview
Rebounding on the mound Gators to watch at the plateUF’s last season at Alfred A. McKethan
Stadium begins tonight against Marshall
A look at UF’s slate of opponentsT ommy Mace
 Kenrick Calilao
Nick Pogue
 Austin Langworthy
Jack Leftwich
 Jacob Young
Florida Baseball Season Preview
12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2020
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
NIGHT  9 pm-12 am
$2 Double Wells
$2 Rolling Rock Cans
$2 Pink Whitney Shots
LIVE DJ
(DOWNSTAIRS)
FRIDAYS
on theROOFNEW!
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
All eyes will be on Billy Dono-
van on Saturday. 
No, not because he will ﬁ  nal-
ly return to the sideline for the 
Gators. 
But because the ﬂ  oor at the 
O’Dome will be renamed the Bil-
ly Donovan Court at halftime of 
Florida’s game against Vander-
bilt. 
In the midst of a turbulent sea-
son, fans can put aside the cur-
rent state of the team and honor 
the man who thrusted Florida’s 
men’s basketball program into 
the national limelight and won 
back-to-back national titles. 
It’ll be easy to forget that 
there’s a basketball game going 
on amid all of the festivities. 
Partially because Vanderbilt 
would like to forget about the 
game, too. The Commodores 
have endured a brutal season 
where, aside from giving No. 25 
LSU its ﬁ  rst SEC loss of the sea-
son, highlights have been few and 
far between. 
Vanderbilt’s win over the Ti-
gers on Feb. 5 was its ﬁ  rst since 
the calendar ﬂ  ipped to 2020. Four 
days before that game, however, 
the Commodores lost 61-55 to the 
Gators. Forward Keyontae John-
son and guard Noah Locke com-
bined for 37 points to help Florida escape from Nashville, Tennes-
see, with an ugly win. 
UF is just 5-7 against the Com-
modores since Donovan left for 
the NBA, but it has won the last 
three matchups and the last two 
that were in Gainesville. 
The Gators’ 40.7-percent ef-
fort from the ﬁ  eld in its last tilt 
against Vanderbilt was its worst 
in a victory this season. After bot-
toming out against Ole Miss last 
weekend, Florida responded with 
78 points on the road against Tex-
as A&M and shot over 50 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld in one of its best 
offensive performances of the 
season. 
The Gators are heavy favor-
ites, but both teams’ outside 
shooting is something to keep an 
eye on. Florida converts on 33.8 
percent of its treys, the second-
best mark in the conference, 
and Vanderbilt has the SEC’s 
worst three-point defense. Look 
out for Locke, one of the confer-
ence’s best three-point shooters. 
He posted 21 points — shooting 
50 percent from three — against 
a decent Texas A&M defense on 
Wednesday. 
But UF has struggled all season 
defending the perimeter, where it 
has allowed opponents to shoot 
31.7 percent, the ﬁ  fth-worst mark 
in the conference. Four of the 
Gators’ last six opponents have shot over 40 percent against UF. 
Vanderbilt’s offense isn’t very 
efﬁ  cient, but it does rank inside 
the top half of the conference in 
three-point percentage. However, 
forward Aaron Nesmith, who still 
leads the team in points and the 
SEC in three-point percentage 
(52.2 percent), has been out since 
January and is likely out for the 
season. Guards Scotty Pippen Jr. 
and Maxwell Evans are still ca-
pable shooters from three-point 
range, with both players shooting 
at least 33 percent. 
Saturday is the end of what 
appeared to be a relatively easy 
six-game stretch that started with 
the Mississippi State game. The 
Gators have gone 3-2, but a big 
win over the hapless Commo-
dores would help settle things 
down before the schedule ramps 
up to end conference play. 
The only opponent outside of 
KenPom’s top-60 teams remain-
ing on Florida’s schedule is No. 
104 Georgia, and two of its last 
seven games are against No. 12 
Kentucky.  
The attention Saturday will be 
on Donovan, but all of the pres-
sure will soon be on the Gators. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgDonovan returns to Gainesville as UF faces Vanderbilt
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Guard Noah Locke scored a season-high 21 points Wednesday 
night in a win over T exas A&M. He also hit ﬁ  ve three-pointers.
