We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
How do Latinx students feel about politics?
They can be pretty divided on it, pg. 5
Want to nap in Library West?
A new committee could help with that , pg. 6SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperFlorida welcomes LSU to Gainesville 
for a top-10 bout
UF and LSU are meeting for the 24th straight 
time with both teams ranked in the top 10, pg. 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 50
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
1. Credit approval required and initial $50 opening deposit required. Offer is for new checking accounts only. Offer subject to change without notice. Member must elect to receive eDocuments within the first 90 days, deposit over $200 per month for the first 3 months, and use their debit card 
6 times within the first 3 months. If the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT. 2. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. 
Member must elect to receive eDocuments. 3. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required. Federally insured by the NCUA.
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Ryan Lochte, 12-time Olympic medalist and American competitive swimmer, serves food at Grace Marketplace, a 
homeless resource center in Gainesville, Wednesday morning. LUNCH 
WITH 
LOCHTE
THEY ANNOUNCED 
WITHIN HOURS OF 
EACH OTHER
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
As presidential campaign 
ads plow across social media 
feeds and commercial breaks, 
students must consider six more 
candidates. Gator Party and In-spire Party announced their ex-
ecutive tickets Thursday.
Trevor Pope will run as Stu-
dent Body president, Lauredan 
Ofﬁ  cial as Student Body vice 
president and Jessica Jesura-
jan as Student Body treasurer 
in Gator Party’s ﬁ  rst executive 
ticket since their creation in 
Fall. Pope and Jesurajan were 
previously Impact Party sena-
tors. 
These tickets follow a semes-ter of controversy surrounding 
Student Government, includ-
ing an impeachment resolution 
of the current Impact-afﬁ  liated 
Student Body President. Mat-
thew Diaz co-ﬁ  led the impeach-
ment resolution with four other 
Inspire senators.
Inspire announced Diaz is 
running as Student Body presi-
dent, Emily Hyden as Student 
Body vice president and Mat-
thew Barocas as Student Body treasurer in a Facebook post 
Thursday evening. 
Gator Party announced its 
ticket at Gator Walk Thurs-
day afternoon. Family, friends 
and party members gathered 
around an orange and white 
balloon arch for the announce-
ment, some sporting “HOPE IN 
T POPE” T-shirts.
“Really our motto and a lot 
of the reason why I’m running Gator, Inspire announce executive ticketsBy Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
Lawton M. Chiles Elementary was an A-graded 
school — until it wasn’t. 
In 2011, parents received a letter from then-
principal Judy Black explaining that Chiles failed to 
meet its progress goals for the year. Its state-assigned 
grade, based on student performance on standard-
ized tests, dropped to a B.
The ﬁ  nal lines of the letter point an accusatory ﬁ  n-
ger.
“Black, economically disadvantaged students 
need to make improvements in reading and math,” 
according to the letter. 
A parent who received the letter said she was ap-
palled. She still keeps a copy of it today.
“My black child didn’t make your grade go down,” 
she said. “When you say stuff like that, it just rein-
forces what a lot of wealthier parents already think.”
She pulled her son from Chiles soon after receiving 
the letter. She is currently a public school teacher in 
Alachua County and spoke on the condition of ano-
nymity out of fear of retribution from school authori-
ties. 
The problem expressed in the Chiles letter isn’t 
exclusive to Alachua County. All over Florida, school 
grades indicate that the success gap is growing be-
tween white and black students — the Florida public 
school grading system isn’t working to close that gap, 
experts say. 
The Alligator reached out to the Florida Senate for 
comment, but they did not respond before publica-
tion. 
Money matters
In 1999, the Florida legislature passed the 
A+ Plan for Education, which gave way to the A 
through F grading system for schools. Test-based ac-
countability was meant to track and improve public 
education by offering incentives to higher-scoring 
schools, said Jackie Johnson, the spokeswoman for 
Alachua County Public Schools. 
The consequences of this plan are becoming 
more evident 21 years later. School grades are used Ranking schools doesn’t 
close achievement gap in 
Alachua County, experts say
EAST GAINESVILLE SCHOOLS RANK 
LOWER AND FACE CLOSURE BY THE STATE
SEE EXEC,  PAGE 3 SEE GRADES,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  46°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
FRIDAY
Playlist at the Pointe
Where: Celebration Pointe
When: 7-9 p.m.
What: Playlist at the Pointe 
is a music event that offers 
an eclectic mix of music 
from numerous genres, such 
as country, rock, soul and 
more. Listen to guitarist David 
Feder and grab a bite at one 
of Celebration Pointe’s many 
restaurants. 
Lone Star Spirits Opening Night
Where: The Hippodrome, 
located at 25 SE Second Place
When: 8-10 p.m.
What: Opening night for Lone 
Star Spirits in a collaboration 
between the Hippodrome and 
freeFall Theatre, play that 
the Huffington Post calls "an 
abundance of humor, warmth 
and wisdom."
Annual White Party at Simon’s 
Where: Simon’s, located at 8 
S. Main St.
When: 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.
What: Vida Social Productions’ 
Annual White Party moves to 
Simon’s Nightclub for 2020. 
At this annual World Peace 
awareness party, there will 
be free well drinks for people 
wearing white. Presale tickets 
are at $8 for the first 200 
people. Music will be provided 
by DJ Benji, DJ Jobo, DJ Traky 
and DJ Esto. 
Lunar New Year
Where: Stage 7 Karaoke, 
located at 4110 SW 34th St.
When: 7 p.m.
What: Stage 7 Karaoke holds 
its two-day Lunar New Year 
$5 open-mic karaoke event. 
Complimentary soda and iced 
tea are provided, as well as 
a red packet. All participants 
will have a chance to win gift cards worth $20.20 at 11 p.m 
on Jan. 26.
SATURDAY
Amazing Pollinators Exhibit 
Opening Day 
Where: The Florida Museum 
of Natural History, located at 
3215 Hull Road
When: 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m.
What: Amazing Pollinators is 
a new exhibit at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History 
that features 48 game-style 
missions. Exhibit goers can 
become pollinators like bats, 
bees, beetles and butterflies to 
play parlor games with a twist, 
such as ecosystem Jenga and 
invasive species shuffleboard. 
The exhibit’s centerpiece is 
a colorful maze filled with 
different habitats from around 
the world. Exhibit admission 
is $8 for adults, $7 for Florida 
residents and $5.50 for ages 
3-17. Museum members and 
UF students with a valid Gator 
1 card receive free admission. 
Wild and Scenic Film Festival 
2020
Where: Swamp Head Brewery, 
located at 3650 SW 42nd Ave.
When: 5 p.m-10 p.m.
What: The Wild and Scenic 
Film Festival will showcase 
14 screened films that 
focus on adventure and 
environmental showcases of 
the Earth’s beauty. The event, 
sponsored by the Florida Trail 
Association, will also feature 
live music, guest speakers, 
raffle items, beverages and 
food. Tickets are free for 
attendees 10 and younger, $12 
pre-paid or $15 at the door 
for general admission and $10 
pre-paid or $12 at the door for 
students, seniors, veterans and 
active FTA members. Blackfoot Gypsies, Candlelight 
Cassia and Caleb Edens
Where: The High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave.
When: 9:30 p.m.
What: The Blackfoot Gypsies 
are a rock quartet with energy 
and soul from Nashville, 
Tennessee. Special guests 
include Candlelight Cassia and 
Caleb Edens. Tickets are $8 in 
advance and $10 at the door. 
Must be 18 or older unless 
accompanied by a parent or 
guardian. $3 cover for anyone 
under 21.
Sunshine State Book Festival
Where: The Santa Fe College 
Fine Arts Hall, located at 3000 
NW 83rd St.
When: 5-7 p.m.
What: The Sunshine State 
Book Festival, produced by the 
Writers Alliance of Gainesville, 
showcases 75 area authors, as 
well as hourly author talks and 
free book drawings. There is 
also a "Children's Corner" for 
storytelling and activities. 
SUNDAY 
Puppy Yoga
Where: Flow Space, located at 
117 NW 16th Ave.
When: 2-3:45 p.m.
What: This class at Flow 
Space is a normal yoga class 
that includes 12-week old 
Labrador Retriever future 
guide-dog puppies. No prior 
yoga experience is necessary 
for the event. The event costs 
$20 for members and will be 
$25 pre-register and $30 at the 
door for guests. The event is 
presented by UF Puppy Club 
and proceeds from the event 
will go toward Walkathon, 
the Southeastern Guide Dogs’ 
annual fundraiser. 
Clothing Swap and Short 
Environmental Videos
Where: The Repurpose 
Project, located at 1920 NE 
23rd Ave.
When: 3 p.m-5 p.m.
What: The Repurpose Project’s 
“Zero Waste Week” features a 
clothing swap and a showing 
of several short environmental 
videos. Local experts on 
environmental topics will 
lead discussions and answer 
questions.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 50
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Donny CunninghamADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Lonnie NumaMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Katelynn Joyner, Marianna Colon andEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoFRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Calvin Martin, MD
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation 
and treatment for:
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• Abrasions & Lacerations
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Monday - Friday 7:00am - 6:00pm
SIMEDHealth.com
LATINX STUDENTS AT 
UF WENT FROM 5,748 IN 
2006 TO 10,716 IN 2018
By Christopher S. Cann
Alligator Staff Writer
More Latinx students are enrolled 
in universities than ever before in 
the United States, including UF. 
According to a comprehensive 
data analysis by the National Center 
for Education Statistics, more Latinx 
students have graduated from uni-
versities this decade than any previ-
ous one.
The number of Hispanic and 
Latinx students has increased from 
11.16 percent in 2006 to 19.11 per-
cent in 2018, according to the annual 
Fall cohort headcount. The next en-
rollment and demographics update 
is set to arrive in February.  
Steve Orlando, a UF spokesman, 
said in an email since 2006 the per-
centage of Hispanic and Latinx stu-dents has been steadily trending 
upward.
UF’s class of 2023 broke records 
and set new standards with their 
test scores and GPAs. Hispanic and 
Latinx students make up 19 percent 
of the class. 
The number of UF undergradu-
ate, graduate and professional de-
grees awarded to Latinx students in 
the 2007-2008 school year was 1,505. 
That number has since jumped to 
2,606 for the 2017-2018 school year.
Nationally, Latinx graduation 
rates have increased by 70 percent 
over the past decade. Enrollment 
numbers between the ages of 18-24 
increased from 27 percent in 2017. 
More Latinx people in college earned 
a college degree from 2005 to 2017. 
Karina Fernandez, a 22-year-old 
UF international studies senior, is a 
co-fundraising chair of the Hispanic 
Student Association. She says HSA is 
a cultural safe space for her. 
“It reminds me of home,” she 
said.  Fernandez has seen HSA grow 
over her time at UF. With the newly 
rebuilt La Casita on University Av-
enue, she anticipates that HSA will 
continue to gain traction among 
Latinx students on campus.
“As an almost UF graduate of 
Hispanic descent, it feels empower-
ing to know that the Latinx commu-
nity on campus has nearly doubled 
in the last decade,” she said. “I think 
it adds to the increasing diversity 
on campus and will hopefully make 
way for greater minority representa-
tion at UF and in the real world.”
La Casita, UF’s Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Cultures, recently 
moved from a room in the Reitz 
Union to a brand new two-story 
building as a part of a $9.9 million 
project funded by the UF Capital In-
vestment Trust Fund.
La Casita recently hosted its ﬁ  rst 
class on Latinx studies in early Janu-
ary, which was taught by Nicholas 
Vargas, a UF professor. The class fo-
cuses on issues related to Latinx cul-tural identity and provides students 
with greater knowledge of how 
Latinx people have contributed to 
the foundation of the United States.
Camila Peralta, a 19-year-old UF 
anthropology freshman, loves the in-
creasing diversity that comes along 
with an increase in Hispanic stu-
dents attending UF.
Her parents went to local techni-
cal schools, and their experiences are 
not easily relatable to most college 
experiences today, she said. When 
Peralta received her admission to 
UF, her parents were overjoyed.
“The whole reason their families 
came to America was so that my par-
ents and their children could go to 
college,” she said.
As a second-generation immi-
grant, Peralta says she can see her 
parents’ sacriﬁ  ce for her success and 
opportunity.
“I’ve seen my dad cry twice and 
that was when my grandpa died and 
when I got into UF,” she said. 
Peralta is happy to know more and more Latinx students can en-
roll in great schools, not just at UF 
but globally, and hopefully make 
their parents as proud as she made 
her own. 
 “I think it helps to know that 
there are things like HSA, La Casita 
and other cultural groups on campus 
that I can relate to,” she said. “Over-
all, I’d say interacting with other 
Latin students whether in clubs or 
in class is what really makes me feel 
connected.”
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgNumber of Latinx Students at UF almost doubled in the last decade
Hispanic/Latinx 
students enrolled
2008: 12.10 percent
2018: 19.11 percent
Hispanic/Latinx graduates
2007-2008:  1,505 students
2017-2018:  2,606 studentsand coming back into the world of Student 
Government... is just to instill hope,” Pope 
said.
Pope, a ﬁ  rst-year UF Law student, said 
he wants to lead by example by crossing 
the aisle this semester. Pope was Student 
Government’s allocations chair, he’s a Ci-
cerone and involved in the Freshman Lead-
ership Council. 
Diaz has served in the Senate for two 
terms  Inspire Party, is the vice President of 
Volunteers for International Student Affairs 
and on the board of Together UF, a coali-
tion of the big nine organizations. 
Diaz said he sees a divide between SG 
and the students, and he wants to mend it. 
“It’s increasing Student Government ac-
countability, pushing for more inclusivity… 
and making sure that we’re transparent,” 
he said. “Making sure that when there is 
mistakes or when there’s stuff that the Stu-
dent Body doesn’t like it’s addressed, and 
it’s talked about in an open dialogue.”Ofﬁ  cial, who serves as the Leadership 
and Service Cabinet chair and is a member 
of the Black Student Union said he wants 
to talk to students and encourage them to 
use their freedom. 
“I really want to hear the students’ 
ideas, because I don’t like the idea of put-
ting my own notions too far ahead of the 
Student Body’s,” he said. 
Hyden led the Blue Light Protest in 
Fall, which resulted in four blue lights on 
campus. She said she wants to continue to 
make campus safer and to listen to the con-
cerns of all students.
“My goals are to voice the concerns of 
students, all students of all backgrounds, 
and do that through my cabinet as the vice 
president to represent the Student Body 
better as a whole and make campus safer 
for students and just more accessible for 
everyone,” the international studies junior 
said.
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgEXEC,  from pg. 1This is Gator Party’s irst executive ticket since they were created in Fall
Courtesy to The Alligator
Left: Gator Party’s executive candidates Trevor Pope, Lauredan Ofﬁ  cial and Jessica Jesurajan. 
Right: Inspire Party’s executive candidates Matthew Diaz, Emily Hyden and Matthew Barocas. 
4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020
to determine how much and what kind of 
funding a school receives, but Johnson said 
this doesn’t take challenges disadvantaged 
students face into account. 
“There have been many concerned that it’s 
an overly simplistic way of reﬂ  ecting what’s 
going on in a school,” she said.  “A lot of 
things affect a child’s behavior on a standard-
ized test.”
Schools that earn an A grade also earn an 
“A+ bonus,” a supplemental pot of money 
that may go to the salary of a school’s teach-
ers and other school staff. It can additionally 
be used to purchase new resources like text-
books and computers, Johnson said. 
Of Alachua County’s 20 public elementary 
schools, four earned A’s and three earned D’s 
in 2019. Three of the A schools, located ex-
clusively in West Gainesville, were given bo-
nuses. The D schools, located exclusively in 
East Gainesville, weren’t.
Low-performing schools do receive money 
elsewhere. Title I is an initiative that provides 
economically disadvantaged schools with 
more funding to support supplemental staff 
and longer instruction time. 
But these resources aren’t enough to close 
the gap, said Carmen Ward, the president of 
the Alachua County Education Association. 
Many of the schools earning the A+ bonus 
are already afforded more resources than low-
er-graded schools by virtue of their location, 
she said. 
“Everything comes back to funding,” she 
said. 
Schools in West Gainesville beneﬁ  t from 
active parent-teacher associations and newer 
facilities than schools in East Gainesville due 
to the socioeconomic makeup of families 
zoned for those schools, Ward said. 
The PTA at Kimball Wiles Elementary 
School raises enough money to supply teach-
ers with $200-$500 grants each year, she said. 
The Westwood Middle School PTA is current-
ly fundraising to purchase a 3D printer worth 
$723, according to a fundraising website.
“It’s disgusting,” Ward said. “Every student 
in the state should have the same experience 
and resources, no matter their ZIP code.” Racial barriers
Most of Alachua County’s low-grade 
schools are located in East Gainesville. Data 
from the Florida Department of Education 
shows these schools have students with more 
economic disadvantages and disabilities, as 
well as more non-native English speakers, 
compared to schools in West Gainesville. 
These factors are barriers to student suc-
cess, Johnson said. 
“It’s like asking us to start a race,” said 
Valerie Freeman, the county’s equity director. 
“Except one of us is missing a leg.”
The percentage of economically disadvan-
taged students at Idylwild and Lake Forest El-
ementary Schools in East Gainesville was 100 
percent in the 2018-19 school year, according 
to state data. That same percentage at Hidden 
Oak and Meadowbrook in West Gainesville 
was around 33 percent. 
Idylwild and Lake Forest are currently D 
graded schools. Hidden Oak and Meadow-
brook are both graded A.
A majority of the students who attend 
Alachua’s disproportionately disadvantaged 
schools such as Idylwild, Lake Forest and Jo-
seph Williams Elementary Schools are black, 
according to data from the Florida Depart-
ment of Education.
Grades aren’t good indicators of a school’s 
value, said the teacher who withdrew her son 
from Lawton M. Chiles Elementary, a high-
performing school. The success gap is exac-
erbated by racial discrimination at schools of 
all grades. 
Within the ﬁ  rst week of school, her son 
was recommended for lower-level reading 
classes, she said. These would take place 
while other students attend extracurricular 
classes like art and recess. 
“I said, ‘No, we’re not doing that,’” she 
said. “‘The boy can read. Give him more 
time.’” 
Later in the year, her son was tested again. 
This test revealed he was gifted and in need 
of a more advanced curriculum. She said that 
his teacher didn’t want to give him a chance 
to excel, which is common for black boys in 
school. 
“White boy Tommy walks in the class-
room jumping up and down, and it’s OK. The teacher doesn’t say anything,” she said. “But 
James, on the other hand, comes in, and he’s 
jumping up and down and suddenly there’s a 
problem.” 
County solutions
Alachua County launched an equity initia-
tive in 2018 to bridge the success gap between 
East and West Gainesville schools by improv-
ing grades. The initiative encourages equity-
based teacher training and looks to hire more 
literacy and math coaches for low-income 
schools. 
Freeman said the standardized tests used 
to calculate school grades don’t take into ac-
count each student’s unique circumstances. 
“Our job is to level the playing ﬁ  eld as 
much as possible for all students,” she said.
This means connecting parents who never 
completed high school with College Board 
recruiters. It means providing students with 
laptops, so they can do their homework and 
training staff on how to engage low-attending 
students, she said. 
Changing teachers’ mindsets and mode of 
operation is an important part of this process, 
Freeman said. There is now a greater empha-
sis on cultural sensitivity and delivering cur-
riculum in a way that is understood by all stu-
dents, regardless of their background. 
“Just because we thought it was the right 
way before doesn’t mean it’s the right way for 
every student,” she said. 
The teacher who pulled her son out of 
Lawton M. Chiles Elementary said having teachers understand the cultural differences 
of their students goes a long way. But the 
hardest part is getting teachers to have those 
conversations.
“Immediately, a teacher feels attacked,” 
she said. “Or they’ll say, ‘I didn’t come into 
education to hurt anyone.’ Right. No one did. 
But some of the things you do unknowingly 
are hurting children.”
Freeman said equity will take time, but it’s 
necessary for student success. She said she 
won’t be complacent, even when the quanti-
tative data shows they’ve reached their goals.
“Equity work can be a fad,” Freeman said. 
“My job is to make sure that we don’t back off. 
This is the right thing to do.”
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.org
Jewish
UF Hillel 
All are welcome!
Reform & Conservative Friday 
Evening Services: 6pm
Free Shabbat Dinner: 7 pm
Join us for services, 
dinner, or both
2020 W. University Ave.
ufhillel.org
@UFHillel
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Presbyterian
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship: 8:30 & 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after 
Sunday worship
College Fellowship: Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, Bible 
study and recreation.
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.org
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482
Hannah Phillips // Alligator Staff
The map shows the Alachua County public elementary schools graded A in West 
Gainesville and D in East Gainesville in 2019. Westside schools earn a bonus from the 
state for earning two consecutive A’s. Eastside schools, which face unique academic 
challenges that contribute to their low scores, do not.
GRADES,  from pg. 1Higher grade schools get a bo nus
How the public school grading system works
Every school year, students in grades 
three through 10 take Florida Standard 
Assessments in subjects like language arts, 
math and science. The scores they earn are 
used to calculate an overall grade for the 
entire school that can range from an A to an F. 
A-rated schools earn extra money from 
the state, while D and F-rated schools face 
threats of closure. FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
THERE ARE ABOUT 10,500 
HISPANIC/LATINX 
UF STUDENTS
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
Alana Rush’s mother nicknamed 
her “Salmon” because she goes 
against the current.
Rush, a Latinx woman, believes 
minorities should be pro-immigra-
tion. But navigating immigration is-
sues can be an upstream battle for 
salmon like Rush. Her sentiment 
isn’t shared by everyone in her fam-
ily or community.
The 21-year-old political science 
senior and secretary of the UF Do-
minican Student Association is one 
of more than 10,500 Hispanic/Lati-
no students at UF in Fall 2018. Like 
other students, Rush’s experiences 
and cultural background as a Latinx 
woman have shaped her beliefs. 
But while UF Latinx students 
share a similar culture, they have 
yet to ﬁ  nd common ground on their 
politics.
Hispanics are predicted to be-
come the largest minority group of eligible voters in the 2020 elec-
tion, according to the Pew Research 
Center. With the presidential elec-
tion quickly approaching and Re-
publican President Donald Trump 
seeking reelection, the Latinx voter 
turnout in battleground Florida, 
and their polarized views on im-
migration, the economy and foreign 
policy have the potential to greatly 
inﬂ  uence the election’s outcome.
As a Democrat, Rush disagrees 
with Trump’s hard-line immigration 
policies.
“People come into countries 
because they’re seeking help,” she 
said. “They’re seeking resources to 
help them live better lives, to live 
the American dream, and I feel like 
he’s just trying to stop that from 
happening.”
Rush’s great-grandmother, along 
with her kids, ﬂ  ed the Dominican 
Republic in the 1950s because of 
dictator Rafael Trujillo. Although 
Rush is liberal, she’s noticed that 
older Puerto Rican Army and Navy 
veterans on the other side of her 
family align with conservative val-
ues. 
Rush believes her family’s con-
servative views stem from their military service and growing up in 
a U.S. commonwealth, which gave 
them a strong sense of patriotism 
toward the U.S. as opposed to the 
Dominican side of her family.
When discussing politics with 
other Latinx students, Rush said she 
was often shocked by their agree-
ment with conservative values.
Jarrod Rodriguez, the president 
of UF Turning Point USA and the 
treasurer of UF College Republi-
cans, feels that President Trump has 
effectively addressed the concerns 
of Republicans.
Rodriguez’s family ﬂ  ed Cuba 
during Fidel Castro’s communist 
regime. While living in the U.S, 
he said his family told him stories 
about the horrors of communism. 
He said he wants to maintain the 
American values that helped his 
grandparents thrive was one of the 
main reasons why he became inter-
ested in politics.
He believes Trump has received 
unnecessary criticism from Demo-
crats for doing what other presi-
dents have done before, particularly 
with immigration and foreign policy 
in the Middle East.
“We’ve been conducting air-strikes for years and in fact, the 
‘king of all airstrikes,’ Obama never 
caught ﬁ  re from Congress for con-
ducting airstrikes in that region,” he 
said.
On the other hand, Harrison Ri-
umbau, also Cuban, leans left and 
serves as the Latinx caucus chair-
man for the UF College Democrats.
Cuban Americans who weren’t 
born in Cuba were reported as 41 
percent Republican, with 28 per-
cent identifying as Democrats, 29 
percent as registered independents 
and 2 percent with another party 
registration, according to a 2018 
poll from Florida International Uni-
versity.
Riumbau, a 19-year-old UF po-
litical science and economics soph-
omore, said there’s “no possible 
way” Trump could be seen as sup-
portive to the Latinx community.
“Any reach that Trump has 
shown to appeal to any Latinx 
group has only been ... for personal 
beneﬁ  t or political beneﬁ  t in terms 
of elections,” Riumbau said. “And 
any other remarks that aren’t in that 
fashion have only been diminishing 
and destructive.”
Jacqueline Vanegas agrees with Riumbau’s assertion.
Vanegas, a 19-year-old Colom-
bian and a UF political science and 
history freshman, serves as the 
College Democrats’ Latinx caucus 
chairwoman. Growing up in South 
Florida among a large Latinx com-
munity, she witnessed those around 
her fear breing deported under the 
Trump administration.
She believes Trump has fostered 
division and xenophobia between 
Americans and immigrants by 
choosing to build a border wall.
“Colorism within the Latino com-
munity is not only prominent social-
ly, but also politically,” Vanegas said. 
“When you think of immigration, you 
think of more mestizo, dark-skinned 
Latinos, and you see discrimination 
more toward them, rather than those 
Latinos who are white and come 
from European descent.”
Despite polarizing views within 
the Latinx community, Vanegas be-
lieves Latinx people still share un-
derlying moral principles.
“There’s always going to be a 
pride of being Latino,” Vanegas said. 
“While there can be different politi-
cal views, I think at the end of the 
day, we all want what’s best for us.”
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgUF Latinx students: United by culture, divided by politics
THE CLASSES WILL BE 
OFFERED ONCE A MONTH.
By Lillian Colon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will have a chance to 
experience meals from around the 
world without leaving Gainesville.
Jenny Duong and Robert Colon, 
in collaboration with the UF Field 
and Fork Pantry and the UF food 
science and human nutrition de-
partment, are hosting global kitch-
en cooking classes and demonstra-tions. The ﬁ  rst free class was held 
Wednesday.
Duong, 19-year-old UF food 
science sophomore, and Colon, a 
26-year-old UF dietetics junior are 
interns in the department. 
The two hope the classes will 
help students sharpen their cook-
ing skills and reduce food inse-
curity by giving demonstrations 
on how to buy cheap, healthy 
food. It’ll also teach students 
how to prepare and cook meals. 
     The pantry’s goal is to decrease 
food insecurity by providing meals, according to its website.
A study done by the UF Insti-
tute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ences showed that of 244 ﬁ  rst-year 
students polled at UF, 21.7 percent 
were food insecure. Food insecu-
rity is deﬁ  ned as lacking access to 
healthy or adequate food, according 
to the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture. 
Students will have to sign up 
every month on a Google Doc on 
the Field and Fork Pantry’s web-
site. Each class has a maximum of 
30 students on a ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-served basis. Students will receive 
an email either stating they are a 
participant or have been put on a 
waitlist.
Student chefs will showcase 
dishes from a different country ev-
ery month, including Vietnam, In-
dia, Morocco and Mexico. 
“We wanted to feature countries 
with fresh ingredients and a unique 
spice blend,” Colon said.
All of the preparations are vege-
tarian, and most are vegan, but par-
ticipants have the option to tweak 
the recipes to add meat to their 
meals.
In Wednesday’s class on Viet-
namese food, Jenna Hidalgo, a 19-year-old UF criminology sopho-
more learned how to make spring 
rolls and pho, traditional Vietnam-
ese dishes.  
“I always go out of my way to 
ﬁ  nd restaurants that serve pho,” 
Hidalgo said. “When I found out 
that the class was on making pho, I 
knew I had to go.”Field and Fork pantry oﬀ  ering cooking classes
Countries featured in the 
cooking classes
Feb. 19 — India
March 18 — Morocco 
April 15 — Mexico 6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020
THE DISCUSSION FOCUSED ON 
POLITICAL DIVISION IN THE U.S. 
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
While some might say the “united” in 
United States appears to be diminishing, a 
former senator and award-winning author 
believe they know a solution to reclaim 
unity: compromise.
Former Sen. Bill Nelson and author Jon 
Meacham held a discussion on political di-
vision in the Library East Grand Ballroom 
Thursday morning. The discussion was 
part of UF’s Nelson Initiative on Ethics and 
Leadership, which is a series of seminars, 
classes and a fellowship program. 
The event, which drew about 200 
people, was sponsored by the Bob Gra-
ham Center for Public Service, George A. 
Smathers Libraries and Levin College of 
Law. The exchange focused on political di-
vision in the United States throughout his-
tory and how it can be addressed. 
During the discussion, Meacham, a Pu-
litzer prize-winning writer, expressed po-
litical division is a systemic issue in the 
United States, and it’s one that isn’t quite new to the current election cycle. 
Meacham said Americans should work 
to combat that political divisiveness. 
“The story we want told, I would argue, 
is one where we open our arms and didn’t 
clench our fists,” he said.
Americans point to the moments of 
grace and outreach when leaders bring 
people together, Meacham said. George 
W. Bush visiting a mosque in Washington 
after 9/11; Barack Obama singing Amaz-
ing Grace in Charleston; and George H.W. 
Bush resigning from the National Rifle As-
sociation after the Oklahoma City bombing 
were a few examples. 
Nelson, who served as a U.S. Senator 
between 2001 and 2019, said when he first 
arrived in Washington he noticed that poli-
ticians would disagree with one another 
but still remain respectful.
Nelson said the environment in Wash-
ington is a lot more divisive and hostile.
“The idea of being ladies and gentlemen 
started to go out the window when politics 
took front and center to win the next elec-
tion,” Nelson said.
Katherine McCall, a 20-year-old UF eco-
nomics junior, said the discussion was a 
good reminder that now is not the worst point in history the United States has 
faced. It’s also not too different from other 
points in history.
“This moment is about us and how we 
are as a people rather than politicians,” 
McCall said.
When asked his advice to solve Ameri-
ca’s division, Nelson told The Alligator he 
encourages voters to choose the candidate who they believe can bring the country to-
gether. 
“Respect and humility is essential for 
the art of compromise to make government 
work,” Nelson said. “Compromise is the 
oxygen of democracy.”
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.org Former U.S. Senator Bill Nelson and author discuss division in American Politics
Grethel Aguila // Alligator Staff
Former U.S. Senator Bill Nelson and author Jon Meacham discuss political division in 
the United States throughout history on Thursday morning.
THE SMATHERS LIBRARIES WELLNESS 
COMMITTEE IS ADDING NAP PODS 
AND EXERCISE EQUIPMENT
By Tristan Wood
Alligator Contributing Writer
Libraries are usually homes of research and 
schoolwork, but a new wellness committee hopes 
to bring new activities to the UF Smathers Librar-
ies.
The Smathers Libraries Wellness Committee is 
bringing nap pods, pedal desks and other wellness 
technology to its libraries, said Melissa Rethlefsen, 
the associate dean of Health Science Center Librar-
ies and Fackler director of health.
The committee was formed by George A. 
Smathers Libraries in December 2019. Rethlefsen 
said it will focus on library wellness initiatives this 
semester to reduce student stress and burnout. 
“The primary objective of the wellness commit-
tee is to combat student burnout through mental and physical health,” she said. “Students will see 
most of committee work this semester around mid-
terms and finals.”
She said the committee’s short-term goal for 
student wellness is to combine individual library 
resources so Smathers Libraries will have uniform 
wellness events among all the libraries during test-
ing weeks.  These events include meditation ses-
sions, therapy dog visits, yoga classes and crafts. 
Its long-term goals include spreading wellness 
resources, like pedal desks and nap pods, to all 
Smathers libraries on campus.
The committee is also currently working on a 
survey for library staff to address their wellness 
needs, Rethlefsen said.
“The committee is supposed to serve the well-
ness needs of the students, faculty and our staff for 
whenever they enter our libraries,” she said.
Another committee was formed in Fall 2017 for the 
Health Science Center Library, but the new commit-
tee is focused on bringing these resources to Smathers Libraries, said Ariel Pomputius, leader of the Health 
Science Center Library’s wellness committee and rep-
resentative on the Smathers Committee. 
She said the committee also received a grant to 
get portable treadmills to put underneath standing 
desks for students to walk and study, which is ex-
pected to arrive this Summer.
Wellness tools such as puzzles, wellness books, 
fish tanks, bike desks, under-desk pedal exercisers 
and nap pods were put in the Health Science Library 
in Fall 2017, Pomputius said.
The two nap pods at the Health Science Library 
are massage chairs with an egg-shaped dome that 
can be pulled over the chair to block out outside 
light. Once encased, users can put on supplied 
noise-canceling headphones that play meditative 
music, and the user selects the nap length and the 
music on the panel in the chair’s arm.
“With wellness tech, it is important to remem-
ber that everyone approaches wellness different-
ly,” Pomputius said.UF Smathers Libraries are taking study breaks to a whole new level
Courtesy to The Alligator
Beau, a UF Health volunteer and 
therapy dog, smiles while laying 
on the library floor. 
LOCAL COMMUNITY 
SHARES SUPPORT WITH 
FAMIL Y AND FRIENDS
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
After suffering a dangerous fall 
from a downtown parking garage, 
a UF student remains bedridden in 
the UF Health Shands Hospital as his 
family, friends and community unite 
on his difficult path to recovery.
Mitchell Capps, a Theta Chi fra-
ternity member and 22-year-old UF 
forest resources and conservation 
junior, fell from a parking garage lo-
cated on the 100th block of SW Sec-
ond St. on Jan. 17. 
After nearly a week in the hospi-
tal, Capps’ condition appears to be 
improving. His father, Bryan Capps Sr., said doctors were able to remove 
his breathing tube Thursday.
“He looks much more himself, 
and he started moving his eyes and 
responding to voices today,” Capps 
Sr. said Thursday evening. “So we’re 
just overjoyed.”
Following the incident, Capps 
suffered a serious brain injury, two 
broken femurs, a broken pelvis, a 
broken ankle, a broken elbow, bro-
ken fingers and broken bones in his 
face, according to Capps Sr.’s Face-
book post.
Capps’ mother, Kim Vaglivielo 
Capps, shared an update on Face-
book Wednesday and wrote her son 
is showing more brain activity, and 
his doctor appeared to be encour-
aged by his eye movements. 
“Praise God! Your prayers are 
working! Please continue praying 
and sharing Mitchell’s story with anyone who prays,” Vaglivielo 
Capps wrote. “We feel the love and 
support and it’s helping us to get 
through each day. We love you all.”
A GoFundMe page created Tues-
day by Capps’ older brother, Bryan 
Capps Jr., has already raised $40,525 
of the $50,000 goal listed as of Thurs-
day. The money raised will help de-
fray the costs of recovery and Capps’ 
eventual return to school, according 
to the fundraiser’s page. 
Capps Jr. shared the most re-
cent update on the fundraiser page 
Wednesday: “Mitch’s surgeries so far 
have been going as well as possible, 
and he’s starting to show signs of in-
creased activity,” he wrote. “He’s a 
fighter on his own, but I know that 
his progress so far wouldn’t be pos-
sible without all of you behind him.”
The UF Forestry Club will hold 
a benefit concert for Capps at First Magnitude Brewing Company Satur-
day from 6-10 p.m. and feature one 
of Capps’ favorite bands, Kamasutra. 
Proceeds will go toward helping the 
Capps family, said Hope Miller, the 
president of the UF Forestry Club. 
Miller, a friend and classmate of 
Capps, said Capps’ family, friends 
and Theta Chi fraternity brothers 
will attend the concert. 
She describes Capps as always 
being “such a bright spot in every-
one’s day.” 
“He always has a smile or a joke,” 
Miller said. “I just felt moved to help 
the family out in any way I could.”
Capps’ fall was reported to police 
at 10 p.m. Jan. 17, said Jorge Cam-
pos, a spokesman for the Gainesville 
Police Department. While police 
could not confirm which floor he fell 
from, Capps Sr. wrote in a Facebook 
post Sunday that his son fell from the fourth floor of the garage.
Although Capps didn’t have iden-
tification on him following the inci-
dent, he was identified to authorities 
by one of his best friends who hap-
pened to drive by and recognized 
him.
Authorities are still investigating 
the circumstances of Capps’ fall. 
Capps Sr. said he feels grateful for 
the support his family has received 
from the community following his 
son’s incident. 
“There’s people all over the 
country who’ve just come out of the 
woodwork, and I could not be more 
grateful,” Capps Sr. said. “We don’t 
deserve it. I feel like the luckiest man 
in the world.”
@SLagmis
slagmis@alligator.org UF student remains in UF Shands Hospital after parking garage fallFRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
IT  WILL HELP A SPORTS 
JOURNALISM STUDENT.
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
UF College of Journalism and 
Communications set up a memorial 
fund in honor of one of its former 
students who became an ESPN re-
porter upon graduation.
Edward Aschoff graduated from 
UF in 2008 and became a sports re-
porter for ESPN in 2011. 
He died Christmas Eve from HLH 
syndrome, a complication of pneu-
monia and underlying non-Hodgkins 
lymphoma, a type of cancer that orig-
inates in the lymphatic system — the 
disease-ﬁ  ghting system throughout 
the body.
“One of the common themes that 
you saw from a lot of people who 
were posting about him was that he 
was always willing to help someone 
else, someone else starting in the 
business or someone who’s trying 
to navigate their career,” said Ted 
Spiker, the chair of the department of journalism. “He was 
special, and he was 
a great writer.”
Spiker said it has 
not yet been decid-
ed how the money 
will be used. How-
ever, the donations 
might help students 
interested in sports journalism and 
media in some way. 
Joseph Lara, a 23-year-old UF jour-
nalism junior specializing in sports 
and media, said he was shocked to 
hear about the loss of an alumnus 
in such a tight-knit program and is 
grateful for the fund.
“Setting up a fund like that, you’re 
going to remember his name, you’re 
going to remember his story,” Lara 
said. “And that’s something that’s 
going to be carried on as a legacy 
here at UF.”
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgCJC starts memorial fund in the 
name of UF alumni Edward Aschoﬀ  
Aschoff
THE OL YMPIC MEDALIST AND 
GATOR ALUMNUS MOVED 
BACK TO GAINESVILLE.
By Valentina Botero
Alligator Staff Writer
Olympic medalist and Gator 
alumnus Ryan Lochte traded in 
his swimmer’s cap for a hairnet to 
serve meals at Grace Marketplace 
Wednesday morning. 
Between his Olympic prac-
tices, he volunteered at Grace 
Marketplace’s Cafe 131, located 
at 3055 NE 28th Ave., as part of 
his recent partnership with the 
company Piñata, a rent member-
ship payment service where users 
can log in, pay their monthly rent 
and get rewards such as free cof-
fee, said Piñata President Dimitri 
Falk. He said he partnered with Grace Marketplace, so in the fu-
ture, it will buy a homeless per-
son’s meal every time people pay 
rent.
Lochte moved back to 
Gainesville from Los Angeles 
with his wife and two children 
to prepare for the 2020 Summer 
Olympics in Tokyo, he said. 
“If I want to get another shot 
at the Olympics, I gotta go back to 
where my swimming career start-
ed, and it was here at the Univer-
sity of Florida,” Lochte said. 
However, training more than 
25 hours a week doesn’t discour-
age Lochte from giving back to 
the community. 
Lochte is feeding the homeless 
to celebrate this partnership. Pi-
ñata will track the number of peo-
ple who pay its rent through the 
app on their website and donate 
meals to Grace on a monthly ba-sis, said Justis Mendez, the busi-
ness developer for Piñata.
Lochte plans to return back to 
Grace to volunteer while he is in 
Gainesville and said that this op-
portunity he had to interact with 
the homeless and see them smile 
was fun and rewarding. He said 
he will show his 2-year-old son 
the pictures when he gets older so 
he can learn to give back to the 
community.
Despite Lochte’s scandal at the 
last Olympics in Rio, the company 
thought he was the perfect person 
to represent the idea of unlocking 
your truest potential and becom-
ing the best you can be, Mendez 
said.
Jon DeCarmine, the executive 
director for Grace, said he is ex-
cited to partner up with Piñata 
and work with them to end home-
lessness.Piñata’s partnership with 
Grace is long-term, and its goal 
is to help the homeless ﬁ  nd tem-
porary work and teach them com-
puter skills, Mendez said.
“Anything that might help in-spire other folks to come out to be 
a part of the solution is valuable 
to us,” DeCarmine said. 
@lvbotero_
vbotero@alligator.orgRyan Lochte serves lunch to homeless at Grace Marketplace
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Ryan Lochte, 12-time Olympic medalist and American competitive 
swimmer, serves food at Grace Marketplace, a homeless resource 
center in Gainesville, Wednesday morning.
THE $12,000 DONATION WILL 
BENEFIT THE HOMELESS.  
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
Pizza proﬁ  ts are a step toward ending 
homelessness in Gainesville.
On Tuesday, Satchel’s Pizza announced 
that it will award $12,000 to Grace Market-
place, a homeless shelter joint-funded by the 
City of Gainesville and Alachua County Com-
missions. Grace has provided assistance and 
emergency shelter to the homeless in Alachua 
County since 2014. 
The City Commission passed a motion in 
September to increase funding for Grace Mar-ketplace following the county’s decision to re-
duce funding. Dignity Village, the homeless en-
campment surrounding Grace, remains open 
despite the city’s plans to close it by Jan. 1. 
Many of its residents turn to Grace for services.
Grace Marketplace is a project that has re-
duced homelessness by 36 percent in Alachua 
County since it opened six years ago. This 
year, it plans to move 500 people into housing, 
said Jon DeCarmine, the executive director of 
Grace Marketplace.
Because of its need for a box truck, Grace 
received the Satch Capital grant, which sup-
ports local nonproﬁ  ts by funding speciﬁ  c proj-
ects like what Grace accomplishes, according 
to Satchel’s website. 
Due to the lack of transportation, Grace has 
been limited in the amount of donated food and furniture it has been able to accept, De-
Carmine said. Since it opened, the shelter has 
relied on volunteers with pickup trucks and a 
passenger van for transportation. 
DeCarmine said purchasing a box truck will 
expand Grace’s ability to receive donations. It 
will also help transport items, given that the 
organization moves nearly one person into 
permanent housing each day. 
“It’s one thing to help someone sign a lease, 
and it’s a completely different thing to ﬁ  ll that 
apartment with furniture so that it becomes a 
home,” DeCarmine said.
Grace has not yet received the check from 
the grant, he said. But once it does, it will pur-
chase a box truck within three to four weeks.
The Satch Capital grant is supported by 
Satchel’s Pizza’s $1.50 ATM fee, which gener-ates $2,000 every month, said the restaurant’s 
owner Satchel Raye. 
The restaurant is cash-only, and its ATM 
raises about $25,000 in fees annually to fund 
this grant and other smaller ones. 
“If we had VISA and Mastercard, we would 
not see any of that money,” Raye said.
Local 501(c)(3) charitable organizations 
are eligible for the Satch Capital grant, he said. 
A grant committee meets annually to discuss 
the proposals and choose a charity. Grace was 
chosen because of its need for a box truck.
“It’s really hard to ﬁ  gure out which is the 
most ‘deserving’,” Raye said. “A lot of times it 
boils down to who seems to need it the most 
or do the most.”
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgSatchel’s Pizza donates to Grace MarketplaceABOUT 30 PEOPLE ATTENDED 
AND ONL Y FOUR WERE MALE
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
More than an hour of discussion was not enough 
time to talk about what survivors wanted to say. 
The UF Women’s Student Association and UF 
Law Believes Survivors discussed victim blaming 
Wednesday night, speciﬁ  cally discussing Anita 
Hill’s testimony. 
UF Levin College of Law declined to comment 
when asked why Clarence Thomas was coming to 
teach despite the controversy.
In October 1991, Hill had a three-day hearing 
where she accused Thomas of sexually harass-
ing her before he was appointed to the Supreme 
Court, according to the New York Times. He de-
nied her claims and called the hearings a “high-
tech lynching.”
The UF law invited Thomas to teach at UF next 
week. The event was aimed to bring people to-
gether to discuss victim blaming and Hills’ testi-
mony because students felt the university did not 
care about sexual harassment, said Ana Shaw, a 
19-year-old exploratory sophomore and assistant 
program director for the Women’s Student Asso-
ciation.
“It basically speaks the fact that a lot of times 
this university seems to be overlooking the issues 
of sexual assault and harassment on campus,” Shaw said. 
Jose Pinski, a 20-year-old biology sophomore, 
was at the event and said he agreed with their 
perspective and was interested in understanding a 
woman’s viewpoint on these topics.
Thomas has been coming to UF law to teach 
courses on property and is going to be teaching 
a course on religious clauses. However, since 
the #MeToo movement, students were surprised 
when he was welcomed back onto campus.
Jarrod Rodriguez, a 20-year-old political science 
junior, said he is happy Thomas is teaching at UF law.
“It’s a great opportunity for UF students to hear 
from someone from the Supreme Court,” Rodri-
guez said. 
Rodriguez said the allegations Hill made 
against Thomas are no longer really relevant, and 
they were just accusations. Thomas has proven to 
have made himself a respected member of the Su-
preme Court, he said. 
Some students may not believe it’s a big deal 
that Thomas is teaching because he’s taught at UF 
before, but times are changing, said Dalia Figuere-
do, a 23-year-old UF law student from UF Law Be-
lieves Survivors said.
“We knew that there was probably no chance 
that he was going to be uninvited,” she said. “But 
keeping that in mind, we said okay, we’re not go-
ing to make it easy for them.”
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgAnita Hill discussion has students debating 
on Clarence Thomas teaching at UF LawBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
SEASONED OAK FIREWOOD
Split & delivered. $120 for 1/2 cord.
Call James 386-292-5219        1-29-20-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sincer -
ity of the advertiser before giving out per -
sonal information or arranging meetings 
or investing money.● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2bd/2bth fully furnished townhouse, SW 
Gainesville, stone's throw from Haile Town 
Center, front garden, back porch face woods, 
high ceiling, utilities & wifi included, $350/
wk. No pets. Email: vchow331@yahoo.com    
2-10-20-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      1-24-
20-19-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
answer on page 9
By Paul Coulter
(c)2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/24/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/24/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, January 24, 2020
ACROSS
1 Draft category
5 Crisply played, 
in mus.
9 Qatar’s capital
13 Inflammation 
treatment
15 Apple product
16 Blamed for 
personal 
advantage
19 More mean
20 Sci-fi helmsman
21 Burdened
24 Portable chair
26 “Uno __”: 
cantina request
27 Fundraising 
targets
29 Boar’s mate
31 Punch with 
force, maybe
35 Greatly beloved 
ones
38 He reunited with 
his fictional ex 
on Valentine’s 
Day in 2011
39 Ibuprofen brand
41 Backboard 
attachment
42 Place Sundance 
liked to see
44 Chanoyu 
ceremony 
essential
47 Kazakhstan, 
once: Abbr.
49 Waste time
50 __ store
53 Many an Indian
57 Green
58 Game with two 
secret passages
60 Advice
62 Hotel amenity, 
and a hint to 
three puzzle 
answers
67 They can make 
you better, 
briefly
68 Basically
69 Annoyance
70 Do, for example
71 Cutty __
DOWN
1 Fall mo.
2 Kabuki kin
3 Give the wrong 
change, say4 Acts of 
reparation
5 IRS IDs
6 Talks up
7 Musical in 
which FDR is a 
character
8 Gave up
9 Board mem.
10 Expresses a 
preference (for)
11 Blah
12 “A Passage to 
India” heroine
14 “Lemme!”
17 Age relatives
18 Clear
21 Delay
22 Not quite 
identical
23 Comforter
25 It’s often served 
with nutmeg
28 “... __ 
woodchuck 
could chuck 
wood?”
30 Subjects of 
European trials 
during the 
Renaissance
32 Wd. ending in 
-less33 FDR power plan
34 Backtalk
36 Botch
37 Common sense?
40 Bloke
43 It may be tapped 
into a tray
45 Parents, usually
46 High __
48 P.R. part
50 Appear
51 Fluff, as pillows
52 Blender button54 Hopeless
55 “Beats me!”
56 Up in the air
59 Aims
61 Zaire’s Mobutu 
__ Seko
63 It ends shortly 
after 1-Down
64 __ moment
65 “Bad Moon 
Rising” band, 
briefly
66 “A rat!”
By Bruce Haight
(c)2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/23/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/23/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, January 23, 2020
ACROSS
1 Spunky
8 Longest-serving 
Japanese prime 
minister
11 Ave. crossers
14 Steel foundry 
input
15 Traction-
improving
17 “Try some!”
18 Lamaze class 
attendee
19 Expectant time
20 One of the family
22 About 24% of the 
U.S. Congress
23 Stations
26 Place for 
choppers
29 Not quite right
30 Oodles
31 Broadway song 
that begins, “The 
most beautiful 
sound I ever 
heard”
33 Brief encounter
34 Flag thrower
37 Co-tsar with 
Peter I
38 Saucepan cover
39 Missile Command 
game company
41 Place to stay
42 Newcastle 
Brown __
43 Starts bubbling, 
maybe
44 Fleecy one
45 Loafs
47 Strong suit
48 Lost, as a big 
lead
49 Way back when
50 Rum drink
54 Competition 
that includes 
snowboarding
57 Pianist Rubinstein
58 California’s 
__ Gabriel 
Mountains
60 Egg cells
61 Like the most 
busy busybody
64 Mid-Michigan city
67 Uganda’s capital
68 Accessory for 
an Aquaman 
costume
69 Before, in poems
70 Coffee hour sight
71 “Sounds right to 
me”DOWN
1 Positioned
2 Really want
3 New Year’s 
Day event in 
Pasadena
4 Tiny toiler
5 Name in eerie 
fiction
6 Proper to a  
fault
7 Himalayan 
legend
8 “Furthermore 
... ”
9 Fluffy wrap
10 Finish 
impressively
11 Sportscast 
technique
12 River near 
Vatican City
13 Exhausted
16 “Hold it!”
21 Lamb Chop 
puppeteer
24 Short, in a way
25 It helps you go 
places
27 Gives the slip
28 Part of LAPD
31 Pedometer unit
32 Swear
33 Sport coat34 Get support, in a 
way ... and what 
the puzzle circles 
do
35 Writer Gardner
36 Rock that, oddly, 
loses to paper
40 Puccini opera
46 Boxer Laila
49 Ventura County 
city
50 German word of 
gratitude
51 Wildly cheering52 Knocker’s 
words
53 Zinger
55 Chris of “Captain 
America”
56 Handled
59 Wine made from 
Muscat grapes
62 Camera type, for 
short
63 You basked for it
65 USO show 
audience
66 Wyo. neighbor
01/22/20FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSeeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14
After School Counselor
This is a part time afternoon position M-F 
working with girls ages 5-14. Required to 
pass level II background screening. Apply at 
www.girlsplace.net.      1-24-20-4-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist. BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info                                    
1-29-20-5-14
Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
Tutor-needed to help perform high energy cal-
culations for the universe. Energy of Inflation, 
Energy of Big Bang, black hole energy with a 
caveat. Grad or Dr. student with open mind. 
Contact Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-5-
20-7-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 60 y.o. MALE
Spinal Cord Injury with Quadriplegia 
Safe Central Gainesville Location 
6 AM to 10:30 AM - 12 to 16 hours weekly 
$17 to $20 hour - CNA or Equivalent
Details Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net    
2-3-20-5-14
Small country church near Gainesville is 
seeking part time worship/song leader 
for Sunday morning services. Contact D. 
Cousino 352-389-4081; email:
 dcousino1987@gmail.com.        2-3-20-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees14 Help Wanted 18 Personals1. Hawaii and Alaska
2. Cunningham
3. The watery part of milk that re -
mains after cheese curds have formed
4. A 7-10 split
5. A small, wild cat
6. One vote short of the necessary 
two-thirds majority to convict
7. "... All the king's horses and all the 
king's men/ Couldn't put Humpty to -
gether again."
8. Jupiter
9. Zechariah
10. SevenTrivia Test  answers
PUZZLE  SOLUTIONS
1. U.S. STATES: Which two states share no bor -
ders with any other U.S. state?
2. TELEVISION: What is Richie's last name in the 
1970-80s series "Happy Days"?
3. FOOD & DRINK: What is whey?
4. GAMES: What are "bedposts" in bowling?
5. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What kind of creature 
is an ocelot?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: By how many Senate votes 
was President Andrew Johnson spared removal from office after he was impeached by the 
House?
7. LITERATURE: What is the end of the nursery 
rhyme that starts: "Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall/ 
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall ... "?
8. ASTRONOMY: Which is the largest planet in 
our solar system?
9. BIBLE: Who was John the Baptist's father?
10. MUSIC: How many Top 10 songs were re -
leased on Michael Jackson's "Thriller" album?1. LITERATURE: What is the motto 
of “The Three Musketeers” in the 19th 
century novel?
2. MUSIC: What were the first 
names of the Allman brothers?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: New 
York City is divided into how many 
boroughs?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Malaysia?
5. HISTORY: Which was the first U.S. 
state to be admitted to the union after the 
original 13 states were admitted?
6. MATH: What is the first number 
in which the letter “a” appears in its 
spelling?
7. GEOLOGY: What kind of rock like-
ly would form at the bottom of a river?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which presi-
dent once worked as a fashion model?
9. MOVIES: How many people were 
killed in the 1996 movie “Scream”?
10. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: 
Which ancient Roman philosopher 
once said, “Every new beginning 
comes from other beginnings’ end”?
Answers
1. One for all, and all for one
2. Duane and Gregg
3. Five
4. Kuala Lumpur
5. Vermont
6. 1,000
7. Sedimentary
8. Gerald Ford 
9. Seven
10. Seneca
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 13, 2020King Features Weekly Service
  answers below© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
answers below solution below
ScrabbleGrams  solution
Sudoku  answer
The result would look like "E."Stickelers  answerFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Gators women's 
basketball guard Sarah Lowe 
will be honored as UF's SEC 
Legend at the conference 
tournament in March.Florida baseball pegged for another top-10 ranking
The Gators are No. 10 in the USA T oday Preseason Coaches Poll. Eight of 
UF's opponents also appeared in the T op 25, ﬁ  ve of which are among the top 
nine teams.Alligator File Photo
Alyssa Baumann posted a 
season-high 9.925 in the ﬂ  oor 
exercise against Missouri.
GYMNASTICS
MEN'S BASKETBALLBy Noah Ram
Sports Writer
This is a meet over a year in the making.
It has been in the making since Jan. 18, 2019.
On that day last year, the Florida gymnastics 
team went into Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and got 
that monkey, or “Tiger,” off its back and shocked 
LSU. It was its ﬁ  rst win over the Tigers since 2014 
and it ended their 35-meet home win streak.
Now, tonight, we get the rematch.
The Gators will host the Tigers on Friday night 
in their biggest SEC meet of the season. It will be 
held at the O’Connell Center and begins at 7:15 
p.m.
This meet looks to be another chapter in this 
rivalry involving two of the most successful pro-
grams in the country. Florida and LSU have made 
three of the last four Super Sixes. The meet on 
Friday will be the 24th-consecutive the teams will 
meet with both ranked in the top 10. 
These two teams have played each other in-
credibly close. Of their 22 meetings since 2013, 17 
have been decided by less than half a point.“It’s been a very close rivalry over the last cou-
ple years,” coach Jenny Rowland said.
No. 2 Florida will be looking to bounce back 
from a less-than-stellar performance last week in 
a win over No. 19 Missouri in Columbia. Despite 
the 196.85-195.60 win, UF (2-0) really didn’t get it 
going until the third rotation.
“It was a situation last week we are not used 
to,” Rowland said. “They had an ice storm come 
through and it was a small crowd so the energy 
level was not up, and we just started a little too 
tight.”
Although the score may have been lower than 
expected, there were still some positives to take 
away from the meet.
Sophomore Nya Reed equaled her career-high 
of 9.875 to win the vault title for the second-
straight week, and sophomore Trinity Thomas 
won her second beam (9.925) and ﬂ  oor (9.95) 
title in a row.
UF’s depth continues to be arguably the most 
impressive tool it has. Coach Rowland is able to 
roll out different lineups in each event every week 
and see the same top-ﬂ  ight results.“There is deﬁ  nitely a lot more depth this year 
than we’ve had in the past,” junior Alyssa Bau-
mann said. “I think it really pushes the team 
more, because we are competing for lineup spots 
each meet.”
For example, Baumann performed on the vault 
two weeks ago against Arkansas, but was replaced 
by Skaggs last week, who then proceeded to notch 
the second-highest score on the team (9.800).
No. 8 LSU comes to Gainesville with a 3-0 re-
cord. It has already faced SEC foes, No. 8 Geor-
gia and No. 20 Auburn. Freshman Kiya Johnson 
won the SEC Freshman of the week for her per-
formance against Auburn, scoring a 39.60 in the 
all-around category. The Tigers are coming off a 
second-place ﬁ  nish at last year’s NCAA Champi-
onship, their best ﬁ  nish in school history.
“This team really thrives on being able to com-
pete and show off in front of Gator nation," Row-
land said. "And having LSU on top of that really 
just ampliﬁ  es everything.”
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.org
By Evan Lepak and 
Brendan Farrell
Sports Writers
The Gators men’s basketball 
team welcomes No. 1 Baylor to 
the O’Dome on Saturday in the Big 
12/SEC Challenge, making this the 
third season in a row that Florida 
has faced the top team in the coun-
try. UF has also never won a reg-
ular-season matchup against a No. 
1 team, losing its last 13 attempts. 
Two of our basketball writers, 
Evan Lepak and Brendan Farrell, 
each have one aspect to keep an 
eye on in UF's game against the 
Bears. 
UF will need to disrupt 
Baylor’s offensive efﬁ  ciency
Baylor and Florida are very sim-
ilar teams on paper, especially on 
the offensive side of the ball.
According to KenPom, both 
squads share comparable numbers 
in offensive efﬁ  ciency and tempo. 
The Bears are 25th and 290th, re-
spectively in those categories, and 
because of this, they rarely turn the 
ball over. The team is averaging 
11.9 per game, which is second-
best in the Big 12.
In order for the Gators to win 
Saturday’s game, their defense will 
need to be active and disruptive. 
Initially, the team will have plenty 
of energy thanks to the expected sell-out crowd at the O’Connell 
Center, so it’ll be important for 
Florida to get off to a positive start 
by controlling the pace of play 
early.
Another key part of the game 
on Saturday will be on the glass. 
Baylor has a long and athletic 
frontcourt highlighted by 6-foot-9 
forward Freddie Gillespie who av-
erages 9.4 boards per game, good 
for third in the Big 12.
UF big men Kerry Blackshear Jr. 
and Omar Payne have the height 
to compete with him, but will that 
translate under the basket?
On Tuesday, LSU bullied the 
Gators down low, out-rebounding 
UF 38-28 and corralling an eye-
opening 15 offensive rebounds.
Payne and Blackshear Jr. com-
bined for just nine rebounds, while 
LSU’s top rebounders (Darius Days 
and Marlon Taylor) had 19 total.
The Bears are ranked seventh, 
according to KenPom, in offen-
sive rebounding percentage, and 
they average 39 total rebounds per 
game, which is second in the Big 
12 behind only West Virginia.
It’s clear that the painted area of 
the court on Saturday will play a 
key role in the difference between a 
Florida win and a Florida loss.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgFlorida hosts LSU in titanic, top-10 showdown
Keys for UF vs. No. 1 Baylor
Having an identity as a team in 
the game of basketball is every-
thing.
Specializing in a certain area 
of the game because of person-
nel or coaching creates a solid founda-
tion for a championship-caliber team.
Except the problem that I have seen 
with this Florida men’s basketball squad 
is they don’t have one.
UF has been all over the stat sheet 
this season and not exactly in a good way.
In both wins and losses, the Gators have had a 
myriad of different performances that I ﬁ  nd unset-
tling.
Defense has been a specialty for Mike White-
coached teams in the past, and this season, Florida 
has allowed 66 points a game, good enough for the 
93rd-ranked defense in the nation.
Yet on Saturday, the Gators locked down then-
No. 4 Auburn, allowing 47 points. But they surren-
dered 91 to Missouri just a week prior.
So, they’re not a team that will consistently make 
you work for baskets.
Is this an offensive team that plays fast-paced?
Nope.
Its adjusted tempo is 290th in the country, accord-
ing to KenPom, and the Gators average 74 points per 
game, good enough for 110th in the nation.
Florida managed to put up 82 points against LSU 
on Tuesday, just the ﬁ  fth time this season it has 
reached that total.
How about the boards? Are the Gators a rough 
and tumble team that’ll crash the glass and outwork 
you?
I see you’re getting the trend here.
Florida is 91st in the country at 37.8 rebounds a game and 99th with 11.17 offensive 
boards per contest.
And despite these unimpressive sta-
tistics, the Gators still ﬁ  nd themselves 
12-6 — a position that I don’t think 
they’d be in if it weren’t for their im-
pressive personnel.
This team was ranked No. 6 on the 
AP’s preseason poll for a reason: its ros-
ter.
A roster that features a 6-foot-5 point 
guard in Andrew Nembhard looking to build off a 
rookie campaign that featured a game-winner in the 
SEC Tournament.
Then at the wings there is guard Noah Locke, 
who is shooting a team-best 41 percent from be-
yond the arc along with an uber-athletic forward in 
Keyontae Johnson.
Not to mention the SEC Preseason Player of the 
Year and leading scorer Kerry Blackshear Jr.
Florida’s incoming freshmen certainly played a 
role in its generous preseason placement, as well.
Guards Tre Mann and Scottie Lewis both joined 
the Gators as ﬁ  ve-star recruits in 2019 to round out 
the team’s depth.
Much has been made of Lewis. A fun (and dead-
ly) drinking game would be to watch this team play 
and take a shot every time a broadcaster mentions 
Lewis’ athleticism, defensive prowess or his admit-
tedly impressive kick-ups.
Despite all this talent, the team frankly isn’t elite 
in any particular area. I am of the mindset that a 
team needs some part of its game to take pride in.
There also doesn’t seem to be a clear-cut leader 
who demands the ball in crunch time.A case of missing identity plagues the GatorsCup of Joe
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 12 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12
Joseph Salvador
Twitter: jsalvadorsports
jsalvador@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11  
SWIMMING
TRACK
MEN’S TENNISBy Ainslie Lee
Sports Writer
On Saturday afternoon, 24 of Florida’s 
swimmers and divers will jump into the 
O’Dome Natatorium water in their final 
dual meet as Gators when the Auburn Ti-
gers come to town.
The No. 9-ranked men’s team (6-1, 1-1 
SEC) will recognize 11 seniors while the 
eighth-ranked women’s team (10-0, 2-0 
SEC) will celebrate 13 seniors of its own. 
For the men, their opponent comes into 
Gainesville unranked with a record of 5-1 
(2-0 in SEC). The Tigers are led by Davis 
Edwards and Owen Upchurch who are 
both finding success as of late. 
During home win against Gardner-
Webb on Jan. 17, Edwards, a freshman, 
won the 500 freestyle with a time of 
4:34.04. Meanwhile, Upchurch found vic-
tories in both the 100 and 200 freestyle.  
In the orange and blue, the men’s 
team has stepped away from competition 
with its last meet having been Dec. 7 at 
the Toyota U.S. Open where it saw three 
of its swimmers bring hardware back to Gainesville. 
Kieran Smith nabbed a silver medal 
during the open with his swim in the 400 
freestyle, while Clark Beach (200 back) and 
Robert Finke (1,650 free) each managed to 
grab bronze. Finke’s 1,650 free (14:47.51) 
leads the SEC by four full seconds.
“It’s going to be a great feeling getting 
back into the water and competing in a 
dual meet again,” men’s coach Anthony 
Nesty said. “It’s been a while...We look 
forward to some tough competition from 
Auburn.” 
For the women, Auburn (4-1, 1-1 in 
SEC) visits the O’Connell Center as the No. 
14 team in the country. 
The Tigers’ Julie Meynen contributes to 
Auburn’s sprint efforts with a time of 47.73 
seconds in the 100 freestyle. Meynen’s 
time currently sits as the third-best in the 
SEC. 
However, the Gators’ and the Tigers’ 
two distance swimmers will likely bring 
the most attention come Saturday. 
While Florida’s distance swims are led 
by Leah Braswell, who leads the SEC in 
the 1,000 free (9:34.47) and the 1,650 free (15:47.85), Auburn’s Emily Hetzer touches 
the wall soon thereafter. 
Hetzer’s leading times this season are 
9:43.67 in the 1,000 free and 16:09.24 in 
the 1,650.  
Additionally, in the diving pool, Au-
burn’s Alison Maillard has received con-
ference-wide attention all year long and 
has picked up three SEC Diver of the Week 
recognitions this season. Maillard also 
holds the top score in the SEC for the 1-me-
ter and 3-meter with scores of 326.55 and 
347.55, respectively.  
However, Florida’s Ashley McCool’s 
best score on the 3-meter is just 2.77 points 
under Maillard, making the battle on the 
boards an interesting one for the women.  
Saturday’s dual-meet has drawn the 
attention of the SEC Network, which will 
broadcast the meet live. 
Action will get underway at 11 a.m. 
on Saturday, and the Gators will honor 
the 2010 women’s national championship 
team during the second break of the meet.  
@AinsliesTwoBits
alee@alligator.org
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
Three Florida throwers will make the 
trip up to Blacksburg, Virginia, to partici-
pate in the Hokie Invitational, the third 
event of the indoor season. 
Beginning on Friday, the meet will fea-
ture 55 events showcasing athletes from 14 
different schools across two days. 
The first and only Gator in action on 
Friday is senior Amara Wiggan, who is 
competing in the women’s weight throw 
at 7 p.m. She won first place in that same 
competition just two weeks earlier in the Orange and Purple Elite Invitational at 
Clemson, as her 19.03m mark bested the 
competition by more than 1.5m and saw 
her fall just short of her personal record. 
That 19.03m mark places Wiggan at the 
top of her field for tomorrow’s event, but 
Virginia Tech’s Emma Thor and Pavla Kuk-
lova have earned similar scores, throwing 
18.85m and 18.95m, respectively.
Connor Bandel is the next Gator to com-
pete, he’ll throw at 1 p.m. on Saturday in 
the men’s shot put. 
The redshirt junior is coming off of a 
similarly impressive performance in Clem-
son, as he threw 19.29m, breaking his in-door PR and seeing him climb to seventh 
all-time among UF indoor shot put throw-
ers. The Michigan native appears to be a 
favorite to score consecutive victories in 
the men’s shot-put, but may face stiff com-
petition from talented Virginia Tech sopho-
more Tyson Jones.
The final Gator slated to compete in 
the Invitational is Thea Jensen. The fresh-
man impressed in her first collegiate per-
formance at the Orange and Purple Invita-
tional. Jensen registered a 15.25m throw, 
finishing in third and losing out to former 
Gator Lloydricia Cameron. 
Despite having just one meet under her belt, Jensen had posted a better PR in the 
shot put than all but three of her competi-
tors this weekend, meaning another strong 
performance is on the cards. 
The Gators will be in action next week-
end, as well, as they travel to Fayetteville, 
Arkansas, to take part in the Razorback In-
vitational.
@dawalsh_UF
dwalsh@alligator.org
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s tennis team is poised 
to return to the ITA National Team Indoor 
Championship in Madison, Wisconsin, for 
the fourth-straight year.
It starts its journey to Wisconsin when 
Florida hosts the 12th-annual ITA Kickoff 
Weekend.
UF will welcome USF, Temple and 
Fresno State to Gainesville to compete in 
a single-elimination regional. 
The No. 1-seeded Gators are slated to 
open against No. 4 seed Temple Saturday 
at 2 p.m. at Linder Stadium.
This will be the fourth year in a row 
and the 11th occurrence overall Florida 
has hosted the ITA Kickoff Weekend.
On Wednesday, the SEC released its 
Preseason Coaches’ Poll. The Gators were 
picked as the favorite by the league’s 
coaches to win the SEC title for the 
second-consecutive year. Florida racked 
up 155 points with Texas A&M in second 
(139) and Georgia and South Carolina tied 
for third (120).Last year, Florida knocked off FAU 4-1 
on Jan. 27 for the right to compete in the 
2019 National Team Indoors in Chicago.
The opening round will start Saturday 
when No. 2 seed USF takes on No. 3 seed 
Fresno State at 11 a.m. The losers will 
square off in a consolation match at 10 
a.m. on Sunday followed by the champi-
onship match at 2 p.m. 
UF enters the ITA Kickoff weekend 4-1 
on the year after dominating UCF 6-1 and 
Stetson 7-0 last weekend.
Florida has yet to drop a doubles point 
this season. They hold a 10-1 mark in 
dual doubles action. The duos of Will 
Grant and Johannes Ingildsen (3-1), 
Oliver Crawford and Sam Riffice (2-0) and 
Duarte Vale and Josh Goodger (2-0) have 
carried UF in doubles action.
The Gators have been steady in singles, 
winning 23 out of 30 matches. They are 
led by Duarte Vale (4-1) and freshman 
Blaise Bicknell (4-0). Riffice, Goodger, 
Ingildsen, Crawford, Andy Andrade and 
Lukas Greif, who each have tallied two 
wins.
USF (3-0) comes into town undefeated. Its best player, No. 121 Chase Ferguson, 
is undefeated with three wins along with 
four other Bulls.
The Bulls doubles duos have been 
strong, failing to lose a doubles point all 
season (6-1).
Florida previously faced USF on Jan. 
28, 2018, when they dominated the Bulls 
4-0.
Fresno State is the defending Mountain 
West Conference champion and are com-
ing off a solid fall tournament season and 
are led by reigning conference player of 
the year, Zdenek Derkas, who sits at No. 
124 in the ITA rankings. 
Finally, the Temple Owls will be play-
ing their first match. They finished last 
season with a 16-7 record going 3-1 in 
American Athletic Conference play. Flori-
da and Temple will play their first match 
in their programs’ respective histories.
 
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgUF hosts Auburn for seniors’ final lap
Florida throwers set to compete in Hokie Invitational
Gators hold ITA Regional Kick-Off Weekend at home
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Duarte Vale (above) and Josh Goodger 
are 2-0 this season in doubles play.
Gators on TV Weekend Schedule
Gymnastics vs. No. 8 LSU 
7:15 p.m. Friday: ESPN2
Men’s and women’s swimming 
and diving vs. No. 14 Auburn 
11 a.m. Saturday: SEC Network
Women's basketball vs. No. 21 
Arkansas 3 p.m. Sunday: SEC 
Network+
Men’s tennis vs. USF 11 a.m. 
Saturday: Livestream on
Floridagators.com
Women’s tennis vs. Oklahoma 11 
a.m. Saturday: Livestream on
Floridagators.com
Men’s basketball vs. No. 1 Baylor 
8 p.m. Saturday: ESPN12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2020
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
NIGHT  9 pm-12 am
$2 Double Wells
$2 Rolling Rock Cans
$2 Pink Lemonade Shots
LIVE DJ
(DOWNSTAIRS)
FRIDAYS
on theROOFNEW!Bearing down on defense
Baylor’s defense comes into Gainesville allowing 
the sixth-fewest points per game in the country at 58.5. 
The Bears have allowed an opponent to score at least 
65 points four times all season, and Oklahoma State 
is the only one to hit 60 points in Baylor’s last seven 
games. 
BU’s biggest test of the season came two weeks ago 
in its road tilt against No. 3 Kansas. The Bears had 
never won a game in Allen Fieldhouse in program his-
tory, but they came away with a dominant 67-55 vic-
tory. Baylor’s defense, which ranks 19th in the nation 
in ﬁ  eld-goal percentage (.380), held a strong Kansas 
offense below 40 percent from the ﬁ  eld and forced 14 turnovers. 
The Gators have faced four teams currently in the 
top 30 by KenPom’s adjusted defensive efﬁ  ciency and 
have an even 2-2 record in those games. However, the 
wins came against Xavier (No. 29) and Auburn (No. 
30), while Florida was blown out by two top-20 teams 
in Florida State (No. 18) and Butler (No. 19). 
Baylor is ranked fourth in that metric, making this 
UF’s biggest test offensively by far. The Gators’ of-
fense, while ugly at times, has been mostly effective 
this season, ranking 25th in adjusted offensive efﬁ  cien-
cy, according to KenPom. 
Florida comes into this matchup in its best offensive 
form of the season, producing at least 70 points in each 
of its last seven games and 12 of its last 15. But points 
won’t come easy against Baylor, and an early deﬁ  cit 
will be hard to recover from, even on its home court. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 10Baylor is 16 -1
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff 
Kerry Blackshear Jr. 's 8.7 rebounds per game leads the team.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Guard Kiara Smith has not been herself as 
of late, and it’s hurting Florida’s women’s bas-
ketball team.
UF’s primary ball handler averages 12.9 
points per game and makes ﬁ  eld goals at a 
41.6-percent clip, but she hasn’t come close to 
those numbers in her last two showings.
Smith was held to just four points in each 
of UF’s double-digit losses to then-No. 24 Ten-
nessee and then-No. 12 Texas A&M on a com-
bined 3-of-15 shooting from the ﬂ  oor.
The Gators will need a bounce-back perfor-mance from their ﬂ  oor general on Sunday in 
order to claim a road victory against No. 21 
Arkansas at Bud Walton Arena.
With Smith’s projected backcourt partner 
— redshirt junior guard Danielle Rainey —
tearing her ACL in a closed-door scrimmage 
less than two weeks before the season opener, 
Smith has elevated her production on the of-
fensive side of the ball.
Her 7.1 points per game in her sophomore 
season led to a total of 221 points in 31 con-
tests. She’s already surpassed that mark this 
year, registering 245 points in 19 appearances. 
The redshirt junior racked up 237 of those 
points in the ﬁ  rst 17 games, but she’s only 
managed eight in the last two. Smith’s height put her at a disadvantage 
in UF’s 78-50 loss against the Volunteers last 
Thursday. Every player in Tennessee’s start-
ing ﬁ  ve measured 6 foot or taller, and it used 
that length to lock down Smith, who stands at 
5-foot-10.
Just two of her 10 ﬁ  eld-goal attempts found 
the bottom of the net, as the Volunteers clogged 
the paint and forced Smith into a handful of 
difﬁ  cult shots.
The same thing happened over the week-
end when the Aggies ran away with a 27-point 
victory over the Gators. 
Smith missed four out of her ﬁ  ve shots, 
with her only bucket coming at the 1:11 mark 
of the third quarter when she knocked down a three-pointer. Her other point came at the free-
throw line.
Texas A&M did not allow Smith to attack 
the basket and score at the rim, one of her 
calling cards this season. Whenever she ap-
proached the paint, the defense collapsed on 
her to prevent a clear path to the cup.
Sunday’s conference showdown against Ar-
kansas poses a good opportunity for Smith to 
ﬁ  nd that early-season groove that’s been miss-
ing from her game over the past week.  
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgSmith looks to rebound from oﬀ  ensive struggles vs. Arkansas
At the end of the day, basket-
ball teams will only go as far as their best player takes them, and 
even with Blackshear Jr.’s im-
pressive season, I don’t think he’s 
a player who you can give the ball to and say, “Take me there.”
The grad transfer is leading 
the team in scoring (14.8) and re-
bounding (8.7), but is still falling 
short of his preseason and NBA 
Draft lottery expectations (wheth-
er those expectations are fair is a 
different story).Don’t get me wrong, I think 
this team is on an upward trend, 
and I think there is far too much 
talent for it to remain out of the 
Top 25 for much longer.
But unless it ﬁ  nds out what 
kind of team it is, elite teams like 
its Saturday opponent, No. 1 Bay-lor, will make quick work of the 
Gators come March.
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 10UF has been inconsistent