We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperWhy The Alligator didn’t endorse an SG party 
The Alligator’s Editorial Board explains, pg. 5
You don’t need an app for this Starbucks reward
If you vote in the SG election today, you’ll get a Starbucks 
voucher, pg. 6Gators blowout Dolphins on the road
Florida defeated Jacksonville 13-3 on Tuesday 
in rainy conditions. The two teams play again 
tonight in Gainesville at 6 p.m., pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 61
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Jeremy O’Brien Murillo stood 
in Turlington Plaza distributing 
“I Voted” stickers among a 
frenzy of volunteers passing out 
ﬂ  yers and party platforms on the 
ﬁ  rst day of Student Government 
elections. 
The former independent 
candidate said he organized to 
have more than 150 people give 
him their “I Voted” stickers two 
weeks ago.
“I just realized that a lot 
of these people aren’t even 
motivated to vote ... they’re just 
motivated to get these stickers,”  
the 22-year-old UF political 
science student said. 
Voters cast 7,091 ballots 
Tuesday, making it the second-highest ﬁ  rst day voter turnout in 
the last decade, SG supervisor 
of elections Stephanie Siler said. 
In the Fall, 6,503 students voted 
in Day One across 11 campus 
voting locations. 
Some sample ballots were not 
loading properly in the morning, 
but the issue was resolved in 
less than 15 minutes, Siler said. 
There are paper sample ballots 
available at every voter station 
just in case.
This is Gator’s ﬁ  rst executive 
ticket since it was created in the 
Fall. 
Some students chose not to 
vote because they are too busy. 
Others said they don’t see a 
point.
“I see so much of the SG 
activities as frivolous and petty,” 
Andrew Sowinski, a 21-year-old UF computer engineering junior 
said.
He said he sees a lot of SG 
as “silly,” so he abstains from 
voting. 
“They do some good things,” 
he said. “But so much of what 
they do is politically and 
socially motivated that I can’t be 
bothered to participate.” 
Students cast their votes 
for constitutional revisions, 
candidates for Student Body 
president, vice president and 
treasurer and for senators.
The Constitution Revision 
Commission, a group of students, 
bipartisan SG representatives, 
faculty and staff, according to 
chair Danielle Grosse, meets By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Visibly frustrated, Arkansas 
coach Eric Musselman had some 
ﬂ  attering words for UF forward 
Keyontae Johnson during the post-
game press conference.
“He’s one of the best dribble 
drivers at the four spot in all of 
college basketball,” he said.
Johnson showcased that ability 
despite Arkansas’ best attempts to 
stop him, as the sophomore helped 
realize his opponent’s fears.
The game’s leading scorer had 
a career-high 24 points to go along 
with 10 rebounds. He went to the 
line a season-high 17 times and 
converting 15.
Johnson’s efforts, paired with 
a smothering defensive perfor-
mance, guided the Gators to a 
convincing 73-59 home victory on 
Tuesday night.
“When the plays broke down, 
I just happened to get past the 
defenders,” Johnson said. “Made 
the smart decision for my team, 
getting fouled and hitting free 
throws.”
The Razorbacks (16-10, 4-9 
SEC) were atrocious early on of-
fense, and Florida (17-9, 9-4 SEC) 
took full advantage.
An energetic approach on the 
offensive side of the ball allowed 
the Gators to build a double-digit 
lead that lasted for most of the 
half.
Guard Noah Locke continued 
his blistering shooting stretch 
from behind the three-point line 
early against Arkansas. He made 
his ﬁ  rst three attempts from be-
yond the arc, scoring nine in the 
ﬁ  rst half to lead the team.
As a group, Florida started 5 of 
7 from deep, shooting with ease 
against the best three-point de-
fense in the country coming into 
the game.
Arkansas missed 16 of its ﬁ  rst 
20 shots, and at one point, went 
over nine minutes without a made 
basket.
As a result, the home team’s 
lead blossomed into a 30-11 
pounding late in the ﬁ  rst half.That’s when the momentum 
shifted like a California fault line.
Arkansas closed the gap to sev-
en before halftime, going on a 14-4 
run to make it 33-26 at the break.
Despite the comeback, UF held 
the Razorbacks to just 32 percent 
shooting overall, including 1 of 9 
from the three-point line.
In the second half, they inched 
closer.
Arkansas stuck with the blue-
print that gave them success late 
in the ﬁ  rst, crawling to within two 
after star guard Mason Jones’ fast 
start to the second half.
The team’s leading scorer had 
13 in the last 20 minutes. He ﬁ  n-
ished with 21 to lead all Arkansas 
scorers.
The three-pointer that gave it 
success stopped falling for UF, but 
the team adjusted and manufac-
tured points in other ways.
Driving to the basket became 
an emphasis, and the Gators gave 
an undersized Razorbacks team 
all kinds of headaches inside the 
three-point line.
“We got some stops down the 
stretch and got to the rim,” coach 
Mike White said. “I thought that 
was the difference in the game...
Andrew (Nembhard) getting to the 
rim a couple times and Keyontae 
(Johnson) getting to the foul line.”
Florida scored 18 points in 
the paint over the duration of the 
second half led by Johnson and 
Nembhard. The two combined for 
30 of the team’s 40 points in the, 
shooting 7 of 9.
When the game was close, Flor-
ida needed a basket and Nemb-
hard found space in the paint, 
converting all ﬁ  ve of his ﬁ  eld goal 
attempts in and around the col-
ored area in the second half. He 
ﬁ  nished the game with 17 points 
and four assists.
“We got to get that level of play 
all the time from Andrew,” White 
said. “He’s a super laid back guy...
when he plays likes a pitbull, he’s 
really, really good.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgSG elections have higher turnout Gators stiﬂ  e Razorbacks
JOHNSON’S CAREER NIGHT
Samantha Harrison  // Alligator Staff
Florida forward Keyontae Johnson scored a career-high 24 points and grabbed 10 rebounds in a win 
over Arkansas Tuesday night. He did most of his work at the free throw line, hitting 15 of 17 free throws.
SEE SG, PAGE 3FLORIDA   73 ARKANSAS   59
MEN’S BASKETBALL
Tuesday had the second-highest irst 
day attendance in a decadeT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  82° LOW  60°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.BLACK HISTORY MONTH
LGBTQ+ Affairs Celebrates Black 
History Month
Where: LGBTQ+ Affairs, located 
at the Reitz Union Room 2210 
When: Twice a week throughout 
February at 1 p.m.
What: LGBTQ+ Affairs will 
showcase films that depict black 
queerness such as “I Am Not Your 
Negro,” “Moonlight,” “Brother 
Outsider” and “Paris is Burning.” 
Trigger and content warnings will 
be placed throughout the viewing 
area. Event run times may vary.
Chef Empowerment’s Black 
History Month Pop-Up 
Restaurant
Where: Working Food, located at 
219 N.W. 10th Ave.
When: Feb. 28 from 5:30-8:30 
p.m.
What: Chef Empowerment’s 
Underground Kitchen partners 
with Working Food to host an all-
you-can-eat Southern buffet in col-
laboration with local black-owned 
businesses. Tickets are $20. African American Studies 50th 
Anniversary
Where: Smathers Library Room 
110/Turlington Plaza
When: Feb. 20-21, times vary
What: Two different events will 
be held for the 50th anniversary 
of UF’s African American Studies 
program. The first will be the 
Ronald Foreman Symposium 
Thursday, Feb. 20 with a reception 
beginning at 8 a.m. The sympo-
sium will feature three main pan-
els — academic, community and 
alumni and student — and will 
also feature an IBC film screening 
and a book exhibition. The second 
day of the event on Friday, Feb. 21 
will feature a tour and breakfast at 
the African American Studies of-
fices, unveiling a historical marker 
at Turlington Plaza and a recep-
tion at the Friends of Music Room. 
Both events are free to attend. 
GENERAL EVENTS
YBN Cordae, 24kGoldn
Where: High Dive, located at 210 
S.W. Second St.
When: Feb. 21 from 9 p.m.-12 
a.m.What: Glory Days and WRLD 
Entertainment present YBN 
Cordae, a former XXL “Freshman 
Class” cover star with more than 
five million monthly listeners on 
Spotify. The Wall Street Journal 
has dubbed Cordae “one of mu-
sic’s most prominent rising stars.” 
Cordae is supported by California-
born rapper 24kGoldn. Tickets are 
$20 in advance and $25 day of 
show. Must be 18 or over unless 
accompanied by a parent or legal 
guardian. A $3 cover charge is re-
quired for those under 21. 
Florida Political History Live
Where: Smathers Library East, lo-
cated at 1508 Union Road
When: Feb. 19 from 9:30-11:00 
a.m.
What: Former U.S. senator and 
Florida governor Bob Graham and 
former U.S senator Bill Nelson 
will speak in the third program 
for the Nelson Initiative on Ethics 
and Leadership at UF. Nelson and 
Graham will discuss current po-
litical topics and Florida’s political 
history. The event is free to attend.
John Allan Miller, Corben 
Champoux, Mark Gaignard 
and Hannah May Allison
Where: High Dive, located at 210 
S.W. Second St.
When: Feb. 20 and Feb. 21 at 8 
p.m.
What: John Allan Miller is a 
Nashville country artist fresh off 
the release of his latest album, 
“Bad Day to Be a Beer.” Tickets 
are $12 in advance and $15 day 
of show. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 61
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Meagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Annie Hassan, Chloe GreenburgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
THERE ARE NO 
SIGNIFICANT UPDATES
By Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
Almost a year after she was reported 
missing, Jasmine Robinson’s disappear-
ance remains a mystery for authorities. 
Robinson was 23 years old and about 
6 or 7 months pregnant when she disap-
peared from her Archer home. She was last 
seen by family members Feb. 16, 2019, but 
her family reported her missing to the Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce Feb. 18, after 
spending two days searching for her on 
their own, said Art Forgey, a spokesperson 
for ACSO. 
While the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce continues to 
investigate her case, Forgey said no signiﬁ  -
cant updates have been made as of now. 
The last day Robinson was reportedly seen, she returned home 
from work and told her 
aunt she was headed for 
bed around 8 p.m. The 
next morning, she was 
nowhere to be found. 
She left behind her tooth-
brush, money and cloth-
ing. 
ACSO’s investigation of the case in-
cluded multiple searches around Alachua 
County and surrounding counties, Forgey 
said. The department has also posted sev-
eral notices on its website, and the com-
munity has been “ﬂ  ooded with ﬂ  iers,” ask-
ing for any information about Robinson’s 
disappearance. 
The sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce, in partnership with 
the Florida Sheriff’s Association Criminal 
Apprehension Assistance Program and 
Crime Stoppers, has offered $8,000 in ex-
change for information regarding the case since April 2019. 
There are currently more than 25 cold 
cases listed on ACSO’s website. The list 
includes both unsolved murder cases and 
missing persons.
One of the unsolved missing persons 
cases listed involves Tiffany Sessions, a 
20-year-old UF student who disappeared 
while on an evening run on campus Feb. 
9, 1989.
Investigators suspect a man named Paul 
Rowles was involved with Sessions’ disap-
perance but could not continue with a trial 
because Rowles died while serving time 
in prison for the ﬁ  rst-degree murder of 
21-year-old Santa Fe College student Eliza-
beth Foster.
Forgey said that because the investiga-
tion into Robinson’s disappearance is still 
on-going, he is unable to reveal any poten-
tial leads or suspects to the public.
Any information about Jasmine Robin-son and her whereabouts can be shared 
with Crime Stoppers at 352-372-7867.
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgOne year has passed since pregnant woman went missing
IT IS UNCLEAR WHAT THE 
INCENTIVE IS 
By Hope Dean
Enterprise Editor
Today is one of the days UF stu-
dents can vote for which Student 
Government party they want to be 
in power, but something could be 
getting in the way of a fair election.
Damon Veras, Gator Party’s 
campaign coordinator according to 
his LinkedIn, posted in the Hispanic 
Student Association GroupMe chat 
Monday that Tau Kappa Epsilon 
members would receive an incen-
tive for voting in SG elections. 
The entire message is as follows: 
“Regarding SG elections tomorrow, 
there is absolutely NO EXCUSE for 
our chapter to not reach our goal of 
getting all of our votes in by noon 
tomorrow. @Tyler Lucas is literally 
offering rides to the polls tomorrow morning, and you’ll have brothers 
with cars. Please be there for each 
other. Keep in mind the nice incen-
tive spoke about at chapter that we 
can all enjoy. Check DTL for a re-
fresher to your memory. Text me 
or Tyler if you have conﬂ  icts; check 
your schedules/calendars for tomor-
row now to make sure you can have 
your vote in and everything in to 
Jack by noon tomorrow. Long Live 
TKE.” 
He then texted that the message 
was accidentally sent to the wrong 
chat. 
The message did not mention 
what the incentive is.
A reporter called Veras, but af-
ter he picked up the line went dead 
and he did not respond to any other 
messages or calls. 
The Alligator also reached out 
to Gator Party campaign managers 
Trey Banco and Katie Hernandez, 
who both said they were too busy to 
speak. Gator presidential candidate Trevor Pope and Gator treasurer 
Jessica Jesurajan did not respond to 
texts or calls. 
Gator Vice Presidential candidate 
Lauredan Ofﬁ  cial said that he didn’t 
know about the message because he 
tries to stay out of these situations. 
“The only incentive I can think 
of is to get the best representatives,” 
he said. 
He then declined to answer fur-
ther questions for the sake of his 
mental health, he said.
TKE President Tyler Lucas and 
other members of the fraternity did 
not answer requests for comment 
either.  
In a previous message in the 
Hispanic Student Association chat, 
Veras reminded members that they 
can get a free drink from the new 
Starbucks in Norman Hall upon vot-
ing, as per an SG promotion. 
“Here’s a little incentive to feed 
your caffeine addictions! If you’re 
anything like me, voting just got way easier,” he wrote. 
Incentives are not new in SG 
elections. In 2017, UF’s chapter of 
Kappa Alpha Theta received back-
lash for not allowing its sisters to eat 
chicken parmesan until they sub-
mitted the voting sticker that stu-
dents receive at the polls after they 
cast their ballot. 
“NO STICKER = NO PARM. If 
you can get your (a**) to theta for 
some parm, you can vote at norman 
and bring your sticker too,” a sister 
wrote in a leaked group chat post. 
In 2010, a leaked audio record-
ing showed the now-defunct Unite 
Party members talking about cam-
paign tactics, such as bribing Greek 
life members with alcohol and with-
holding food until they voted. 
Inspire Party President Kristen 
Jackson, a 21-year-old civil engi-
neering senior, said she saw Veras’ 
message almost immediately be-
cause she has friends in the chat. 
Part of the message told TKE members to turn something in to 
a brother by noon, which Jackson 
believes is the voting sticker. She’s 
heard rumors of this happening in 
fraternities and sororities, and be-
lieves that Veras was “saying the 
quiet part out loud.” 
“There’s a difference between 
advocating for people to vote and 
actively keeping track of people who 
are voting,” Jackson said. “It’s your 
right to decide who you want to 
vote for, how do you want to vote, 
when you want to vote. And by col-
lecting stickers, you are not allowed 
to have that right.” 
Chasity Maynard contributed to 
this report. 
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgGator party oﬃ   cial oﬀ  ers fraternity incentive for voting in SG elections
every 10 years to update the Student Body 
Constitution. They proposed 24 revisions.
The ballot grouped all of the changes 
under one amendment at the top of the ballot. Students had the ability to select 
“yes,” “no,” or “abstain” to all of them. 
There was not an option to vote on the 
amendments individually. The option to 
not vote was automatically selected when 
ballot screens opened. 
Under the revisions, if more than 50 
percent of students vote “yes” for an 
amendment, it will pass. The constitution 
currently requires approval from 60 
percent of all people who cast their ballot, 
regardless of whether they voted or 
abstained from the amendment.
In 2016, the UF Supreme Court rolled 
back an amendment allowing online remote 
voting because of this rule. Elections 
revision commission member William 
Zelin said he suggested revising this section 
because he doesn’t think it represents the 
intention of the original writers. 
“This speciﬁ  c section for requirement 
for ratiﬁ  cation was written extremely 
poorly,” he said. 
The number of signatures needed to put 
an amendment on the ballot will be cut in half, from 10 percent of the electorate to 
about 5 percent, if the amendment passes. 
UF’s current enrollment is about 
50,000 students. That drops the number 
of signatures needed from about 5,000 to 
about 2,500, Zelin said.
The commission added a 3-week 
deadline for the Senate to hear executive 
agency appointments to make them timely, 
Grosse said. If the deadline isn’t met, the 
appointments are automatically conﬁ  rmed. 
It is unclear what happens to the timeline 
if the Senate rejects them.
The proposed revised constitution is 
available here. 
“All of the changes in the amendment 
proposed by the Constitution Revision 
Commission are impactful to students,” 
Grosse wrote in an email.
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgSG,  from pg. 16,503 students votedRobinson
Some current cases of missing 
people in Alachua County
Heather Maccrossen, last seen at 26 
years old on Aug. 17, 2007
Danny Randall Jackson, last seen at 
12 years old on Aug. 24, 1989
Delores Stanton, last seen at 21 years 
old on April 13, 1976
What to bring to 
in order to vote:
 Your Gator 1 ID card OR a photo ID 
with your UF ID number
Where to vote on campus: 
• Southwest Recreation Center – 
Social Lounge
• Springs Complex – Area Ofﬁ  ce 
C2022
• Reitz Union – Computer Lab
• Norman – Education Library 
Computer Lab
• Murphree Area Conference Room
• Marston Science Library
• Levin College of Law – Burton 
Geer Hall Student Commons
• Jennings Hall  – Library
• Health Science Center – BITS 
Library Computer Lab
• Heavener Hall – Room 202
• Broward Hall – Broward 
Recreation RoomOn the ballot students voted 
on 24 amendments to the SG 
constitution. Here are some key 
changes being voted on:
• Remove any reference to the 
Student Honor Code. 
• Remove any reference to the 
Student Honor Court. Siler said it 
doesn’t exist anymore.
• Add language clarifying that off-
campus areas fall under the Fall class 
of senators.
• Amend the anti-discrimination 
section to follow the university’s Non-
Discrimination Policy.4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
HIS EX-WIFE STILL LIVES 
IN THE HOUSE
By Samia Lagmis
Staff Writer
An investigation is underway after jars of 
preserved human tongues were found below 
a house previously owned by a former UF re-
searcher and faculty member. 
On Monday, large plastic jars containing 
human tongues were found in the crawlspace 
of the home off Northwest 16th Avenue, said 
Gainesville Police spokesperson Jorge Cam-
pos. A home repair inspector discovered the jars and called GPD after opening one and 
ﬁ  nding the remains.
Ronald Adrian Baughman, the former 
owner of the house, worked at UF as a faculty 
member within the College of Dentistry and 
as a researcher who published studies in the 
1970s and ’80s, said UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando.
The Alligator tried calling several phone 
numbers associated with Baughman’s name 
but was unable to get in touch with him as of 
Tuesday evening. A reporter was also unable 
to get in touch with his ex-wife.
Orlando said Baughman retired in 2002 
and has not worked with the university since then.
“All indications so far is that the specimen 
didn’t have anything to do with the univer-
sity,” Campos said.
Baughman’s ex-wife, who currently lives 
in the home, told police the tongues were part 
of her former husband’s pathology research, 
Campos said. She said she knew the jars of 
tongues existed but forgot they were under 
the house. 
Campos said one jar was dated from the 
1960s written on it, as well as the word “Vir-
ginia.” Baughman’s ex-wife told police the 
specimen came from the University of Vir-
ginia. Campos said multiple tongues were found 
in the jars, but he could not specify how 
many.
The jars have been handed over to the 
medical examiner and are currently under in-
vestigation, Campos said.
Baughman’s dental license expired on 
Feb. 28, 2008, and he does not have a cur-
rent practice location in Florida, according to 
the Florida Department of Health. No public 
complaints, disciplinary or emergency actions 
were found.
@SLagmis
slagmis@alligator.orgJars of human tongues found under UF professor’s former home
REPRESENTATIVES FROM VARIOUS 
UF COLLEGES WERE IN ATTENDANCE
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
Orange and blue balloons, streamers and banners 
draped the walls of the Florida State Capitol. UF mascots 
Albert and Alberta posed for photos with legislators and 
passersby alike.
Hundreds of UF faculty, students and alumni ﬂ  ooded 
the halls of the capitol building in Tallahassee to display 
their research and academic achievements. Representa-
tives from the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ences, the Colleges of Engineering, Nursing, Liberal Arts 
and Sciences and countless others were in attendance. 
They gathered on Tuesday for Gator Day, the one day 
each year when volunteers travel to show their support 
for the university — and ask that the state show it back. 
Members of the UF Board of Trustees met with state 
legislators behind closed doors. They lobbied state repre-
sentatives for a recurring investment of $50 million and in 
turn asked: “What can we do for you?” 
In exchange for their continued ﬁ  nancial support of the 
university, legislators asked the to university help promote 
legislative internships, UF’s Director of Government Rela-
tions Samantha Sexton said. 
“How can we help you help us?” asked Leonard H. 
Johnson, a member of the UF Board of Trustees. “It’s a very obvious answer. We open the pipeline to get students 
working in internships, and they continue to support us.”
The board met with about 10 representatives who Sex-
ton said are UF alumni, university stakeholders or state 
inﬂ  uencers. These include Florida Governor Ron DeSan-
tis, Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody, representa-
tives Chuck Clemons, MaryLynn Magar, Dane Eagle, Chris 
Sprowls and Ray Rodrigues as well as senators Bill Gal-
vano and Rob Bradley. 
Many belong to the Gator Caucus, a group of legisla-
tive advocates for UF. These are the representatives who 
will advocate on behalf of the university to the rest of the 
House and Senate, Sexton said. 
“They’ve been very supportive,” UF President Kent 
Fuchs said. “The budgets are always tight, so they have 
to make tough choices. But I think the response has been 
positive.”
If granted, the $50 million request will help UF achieve 
its goal of becoming a top-ﬁ  ve ranked public university, 
Fuchs said. The funds will be used to hire more faculty, 
provide pay raises for existing employees and reduce the 
student-professor ratio to 16:1. 
Outside of the meetings in a busy capitol hall, UF as-
tronomy’s department chair Elizabeth Lada stood before a 
model telescope. She told visitors about the star formation 
and research on the universe’s expansion that’s underway 
in her department.
Her blue galaxy earrings shook when she spoke.
“Science today is expensive,” she said. “We’re really grateful to the university and the state for what they’ve 
provided us, but there’s always more that can be done.”
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgStudents, faculty and alumni lobby in the state capital
Hannah Phillips // Alligator Staff
Adam Lizek, a 20-year-old UF computer science junior, 
uses virtual reality as part of the College of Engineering’s 
Gator Day display. The college is researching virtual reality 
applications in education to create smart classrooms, 
Lizek said. 
EditorialWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editor’s Note: The Alligator’s Editorial Board 
reached out to Pope about Chou’s letter. Pope re-
ferred to SG Finance Code 808.12, which prohibits 
money allocated to SG funded organizations to be 
used “in support of or against a political party at 
any level.”  
“Because YAF is a conservative organization, 
who was requesting to bring a political speaker, 
our committee denied funding because it would 
violate SG Finance Codes,” Pope wrote. “I did not 
have a hand or say in the funding model that has 
caused  the organization funding crisis. However my job as the 
next Student Body President is to ﬁ  x the current model to en-
sure that student organizations get the funding they deserve.” 
I    ’m starting to lose my trust in presidential candidates with 
a great smile. 
Smith Meyers looked like he went to the dentist’s ofﬁ  ce 
on the daily right before he got arrested in Key West while 
being so drunk he thought he was in Clearwater. 
Michael Murphy’s smile looked like it could give you 
a warm cup of hot cocoa right before he essentially wired 
$50,000 in student fees to the Trump campaign.
Trevor Pope’s smile looked like a set of pearls recently ex-
tracted from free-range, vegan-fed deep-sea oysters as he ﬂ  at-
ly denied having any ties to the recent federal lawsuit against 
UF, or to be more speciﬁ  c, the UF Board of Trustees, as they 
represent Student Affairs and, by extension, Student Govern-
ment. “It’s a completely false scenario,” Pope said during the 
SG debate.
Is it now? Pope himself softened up his own stance on 
his culpability, later saying that his link to the lawsuit was “a 
stretch at best.” I think, deep down, Pope knows that he is at 
fault, whether he wants to admit it or not.
Pope is unequivocally the individual most to blame for 
the recent high proﬁ  le lawsuit against UF that resulted in the 
new, sloppily conceived SG ﬁ  nance model that has resulted in 
countless student organizations losing funding. 
 Let’s take a look at the facts: According to the text of the lawsuit, a student group by the name of Young 
Americans for Freedom (YAF) wanted $6,225 to 
bring in two guest speakers. Their request was 
denied by the Senate Allocations Committee be-
cause of a “recently added policy that prohibits 
non-budgeted student organizations from paying 
honoraria.”
Now, who was the chair of the SG committee 
that denied YAF the funding? Trevor Pope. Who 
was the primary author of the bill that directly re-
sulted in us getting sued? None other than Trevor 
Pope.
The bill Pope wrote has everything to do with the law-
suit, as explained by a blog post conveniently titled “Why My 
Student Group Is Suing the University of Florida” by the YAF 
President at the time. The post cites Pope’s bill as “the last 
straw” before the lawsuit.
The rest is history. Impact Party changed its name to Gator 
Party in hopes to avoid student anger at the botched rollout 
of the new student organization ﬁ  nance system. Student or-
ganizations from all corners of campus faced budget cuts and 
hardship. Despite holding a majority of the Senate this past 
semester, Gator Party didn’t pass a single bill for ﬁ  nancial 
reform.
Would anyone like some insult to add to our injury? 
Pope’s committee had $13,776.97 in unused funds at the end 
of the year which means he really could have not written the 
bill and just given YAF the $6,225 they requested. None of 
this had to happen.
Of course, I understand it must be embarrassing to be 
a law student who got your own university sucked into a 
federal lawsuit, which must be why Pope refused to accept 
responsibility for his actions while on the debate stage, lying 
through his (beautiful) teeth.
Now tell me: does Trevor Pope deserve your vote?
Zachariah Chou is a political science senior and serves 
as the Murphree Area Senator.Although I was born in India, growing 
up in the U.S. has instilled in me 
how important it is to be civically 
engaged. I saw the constantly 
changing political climate in 
America, and I watched as the leaders of 
our country made decisions for the future 
of our nation. And yet, for 12 years, I was 
unable to participate in selecting our leaders 
because I was not a U.S. citizen. 
This past January, I became an American 
citizen, and I am now able to vote in upcoming 
elections. I have always believed that there is no certain 
issue more important than the next. Our country can 
always improve and work toward a better future. It is 
for this reason that I registered as a Democrat. 
To get involved in Student Government at UF, 
there was no prerequisite to be a U.S. citizen. Being a 
student is enough to be able to work to make positive 
changes at UF. My peers pushed me to do more for our 
university and to always be fighting for our Student 
Body. This is why I chose to run as a candidate with the Gator Party. Gator is a place where all 
individuals can work together to bring UF to 
unreachable heights. 
Gator Party is composed of people who 
hold a great variety of political views. Our 
candidates’ political affiliations closely 
match those of the Student Body, with 
approximately 31 percent of Gator Party as 
Democrats and 35 percent as Republicans. 
The rest identify as non-party affiliated or are 
not citizens. For me, this was an important 
part of choosing Gator Party because it is a party that 
truly represents every student at this university. 
I ask you all to go out and vote in the SG elections 
Wednesday from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. It is your 
right as a student to vote in these elections where you 
decide the future of our university. 
Jessica Jesurajan is a Gator Party candidate for 
Student Body treasurer.
Trevor Pope got us sued. Now he wants your voteCitizenship is degraded by partisanshipLetter to the Editor
Letter to the Editor
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The Alligator doesn’t have an 
SG endorsement. Here’s why.
The number of opinions sections over the last two 
months has decreased. You might’ve noticed that.
And we feel we owe you an explanation, es-
pecially in regard to this semester’s Student Gov-
ernment election. For the first time in a long time, 
The Alligator’s Editorial Board has chosen to not en-
dorse a political party or a set of executive candidates.
This goes back to Spring 2019; when The Alligator 
launched a survey about what you all, our readers, 
wanted more of and wanted us to improve on. One of 
those things was our opinions section.
Our audience told us loud and clear: they didn’t 
want to hear our opinion anymore, and they wanted 
more news stories. So, this semester, we don’t have 
a consistent opinions section, and that’s because we 
wanted to dedicate space to impactful pieces and more 
news stories.
We feel that the diverse voices that letters to the edi-
tor and opinion columns bring are important. So, we’re 
still taking them. Send your pitches and letters to us at 
letters@alligator.org.
Still, that leads us to our lack of an SG endorsement. 
We felt it was important for us to dedicate more time 
and space to stories that would better inform you, rath-
er than tell you who we think you should vote for.
That being said, voting for your SG officials — who-
ever you think best represent your interests — is im-
portant to do. On the last day of voting in this year’s 
SG elections, we hope you take at least five minutes to 
make that choice.
SG represents your interests as students, and you 
should make your voice heard. The people you pick 
manage a budget of more than $21 million from your 
student fees.
In the last two semesters, The Alligator has produced 
ambitious reporting that has held SG accountable. We 
hope it’s better informed your choices.
We reported on how Progressive Party, an emerging 
third SG party fell apart nine days after campaign season 
began. Most Senate and executive candidates resigned 
after an audio clip some deemed as transphobic from 
the presidential candidate was leaked on Facebook.
We’ve written about the resignations of prominent 
figures in Inspire Party. You found out that the Fresh-
man Leadership Council, an SG agency, never com-
menced last semester. You heard that no SG legislation 
had been passed by the beginning of November.
Without our reporting, you wouldn’t have known 
about why people were protesting for blue lights on 
Fraternity Row. You wouldn’t have known about the 
attempt to impeach our Student Body president. That 
was after The Alligator published a story about an email 
between him and a national financial consultant for 
Trump Victory after Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly 
Guilfoyle spoke at UF for $50,000 of your student fees.
Our reporting is tenacious. It’s the truth. And we feel 
that it should stand on its own.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.River Wells
MANAGING
EDITORLina Ruiz 
MANAGING
EDITORChristina Morales
EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Citizenship is degraded by partisanship
Jessica
Jesurajan
opinions@alligator.orgSEXUAL ASSAULT, MENTAL 
HEALTH AND FINANCIAL 
HARDSHIP WERE 
DISCUSSED
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
Zoe Terner counts the steps 
from her classroom to the blue 
light as she walks home at night. 
Fifteen steps, and then she’s safe, 
she said. Ten steps, and then she’s 
safe. 
Nick Meyer said he’s been called 
a homophobe and a supporter 
of sexual assault by students on 
campus. He’s a member of the 
LGBTQ+ caucus and a sexual 
assault survivor himself. 
“It’s pitiful that sitting here in 
this room, this is what we’re united 
by,” Terner said. “Our experiences 
of violence.”
The two UF Student Government 
Senate candidates from opposing 
parties, Inspire and Gator, are 
running for the position of student 
senators in the College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences. Terner, Meyer 
and two other candidates gathered 
Monday night to debate solutions 
to issues like sexual assault, 
financial hardship and minority 
student experiences on campus.
The CLAS Student Council, a 
group that advocates for students 
within the college, hosted and 
moderated the debate between 
Inspire’s Terner and Emma 
Sanchez, a 19-year-old UF 
international studies sophomore 
and Gator Party’s Meyer and 
Alexandra Mattia, a 19-year-old biology and statistics freshman. 
About 40 students attended, 
a majority of whom wore Gator 
Party T-shirts. 
Sexual Assault
In response to how candidates 
plan to address sexual assault on 
campus, Terner said Inspire will 
compile resources from victim 
advocacy groups like GatorWell 
and STRIVE (Sexual Trauma 
Interpersonal Violence Education). 
The resources will be put into one 
Canvas page for students to access 
at all times.
“They’re there to help when 
things go wrong, because we 
know that they will,” said Terner, 
a 20-year-old UF English and 
women’s studies sophomore. 
Terner also said that Inspire 
has consistently advocated for the 
expansion of blue lights on campus 
to combat sexual violence. 
Meyer, a 19-year-old UF 
international studies sophomore, 
said that though he supports the 
blue light effort, it’s not enough 
to prevent sexual assault from 
happening.
“That’s why we want to 
really work on prevention and 
protection,” Meyer said.
For the Gator Party, prevention 
comes in the form of the Green Dot 
Bystander Intervention program. 
The Alligator previously found that 
few students or professors have 
heard of the initiative.  
Green Dot is an international 
program that provides training 
on ways to identify and respond 
to potentially harmful situations, 
according to the university’s website.
“With a bystander there, 
unwanted sexual advances 
decrease by 44 percent,” said 
Meyer’s companion Mattia. 
Mental Health
To combat insufficient mental 
health resources on campus, 
Terner said Inspire will work 
toward creating an additional 
Counseling and Wellness Center 
located in the center of campus. 
She didn’t say how this will be 
achieved or where exactly it would 
be located. 
Meyer said Gator Party will help 
promote the roll-out of Kognito, a 
national online training simulation 
used to help identify the signs of 
a student in distress. The training 
was adopted by UF in 2009 and 
has been available to students 
since 2013.
Gator Party plans to improve 
the training by pairing students 
with others who experience similar 
hardships, he said. He did not say 
how this will be implemented. 
Financial Hardship
In 2019, the UF chapter of Young 
Americans for Freedom brought a 
lawsuit against SG that ultimately 
reduced the budgets of the “Big 
Nine” student organizations. Both 
parties discussed ways to uplift 
minority students impacted by the 
change, though neither mentioned 
the lawsuit. 
Terner said Inspire will establish 
reservable spaces for multicultural 
organizations on campus. This 
will help dismantle the financial 
barriers that may prevent them from organizing and meeting, she 
said. 
“All sorts of clubs and 
organizations with all sorts of 
interests can really have a physical 
tangible home at UF,” she said. 
“That’s something that really 
matters to us.”
She did not say how or where 
these spaces will be established.
Gator Party will partner with 
the Field and Fork Food Pantry on 
campus to host a parking ticket 
forgiveness day, Meyer said. If 
students donate food to the panty, 
one of their parking tickets would 
be eligible for forgiveness by the 
university. “Not only does it tackle the issue 
of food insecurity on campus,” 
Meyer said. “It also helps relieve 
the economic burden that parking 
tickets put on our students.” 
Gator Party is calling this “Give 
to Forgive.” The idea is almost 
identical to that of UF President 
Kent Fuchs’ week-long initiative 
“Food for Fines,” announced 
during the week of April Fool’s, in 
2018. 
Meyer did not explain how long 
“Give to Forgive” will stay in effect 
or how the university will afford it. 
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.org6   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
Laura San Juan // Alligator Staff
Poll worker Robert Pearson, 79, hands an “I Voted” sticker to Christi Allen, a 
22-year-old journalism junior. Pearson, who has been a poll worker for the Student 
Government elections since 2003, said there were more than 100 students that 
came to Norman Hall Library to vote Feb. 18.
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are 
overcoming the tall order of 
voting with free Starbucks.
Students who vote for 
Spring Student Government 
elections at Norman Hall 
today can show proof of 
it at the Normal Hall’s 
new Starbucks location to 
receive a voucher for a free 
tall beverage from 10 a.m. 
to 8 p.m. Students can vote 
any time between 8:30 a.m 
to 8:30 p.m.
Norman Hall’s Starbucks 
was the advertised location 
for the promotion as shown 
on a flyer, located close to 
Sorority Row and not in a 
central area of campus.
SG combined promoting 
the importance of voting 
and the opening of the new Starbucks, Ben Lantinberg, 
the chief of staff for the 
Student Body president, 
wrote in an email. The 
events were also combined 
to be efficient and conserve 
student fees, he said.
“Student Government 
has planned for months 
to host a get out the vote 
event, and also planned 
to host programming 
publicizing the new 
Norman Hall Starbucks 
location that opened last 
week,” Lantinberg wrote 
in an email.
The Alligator also asked 
Lantinberg how much 
the event cost, where its 
funding came from and 
whether or not the chosen 
location had to do with 
its proximity to Greek life 
activities, to which he did 
not address or respond to even when emailed two 
additional times.
Student Body President 
Michael Murphy oversaw 
the project said James 
Tyger, the senior director of 
SG advising. The Alligator 
has emailed Murphy three 
times, texted twice and 
has called four times and 
didn’t receive a response.
The free coffee made 
Shelby Figueroa, a 
20-year-old biochemistry 
junior, more likely to go 
out and vote. The Sigma 
Kappa member said she 
thinks those in Greek life 
were the main students 
taking advantage of the 
promotion and that she 
has good thoughts on the 
event.
“It encourages people to 
vote,” she said.UF SG attracting voters with free Starbucks vouchers
Hannah Phillips // Alligator Staff 
Candidates Emma Sanchez (left), Zoe T erner (middle) and Nick Meyer 
(right) deliver their closing remarks at a debate between Inspire and 
Gator parties’ liberal arts and sciences candidates Monday night.
Inspire and Gator candidates debate campus solutions before electionSG did not respond to questions on 
how the event was fundedWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
YBN Cordae to play at High Dive Friday
He will take the stage at 9 p.m. alongside 24kGoldn 
and Big Win.Gators take home ﬁ  rst in New Orleans
UF’s women’s golf team won the Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate and 
Clara Manzalini took won ﬁ  rst place individually, pg. 11 HOW “LATIN NIGHTS” BECAME 
ESTABLISHED IN GAINESVILLE 
NIGHTLIFE
By Julia Collins
Avenue Staff Writer
Marco De Vita started a ripple effect. 
De Vita, 23, moved to Gainesville in 2016 
and was excited to check out the nightlife in 
his new city. At the time, Cantina 101 in Mid-town was all the rage. De Vita, who is Venezu-
elan, was there twice a week with his friends 
when he noticed something. 
There were no weekly Latin parties or bars 
that played Latin music. Even Cantina 101 
only played a couple of songs.
So in November of 2016, De Vita decided to 
approach an owner of Cantina 101, Erik Zuka. 
Zuka allowed De Vita to host a single Latin 
night at Cantina 101. It was the ﬁ  rst step to 
bringing an entire community closer together.
“The ﬁ  rst night was a complete hit, and we 
decided to create our company called ‘Confes-
sions Entertainment,’” De Vita said. “We had 
to create our own new brand and promote it as 
hard as we could, especially to American peo-
ple because we knew that not only Hispanic people would love Latin night.”
After Cantina 101 closed, De Vita and his 
company moved their Latin night to the Origi-
nal American Kitchen, and later to White Buf-
falo, which is also owned by Zuka. Confessions 
Entertainment’s role at White Buffalo and The 
Range, its sister bar, is to promote and execute 
Latin nights, which are held on Thursday and 
Saturday nights, respectively. 
Those original Latin nights that started 
in 2016 are now sweeping across the entire 
Gainesville community, a city whose popula-
tion is 11 percent Hispanic or Latinx, according 
to the ofﬁ  cial US census.  
DJ Elio Piedra, 28, is a prominent Latin mu-
sic DJ in Gainesville. At the same time, De Vita 
was creating Latin nights in the clubs, Piedra 
was focused on nurturing the entire Hispanic 
and Latinx community.
“Right now, we’re living in one of my 
dreams,” Piedra said.
Piedra thinks that in time, an entirely Latin 
music club will open — another one of his 
dreams.
“I think about it a lot,” Piedra said. “I know 
I bridge the gap every day. I just want my Latin 
community and my Gainesville community to 
be united.”
That unity is slowly trickling its way around 
town to other bars and clubs. Simons has con-
sistent Latin nights downtown, and establish-
ments like The Bull and the Salty Dog Saloon 
dabble in Latin music.
Keith Singleton, 48, is the manager of the 
Salty Dog Saloon. He said the bar plays mostly 
country music, but the customers get to choose 
the music every night — some of which is Lat-
in. 
Another bar in town, The Bull, has also done Latin music events, mostly in 2018. 
“One of our team members at the time ran 
up to me and said, ‘Hey I’ve got connections 
with the salsa bachata scene,’” said owner of 
The Bull Jacob Larson, 44.
He said that he probably never would’ve 
thought to have salsa nights at his place, but 
when one of his team members suggested it, 
Larson was all for it. The Bull ended up hosting 
a few salsa bachata nights, but the event had to 
be moved to larger clubs due to its popularity.
Larson also recalled how they would have 
to ﬁ  gure out when all the other salsa and Latin 
music events were going on in town and not 
schedule theirs for the same time.
“It’s more about community than competi-
tion,” Larson said.
Kaley Arboleda, 18, recently moved from 
Orlando to Gainesville. She said she went to 
two Latin nights at a club called Goldroom, 
which is now closed. 
“Coming from a Colombian background 
and growing up with salsa, I prefer that type of 
music,” Arboleda said. “When I went to Latin 
night at Goldroom, the problem was that it was 
really only part of the night. Technically it was 
called Latin night, but it wasn’t completely 
that.”
In the few years that have passed since De 
Vita founded Latin nights Downtown, the com-
munity support has blossomed.
“I think Latin nights affect the community 
in a positive way,” De Vita said. “Not to men-
tion that it is a place where you will build up 
college memories that will last a lifetime.”
@JuliaAnnCollins
juliacollins@uﬂ  .edu
THURSDAY’S SHOW IS PART 
OF THE SINGER’S “BAD DAY 
TO BE A BEER” TOUR
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
Country roads, take me 
home: UF alum and country 
singer-songwriter John Allan 
Miller will play at High Dive 
Thursday as part of his “Bad 
Day to Be a Beer” tour.
Miller, who graduated from 
UF in 2008, currently resides 
in Nashville, TN. Having left a 
career in sales over ﬁ  ve years 
ago, the Tampa native headed 
to Music City to pursue a career 
in music, where he became a 
songwriter for rising country 
artists.
Now, Miller is putting out 
music of his own. In 2019, 
Miller released his debut single 
“Look You Up,” and in Novem-
ber released his recent single 
“Bad Day to Be a Beer.”
“My main focus early on here in Nashville was on the writing 
side of things,” Miller said. “I 
got to write with a lot of cool 
artists. These days, I’m still do-
ing that, but I’ve got some cool 
opportunities that allowed me 
to, you know, really kick start 
my career.”
The “Bad Day to Be a Beer” 
tour will kick off Wednesday in 
Miller’s hometown at The At-
tic at Rock Brothers Brewing in 
Tampa. Miller said that he will 
be playing shows all over the 
country, with many dates on 
the East Coast. 
Miller said pursuing his mu-
sic career hasn’t always been 
easy. From churning out mul-
tiple songs a day to acting in 
lawn mower commercials, Mill-
er said that his time in Nash-
ville has been a grind.
“It’s like you’re ﬁ  ghting re-
ally hard to do what you love 
for a living,” Miller said. “But 
I fully believe that great things 
are coming.”
The doors to the show Thursday open at 8 p.m. Miller 
will be accompanied by special 
guests Corben Champoux, Mark 
Gaignard and Hannah May Alli-
son. Tickets for college students 
are $5 with a student ID while 
regular tickets are $12 in ad-
vance on High Dive’s website.
Champoux, a 21-year-old 
UF graduate student studying 
international business, is also 
a singer-songwriter and said 
she is excited to play her ﬁ  rst 
Gainesville show with Miller.
“We have similar aspira-
tions, and we both have a simi-
lar passion for music,” Cham-
poux said. “It’s really nice to 
be able to communicate with 
somebody older than you who’s 
gone through experiences that 
you might want to go through 
some day.”
John Allan Miller’s singles 
are streaming on Spotify now.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgLet’s Fiesta!
UF alumnus John Allan Miller to play at High Dive 
MUSIC
MUSICCouresty of Cesar Larez
The original Latin nights, created by Marco De Vita, were sold out each night.
Courtesy of Jarret Haas
John Allan Miller graduated from UF in 2008 and currently writes 
and performs music in Nashville, TN.
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
An epiphany brought the world “Currents” 
from Australian multi-instrumentalist Kevin 
Parker, 34. “The Slow Rush” is a continuation 
in the direction of genre-bending pop music. 
This epiphany described by Parker occurred 
in Los Angeles while he was high on cocaine 
and shrooms; he realized how incredible the 
Bee Gees sounded in a technical and emotional 
sense.
The cocktail of psychedelics and the Bee 
Gees granted Parker a massive and well-de-
served hit album, “Currents,” peaked at num-
ber 4 on the Billboard Top 200 list in 2015, was 
nominated for a Grammy and had its lead hit 
single, “The Less I Know The Better,” rack up 
nearly half a billion listens on Spotify. “Cur-
rents” pushed the indie darling into the spot-
light and established Parker as the frontman in 
one of this generation’s most-loved rock bands. 
Five years later, the group is back with a 
new album. The dust has settled, the party’s 
over, everyone has gone home, can he  sus-
tain the hit-making momentum he achieved on 
“Currents”? 
Astonishingly, yes. Parker ﬂ  exes every one 
of his music muscles. The album lacks guitars 
and distortion but in its place is something 
more exciting: a masterful record bearing se-
lective and electronic elements.“The Slow Rush” is a detailed opus that 
picks and chooses its musical inﬂ  uences from 
R&B and Disco to acid house and 90s boom-
bap hip-hop. Parker is behind all of it — twist-
ing each knob and arranging every drum pat-
tern.
In the interim between albums, Parker 
worked with hip-hop powerhouses like Kanye 
West and Travis Scott. The way these hip-hop 
producers combine genres under one roof 
seemed to inﬂ  uence the way Parker puts his 
songs together on “The Slow Rush.” Parker has 
no need to sample others; he creates sounds 
others want to sample. “Currents” single “Let 
It Happen” features iconic self-samples, but the 
technique is much more prominent on “The 
Slow Rush.”
“The Slow Rush” is a transitional album 
but one of dissatisfaction and ﬁ  ckle fame. In 
the single, “It Might Be Time,” Parker laments 
his unfulﬁ  llment despite his newfound fame 
and the existential worry it brings: “It might be 
time to face it/It ain’t as fun as it used to be, 
no/ … You ain’t as young as you used to be/
It might be time to face it/You ain’t as cool as 
you used to be, no.”
“One More Year” is the album’s moody 
opener, and it sets the tone of the record from 
the beginning of its echo-soaked vocals. As a 
steady beat and glitchy loop establishes them-
selves, Parker wonders about his connection 
to the places outside his studio and his own head: “Do you remember we were standing 
here a year ago/Our minds were racing and 
time went slow/If there was trouble in the 
world, we didn’t know/If we had a care, it 
didn’t show.”
Lead single “Borderline” is a pop hit all 
about his current life deep in the trenches of 
the Los Angeles music scene. “There I go/
Quite a show for a loner in LA/Askin’ how I 
managed to end up in this place/And I couldn’t 
get away.”
In an album of multi-part epics, some sec-
tions are bound to feel uneventful and disap-
pointing. “Lost in Yesterday” comes off as dat-
ed with its Daft Punk vocals and dub effects; 
songs like “Tomorrow’s Dust” and “Posthu-
mous Forgiveness” go on for a verse too long. 
If “Currents” is Parker’s breakup album, 
“The Slow Rush” follows his marriage. Re-
curring themes on the album are the passage 
of time, dissatisfaction with celebrity life and 
the death of his father. “Posthumous Forgive-
ness” pulls apart his troubled relationship with 
his father, using heartbreaking candor and a 
small child’s excitement “I wish I could tell 
you about the time I had Mick Jagger on the 
phone.” 
“The Slow Rush” is a record that will lead 
listeners to dance with tears in their eyes. 
Rate: 8/10
ccann@alligator.org
@chrstophercann8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
SPOTIFY
FROM PUNCHING BAGS TO 
DRUM SETS, HERE’S HOW UF 
PROFESSORS KICK IT OUTSIDE 
OF THE CLASSROOM
By Nora O’Neill  & Cassandra Perez
Avenue Editors
University professors, despite popular 
belief, have lives outside of the lecture 
hall.Charles “Chuck” Martin, a distin-
guished professor at the College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences Department of Chem-
istry, first became interested in record-
ing music when he moved to Gainesville 
in 1999. Since then, he’s released nine 
albums. His latest, “Are You In Love?” 
grapples with the idea that without love 
in your life, it’s impossible to be happy. 
Martin believes that being a musician 
allows him to be an effective teacher. 
“I think there’s a natural overlap be-
tween these two pursuits, and that is per-
formance,” Martin said.
Martin also runs a research group and has published over 100 scientific papers 
while at UF. While he finds it difficult to 
balance his professional responsibilities 
and his musical endeavors, he values both 
spheres of his life equally. 
“They are both what I am, I can’t deny 
either of these things,” Martin said. “The 
most miserable parts of my life have been 
the times when I’ve denied music and not 
found the time for it.” 
While Martin acknowledges that the 
idea of a chemistry professor doubling as 
a musician might be surprising to some, 
he believes that the world’s greatest sci-
entists were all brilliantly creative people. 
“I’ve always done my science like art,” 
Martin said. “For me, there is no discrep-
ancy between what I do music musically 
and what I do scientifically. It’s all about 
creativity.” 
Missy Shabazz, Ph.D., is a lecturer at 
the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
Department of Mathematics. When she’s 
not busy solving calculus equations, she 
can be found in the dojo where she’s been 
practicing Taekwondo on-and-off since 
2001. Today, she’s a third-degree black 
belt and teaches the art three to five times 
a week.
“I love the discipline, I love the beauty, 
I love the competition,” Shabazz said. “I 
love the exercise. I love the people.”
Shabazz encourages everyone to try 
martial arts.
“Everyone is right for martial arts,” 
she said. “It’s excellent for your body. 
It’s amazing exercise and gives you small 
goals to reach. There’s always something 
new to learn, whether it’s a new style, a 
new weapon or working on a new rank.”Shabazz says the flexible teaching 
hours she has at UF allow her to pursue 
this passion. 
“There are lots of class options to work 
around your schedule,” she said.
José Valentino is a professor at the Col-
lege of the Arts School of Music — he’s 
also a Grammy winner.
Valentino began playing music profes-
sionally when he was 14 years old. Since 
then, he’s been nominated for three Gram-
mys and in 2019, he was a featured soloist 
and participating recording engineer on 
the Grammy-winning album “Todo Pasa.” 
Despite his success in music, Valentino 
says he doesn’t feel inclined to choose one 
career over the other. 
“I think we are living in the new renais-
sance age where people are encouraged 
and expected to exercise their polymath 
skill sets and passions to the fullest,” he 
said. 
Valentino doesn’t feel that doing one of 
his jobs inhibits the growth of the other. 
In fact, he feels as though his roles as a 
music teacher and a musician exist code-
pendently.
“The truth is people no longer live in 
an era where they are expected to let go of 
one expression for the sake of the other,” 
he said. “These days, creative profession-
als are encouraged to manage all expres-
sions of their skills and passions to enjoy 
a bountiful and meaningful career.”
@cassandraperez0 @noroneill
cperez@alligator.org noneill@alligator.orgRate and Review: Tame Impala “The Slow Rush”
Oﬀ   The Clock
LIFESTYLE
Courtesy of Amy Lynn Martin
Charles “Chuck” Martin, a chemistry professor at UF, recently released his 
ninth album, “Are You In Love?”
Sick of love instead of love-
sick? Listen to the Avenue 
staff’s favorite anti-love songs.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      3-13-
20-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
3-13-20-12-12
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals'll bring you ‘round!This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sincer -
ity of the advertiser before giving out per -
sonal information or arranging meetings 
or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Roland Huget
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/19/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/19/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, February 19, 2020
ACROSS
1 Low poker pair
5 Mus. key with 
three sharps
9 Nigerian seaport
14 Greet with fanfare
15 Pizza Quick 
sauce brand
16 “You’ve got a 
friend”
17 First name in scat
18 Region where 
broadcast 
reception may be 
poor
20 Mix
22 Former Soviet 
leader Brezhnev
23 Progress at a 
faster rate
26 Prefix with 
tourism
29 Navigation 
technology, 
briefly
30 Brooding genre
31 “Spartacus” 
Oscar winner
34 Bowler’s pickup
36 Amtrak express
37 Army rank last 
conferred in 
1950
42 Breakout game 
developer
43 Pool triangles
44 Sent a message, 
old-style
47 Rock’s Ocasek
48 Grow older
51 Thorn __, former 
Virgin Records 
owner
52 Riot control 
weapon
55 Arizona MLBers
58 Dig find
59 Automatic 
functions in most 
cars, and what 
can be found 
in this puzzle’s 
circles
63 “Ciao!”
64 Take in eagerly
65 Yule tune
66 Saroyan’s “My 
Name Is __”
67 Collaborative 
1993 Sinatra 
album
68 Looking like rain
69 U. of Maryland 
athleteDOWN
1 Roald Dahl novel 
adapted as a 
2016 Disney film
2 Big hit
3 Gretzky’s first 
NHL team
4 Word on the 
street?
5 Canine greeting
6 Tarnish
7 Like gymnasts
8 Capital near 
Glacier Bay 
National Park
9 Property claim
10 Dark purple berry
11 Plant custodian
12 Vein contents
13 Briny expanse
19 Neil Gaiman’s 
“American __”
21 Get rid of
24 Latin 101 verb
25 Circle dance
27 Cuba libre mixer
28 Racecourse 
shape
32 Chemicals carrier
33 Treats, as a 
sprain
34 Drought-plagued
35 Get an “Oh 
no” from Alex 
Trebek, say37 Inevitable end
38 Tabloid couple
39 Stamp, as a 
passport
40 Teri of  
“Tootsie”
41 Vaping device, 
familiarly
45 Mark on metal
46 Puck-handling 
skill
48 Shining  
brightly49 Instrument for 
The Romeros, a 
classical quartet
50 Pitch tents
53 Regarding
54 Tuned to
56 Very dry, as 
Champagne
57 Nile vipers
59 H.S. dropout’s test
60 __ de cologne
61 Scone go-with
62 Surreptitious
By Craig Stowe
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/18/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/18/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 18, 2020
ACROSS
1 Govt.-backed 
investment
6 Travelocity 
recommendations
10 Comprehends
14 Commandment 
verb involving 
parents
15 Niño’s “nothing”
16 Difficult exam
17 Kagan of the 
Supreme Court
18 Fruit grown in 
bogs
20 *Billy Crystal 
comedy featuring 
a cattle drive
22 __, amas, amat ...
23 Gnaw (at)
24 Grocery walkway
28 Offshore oil 
drillers
30 *Exact look-alike
34 Stiff-upper-lip 
type
36 Under, in French
37 Graffiti signature
38 *Daily filming 
schedule on the 
set
42 Musical gift
45 Roman robe
46 Hustle genre
50 *One in la-la land
54 Croat or Serb
55 Mexican mister
56 Correct
58 “__ had it!”
59 Somewhat 
liberal, or where 
you might find 
the first words in 
the answers to 
starred clues
64 Soap opera 
genre
67 1960s jacket style
68 Cooking spot
69 Large-scale
70 Warning signs
71 Like fake fruit
72 See socially
73 From 
Lillehammer, say
DOWN
1 “My Best Friend’s 
Girl” rock band
2 Like poker games 
for high rollers
3 Small takeout 
order
4 Tiger mascot with 
a red scarf5 Clear data from
6 Provoke
7 Dealer’s foil, 
briefly
8 Southern 
neighbor of 
Sask.
9 Reasonable
10 Enters
11 “To say they 
__ I dare not 
be so bold”: 
Shakespeare
12 North Carolina 
__ Heels
13 Cunning
19 Slow-cooked, as 
short ribs
21 Young chap
25 Bilko’s rank: 
Abbr.
26 Grazing area
27 Joule fraction
29 [not my error]
31 Family name in 
Mideast politics
32 Homer’s “I’m an 
idiot!”
33 Feel remorse 
over
35 Provided food for
39 Tone-__: “Wild 
Thing” rapper
40 NYC airport near 
Citi Field41 “__ the  
season ... ”
42 Scout leader?
43 Monkey  
relative
44 Sought a political 
seat
47 Move like a 
mamba
48 Carlsbad __ 
National Park
49 Do to death
51 Revolutionary 
territory52 Wear away, as a 
coin surface
53 Nervous twitch
57 Noble gas
60 Dancer Astaire
61 Spanish 
appetizer
62 Leave out
63 Verne captain
64 Work on a lawn
65 “Training Day” 
actress Mendes
66 “Superman” 
villain Luthor
02/17/2010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
Ginnie Springs Outdoors Hiring
Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-18-20-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 
5:00 - 7:00 p.m. on 2/24 - 2/27.  Verbal on 
M&W, Math on T&R.   To register and learn 
the room location, go to the TC website 
www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on 
“Tutoring" then "Standardized Test Prep,” 
then "GRE Reviews."    2-24-20-4-20Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
Is Facebook giving you FOMO? Read the 
Alligator  instead!
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an 
ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange -
ments or show off your bus and shuttle 
service. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.
★★ AQUARIUM - 55 gal ★★
w/oak cabinet, hood & light. Complete w/ 
fresh-water fish included. Call 352-472-6622. 
★ ★ ★ FIRST $100 TAKES ALL! ★ ★ ★
2-24-20-3-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Hey lazy bones... recycle this newspaper 
when you’re done reading it! Thanks.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.14 Help Wanted 21 Entertainment
1. SCIENCE: What is dendrochronology?
2. FOOD & DRINK: What are the ingredients in 
a Tom Collins drink?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Who is considered 
to be the father of nuclear Navy submarines?
4. LITERATURE: Who wrote the novel "Anne of 
Green Gables"?
5. AD SLOGANS: Which product is advertised as 
"the quicker picker-upper"?6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the shortest presi -
dent in U.S. history?
7. HISTORY: Who was the oldest signer of the 
U.S. Declaration of Independence?
8. GEOGRAPHY: Which country lies on the east -
ern border of Ukraine? 
9. MOVIES: Which 1980s movie featured the Top 
Ten hit song "Danger Zone" (Kenny Loggins)?
10. MEDICAL: Who is the drug morphine named for?
answers below
answers below
answers below
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
Even Exchange  answers Sudoku solution1. The scientific method of dating 
tree rings
2. Gin, lemon juice, simple syrup 
and club soda
3. Admiral Hyman Rickover
4. Lucy Maud Montgomery
5. Bounty paper towels
6. James Madison, 5-foot-4
7. Benjamin Franklin (70)
8. Russia
9. "Top Gun"
10. Morpheus (Greek god of sleep 
and dreams)Trivia Test  answers1.     Marble, Warble
2.     Peace, Place
3.     Stint, Saint
4.     Recipe, Recite
5.     Convey, Convoy6.     Worth, North
7.     Miner, Miser
8.     Errant, Errand
9.     Heist, Hoist
10.   Nickel, Nicked
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSGators guard Lavender Briggs 
was named SEC Freshman of the 
Week for the first time in her 
career on Tuesday. She averaged 
20.5 points and seven rebounds in 
wins over Ole Miss and Missouri.Hilliard announced as Steelers’ receivers coach
Former Gators wide receiver Ike Hilliard was announced as Pittsburgh’s new wide 
receivers coach on Tuesday. Hilliard has spent nine years coaching the position in 
the NFL and was an All-American at UF. He was also a member of the 1996 National 
Championship-winning team and caught three touchdowns in the win over FSU.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
 
The Gators fared better in Jackson-
ville’s wet conditions than the Dol-
phins did on Tuesday night.
No. 2 Florida defeated Jacksonville 
13-3 in a rainy contest at John Ses-
sions Stadium to claim the first game 
of a home-and-home series.
UF remains undefeated to start the 
season, advancing to 4-0. JU fell to 
1-3.
While both pitching staffs struggled 
to throw a slick baseball for strikes, 
UF’s series-opening win against the 
Dolphins was about taking advantage 
of opportunities.
Florida pushed its runners across 
the plate, while Jacksonville turned 
its players into castaways on the wet 
base paths.
Jacksonville had a chance to take 
an early lead against Gators starting 
pitcher Hunter Barco, who made his 
first career start. The freshman lefty 
got out of a bases-loaded jam in the 
first inning, however.
The Dolphins continued to create 
early congestion on the bases, pro-
ducing six base runners through three 
innings. But the first-year combo of 
Barco and Nick Ficarrotta allowed no runs for Jacksonville through three.
Barco finished with 48 pitches 
in two innings pitched, zero earned 
runs, three hits, three strikeouts, a 
walk and a hit batter.
JU pitcher Mike Cassala didn’t re-
ceive the defensive support Barco did.
Defensive mistakes helped Florida 
get its offense going.
Cassala was dealing over the first 
two innings before the rain started to 
fall in the third.
The redshirt junior surrendered 
just two runners and collected three 
strikeouts during his first start since 
returning from Tommy John surgery.
The third and fourth innings 
weren’t as kind to Cassala, however.
Florida struck first in the third af-
ter a double down the left-field line by 
center fielder Jud Fabian scored Cal 
Greenfield, making it 1-0 UF.
Cassala continued to leak until 
bursting in the fourth.
An error by Dolphins third base-
man Moffatt, another RBI base hit by 
Fabian and a bases-loaded walk by 
Austin Langworthy made it a 4-0 ball-
game after four.
The embattled starter finished the 
game with a line of 79 pitches through 
3.1 innings, four runs surrendered 
(three earned), seven hits, five strike-
outs, one walk and a hit batter.UF took advantage of JU’s strug-
gling bullpen down the stretch, led 
by Fabian and shortstop Josh Rivera, 
who both finished the game with 
three hits and two RBI.
After two quick runs from a rein-
vigorated JU offense against Gators 
reliever Ryan Cabarcas made it 4-2 in 
the bottom of the fifth inning, Florida 
answered back to put the game away 
for good in the top of the sixth.
UF plated seven runs in an offen-
sive onslaught against JU pitching. 
The rain started to pile on, causing 
Jacksonville pitchers to give up four 
walks and a hit batter in the inning.
Langworthy, Kirby McMullen, 
Cory Acton, Jacob Young, Nathan 
Hickey and Rivera all collected an RBI 
in the sixth, and when the Dolphins 
defense finally shuffled off of the 
field, the Gators had made it 11-2.
The game went quiet after Flor-
ida’s offensive surge, but both the 
Gators and Jacksonville tacked on a 
few runs in the eighth.
UF and JU will hit the replay but-
ton on Wednesday at 6 p.m., this time 
in Gainesville at Alfred A. McKethan 
Stadium to close out the two-game 
set.
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgNo. 2 Florida pours it on in the rain against Jacksonville
Alligator File Photo
UF centerfielder Jud Fabian went 3 for 5 in Tuesday’s win over JU 
with two RBI and a run scored. He is hitting .421 through four games.
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Christian Berry
Sports Writer
Considering heavy rain was a problem all 
weekend and the team was coming off its worst 
performance of the season last week, plenty of 
excuses could’ve been made for the No. 10 
Florida at the Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate.
UF made no excuses though, as the Gators 
and sophomore Clara Manzalini both took 
home first place in New Orleans on Tuesday. 
Manzalini got the first collegiate win of her 
career in dramatic fashion.
She came into the final day in 15th place, 
trailing the leader Anna Backman by four strokes. That all changed after a dominant fi-
nal round in which she shot six-under par and 
tied for first place.
“I’m very happy about the win, especially 
because it was my first one as a Gator. My 
game was very solid, and I have been very 
patient on the course these past three days,” 
Manzalini said in a release. “It’s great to see all 
the work paying off.”
Manzalini wasn’t the only Gator who saw 
her hard work pay off. All five UF golfers fin-
ished within the top-15 on the individual lead-
erboard and the team collectively won by 16 
strokes. 
One of those top-15 finishers was junior Ad-die Baggarly, who shot under par all weekend 
and tied for third place after ending the final 
round five-under par.
Another great performance came from 
freshman Marina Escobar Domingo, who had 
the first top-ten finish of her career, tying for 
eighth place after shooting a career-best three-
under par.
The other freshman, Annabell Fuller, also 
had a great weekend, shooting a career-best 
3-under par in the second round. She shot two-
under par for the tournament and tied for 14th 
individually.
The last of the five golfers was senior Marta 
Perez, who ended the tournament tied for 10th place at three-under par, her 13th top-ten fin-
ish of her career. 
“We played really solid golf from one to five 
which is great to see. And each player made 
some really nice adjustments from last week in 
California,” coach Emily Glaser said. “To see 
them commit to doing that so quickly is a great 
sign for this group.” 
UF will look to ride the momentum from 
this win into the Gators Invitational, which the 
team will host in Gainesville March 7.
@Berry05219
cberry@alligator.orgNo. 10 UF and Manzalini triumph at Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Whether he went off the dribble, came 
off a screen, drove to the basket or passed 
half court, Mason Jones was met with 
white jerseys and suffocating defense.
Arkansas entered the O’Connell Center 
on Tuesday with a 16-9 record and a less-than-ideal 4-8 standing in the SEC. They 
left with a loss thanks in large part to the 
attention that their star player attracted 
from the UF defense.
Jones, a 6-foot-5, 200-pound guard has 
proven to give opposing defenses night-
mares. He entered the matchup averaging 
an SEC-best 20.8 points per game and lead-
ing the conference in free throws attempt-ed and made (172 of 208).
Besides commenting that Jones lives at 
the free throw line, UF coach Mike White 
knew he was an all-around offensive jug-
gernaut and cited some things that stuck 
out on film.
“The way that he shoots it off the catch, 
the way that he can create his own shot,” 
White said earlier this week. “His strength, his length, his ability to separate, to get his 
own jump shot and also get to the rim.” 
Jones’ dexterity is on par with his im-
pressive offensive repertoire as well.
Arkansas was also without its second-
leading scorer guard Isaiah Joe, who is still 
recovering from arthroscopic knee surgery 
on his right knee, and the Gators knew the 
Hogs would depend heavily on Jones.
UF’s defense forced anyone else to Gators swarm Jones in halfcourt defense
SEE MEN’S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 1212  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2020
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - close“PITCH”er Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
with Karaoke!
SWIMMING & DIVINGbeat them by denying Jones any 
breathing room in the halfcourt. 
“We weren’t really doubling him, 
we were just catching the ball 
screen pretty long,” UF guard An-
drew Nembhard said. “It probably 
seemed like a double but it wasn’t 
really a double.”
Guard Scottie Lewis was the pri-
mary defender on Jones through-
out the night and was almost never 
alone with this strategy.
Jones was constantly harassed 
by two defenders every time he at-
tempted to come off a screen and 
the gameplan was supremely ef-
fective in the first half. Jones went into the visiting locker room with 
just eight points on 2-for-6 shooting 
from the field.
His teammates struggled to find 
any offense outside of their other-
worldly guard, shooting 7-for-22 in 
the first half. 
After halftime, Jones didn’t at-
tempt to come off of screens nearly 
as much and as a result took advan-
tage of one-on-one opportunities. 
He scored 13 points on 50 percent 
shooting in the half, and the Hogs 
trimmed the once 19-point lead to 
just two.
It wasn’t enough in the end as 
the Gators blew the game open in the closing minutes thanks in large 
part to Keyontae Johnson’s career-
high 24 points. Jones would end the 
night with 21 and Musselman knew 
that he was asking a lot of his sec-
ond-year star in the 73-59 loss.
“Mason’s carrying us,” Mussel-
man said. “I haven’t been around 
too many college basketball players 
that have such a burden that he’s 
had over the last eight games. There 
was four Florida Gators concentrat-
ing on one guy.”
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.orgJones leads the SEC in scoring at 20.8 ppg
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Arkansas guard Mason Jones scored 21 points in a 
loss. He was the focus of UF’s defensive gameplan.
SEC Championships remaining schedule