We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGator and Inspire Party go head-to-head
Here’s a guide on who the executive candidates are, pgs. 4-5
Be there or be square
Satchel’s Pizza is opening up it’s second location — with only 
square menu items, pg. 7Bartram’s outside shooting carries 
Florida to a road win
The freshman scored a career-high 18 points and 
the Gators downed Missouri, pg. 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 60
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
MARJORY STONEMAN DOUGLAS VIGIL
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Richard Doan, a 19-year-old business administration and telecommunication sophomore, solemnly pays 
respects during a vigil honoring the second anniversary of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School 
shooting that killed 17. The vigil was held on Plaza of the Americas Friday evening. TUESDAY IS THE LAST DAY 
TO REGISTER BEFORE 
PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARIES
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
If you haven’t registered to 
vote yet, your time is running 
out. 
Tuesday marks the last 
day Gainesville residents can 
register to vote or change their 
party afﬁ  liation for the country’s 
presidential preference primaries 
and the city’s local elections. 
Both will happen March 17, said 
TJ Pyche, the spokesperson for 
the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections.
Sixteen names are on the 
sample Democratic ballot for the 
presidential primaries, although 
eight are no longer running. 
Among those still in the 
race are Joe Biden, Bernie 
Sanders, Michael Bloomberg, 
Pete Buttigieg, Tulsi Gabbard, 
Amy Klobuchar, Tom Steyer and 
Elizabeth Warren. 
Donald Trump and other low-
polling candidates make up the 
Republican ballot. 
Voters will also decide on 
three seats on the Gainesville 
City Commission that are open 
— at-large, District 2, and 
District 3 seats, Pyche said. 
Former mayoral candidate 
Scherwin Henry, suspended 
attorney Gabe Kaimowitz, 
former bridal shop owner Paul 
Rhodenizer and legal aid Reina 
Saco are currently bidding for 
the Commission at-large seat. 
Commissioner Harvey Ward 
Jr. is running for re-election in District 2, challenged by real 
estate consultant David Walle. 
David Arreola is also running 
for re-election in District 3, 
challenged by former mayoral 
candidate Jennifer Reid. 
People can register to vote 
online or at a local voter 
registration agency. 
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.org
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Brady Smith waited on deck for 
his fourth at-bat of the season, look-
ing toward the diamond as he prac-
ticed his swing repeatedly.
At the plate was shortstop Josh 
Rivera, who struck out looking on 
a pitch from Marshall right-hander 
Bryan Callaly.Smith was a combined 0 for 
3 against the Thundering Herd 
throughout the weekend. And seeing 
Rivera get fanned right before head-
ing into the box did him no favors.
The buildup didn’t affect Smith’s 
conﬁ  dence, however, as he notched 
his ﬁ  rst hit of the season with a solo 
home run to break Florida’s dead-
lock with Marshall in the bottom of 
the fourth.
Smith wasn’t done yet, though.The junior nailed a three-run 
homer over the left-ﬁ  eld wall just 
two innings later to give his team 
a six-run lead and put a stop to the 
Thundering Herd’s comeback at-
tempt.
Smith’s offensive display on Sun-
day helped the No. 4 Gators to a 15-8 
victory over Marshall at Alfred A. 
McKethan Stadium.Voter registration deadline soon
Smith, UF complete sweep of Marshall
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
Juwan Parrish doesn’t want to talk about 
it. The situation is complicated.
A few months ago, his teenage nephew 
had his best friend die in his arms after being 
shot. Last year, he found out through Face-
book that one of his childhood friends was 
shot and killed at 25 years old.
“Shootings in America are so common that 
they are so easy to overlook until it’s some-
body you know,” he said.
Parrish, a 25-year-old UF law student and 
a member of the Black Law Students Associa-
tion, grew up in Des Moines, Iowa. He said the black community’s experience with gun 
violence is what has inﬂ  uenced the call for 
gun control.
But communities of color can be overshad-
owed by other activists. 
Friday marked the two-year anniversary of 
the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Doug-
las High School in Parkland, Florida, which 
left 14 students and three staff members dead.
Survivors created March For Our Lives, a 
national organization that lobbies in Tallahas-
see and Washington, D.C., for gun reform. 
But as media exposure focuses on white or 
white-passing activists, some wonder if activ-
ists of color are being overshadowed in the 
conversation.‘I wish we were portrayed as regular 
people’: gun control activists of color
MSD alumna Anisha Saripalli didn’t 
choose to lose one of her best friends, Carmen 
Schentrup, in the MSD shooting. As a woman 
of color, she also wasn’t chosen by the media 
to be the face of the gun control movement.
Although March For Our Lives frontrun-
ners are mostly white, gun violence dispropor-
tionately affects communities of color. Homi-
cide rates for black Americans are eight times 
higher than for white Americans, according to 
the National Council on Family Relations.
In 2019, more than 15,000 people in the 
United States were killed as a result of gun 
violence not including suicides, the Gun Vio-lence Archive found. And African American 
children are 10 times more likely to die from 
a ﬁ  rearm homicide than white children and 
Asian children, according to research pub-
lished in the scientiﬁ  c journal Pediatrics.
“People of color have been going through 
this for years, and they’ve been activists for 
years,” Saripalli, an 18-year-old UF biomedi-
cal engineering sophomore and the March 
For Our Lives Gainesville treasurer, said. “But 
once this upper-middle class white commu-
nity got affected, that’s when people started 
paying attention...It’s sad.”
The difference in media exposure can UF students of color sometimes feel overshadowed in views on gun policySEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 10
SEE MSD,  PAGE 6BASEBALLLocal Voter 
Registration 
Agencies
Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections 
Alachua County 
Public Libraries
Center for Independent 
Living of North 
Central Florida 
Division of Blind Services
Malcolm Randall VA 
Medical Center
Santa Fe College, 
Disabilities Resource 
Center 
University of Florida 
Disability Resource CenterT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  78° LOW  60°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.BLACK HISTORY MONTH
LGBTQ+ Affairs Celebrates 
Black History Month
Where: LGBTQ+ Affairs at 
UF, located at the Reitz Union 
Room 2210 
When: Twice a week 
throughout February at 1 p.m.
What: LGBTQ+ Affairs will 
showcase films that depict 
black queerness such as “I Am 
Not Your Negro,” “Moonlight,” 
“Brother Outsider” and 
“Paris is Burning.” Trigger 
and content warnings will be 
placed throughout the viewing 
area. Event run times may 
vary.
Chef Empowerment’s Black 
History Month Pop-Up 
Restaurant
Where: Working Food, located 
at 219 NW 10th Ave.
When: Feb. 28 from 5:30-8:30 
p.m.
What: Chef Empowerment’s 
Underground Kitchen is 
partnering with Working 
Food to host an all-you-
can-eat Southern buffet in 
collaboration with local black-
owned businesses. Tickets are 
$20. 
African American Studies 50th 
Anniversary
Where: Smathers Library 
Room 110/Turlington Plaza
When: Feb. 20-21, times vary
What: Two different events 
will be held for the 50th 
anniversary of UF’s African 
American Studies program. 
The first will be the Ronald 
Foreman Symposium on 
Thursday, Feb. 20 with a 
reception beginning at 8 a.m. 
The symposium features three 
main panels — academic, 
community and alumni and 
student — and will also 
feature an IBC film screening and a book exhibition. The 
second day of the event on 
Friday, Feb. 21 will feature 
a tour and breakfast at the 
African American Studies 
offices, unveiling a historical 
marker on Turlington Plaza 
and a reception at the Friends 
of Music Room. Both events 
are free to attend. 
OTHER EVENTS
YBN Cordae, 24kGoldn
Where: High Dive, located at 
210 SW Second St.
When: Feb. 21 from 9 p.m.-12 
a.m.
What: Glory Days and 
WRLD Entertainment present 
YBN Cordae, a former XXL 
“Freshman Class” cover star 
with more than five million 
monthly listeners on Spotify. 
The Wall Street Journal 
dubbed Cordae “one of 
music’s most prominent rising 
stars.” Cordae is supported 
by California-born rapper 
24kGoldn. Tickets are $20 in 
advance and $25 day of show. 
Participants must be 18 or 
older unless accompanied by 
a parent or legal guardian. A 
$3 cover charge is required for 
those under 21. 
Museum’s Challenge
Where: Smathers Library, 
located at 1508 Union Road
When: Feb. 17 from 8:30 a.m.-
5:00 p.m.
What: The UF Museum 
Studies program will host a 
symposium examining the 
history of museums, how 
they will operate in the 
future, and discussions that 
will challenge the traditional 
notions of museums and the 
transformative properties they 
have. After the event, there 
will be a cocktail reception at 
the Florida Museum of Natural History from 6-8 p.m. to 
celebrate the 20th anniversary 
of the UF Museum Studies 
program.
Florida Political History Live
Where: Smathers Library East, 
located at 1508 Union Road
When: Feb. 19 from 9:30-
11:00 a.m.
What: Former U.S. Senator 
and Governor Bob Graham and 
former U.S Senator Bill Nelson 
will speak in the third program 
of the Nelson Initiative on 
Ethics and Leadership at 
UF. Nelson and Graham will 
discuss current political topics 
and Florida’s political history. 
The event is free.
Ligature 29 Social Hour and 
Lecture Series
Where: UF College of the Arts, 
located at 1370 Inner Road 
When: Feb. 22 from 6-9 p.m.
What: Ligature 29 is a UF 
symposium run by students. 
The event features lectures 
from well-known designers, 
workshops and a showcase 
of juried student work. This 
year's symposium will feature 
guest speakers are Meg 
Lewis, a designer and writer 
heading darngood.co and the 
podcast "Sit There and Do 
Nothing", and Tad Carpenter, 
of Carpender Collective. The 
free event also includes a 
coffee social, discussions on 
the history of Ligature, a social 
hour at the Libby Gallery and 
lectures at Little Hall. 
When Gospel Meets Jazz
Where: The Historic Thomas 
Center, located at 302 NE Sixth 
Ave.
When: Feb. 21 from 7-9 p.m.
What: The City of Gainesville 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural 
Affairs Department and the 
Pleasant Street Historic Society 
presents "When Gospel Meets 
Jazz" featuring the GMJ Band. 
The GMJ Band's setlist varies 
from the show as does the 
band's setlist. The GMJ band 
will play jazz versions of 
gospel music as well as older 
R&B music. Tickets are $25 in 
advance and $30 at the door. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 60
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Meagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
J.P . OprisonEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
C
M
Y
CM
MY
CY
CMY
KUF Alligator Independent.pdf   1   2/12/20   11:32 AM4  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020
From: Gainesville, Florida
Major: First-year law student
Previous experience: Former 
Impact Party senator, chairman of 
the SG allocations committee
From: Orlando, Florida
Major: Advertising junior
Previous experience: Chairman of 
the SG Leadership and Service 
Division cabinet for SG leadership  Nicholas Cassisi said his grandson Trevor Pope has always made sure 
everyone had a voice.
“He would always look for the person in the back, and he 
brought them to the front,” he said of Pope’s time on
Preview, UF’s orientation staffers.
 Pope, a 22-year-old law student at the Levin College of Law, served as the 
allocations chair while earning his undergraduate degrees. Pope received two 
bachelor’s in economics and political science in May.
 Pope wants to lead by example by working bipartisanly this semester, he 
said. He wants to collaborate between SG parties to better represent students. 
 Born in UF Shands Hospital and raised in Gainesville by UF alumni, Pope 
said he always knew he wanted to attend UF. In addition to serving in the 
Senate, he was a Preview Staffer, served on the Freshman Leadership Council 
and was a Cicerone — a UF tour guide.
 On the day that Lauredan approached a lectern on Gator Walk to announce 
his candidacy for Student Body vice president, people shouted.  
 “That is black excellence right there!” they screamed at Ofﬁ  cial. 
 He said a lot of his mentees from Black Student Union, what he calls “the 
clout family,” showed up to support him.
 Ofﬁ  cial makes everyone feel included, his friend Max Toppin said.
“Whenever someone says Lauredan’s name, everyone can 
associate it with positivity or someone who’s nice or just overall 
goodness, because he’s made an impact in probably most people’s 
that I know’s life,” the 19-year-old ﬁ  nance sophomore said.
 Ofﬁ  cial was the SG leadership development and involvement cabinet 
director — which ofﬁ  cally deﬁ  nes SG leadership behavior. He oversaw sub-
cabinets such as community involvement, communications, innovation and 
leadership development and involvement.
Trevor Pope, 22
Lauredan Ofﬁ  cial, 21From: Miami, Florida
Major: Political science senior
Previous experience: Two-term Inspire 
Party senator, District D
From: Gainesville, Florida
Major: International studies junior
Previous experience: Helped lead a 
protest for more blue lights on 
fraternity row in Fall 2019 After it rained, Matthew Diaz used to go outside and pick up snails from 
the road so people wouldn’t step on them, his mom Patricia Diaz said.
She said he’s had a natural drive to help others since he was a little kid.
“He was a baby. I would call him my little old soul,” she 
said. “He was always just a gentle, kind, sweet kid.”
 Diaz said his top issues going into the election are a funding crisis for  
student organizations, the university’s racial equity and gender equity score, 
mental health resources and the campus climate survey. 
 He is the founding president of the Indigenous-American Student 
Association. He co-filed a resolution to unsuccessfully impeach the current 
Impact-affiliated Student Body President Michael Murphy in Fall, due to his 
role in bringing Donald Trump Jr. to speak on campus. Trump Jr. was paid 
$50,000 for the speaking engagement, which came from student fees.
 Emily Hyden said the legal system nearly tore her family apart as a child. 
Now, she wants to be a lawyer. 
 When she was 13, Hyden’s father was arrested by the U.S. Department of 
Homeland Security and subsequently convicted on drug charges.
 Instead of being locked away for a decade, she said, the judge showed 
compassion and gave her dad 60 days in prison and ﬁ  ve years of community 
service.
 As Inspire’s candidate for Student Body vice president, Hyden hopes to use 
that same compassion if she is elected.
“Going into everything as vice president with a big heart and 
going in with compassion, going in with understanding and going 
in with the fullest intent of truly using my position to better the 
status and better the situation of Gators,” she said.Who are the Student Government executive candidates?
Matthew Diaz, 22
Emily Hyden, 21You can vote for executives and senators on Feb. 18 and 19
PRESIDENT
VICE PRESIDENTPRESIDENT
VICE PRESIDENTBy Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff WriterMONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
From: Miami, Florida
Major: History and political science 
junior
Previous experience: College of 
Liberal Arts senatorFrom: Tampa, Florida
Major: Accounting junior
Previous experience: Member of budget 
and appropriations committee, Accounting 
senator, formerly Impact Party
 Matthew Barocas loves politics and loves to bake.
 The history and political science junior bakes bread and pastries for his 
friends during his free time. He said there are different kinds of bread for 
different people.
“I try to ﬁ  nd a bread that matches their personality, which 
sounds like a BuzzFeed quiz, but it’s fun,” Barocas said. “Some 
people are like a sweet bread. Some people are a spicy bread. 
Some people are salty bread.” 
 Barocas is the president of UF College Democrats and was the organization’s 
treasurer from Summer 2018 to Spring 2019. He volunteered for Inspire’s 
campaign before he was elected.
 As a member of the LGBTQ+ community, Barocas said issues concerning 
that community are important to him. He also advocates for environmental 
issues and said he wants to make the world more welcoming. Jessica Jesurajan was born in India and raised in Singapore until second 
grade. When she moved to the United States, she said she was bullied because 
of the way she spoke and dressed.
 “They would just tell me that I didn’t belong here,” Jesurajan said.
 Jesurajan is now the president of the UF Indian Students Association and 
a 20-year-old accounting junior. She served as a senator and on the budget 
and appropriations committee and on the judiciary committee prior to her 
appointment.
“That was just a passion, a personal mission of mine,” she said. 
“Just to make sure that everybody did feel that it was like an 
open space, that people shouldn’t feel different, and in their own 
skin especially.” 
 She said if she becomes treasurer, her main goals are to make sure everyone 
takes proactive measures to ensure student organizations receive funding. She 
plans to make deadlines clearer for everyone and create a ﬁ  nance feedback 
form to improve communication with student organizations.
Matthew Barocas, 20
 Jessica Jesurajan, 20
◊ Southwest Recreation Center – Social Lounge
◊ Springs Complex – Area Ofﬁ  ce C2022
◊ Reitz Union – Computer Lab
◊ Norman – Education Library Computer Lab
◊ Murphree Area Conference Room 
◊ Marston Science Library ◊ Levin College of Law – Burton Geer Hall Student Commons
◊ Jennings Hall – Library
◊ Health Science Center – BITS Library Computer Lab
◊ Heavener Hall – RM 202
◊ Broward Hall – Broward Recreation RoomVote on Feb. 18 and 19 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at various locations across campus 
The list below is provided by the SG Elections Commission Chairwoman Amanda Matyk.TREASURER TREASURER
***Bring a photo ID and know your UF ID number, or bring your Gator 1 card to vote. ***be seen in her number of Twitter followers, 
which is almost 700, compared to her veri-
fied friends. David Hogg has about 1 million 
followers, and Emma González has about 1.6 
million.
However, she knows that when she gets 
hundreds of likes on a tweet, either Hogg or 
González retweeted it. The duo has recog-
nized their increased power and are using it 
to lift up more people of color, Saripalli said.
“March For Our Lives strides in the correct 
direction of getting people (and) activists of 
color, not just from Parkland, but from around 
the country,” she said. “They’re having their 
voices heard.”
Still, she wants March For Our Lives in the 
media to be more representative of her high 
school’s ethnic makeup.
For Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School’s 2017-2018 school year, 56 percent 
of students were white, 22 percent were His-
panic, 11 percent were black, 7 percent were 
Asian, 3 percent were multiracial and 1 per-cent belonged to other ethnic groups, accord-
ing to the National Center for Education Sta-
tistics.
MSD alumnus Kevin Trejos also wanted to 
lead as a Latino gun control activist. 
After the shooting, he knew he needed to 
use the influx of media attention to make a 
statement against gun violence. He was invit-
ed to meet with Cameron Kasky, a prominent 
leader of the movement, and other influential 
students a few nights after the tragedy to plan 
a demonstration that would make an impact.
They decided on a march and a movement.
It was in that living room meeting that Tre-
jos, now a 20-year-old UF political science and 
finance sophomore, became one of the found-
ers of March For Our Lives.
As part of the group, he advocated for 
background checks, risk protection orders 
and restrictions on magazine-style guns. Risk 
protection orders allow law enforcement to 
temporarily restrict a potentially dangerous 
person from possessing a gun.
Trejos disagreed with how reports narrow-
ly showed his high school as white, affluent 
and entitled.“I wish we were portrayed as regular peo-
ple, as we are,” he said.
When he did one of his television inter-
views, a reporter asked about Joaquin Oliver, 
one of the victims who was Venezuelan, de-
spite Trejos not knowing him well.
“I guess because people saw that I was 
Colombian American and he was Venezuelan 
American, we would somehow have some 
sort of like, Latino connection,” he said. “I’m 
more than just my basic demographic com-
position.”
Trejos sees great importance in activist di-
versity.
“People want to see themselves in those 
they look up to,” he said.
It’s not necessarily that people of color 
hate white people, he added. It’s about ad-
dressing the fact that minorities have to put in 
“10 times more work to be recognized.”
‘None of us can be free if one of us is 
being oppressed’: preferred gun control 
regulations 
After starting school at UF, Trejos stepped 
back from March For Our Lives because it 
rehashed memories he wanted to forget, he 
said. But that doesn’t mean he’s done with 
gun control activism. 
He now works with UF’s Student Govern-
ment as the assistant treasurer to advocate for 
school safety and other causes he’s passionate 
about. He said he wants laws that keep guns 
away from the mentally ill.
Parrish isn’t an activist, but he’s active on 
Twitter to keep up with today’s reformers. 
But even while scrolling through the app, 
he has seen the disparity in attention given to 
white activists versus those who are black or 
brown.
“When it comes to minority activists, 
they have to be very unique in order to gain 
that media attention,” Parrish said. “When it 
comes to the white activists, their standard 
tends to be a lot lower.”
He said the media is looking for someone 
likeable, such as clean water advocate and 
person of color Amariyanna Copeny, better 
known by her nickname “Little Miss Flint.” 
But oftentimes, the press chooses a white per-
son who they believe will be more relatable to 
their audience, he said.
The double standard permeates through 
gun control activism as well, he added.
When black communities advocate for gun 
control laws, people think it’s unwarranted 
because of black people’s stereotypical role 
as the main perpetrators in nationwide gun 
violence, he said. But when white communi-ties rally for gun control, Parrish said no one 
rebuts with the mass shootings where white 
shooters were responsible.
To combat gun violence and prevent mass 
shootings for both communities, Parrish 
hopes to see universal background checks for 
gun purchases. He also wants the government 
to address the racial disparities in gun policy.
“I’m looking for a candidate that is aware 
of the way that these gun or gun control laws 
are disproportionately applied to different race 
groups, specifically the way they’re applied to 
white people and black people,” he said.
For owning a gun illegally, a black person 
tends to have a harsher punishment than a 
non-black person, he said.
Research published by the Prison Policy 
Initiative supports the idea that decreasing 
punishments for less serious offenses could 
decrease the racial gap in criminal sentencing.
“They have a way of demonizing any 
black person who comes through the criminal 
system as a felon, and that’s just their way 
of keeping black people from owning guns,” 
Parrish said.
Mackintosh Joachim, the 20-year-old presi-
dent of UF’s NAACP chapter, believes it would 
help if the black community had more guns.
Some historical activist gun owners include 
the Black Panther Party, a political group that 
advocated for self-defense and created citizen 
patrols to combat police brutality during the 
civil rights movement.
Joachim looks to the Black Panthers as 
the reason why he is a supporter of the Sec-
ond Amendment and the state’s Stand Your 
Ground statute, which legally justifies the use 
or threatened use of force when in fear of be-
ing injured or killed.
As someone who hopes to get his gun li-
cense when he turns 21, he supports protect-
ing gun ownership legislation because he be-
lieves guns could be used to defend against 
unwarranted killings at the hands of police.
“If the police is not there to protect and 
serve us, then we must protect ourselves,” he 
said.
He also fears that gun control and more ex-
tensive background checks would continue to 
bar people who committed nonviolent crimes, 
mostly poor white people and people of color, 
from obtaining a gun to defend themselves.
“None of us can be free if one of us is being 
oppressed,” he said.
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgBy Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
The soft glow of candles il-
luminated students’ faces. Some 
of them were in tears. Seventeen 
white luminaries with the names 
of the victims of the Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School 
shooting surrounded them, serv-
ing as a reminder of the painful 
second anniversary.
March for Our Lives Gainesville 
hosted a vigil on Plaza of the 
Americas Friday night to honor 
the victims. 
The bells of Century Tower 
played a melody as four MSD 
alumni recounted the tragedy that 
happened two years ago. They 
talked about the friends they lost 
and recalled the day of the shoot-
ing.
UF President Kent Fuchs and 
Helen Kirklin of Moms Demand 
Action for Gun Sense in America 
spoke. They were accompanied 
by D’Andra Mull, the new vice president for Student Affairs.
Fuchs talked about how his 
son was at Virginia Polytechnic 
Institute and State University dur-
ing the shooting in 2007. He said 
he was inspired by the work that 
students are doing to end gun vio-
lence.
After the speeches, students 
lit 17 candles and read aloud the 
names of the shooting victims. 
They held a 2 minute and 19 sec-
ond moment of silence, repre-
senting two years after the shoot-
ing and 19 lost lives, including 
the deaths by suicide of Sydney 
Aiello and Calvin Desir, survivors 
of the shooting.
Brandon Abzug, an MSD alum-
nus, said he decided to speak at 
the vigil because he wanted to 
tell others about what he learned 
in the past two years of his life. 
He also wanted to honor his late 
friend, Carmen Schentrup, who 
was accepted to UF.
“This is not about us, it’s about 
those who passed away,” he said.
In the past two years, the pub-lic has become more aware of gun 
violence tragedies due to March 
for Our Lives, which formed after 
the shooting. The tragedies have 
helped change public opinion, 
Abzug, a 19-year-old UF political 
science and criminology sopho-
more, said. But he says there is 
more to do.
Abzug advocates for banning 
automatic assault weapons over 
a certain magazine capacity, en-
forcing universal background 
checks and requiring gun licens-
es.
“We need a multi-faceted ap-
proach because the issue is very 
complex,” he said. “There’s not 
one single solution.”
Phoebe Houle, a 19-year-old 
UF family, youth and commu-
nity sciences sophomore, went 
to school near MSD. She said the 
day of the shooting was a day full 
of heartbreak and pain, and she 
will remember it forever.
“I wanted to honor the people 
that have lost friends and family 
and be there for people who need support,” she said. “Their legacy 
will live on.”
Houle participated in March 
for Our Lives and said she thinks 
not much has changed regarding 
gun violence.
“Luckily, the people that come 
out to events like this and par-ticipate — they definitely want to 
make changes,” Houle said. “So 
there’s always hope.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org 6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Isabella Garcia, a 21-year-old telecommunication and political science junior, lights 
a candle in remembrance of Joaquin Oliver, a victim of the Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas shooting at a UF vigil on the shooting’s second anniversary. Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Candles were lit to symbolize and memorialize the victims of the 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas shooting on its second anniversary at a 
vigil on Plaza of the Americas.  
MSD,  from pg. 1Activists want diversity in coverage‘Their legacy will live on’: Students remember MSD victimsTWO UF ORGANIZATIONS GATHERED TO 
DISTRIBUTE CONDOMS AROUND MIDTOWN 
By Ariana Aspuru
Alligator Contributing Writer
A sea of red, green, blue and yellow condoms engulfed 
Midtown Saturday night. 
As throngs of people arrived in Ubers and wrapped 
around the Midtown bars, members of Planned Parenthood 
Generation Action UF and the Women’s Student Association 
teamed up to hand out condoms and encourage safe sex. 
The activity was appropriately named “The Condom Crawl.” 
The 15-person group handed out between 100 to 150 
forms of protection and contraception throughout the night, 
said Alexandra Ruiz, an assistant outreach director for 
Planned Parenthood. 
Ruiz, a 19-year-old UF health science sophomore, 
said Alachua County’s rate of reported cases of sexually 
transmitted diseases is among the highest in the state of 
Florida. This high rate could be due to a lack of access to 
protection, she said.
“We want to make sure there is access for everyone, no 
matter what situation they are in,” Ruiz said. 
Trojans, Planned Parenthood branded condoms, FC2 Female Condoms and dental dams were tossed up to the 
second floor of the plaza and distributed to those waiting in 
line for Fat Daddy’s. 
Some people laughed while grabbing the condoms out 
of the air, while others opted to discreetly ask the group 
for a few. 
The event, which Planned Parenthood hosts once a 
semester, was scheduled for Saturday because of the 
Valentine’s Day festivities, said Judianna Meyes-Sinnett, a 
20-year-old UF elementary education senior and president 
of Planned Parenthood Generation Action at UF. 
During the evening, Planned Parenthood also encouraged 
people to fill out support cards, paperwork they use to 
contact supporters and encourage membership, Meyes-
Sinnett said.
She said the response from crowds at Midtown Saturday 
was “overall positive,” as many people excitedly accepted 
condoms from the volunteers. Some even took a few 
minutes out of their night to discuss safe sex with the group, 
she said. 
“People that care about us definitely get really excited to 
see us supporting and just being here,” Meyes-Sinnett said. 
“They love to see that Planned Parenthood is still strong.”
One of those supporters was Connor Scruggs, a 21-year-
old Santa Fe College student and bouncer for Grog House. 
As he stood distributing wristbands and checking IDs, The Condom Crawl group passed by him about three times. 
Each time, he took at least three condoms.
Scruggs said he thinks The Condom Crawl was positive 
for the community. He imagined those bringing home a 
special someone from the club would benefit the most from 
the event. 
“You’ve got one (condom) from the club, and you just 
decreased your rate of having an STD,” he said. “Just like 
that.” MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
By Michelle Holder
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new Satchel’s Pizza location 
will bring an easier commute and 
an unexpected menu item.
Satch ², the name of the new 
location, will be at the Fourth 
Avenue food park downtown. 
The name is inspired by the 
square waffles and the square 
Detroit-style pizzas — prepared 
with a square base, cheese on the 
bottom, toppings in the middle 
and sauce on top — the restaurant 
plans to put on its menu.
Store owner Satchel Raye, 
52, thinks it will attract more UF 
students.
“I’m a big fan of waffles, so I 
just wanted to introduce them,” Raye said. “Having this new 
location gives me the perfect 
place to do it.”
The cost to put the new location 
together is still undetermined, 
but it is expected to be about 
$100,000, Raye said. 
Besides having square menu 
items, the new location will 
accept credit cards instead of 
being cash-only like Satchel’s 
main location. It will also be open 
every day instead of just Tuesday 
to Saturday, Raye said.
Raye and his restaurant 
manager visited Detroit in the fall 
for a pizza tour to try different 
Detroit-style pizzas. Raye said 
the experience inspired him to 
reinvent his own recipe. 
The new location downtown is still a work in progress and is 
currently undergoing renovations, 
Raye said. 
Mark Rodriguez, a daytime 
general manager at Satchel’s, will 
be co-owning and running the new 
restaurant location with Raye. He 
said he will be responsible for 
organizing and managing the new 
location, Rodriguez said
“I think it’ll bring more 
awareness to the business itself, 
even though it’ll be kind of two 
separate businesses,” Rodriguez 
said. 
Raye said he is hopeful for this 
restaurant to be opened by the 
end of summer or the beginning 
of fall. Until then, pizza, salad 
and calzones will be served at 
the original location of Satchel’s 
Pizza, at 1800 NE 23rd Ave. 
By Alex DeLuca
Alligator Metro Editor
Authorities are advising Gainesville residents to stay alert 
after two women were attacked in separate assaults this past 
week.
Detectives with the Gainesville Police Department are in-
vestigating two individual attacks on women that occurred 
this past week, according to a UF public safety alert. In both 
incidents, the suspects got away, according to the alert. 
On Feb. 10, at approximately 11:00 p.m., a woman walking 
in the 2500 block of Southwest 35th Place was attacked and 
dragged into the tree line by a man, the alert read. According 
to the alert, she was able to fight off the attacker and call for 
help. 
Two days later, at around 7 a.m. Feb. 12, a woman was 
walking on the trail in Alfred Ring Park, located at 1801 NW 
23rd Ave., when she was attacked and sexually battered by a 
man, according to the alert.
The man was last seen running toward Northwest 16th 
Ave., according to a Facebook post from GPD on Thursday. The suspect in the first incident was described as between 
6 feet and 6 feet 3 inches tall, a white male, between 20 and 
30 years old, with brown/blond hair and a beard, according 
to the post. They were last seen wearing a dark hooded jacket 
with a dark cloth covering their face. 
The suspect being sought for the second incident is de-
scribed as a white male, between 30 and 40 years old, about 5 
feet 6 inches to 5 feet 8 inches tall with light-colored eyes, who 
was last seen wearing dark clothing, according to the post. 
Similar to the description of the first suspect, according to 
the post, the second suspect is also described as wearing a 
dark cloth over their face. 
GPD has not determined if the suspect is the same in both 
of these incidents, according to the post. 
Major Brad Barber, a University Police spokesperson, said 
UPD will “continue to look at our overall community and con-
tinue our increased patrols.”
Anyone with information regarding the incident is urged to 
contact the Gainesville Police Department at 352-955-1818 or 
text keyword GPDFL plus your tip to 274637 (CRIMES). 
Samia Lagmis contributed to this report.
adeluca@alligator.org
@alexldelucaBe there or be square: Satchel’s Pizza to open second location
Following two attacks on women, authorities tell residents to be alertCourtesy to The Alligator
Satch² will be featuring Detroit-style pizzas, like the one pictured, 
and square waffles. 
Ariana Aspuru // Alligator Contributor
On Saturday night, Planned Parenthood Generation 
Action and the Women’s Student Association handed 
out condoms and other forms of protection to those in 
lines for bars at Midtown. 
Condom Crawl comes to Midtown V-Day weekendIt will be located downtown
The Alachua County Victim Services & Rape 
Crisis Center
218 SE 24th St., Gainesville, FL 32641
(352) 264-6760 or www.alachuacounty.us/depts/
css/victimservices
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office Victim Services
2621 SE Hawthorne Road, Gainesville, FL 32641
(352) 384-3317 
The State Attorney’s Office of Victim Services
120 W. University Ave., Gainesville, FL 32601
(352) 374-3670 or www.sao8.org/vicrights.html
Peaceful Paths
(352) 377-8255 (24-hour hotline), 1-800-393-7233 
or www.peacefulpaths.orgBoth suspects were described as wearing a 
dark cloth over their facesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
"Whoever would overthrow the liberty of a 
nation must begin by subduing the freeness 
of speech." – Benjamin Franklin
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
Time to sell your American Girl Doll? Your 
Tickle-Me-Elmo? Looking to buy one? Check 
out the For Sale section for great results. 
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
3-13-20-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
Designated drivers are lifesavers.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      3-13-
20-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By John R. O’Brien
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/17/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/17/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 17, 2020
ACROSS
1 Weed whackers
5 Annoy
9 Macbeth, by birth
13 Saintly glows
15 Impressionist
16 Lola’s nightclub, 
in song
17 Like an old joke
18 Wind that’s worth 
a warning
19 Idi of Uganda
20 Deer hunter’s 
dinner, perhaps
23 Holy Ohio city?
26 Bridal bio word
27 Sault __ Marie
28 “I think,” to a 
texter
29 Childlike race 
in “The Time 
Machine”
32 Learn thoroughly
34 Cutting in half, in 
math class
37 Seine summers
38 Lincoln or Ford
39 Love, in Spain
42 Nearby
47 Fidel who 
overthrew Batista
49 Aussie birds that 
don’t fly
50 San Francisco’s 
__ Valley
51 Diplomatic VIP
52 NBA tiebreakers
54 Sports team 
swaps
56 Attributed 
speaker of the 
circled words
60 Medical suffix
61 Sentry’s “Stop!”
62 Swiss peak in an 
Eastwood film 
title
66 Eye part
67 Oil cartel letters
68 Iced tea wedge
69 Icelandic poetic 
work
70 PC repair person
71 Avec’s opposite
DOWN
1 Suffers from
2 One of an 
inning’s three3 Pitcher’s stat
4 Soothing cream
5 Carol kings
6 Hoppy brews, for 
short
7 Serious  
criminal
8 Portmanteau for 
a false ally
9 “Beat it, feline!”
10 Is remembered
11 Addictive 
narcotic
12 Oil cartel ship
14 Started the 
grass-growing 
process
21 __ me tangere: 
“Don’t touch me”
22 Place to park it
23 Ocean motion
24 Skip over
25 Age-old romantic 
adage
30 A single time
31 “__ it my best”
33 Graceful pond 
swimmer
35 “That __ fair!”
36 Fedora feature
40 Great Plains 
tribe41 Deli breads
43 Pants, briefly
44 Someone 
who’s good, 
and obviously 
knows it
45 Skips, as class
46 Tel Aviv’s land
47 Sweet-talk
48 Got a smile 
out of
53 Suffix with land 
or sea55 Spring zodiac 
sign
57 “Insecure” 
Emmy nominee 
__ Rae
58 Knighted actor 
Guinness
59 Draw with acid
63 ABC show for 
early risers, 
briefly
64 Long, long time
65 ICU workers
By Julian Lim
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/15/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/15/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, February 15, 2020
ACROSS
1 Toys with tails
6 Mineral used in 
roofing
10 Short answer?
14 Sukiyaki 
ingredient
15 Disney theme 
park designer
17 Bounce
18 55-Down 
warranty brand
19 Publish
21 Salmon or coral
22 Pathetic start?
23 George’s musical 
sibling
24 One may be 
turned or earned
27 Convergence 
points
28 Feline rapper?
30 The Rams of the 
Atlantic 10 Conf.
31 Only Nobelist 
besides Marie to 
win the prize in 
two fields
32 Convert wrongly
36 Game with a 
pecking order?
38 OkCupid 
alternative with 
an oceanic name
39 Droid’s 
“surname”
40 Fellow
41 Swerves at sea
45 Boobird’s output
46 It unfolds before 
you retire
49 Mortal Kombat’s 
__ Kang
50 30-day mo.
51 Column angle: 
Abbr.
52 Pre-coll. class
54 Botch
58 Sight sharpener
59 Webinars, e.g.
60 Classic TV nerd
61 Match
62 Brand with a 
Chop House 
variety
63 Kind of tire
DOWN
1 Generous words
2 Tear, perhaps3 Item seen in the 
“Six Feet Under” 
title sequence
4 Corningware 
sister brand
5 Bit of middle 
management?
6 “Crimson 
Peak” co-star 
Wasikowska
7 Prankster
8 __ pants
9 Tip that prevents 
fraying
10 Org. chaired by 
Ronna Romney 
McDaniel
11 Available 
periodically
12 “Aww!”
13 Basic part of a 
TV showrunner’s 
pitch
16 Guerrilla combat 
weapon: Abbr.
20 Steed modifier
25 Right at the start?
26 Night light source
27 __ rich
29 Key with no 
sharps or flats
31 WWII craft33 Digging a lot
34 Saunders/French 
Britcom
35 “Wish I knew”
36 Tired way to talk
37 William who 
plays Grissom on 
“CSI”
38 “A Taste for 
Death” author
42 Kenai Fjords 
National Park site
43 More cagy44 Nurse
46 Summer of disco
47 Use
48 Report card 
blemish
51 Scorecard 
number
53 Koi, e.g.
55 Tech brand since 
1998
56 Economic stat
57 Certain maniac’s 
focus
02/14/20
answers on page 9MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 
5:00 - 7:00 p.m. on 2/24 - 2/27.  Verbal on 
M&W, Math on T&R.   To register and learn 
the room location, go to the TC website 
www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on 
“Tutoring" then "Standardized Test Prep,” 
then "GRE Reviews."    2-24-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org14 Help Wanted
1.  Ruler
1.  Drain, funnel5.  Beeper
2.  Like Spock6.  Shore
3.  Land7.  Tired
4.  Food closetTNASLU
ONISPHGEPAR
STOCA
CLOLGAI
AERACEGSPEYEL
YRANPTANSWERS: 1A-Sultan  5A-Pager  6A-Coast  7A-Sleepy
1D-Siphon  2D-Logical  3D-Acreage  4D-Pantry  B-Portugal2-17-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ has had the same defined 
borders since 1139.
BONUS
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
ScrabbleGrams  solutionThe hasty reformer who 
does not remember the 
past will find himself con -
demned to repeat it
--Eric HofferCryptoQuote solution1. The New York Yankees set a record in 2019 for most 
players with double-digit home runs for the season 
(14)? Who of the 14 had the lowest double-digit total?
2. With how many different teams did Reggie Jackson 
lead the American League in home runs for a season?
3. In 2018, Eric Dungey became Syracuse's all-time 
passing leader (9,340 yards). Who had been the 
school's leader?
4. Golden State's Stephen Curry set a record in 
2018 for most consecutive games with at least five 
3-pointers (seven). Who had held the mark?5. In 2019, Mika Zibanejad became the second 
player in New York Rangers history to record eight 
points through his first two games of the season. 
Who was the first to do it?
6. When was the last time before 2019 that the U.S. 
men's national soccer team lost to Canada?
7. Name either of the two heavyweight boxers who 
fought for the WBA title in 1965 after Muhammad 
Ali was stripped of the belt for having a rematch 
with Sonny Liston?
  answers below© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc. 1. Who was the last Oakland A’s 
player before Khris Davis in 2018 to 
lead the American League in home 
runs for a season?
2. How many times has a Tampa Bay 
Rays pitcher won 20-plus games in a 
season?
3. Who scored the first rushing 
touchdown in Super Bowl history?
4. Name the last Division II men’s 
college basketball player to be select-
ed in the NBA Draft.
5. Which player won the most Stan-
ley Cups without ever playing for the 
Montreal Canadiens?
6. In 2019, the U.S. women’s nation-
al soccer team set a record for biggest 
margin of victory in a World Cup 
game (13 goals). Which country had 
held the mark?
7. Of WBC heavyweight boxing 
champion Deontay Wilder’s 43 pro 
bouts, how many have ended with 
Wilder recording a knockout?
Answers
1. Mark McGwire hit 52 homers to 
lead the A.L. in 1996. 
2. Twice — David Price won 20 in 
2012, and Blake Snell won 21 in 2018. 
3. Green Bay’s Jim Taylor, in the 
second quarter of Super Bowl I in 
1967.
4. Robert Whaley of Walsh Univer -
sity was selected with the 51st pick in 
2005.
5. Red Kelly won eight Stanley 
Cups, four with Detroit and four with 
Toronto, between 1950 and 1967. 
6. Germany won a World Cup match 
by 11 goals in 2007.
7. Wilder has recorded 41 knockouts 
on his way to a 42-0-1 record.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
  solution below
• The shortest song in the world is 
"You Suffer," recorded in 1986 by the 
British band Napalm Death. It lasts 
precisely 1.316 seconds.
• It was American political scientist, economist, psychologist and profes -
sor Herbert Simon who made the following sage observation: "What 
information consumes is rather obvious: It consumes the attention of its 
recipients. Hence a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention, 
and a need to allocate that attention efficiently among the overabun -
dance of information sources that might consume it."
• In the Commonwealth of Virginia, a statute contained within what's 
known as the Code of 1930 prohibits bribery or corruption by anyone 
other than a political candidate. 
• You might be surprised to learn that the most dangerous profession in the 
country -- in terms of the percentage of people holding that profession 
who have been killed -- isn't firefighter or police officer, it's president of 
the United States. A total of 9% of our presidents have been assassinated.
• • •  Thought for the day  • • • 
"I think the biggest mistake most people make when they pick their first job 
is they don't worry enough about whether they'll love the work, and they 
worry more about whether it's good experience."
-- Steve Ballmer
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.• It was famed cultural anthropolo-
gist Margaret Mead who made the fol-
lowing sage observation: “One of the 
oldest human needs is having someone 
to wonder where you are when you 
don’t come home at night.”
• It’s been estimated that a million 
pigeons live in New York City.
• When pop star Christina Aguilera is 
on tour, she insists on having a police 
escort. She hates to be stuck in traffic. 
• Next time you’re heading to Illinois, 
you can stop off in Metropolis and visit 
the self-declared birthplace of Super -
man. In honor of their hometown super -
hero, the citizens erected a 15-foot 
bronze statue of him on Main Street.
• It was Abraham Lincoln who signed 
into law the legislation that created the 
Secret Service. That very night, he was 
assassinated. 
• Those who study such things 
say that on the 13th of every month, 
triskaidekaphobia causes a loss of $83 
million to American business due to 
absenteeism from work and other dis-
ruptions.
• In the United States, more babies 
are born on Oct. 5 than on any other 
day of the year. If you do the math, 
you’ll find that New Year’s Eve is 9 
months and 5 days before that. 
***
Thought for the Day: “Show me a 
hero, and I will write you a tragedy.” 
— F. Scott Fitzgerald
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
By Samantha WeaverKing Features Weekly Service
January 27, 20201. Cameron Maybin, with 11.
2. Three -- the Oakland A's (twice), the 
New York Yankees and the California 
Angels.
3. Ryan Nassib, who threw for 9,190 
yards (2009-12). 
4. Dallas' George McCloud in 1995-96, 
with six consecutive games. (Curry set 
a new record of nine straight games in 
2019).
5. Rod Gilbert, in the 1976-77 season.
6. It was 1985.
7. Ernie Terrell and Eddie Machen, with 
Terrell winning the title.Sports Quiz  answers
16 Health ServicesThe floor of the O’Connell 
Center was named after former 
Gators men’s basketball coach 
Billy Donovan. UF christened 
Billy Donovan Court with a win 
over Vanderbilt.Walton reaches 900th career win over the weekend
UF softball coach Tim Walton won his 900th career game on Friday when 
the Gators defeated North Dakota State 5-0 in the Bubly Invitational.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Brylee Bartram scored a career-high 18 points in a road win 
on Saturday. All of her points came on three-pointers.
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Florida guard Brylee Bartram caught the ball in the right 
corner with her back to the hoop. She immediately turned 
around and threw it up. 
Count it. 
A few possessions later, the freshman caught it at the top of 
the arc and let another one fly. 
Swish.
She then received a pass from fellow freshman guard 
Lavender Briggs, who was double-teamed. Bartram shot from 
downtown for a third time early in the first quarter.
Bucket.
Bartram’s 3-for-3 start from beyond the arc set up the Gators 
nicely in their 75-67 win over Missouri (6-18, 3-8 SEC) on Sunday 
in Columbia, Missouri. With the victory, Florida improved to 14-
11 on the season and 5-7 in the SEC. 
It was a career day for Bartram. The Tampa native’s 6-for-11 
three-point shooting night was good for 18 points against the 
Tigers. That was seven points better than her previous career-
high.
Her hot shooting extended to two of her teammates in the 
second half. Briggs performed well after a sluggish first half 
to finish the game with 18 points. She was only 2 for 8 from 
beyond the arc, but her all-around performance was impactful. 
The Provo, Utah, native sunk four of her six free throws and 
collected six rebounds.
Forward Zada Williams was also involved offensively. The redshirt senior had 15 points on 6-for-9 shooting to be the third 
Gator in double-figure scoring for the game. Most of Williams’ 
contribution, like Briggs, was in the latter twenty minutes. 
Eleven of her 18 came in the second half, including four from 
the free throw line. 
Bartram’s hot start allowed for a strong finish from the other 
two. Her spreading of the floor created space for Briggs to attack 
the basket during a brutal shooting night and for Williams to 
work in the paint. 
Florida point guard Kiara Smith had just five points on the 
night. The junior hit two free throws on the day and made one 
out of six attempts from the floor. Still, Briggs, Bartram and 
Williams shouldered plenty of the scoring load to stack the win 
column a little higher for the orange and blue. 
Defensively, UF contained Missouri for most of the game, 
other than guard Aijha Blackwell. The freshman dropped 20 
points on 43 percent shooting. Guard Amber Smith and forward 
Hayley Frank scored in double figures as well with 13 and 10, 
respectively. 
But the difference on that end of the floor for UF was 
turnovers. Florida lost the ball about as much as it normally does, 
coughing it up 16 times. But uncharacteristically, the Gators won 
the turnover battle. They came into this game forcing just 13.7 
turnovers a game. Against the Tigers, they forced 19.
This win comes at an opportune time for Newbauer’s squad, 
as the SEC Tournament is just just over two weeks away.
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgBartram sets career-high to help Florida down Missouri on the road
“Just staying with my approach,” 
Smith said about his mindset com-
ing into the box without a hit.
“(I) got fortunate enough that it 
went over the fence, but (I) need to 
stay with it and move on to Tues-
day’s game.”
Right-hander Nick Pogue earned 
the start on the mound for Florida 
(3-0) after standing out in fall ball, 
but his performance was less than 
ideal.
The sophomore gave up a single 
to Marshall (0-3) shortstop Geordon 
Blanton on his very first pitch and 
another one to first baseman Zach 
Inskeep just two batters afterward.
Later in the first inning, Blanton 
and Inskeep celebrated at the plate 
following right fielder Jordon Bil-
lups’ two-RBI double off Pogue.
The second inning didn’t go any 
better, as Blanton blasted a three-
run homer to give Marshall a 5-2 
advantage.
Pogue showed his emotions at 
the end of the second, taking off his 
glove and slamming it against the 
dugout wall in frustration.
Right-hander Christian Scott 
stepped on the mound in the third to replace Pogue, who allowed six 
hits and five runs in just two in-
nings pitched.
Unlike Pogue, Scott was on his 
game.
The Parkland, Florida, native 
gave up two hits and no runs in 
2.2 innings pitched, allowing his of-
fense to mount a comeback in the 
third and fourth.
UF’s first three batters -- center 
fielder Jud Fabian, left fielder Aus-
tin Langworthy and third baseman 
Kirby McMullen -- combined for an 
8-of-12 showing at the plate and 
five RBI.
Smith, who earned his first start 
of the season, registered five RBI 
on his own as the last batter in the 
lineup.
Scott’s unblemished outing and 
Florida’s hot bats gave way for UF 
to complete the sweep of its first op-
ponent for the sixth-straight season.
“It was good to get tested early 
like this and keep our heads in the 
game, not get down on ourselves, 
and we hung with it,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said. “We had a great 
weekend offensively. There wasn’t 
a lot of at-bats we gave away.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 1Smith had 5 RBI on SundayLACROSSE
By Christian Ortega 
Sports Writer 
For the second week in a row, 
junior midfielder Shannon Kavana-
gh proved to be the deciding factor 
for a Florida win.
Against No. 18 Colorado in the 
season opener, she scored the fi-
nal goal to clinch the victory. That 
clutch gene reappeared this past 
weekend when she ended No. 2 
Maryland’s 86-game home win 
streak by scoring the game-winner 
in the Gators’ upset over the de-
fending national champions.
Her eight-goal performance was 
not just a career-high but it’s the 
second-best total in program histo-
ry. To casual observers, it shouldn’t 
be an irregularity. Her ability to 
maintain composure as the odds 
of winning becomes a coin flip is 
to be expected of a back-to-back 
Tewaaraton Watch List member. 
Coach Amanda O’Leary sees 
things differently.
“Everybody had to do their job 
in order for that play to succeed,” 
she said. “People had to keep those 
defenders occupied on the back-
side. And I think that’s just where 
we’ve grown tremendously, is peo-ple doing their jobs and doing them 
very, very well.”
Against the Terrapins, the 
Gators’ success followed the same 
pattern shown last week. Lose 
the first draw control, give up the 
game’s first goal and never allow ei-
ther side to gather enough momen-
tum to pull away early. 
In fact, through two games, it 
would not be surprising for Flori-
da’s record to be reversed. 
Against Colorado, Florida’s of-
fense stalled due to turnovers. They 
cut that total in half against the 
Terps, ending with only seven. But 
on Saturday, they allowed 41 total 
shots, which was compounded by 
their 26 fouls. After Florida led the 
Buffaloes in draw controls, Mary-
land finished the game with a +11 
margin.
But the only stat that matters is 
goals scored. Through two games, 
Florida has maintained a positive 
goal differential as they keep an un-
defeated record.
Part of that falls in line with Ka-
vanagh’s dominance. In two games, 
she’s scored as many goals (12) as 
she tallied through five games last 
year. There’s also redshirt junior 
middie Brianna Harris, who tallied her second hat trick this weekend. 
Another veteran who rose to the 
occasion was senior Cara Trom-
betta, who held UMD’s Big Ten 
Preseason Player of the Year Brindi 
Griffin to one goal on five attempts. 
But O’Leary’s pride is bolstered 
by the rise of her underclassmen. 
Redshirt freshman goalie Sarah 
Reznick ended the game with 14 
saves, the third-best in program 
history. And with  1.5 assists per 
game, freshman attacker Kaala 
Puglisi has kept the offense flowing. 
Meanwhile, redshirt freshman mid-
fielder Emerson Cabrera earned her 
first career hat trick Saturday while 
causing two turnovers.
The Gators have had their faults 
this season. But O’Leary’s team 
continued to find success and did 
so in one of the sport’s most hostile 
environments. 
“We have a top 10 schedule,” 
O’Leary said. “That’s exciting. 
We’re going to celebrate this victo-
ry, but come Monday, we’re gonna 
be back to business working on the 
next game.”
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.orgKavanagh’s resolve only part of UF’s successMONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11  
SOFTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
Five hits. Four runs. One player: Charla 
Echols.
The Michigan State transfer has served as 
a major player in the lineup and on defense 
so far this season for the Gators, but Sunday, 
her numbers leaped off the stat sheet.
Thanks in part to the sophomore third 
baseman, Florida topped both Southeastern 
Louisiana and Florida A&M, 13-1 and 2-1, re-
spectively, on Sunday in Gainesville.
At bat, Echols was four-for-four with three 
RBI and tied her career-high in hits during the 
first game of the day against SELU (8-3).
At third base, Echols notched two putouts 
against SELU and one against FAMU (0-10), 
having a hand in a total of eight outs.
With a full week of play under her belt in 
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium, Echols laud-
ed the fan-fueled environment.
“It’s a lot of excitement. Big crowds. The 
fans are amazing,” she said. “The energy is 
always good here, so it was a lot of fun. It 
definitely already feels like home.”
Senior Kendyl Lindaman, the other Big 
Ten transfer (from Minnesota) in the Gators’ lineup, had a productive day as well. The 
first baseman had two runs and two at-bats 
against the Lions and five putouts in the dia-
mond.
In a game where UF (11-1) scored a sea-
son-high 13 runs, SELU went through seven 
out of nine pitchers in four and a half innings. 
Jordan Roberts led the orange and blue with 
four RBI, followed by Echols and freshman 
Julia Cottrill, who each had three. 
As a team, Florida had 27 at-bats against 
those seven pitchers, having worked through 
its full lineup and then some in the bottom of 
the first. The victory marked UF’s sixth run-
rule win of the season.
In the rumble of the reptiles, however, the 
Gators did not have such luck. 
Rattlers pitcher Nadia Zenteno held Florida 
scoreless with a quick three-up, three-down 
first inning. FAMU’s first batter, Jamesia 
Stoudemire, smacked a home run off a pitch 
from Elizabeth Hightower to give her team 
the first and only lead over the Gators by any 
team in the weekend-long invitational.
Florida finally answered back with a home 
run of its own at the bottom of the third from 
junior Hannah Adams to tie the game at 1-1. 
An RBI single from Roberts drove Echols home for her fourth run of the day. Roberts’ 
hit changed the tide, giving the Gators a 2-1 
lead at the end of the third.
In the circle against FAMU, Hightower and 
Natalie Lugo, the latter stepping in at the top 
of the fifth, allowed only two hits and com-
bined for 11 strikeouts. 
After an up and down opener in Tampa 
marked by preseason and post-Kelly Barnhill, 
Amanda Lorenz jitters, this week was able to 
serve as a crucial confidence boost for Florida 
before it flies to the west coast for the Mary 
Nutter Collegiate Classic next Friday through 
Sunday in Palm Springs, California. 
But according to coach Tim Walton, the 
mindset and objective will remain the same, 
no matter who the opponents are or how 
high they’re ranked.
“Ultimately, we try to work really hard 
to prepare for us,” Walton said. “I think 
that when you prepare for yourselves, you 
shouldn’t elevate and raise your game, you 
shouldn’t drop your game to your opponent. 
You should be able to stay and maintain con-
sistency.”
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgGators run-rule Lions, have a close 7 innings with Rattlers
Alligator File Photo
Kendyl Lindaman had eight hits over the weekend.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Saturday night was a spectacle.
The 10,000 fans that loaded into the 
O’Connell Center weren’t in attendance just 
to watch a basketball game. They came to 
help welcome home the pioneer who molded 
Florida men’s basketball into an elite national 
championship-winning program.
The ovation for former UF head coach 
Billy Donovan when he entered out onto the 
court, the one that now showcases his name, 
at halftime was deafening.
And deservedly so.
During 19 seasons at Florida, Donovan ac-
cumulated 467 wins, four Final Four appear-
ances and two national championship titles.
His assistant coaches admired him, his 
players loved him, and that was evident by 
the abundant amount of them that traveled to Gainesville just to support him.
“When I look at my name down there, I 
don’t just look at my name, I look at a lot of 
other people and their names,” Donovan said. 
“We’ve got an unbelievable group of guys 
that all made the trip and the effort to come 
here...For you guys to come back and share in 
this means the world to me.”
Twenty-eight former Gator players — in-
cluding Bradley Beal, Joakim Noah, Al Hor-
ford and Chris Chiozza — were courtside on 
Saturday to show support for a person that 
changed their lives in so many ways.
The honor was well deserved, and the 
commemoration of a Florida legend was flaw-
less.
The current Gators, though, still had a 
game to play.
Despite the distractions, Florida (16-9, 8-4 
SEC) denied any chance of a letdown against 
Vanderbilt (9-16, 1-11 SEC), upending the 
Commodores by 18 to place a figurative bow on a perfect night for the program.
UF showcased its ability to grasp the ma-
turity necessary to win against an inferior 
opponent at home on a night overshadowed 
by things not really related to their basketball 
game.
“I was a little bit concerned,” UF coach 
Mike White said, referring to all of the dis-
tractions. “But I also thought the whole deal 
with the renaming of the court would bring 
a lot of positivity into the environment and 
electricity.”
Florida certainly fed off of that extra en-
ergy in the first half, taking a 29-point lead 
into halftime that helped cause Vandy coach 
Jerry Stackhouse and his flashy green suit to 
be escorted from the game after late in the 
half after two technical fouls.
The Commodores did make the game 
more interesting in the second half, but it 
didn’t matter.
The game was already over and nothing was going to spoil what transpired at the are-
na that night.
UF has now won back-to-back games to 
help garner some momentum heading into 
the final six games of the regular season.
Two matchups with Kentucky, a rematch 
with LSU, and a home game with fellow 
NCAA Tournament hopeful Arkansas still re-
main.
Offensively, the team has shown flashes of 
brilliance over the past week; averaging over 
80 PPG combined in its last two contests.
That offensive input against some of the 
top-tier teams left on its schedule will be nec-
essary to potentially pick up a couple of up-
sets.
A win over UK or LSU would put Florida 
in great position to lock up an NCAA Tourna-
ment bid, barring a setback against Georgia 
or Tennessee.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgHomecoming: During a night of celebration, Gators stay poised in winMEN’S TENNIS
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
The Gators were in the same position 
against Wake Forest as they were Saturday 
night versus North Carolina. They collapsed 
in doubles for the second-straight match.
However, they didn’t let it affect the rest of 
their play like they did Saturday.
Florida surged back and dominated singles 
to seal the 4-1 consolation-round win over No. 
6 Wake Forest Sunday evening in Madison, 
Wisconsin, at the Intercollegiate Tennis Asso-
ciation National Team Indoors Championship.
In doubles, it all came down to No. 13 ju-
nior Oliver Crawford and sophomore Sam Rif-
fice on Court 1 for No. 3 Florida (11-2).
Before that, No. 24 senior Johannes Ingild-
sen and freshman Will Grant were the first to 
claim a 6-2 victory on Court 2 over the Wake 
Forest duo of Melios Efstathiou and Taha Baa-
di. Next, the Deacons’ Bar Botzer and Morgan 
Dill knocked off juniors Duarte Vale and Josh 
Goodger.Crawford and Riffice rebounded after fall-
ing behind 5-3 to tie it at five apiece. But their 
comeback bid failed when Eduardo Nava and 
Henri Squire stole the next two games to give 
the doubles point to Wake Forest (8-3).
Shelton elected to shake up his singles 
lineup Sunday evening. He rolled out Goodger 
and No. 90 sophomore Greif on Courts 5 and 
6 instead of Ingildsen and No. 112 freshman 
Blaise Bicknell. 
Compared to its match against UNC, Flor-
ida responded well in the first set of singles. 
It took the first set on five out of six courts. 
The only UF player to lose was junior Andy 
Andrade on Court 4 when he lost 6-2 to Ef-
stathiou.
Goodger and No. 90 Greif were not in the 
lineup in singles against Columbia on Friday 
or the Tarheels on Saturday but were given a 
chance to shine Sunday evening on Court 5.
He beat Eduardo 6-2, 6-1 in straight sets to 
tie the match at 1-1, and Greif won over No. 
100 Sid Banthia 7-5, 6-3.
No. 4 Riffice quickly followed Goodger and knocked off Squire 6-3, 6-2 on Court 2 to 
give the orange and blue their first lead of the 
match, 2-1.
Greif finished third, and his victory put UF 
a point away from sealing match point for UF.
No. 17 Vale topped Baadi in the first 6-4 
but fell by the same score in the second and 
was forced to go to a third set.
No. 23 Crawford and Andrade were the 
other two UF players required to go to a deci-
sive third-set tiebreaker.
However, their matches would go unfin-
ished because Vale clinched the match, win-
ning 6-3 to secure the 4-1 Florida victory (6-4, 
4-6, 6-3).
The Gators left the ITA National Team In-
doors Championship with a 2-1 record, notch-
ing two top-10 ranked wins over No. 9 Co-
lumbia and No. 6 Wake Forest. They are off 
next weekend but begin SEC play on Feb. 28 
against Alabama (7-2) at home at 5 p.m.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgUF knocks off Wake Forest at ITA Team Indoor Championship
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
Sam Riffice won 6-3, 6-2 in singles on Sunday.
12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2020
REGISTERTOVOTE!REGISTERTOVOTE!
ELECTION ALERT!   
Check y our r egistration s tatus and r egister to 
vote in t he primar y at: http://nxt gn.us/v oteFLYou MUS T be a r egistered Democr at by 
Februar y 18t hto vote in t he 2020 Florida 
Democr atic President ial Primar y on March 17t h. 
Don’t mi ss out. Y our v ote is y our v oice.
TEXT2020 T O82623
to receive periodic updat es from Ne xtGen, 
check y our r egistration s tatus, and r e-register.*  
SCANTHE QR CODE
FOR MORE  INFOREGISTERTOVOTE!REGISTERTOVOTE!
*By texting 2 020 to 82623 you consent t o receive periodic updat es from Ne xtGen Americ a. Text HELP f or help , STOP t o end. Ms g 
& Dat a rates may apply . https://ne xtgenameric a.org/priv acy-policy/