We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGainesville is ranked 51st
But in cases of STDs, pg. 5
Torey Lanez to perform next month
The rapper will perform for Black History Month, pg. 8UF comes up short at the buzzer
Florida lost 84-82 on the road at LSU Tuesday 
night, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 49
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
THE MANHOLES WERE 
BUILT IN THE ‘60 S
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
David Hall, a 26-year-old UF 
agricultural economics masters 
student, sat downwind from a bil-
lowing manhole on the Plaza of 
the Americas during Tuesday. He’s 
eaten Krishna lunch there almost 
every day since he began at UF in 
2011. 
“It wasn’t always like this,” Hall 
said as a pocket of hot steam envel-
oped him. 
The words “Danger, hot, keep 
off” were painted on UF manhole 
covers in 2014. The covers can 
reach temperatures around 150 de-
grees Fahrenheit, and UF Facilities 
Services added barricades to keep 
students away. 
This was a temporary solution 
until a better, more permanent one 
could be implemented. Six years 
later, the barricades are still up.
There are more than 200 man-
holes on campus, said Douglas 
“Bubba” Boyd, an employee of the 
UF utilities and energy department. 
All were built in the ‘60s and it’s 
likely that a majority have fallen 
into a state of disrepair in the de-
cades since, he said. 
“It’s way past time for them to 
do some rehabilitative work,” Boyd 
said.  Manholes are access points in 
the ground that let facility work-
ers maintain the network of un-
derground piping below, he said. 
Those pipes contain hot water and 
steam, and they control the tem-
perature and humidity in surround-
ing buildings. 
Rain and groundwater can seep 
through leaks in pipes to strike the 
water, causing hot steam to billow 
up and out of the manholes, Boyd 
said. 
The steam isn’t toxic, he said, 
but its heat poses a safety risk to 
students and staff. 
When the steam spews out, the 
manhole covers can reach temper-
atures hot enough to fry an egg. If 
someone touches it with their bare 
hands or feet, they’ll be scalded, 
Boyd said.
He recalled an incident three 
years ago when a couple and their 
toddler were jogging around Ben 
Hill Grifﬁ  n stadium. The toddler 
tripped and put a hand out to catch 
himself – directly on a steaming 
cover, where his hand was burned. 
It’s rare that accidents like that 
happen, Boyd said, but they are se-
rious, and need a solution.  
The current plan is to repair all 
200 manholes on campus, he said. 
This has been the plan since 2014, 
but they only secured suﬁ  cient 
funds in 2019. Repairs to campus 
manholes are past due
THERE WILL ONL Y BE ONE 
STORE LEFT IN FLORIDA 
STARTING FEB. 12
By Alex De Luca
Alligator Staff Writer
When Eric Cheek left his shift at 
Lucky’s Market late Monday night, 
he didn’t think it would be one of 
his ﬁ  nal times doing so. 
As front end supervisor of the 
Gainesville store, he’d recently cel-
ebrated his ﬁ  ve-year anniversary 
there. But now, Cheek is just one 
of thousands of Lucky’s Market 
employees laid off as the chain pre-
pares to close nearly all of its Flori-da stores in the next few weeks, as 
ﬁ  rst reported by the South Florida 
Sun Sentinel. 
Jason Rief, the store’s regional 
director, told the Sentinel that the 
20 stores will be closed as of Feb. 
12, and the only remaining location 
will be in West Melbourne, Florida. 
“I feel really betrayed, like I’m 
sure all the other team members 
there,” Cheek, 43, said. 
While the news came as a shock 
to almost everyone, Cheek said 
speculation was “running rampant 
through the employee grapevine” 
after a sign was hung in the store 
informing employees of an impor-
tant meeting Tuesday morning. It was during that 7 a.m. meet-
ing that the store informed its em-
ployees of the abrupt closure, he 
said. 
Kroger invested in Lucky’s 
Market in 2016, back when the 
chain  only had 17 stores. It later 
pulled out of the agreement in ear-
ly December. 
Cheek said ever since Kroger 
pulled out of the partnership, 
there’s been a lot of uncertainty 
about the store’s future. He thinks 
by divesting its stake in the com-
pany, Kroger was aware of the 
impact its decision would have on 
Lucky’s fate. Lucky’s Market to close Gainesville store 
SEE LUCKY’S,  PAGE 5HE MARRIED MISS 
UNIVERSE 2017 IN 
SOUTH AFRICA
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
Former UF quarterback Tim 
Tebow may have led the Gators 
to a championship in 2008, but 
he earned a different kind of 
ring.
Tebow and Miss Universe 
2017 Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters are 
now married, and the wedding 
showcased a mixture of Ameri-
can and South African tradi-
tions.The 2007 Heisman Trophy 
winner married the model in her 
home city of Cape Town, South 
Africa. Nel-Peters and Tebow 
walked down the aisle together 
in their venue La Paris Estate 
while white petals were thrown 
onto them in celebration, as 
shown in Nel-Peters’ Insta-
gram post. She wore a wedding 
dress from David’s Bridal while 
Tebow wore a suit tailored by 
South African fashion designer 
Gert-Johan Coetzee.
Dara Durosomo, a 21-year-
old UF public health and in-
ternational studies senior and Tim Tebow gets hitched
SEE MANHOLE,  PAGE 4 
Lauren Witte // Staff Photographer
Participants march in downtown Gainesville during the annual march on Martin Luther King, Jr. day. 
The holiday, observed on King’s birthday, celebrates his life and achivements as a civil rights leader. SEE TEBOW,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  59° LOW  43°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WEDNESDAY
Black Flag at High Dive
Where: High Dive, located at 210 
SW 2nd Ave. 
When: 7:30 p.m.-1 a.m.
What: Punk rock band Black Flag 
comes to High Dive with found-
ing guitarist Gregg Ginn and spe-
cial guests the Line Cutters. Black 
Flag is an American band that 
formed in 1976 in Hermosa Beach, 
California by Ginn, the band’s sole 
continuous member. The group 
has released seven studio albums 
and two live albums on Ginn’s 
independent label, SST Records. Vocalist Mike Vallely first sang 
with the band as a guest vocal-
ist in 2003 before becoming the 
band’s fifth vocalist and touring 
with the band in 2014.
The Life, Work and Legacy of 
Anita Hill
Where: Ustler Hall, located at 162 
Fletcher Dr.
When: 7-8 p.m.
What: For the UF Women’s 
Student Association’s first meet-
ing of the semester, the associa-
tion and speakers from UF Law 
Believes Survivors examine the 
life and work of Anita Hill, from her initial testimony against 
Supreme Court Justice Clarence 
Thomas to her cultivation of social 
advocacy for a better future. This 
will examine the victim-blaming 
perpetrated by media and public 
opinion as well. 
THURSDAY 
A Discussion with Pulitzer Prize-
Winning Author Debbie 
Cenziper
Where: UF Pugh Hall, located at 
296 Buckman Dr.
When: 6-8 p.m.
What: Author Debbie Cenziper, 
an American investigative journal-
ist with the Washington Post  and 
nonfiction author will discuss the 
research behind her book, “Citizen 
865: The Hunt for Hitler’s Hidden 
Soldiers in America.” The book is 
about a group of American Nazi 
hunters searching for Nazi war 
criminals who entered the U.S. af-
ter World War II. Additional park-
ing spaces for the event have been 
reserved in the South Infirmary 
gated lot and the Murphree Hall 
silver/gold decal lot.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 49
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Donald CunninghamADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Manny ReaMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Chloe  GreenbergEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Faculty Member from the 
UF College of Journalism and Communications
(unpaid member of the board of directors)
The application for this position is available at the 
Alligator office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday 
through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until 
Tuesday, January 14th. Look for the Alligator sign located in 
the lobby. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Friday, January 17th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be 
held on Friday, January 24th at 1 p.m. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator . Applicants must be a faculty member from 
the UF College of Journalism and Communcations.The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position:
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
A participant walks during the Martin Luther King, Jr. March in downtown Gainesville 
Monday afternoon. 
Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
City residents march in remembrance and solidarity for Martin Luther King, Jr. in 
downtown Gainesville Monday afternoon.Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
Michael Hill Sr. carries sleepy Michael Hill Jr. during the endearing march along 
downtown Gainesville.
MLK JR. MARCH
March for MLK: Gainesville 
residents honor activist4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
The manholes will be disas-
sembled to repair leaks, and vents 
will be added to redirect rainwa-
ter from the hot pipes.
The process is time consum-
ing and disruptive to campus ac-
tivities, Boyd said. The hot water 
must be shut off for workers to get 
into the manholes, which means 
surrounding buildings will be 
without air-conditioning and hu-
midity control for a time. 
The repairs must take place 
over summer, when there are 
fewer students and faculty on 
campus, Boyd said. 
Repairs began in Summer 
2019. So far, only around 20 man-
holes have been repaired.
There is no projected end date 
for the repairs, Boyd said. If the 
facilities department continues to 
mend the manholes at a rate of 
20 per summer, all should be re-paired by 2028. 
Until then, barriers and a 
painted warning will serve as a re-
minder to students to stay away.
the manhole covers can reach 
temperatures hot enough to fry 
an egg. If someone touches it 
with bare hands or feet, they’ll be 
scalded, Boyd said.
He recalled an incident three 
years ago when a couple and 
their toddler were jogging around 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n stadium. The tod-
dler tripped and put a hand out 
to catch himself – directly on a 
steaming cover. 
It’s rare that accidents like 
that happen, Boyd said, but they 
are serious enough to warrant a 
solution.  
The current plan is to repair 
all 200 manholes on campus, 
he said. This means completely 
disassembling the manholes to 
repair leaks, as well as adding 
vents to redirect rainwater from the hot pipes.
The process is time consum-
ing and disruptive to campus ac-
tivities, Boyd said. The hot water 
must be shut off for workers to get 
into the manholes, which means 
surrounding buildings will be 
without air-conditioning and hu-
midity control for a time. 
The repairs must take place 
over summer, when there are 
fewer students and faculty on 
campus, Boyd said. 
Repairs began in Summer 
2019. So far, only around 20 man-
holes have been repaired.
If the facilities department con-
tinues to mend the manholes at a 
rate of 20 per summer, all should 
be repaired by 2028. 
Until then, barriers and a 
painted warning will serve as a re-
minder to students to stay away.
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgMANHOLE,  from pg. 1Only 20 manholes were repaired
Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
Zoya Mukherjee, an 18-year-old biology freshman, and Justin Ho, an 18-year-old computer science 
freshman, sit near a barricaded manhole on the Plaza of the Americas Tuesday. 
president of UF’s African Student 
Union, said it was great to see the 
couple married. In line with her 
organization’s mission to celebrate 
African culture and discuss Africa’s 
pressing issues, Durosomo hopes 
Nel-Peters will utilize connections 
created through she and her hus-
band’s bond to help the continent.
The wedding itself reﬂ  ected this 
course of action: People magazine 
wrote that it included traditions 
from both South Africa and the U.S., 
mixing different cultures through 
both customs and cuisine.
Tebow posted a video of the cou-
ple celebrating the union, captioned 
“Blending Cultures + Traditions,” 
on his Instagram account. It showed the newlyweds dancing to American 
jazz music and being adorned with 
traditional African face paint. 
Daniel Perez, a 21-year-old UF 
dietetics junior, said  he grew up 
a Florida fan when Tebow played 
around 2008. Perez said he has had 
the opportunity to see Tebow at 
events including Gator Growl and 
College GameDay and is happy he is 
ﬁ  nally married.
Perez said he appreciates that 
Tebow is still active as a sports an-
nouncer and within the Gainesville 
community. He said he hopes to go 
into the realm of sports nutrition 
and that as an athlete and sports 
lover, watching Tebow also played 
a role in choosing this path.
“He did a lot for UF,” Perez said. 
“I’m glad to be a part of a communi-
ty that he helped foster and grow.”TEBOW,  from pg. 1Her dress was from David’s Bridal
Courtesy to The Alligator
Former UF quarterback Tim T ebow married Miss Universe 2017, Demi-
Leigh Nel-Peters, in a ceremony in her home country of South Africa. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
“They knew if they pulled out 
they were going to kill Lucky’s,” 
Cheek said. “And that’s exactly, es-
sentially, what they did.”
The company has made no of-
ﬁ  cial statement as of Tuesday eve-
ning. The Alligator reached out to 
the Gainesville store’s director for 
comment but was unable to get in 
touch as of Tuesday evening. 
Mike Mangus, general manager 
of MidiCi at Celebration Pointe, 
posted in Gainesville Word of 
Mouth Tuesday, a Facebook group 
for Gainesville residents, offering 
jobs to those recently laid off by the 
grocery store. 
Among the positions Mangus 
listed at the pizza restaurant were 
kitchen staff, server and bartender. He wrote that while he can’t hire 
everyone, he wanted to set up some 
interviews for those interested. 
“I hate seeing that Lucky’s is 
closing,” Mangus wrote. “It really 
is my favorite place to shop and ex-
tremely convenient.” 
Cheek said he’s already received 
a ton of community outreach in the 
wake of the news, even from strang-
ers who have informed him of avail-
able job opportunities. A few of his 
regular customers at the store also 
reached out to show their support 
Tuesday. 
“People loved Lucky’s, people 
loved our store, and there’s a lot of 
upset people out there in the com-
munity right now,” Cheek said. 
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgLUCKY’S,  from pg. 1MidiCi ofered jobs on FacebookIT’S UNKNOWN IF HE 
WAS INTOXICATED
By Stephany Matat
Alligator Staff Writer
Kassandra “Kassy” Guz-
man-Ramirez died at 20 years 
old on Jan. 9 from her injuries 
related to a car crash on Uni-
versity Avenue.
Emergency responders 
said Adam Mandel a 19-year-
old UF student, was driving a 
2007 gray Lexus when the car 
crashed into a guardrail and a 
utility pole. The front of the 
car was compressed and had a 
shattered windshield, accord-
ing to a trafﬁ  c crash report.
Mandel was given a drug 
and alcohol test, and the re-
porting Gainesville Police De-
partment ofﬁ  cer said he was-
weating profusely and had 
dilated pupils, according to the 
report. 
Guzman-Ramirez, who had 
applied to Santa Fe College, 
lived with her boyfriend in 
Gainesville after moving from 
Weston, Florida to be with 
him, her family said. They 
both were from Weston, and 
he is a UF student. 
Guzman-Ramirez’s Go-
FundMe page was paused on 
Jan. 13 to withdraw money 
to pay for her funeral, and the funds donated as of today 
reached more than $14,000. 
It is unknown if Guzman-
Ramirez was intoxicated at 
the time of the crash and the 
results of her toxicology exam 
are not completed yet, accord-
ing to the District 8 Medical 
Examiners Ofﬁ  ce. 
Jorge Campos, Gainesville 
Police Department spokesper-
son, said the department did 
not have the results for Man-
del’s drug and alcohol exams 
either.
However, Mandel’s driving 
record had a list of citations 
court documents show.
In December 2018, Mandel 
received a trafﬁ  c citation for 
careless driving a few blocks 
away from the crash that oc-
curred this month, according 
to court documents. He was 
ﬁ  ned $209 and ordered to 
complete four hours of a driver 
improvement course and sub-
mit two letters to the judge 
after visiting two roadside me-
morials.
On the morning of August 
2017, he was also given a cita-
tion for driving nine mph over 
the speed limit on an interstate 
in Osceola County, according 
to court records. He received 
another citation on January 
2018 for driving 16 mph over 
the speed limit on a highway 
in St. Lucie County.Ted Hollander, the law-
yer who represented him in 
December 2018, declined to 
comment.
Kristine Van Vorst, the 
judge for his December 2018 
case, declined to comment.
The Alligator made nu-
merous attempts to reach out 
to Mandel but received no 
response. The Alligator also 
reached out to Mandel’s rela-
tives but was unable to ﬁ  nd a 
responsive phone number.
With the other citations 
shown through Mandel’s past, 
there were similar patterns of 
speeding tickets also given to 
his parents in Broward Coun-
ty, reports show. 
Stefano Itria received a traf-
ﬁ  c citation in June 2016 for 
careless driving after driving 
at 55 mph in a 45 mph speed 
limit, according to the trafﬁ  c 
report. 
Radmila Itria-Mandel, Man-
del’s mother, was given two 
citations for unlawful speed-
ing. According to the trafﬁ  c 
report, she was going 45 mph 
in a 30 mph zone in December 
2014, and she was driving 68 
mph in a 45 mph zone in No-
vember 2015.
@StephanyMatat
smatat@alligator.orgUF student in crash had citationsTHE CITY WAS RANKED 51ST 
IN THE COUNTRY 
By Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
A new study ranks Gainesville just 
at the cusp of the top 50 cities in the 
country for cases of sexually transmit-
ted diseases. 
The study from Innerbody.com 
ranks Gainesville 51st in the country 
for STDs per 100,000 people. Conduct-
ed with data from the U.S. Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention and 
the U.S. Census, the study also showed 
Gainesville as having 1,057 cases re-
ported per 100,000 people. 
Cecilia Luna, the marketing and 
communications coordinator for UF’s 
Health Care Center, said there are no 
deﬁ  nitive answers in the medical com-
munity to explain the high rate of STDs. 
“There’s a couple theories in the 
medical community,” Luna said. “It 
could be because more people are get-
ting tested than they were before.”
The care center hasn’t seen a signiﬁ  -
cant change in STD trends, she said. As 
of now, there’s still a steady rate of stu-
dents getting tested regularly and using 
the “Get Yourself Tested” clinic in the 
Inﬁ  rmary building. 
Luna said the most common STDs 
she sees at UF are Gonorrhea and 
Chlamydia. The data collected on 
Gainesville shows similar results, with 
Chlamydia being the most prevalent 
STD.
UF’s Health Care Center offers pre-
vention efforts on campus and works to 
inform students of the resources avail-
able to them, Luna said. Even students 
who are asymptomatic, or not showing any symptoms, can visit the clinic for a 
full panel screening provided through 
the Alachua County Health department. 
“We think that [prevention efforts 
on campus] might help them feel more 
empowered to go and get tested and get 
treated,” Luna said. 
Samantha Evans, a health promo-
tion specialist at GatorWell, said that 
while they provide about 400 to 500 
STD tests per year, they don’t have any 
data that currently reﬂ  ects trends in the 
number of UF students getting tested.
Evans said her experience has 
shown that students are more likely to 
get tested when testing is free and in-
formation is conﬁ  dential.
She wants UF students to know that 
while there are numerous sexual health 
resources out there, they should be sure 
to ﬁ  nd sources that are credible and up 
to date. GatorWell’s Sexual Health page 
is regularly updated with a variety of 
reliable sources, she said. 
“This can be a really taboo topic and 
people can feel uncomfortable,” Evans 
said, “Find a way that works for you to 
get those questions answered in a reli-
able way.”
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgGainesville ranks among top 
cities in country for cases of STDs
By Valentina Botero
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College has made a national 
achievement in public safety. 
The college was ranked second in the coun-
try in campus safety initiatives by Safe Cam-
pus, a program dedicated to improving campus 
safety. Because of this recognition, the Santa 
Fe Police Department is also a ﬁ  nalist for the 
Department of the Year Award that will be an-
nounced Feb. 26.
There were 4,298 U.S. accredited higher-
education institutions eligible for this ranking. 
Safe Campus released a list of the top 25 univer-
sity departments that made a difference in stu-
dent safety on Friday. Santa Fe College ranked 
above two Florida universities, Lynn University 
and Florida Atlantic University. UF was not list-
ed in these rankings.
The college’s campus safety program high-
lighted initiatives such as reducing crime, de-
partment’s branding and messaging and com-
munity policing partnerships.
It was an honor for Santa Fe College to be 
recognized, said Jay Anderson, the spokesper-
son for the college. 
“The college’s police department has been 
recognized for a number of different things over 
the years,” Anderson said. “So this is another 
reinforcement of that.”
The police department takes cutting edge technology seriously. It was the ﬁ  rst depart-
ment in the region to have body cameras and 
is one of only ﬁ  ve community colleges in the 
Florida College System with a full-time campus 
police department, said Ed Book, the Santa Fe 
Police Chief.             
“I consider the work the police department 
does integral to making sure that the students 
have a great education experience,” Book said. 
Uniform Crime Report crime statistics — 
which collects data on murder, rape, robbery, 
aggravated assault and burglary  — showed 
that Santa Fe College’s crime rates have de-
creased from 89 incidents in 2011 to 18 in 2018.  
Although its police department has not yet com-
pleted reports for 2019, Book said he believes 
that it is about the same number.
Valentina Torres, a 20-year-old Santa Fe Col-
lege nursing sophomore, said it’s a relief know-
ing she is at one of the safest campuses in the 
nation.
“As a girl, knowing that we’re unfortunately 
more vulnerable to these kinds of things,” she 
said. “It deﬁ  nitely feels like a lot safer to just be 
there overall.”
@lvbotero
vbotero@alligator.orgSanta Fe College nationally 
recognized for campus safety program
THE SANTA FE POLICE DEPARTMENT IS A FINALIST FOR THE DEPARTMENT 
OF THE YEAR AWARD BEING ANNOUNCED IN FEBRUARY
The T op 5 U.S. Cities with the 
Highest STD Rates
1. Baltimore, MD
2. Jackson, MS
3. Philadelphia, PA
4. San Francisco, CA
5. Montgomery, AL
Resources for STDs
• Free HIV testing is available in 
GatorWell main ofﬁ  ce appointments 
can be made here
• STI testing is offered at the Student 
Health Care Center
• Alachua County Health Department 
offers sexual health services• GatorWell has presentations around 
Sexual Health that are available for 
classes and student groups
• The GatorWell Sexual Health page is 
regularly updated with resources6   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Give your boo a “Chixtape” this 
Valentine’s Day.
Canadian rapper and singer Tory 
Lanez will perform Feb. 24 at the 
O’Connell Center. The musician will 
be hosting a series of concerts in 
February for his most recent album, 
“Chixtape 5.”
UF Student Government Pro-
ductions and Black History Month 
will host Lanez and a guest per-
former in celebration of Black His-tory Month, according to a UF SGP 
Facebook post.
Samuel Hodge, an 18-year-old UF 
finance freshman and member of the 
Leadership Development Institute 
under the Black Student Union, said 
he is looking forward to celebrating 
Black History Month.
“I like where it is going so far, 
and I can’t wait to see where it goes 
because I love Tory Lanez,” Hodge 
said. 
Wallyah Pierre, a 19-year-old UF 
biology freshman and also a mem-
ber of LDI, said she is excited to see a popular artist performing on 
campus.
“I didn’t expect any big-name 
black artists to come here, but now 
that I know he is, I’m very excited,” 
she said.
Last year, SGP and BSU collabo-
rated to host 21 Savage for a Black 
History Month celebration. After 21 
Savage was detained by ICE, his per-
formance was rescheduled. 
Representatives from BSU, Black 
History Month and SGP did not re-
spond to requests for comment at the 
time of publication. 
The Facebook post said tick-
et sales information will be an-
nounced soon.
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgTory Lanez to perform in February
Courtesy to The Alligator
Scan code to listen to T ory Lanez on Spotify.
JENNINGS WAS FORMERL Y 
MAYOR AND CITY 
COMMISSIONER OF GAINESVILLE
By Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
Former Gainesville mayor, 
city commissioner and civil 
rights trailblazer Edward Jen-
nings, Sr. is remembered for 
everything from his cakes to his 
public service. 
Jennings died on the eve-
ning of Jan. 17 at 82 years old. 
A celebration of his life will 
take place at 11 a.m. Jan. 25 
in Mt. Carmel Missionary Bap-
tist Church, located at 2505 NE 
Eighth Ave.
Jennings served the 
Gainesville community for 
nearly two decades, according 
to the Gainesville Sun. He was 
Gainesville’s first community 
affairs coordinator in 1971, a 
city commissioner in 1993 and 
mayor in 1996.
Pegeen Hanrahan, who 
served as mayor of Gainesville 
from 2004 through 2010, de-
scribed Jennings as warm, lov-
ing and “bigger than life.” 
She said Jennings used to 
ride around Gainesville with a 
bullhorn, informing residents of important 
events and 
updating  
them on news 
happening in 
the commu-
nity. 
He also 
brought a 
cake into City 
Hall every week, she said, but 
wouldn’t eat any of it himself 
because it was always for oth-
ers to enjoy. 
“He will be very, very deep-
ly missed by the Gainesville 
community,” Hanrahan said.
Carl Harness, a Gainesville 
assistant city manager from 
1998 to 2003, said his friend-
ship with Jennings all started 
with the cakes Jennings would 
bake.
Jennings’ cakes were well-
known, Harness said, and they 
weren’t your average cakes. He 
baked them by hand, and they 
usually weighed between five 
and seven pounds. 
When Jennings learned that 
Harness and his family were 
having a reunion one year in 
Las Vegas, he decided to send 
about six cakes to them. 
“Needless to say, that was 
the hit of the reunion,” Harness said. “Everyone was talking 
about these cakes and talking 
about Mr. Jennings.”
In the time he served the 
Gainesville community, Jen-
nings gave “a voice to those 
who didn’t have a voice,” he 
said. Harness said he’s honored 
to have had the opportunity to 
work alongside him. 
“I could definitely count him 
as one of my mentors,” Har-
ness said.
Jennings’ cousin Roy Alford, 
Jr., the owner of Gainesville 
barber shop Hair Wonders: The 
Cutting Edge, said Jennings 
was always supportive and 
encouraging toward local busi-
ness owners.
Alford remembers Jennings 
as a “man of his word” who 
made efforts to create equal op-
portunities within Gainesville. 
“He would fight for the well-
being of the community and 
the citizens of this community, 
both in the private sector and 
in the business sector,” Alford 
said.
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgGainesville community 
remembers Ed Jennings, Sr.HE REMAINS IN THE SHANDS 
ICU AS OF SUNDAY
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student is in critical condition after 
falling from a parking garage in downtown 
Gainesville, according to authorities. 
Mitchell Capps, a 22-year-old forest re-
sources and conservation student, fell from 
a parking garage located on the 100th block 
of Southwest Second Street Friday evening. The incident was reported to police at 10 
p.m., said Jorge Campos, Gainesville Police 
Department spokesperson.
Campos could not confirm which floor 
Capps fell from. However, Capps’ father, 
Bryan Capps, Sr., wrote that his son fell from 
the fourth floor of the garage in a Facebook 
post Sunday.
Capps, Sr. wrote that police were “mirac-
ulously” on the scene about 30 seconds after 
the incident. Although Capps did not have 
any identification on him, one of his best 
friends happened to drive by and identify him to police upon recognizing his clothes. 
Capps remains in critical condition at 
Shands’ Neurological ICU as of Sunday, ac-
cording to the post. He suffered a serious 
brain injury, two broken femurs, a broken 
pelvis, a broken ankle, a broken elbow, bro-
ken fingers and broken bones in his face. 
Comments and posts extending support 
to the Capps family have been shared on 
Facebook since Sunday night. On Monday, 
Capps’ father wrote another post in response:
“I want everyone to know that I have 
been reading to Mitchell your prayerful posts, as he sleeps,” the post read. “So, per-
haps without knowing it, you have actually 
been speaking directly to him — just in my 
voice….” 
Campos said authorities are still investi-
gating the circumstances of the case. They 
have not gathered any information that indi-
cates foul play.
The Alligator reached out to the Capps 
family through Facebook but was unable to 
receive a statement as of Tuesday evening.
 
@SLagmis
slagmis@alligator.org UF student falls from parking garage, in critical condition
A series of UF alerts warning of shots 
fired on campus Friday afternoon may 
have caused some confusion.
Five alerts were issued by UF’s alert 
system after the Gainesville Police De-
partment received a report about a 
person shooting a firearm in a wooded 
area behind the UF College of Veterinary 
Medicine.
Minutes after the initial alert, another 
message was sent out stating there was 
not an active shooter, and that the sus-
pect was practicing target shooting in 
the woods.
University Police Department Capt. 
Kristy Sasser said at the time, they want-
ed to get out as much information as 
quickly as possible, knowing that there 
would be updates to follow. 
“We don’t want to take the addi-
tional time to determine is this for sure 
[a threat] because then we’d have lost 
time,” Sasser said.
The initial alert description stated 
that the suspect was 59 years old, a typo 
that was intended to read “5’9” in re-
gards to the suspect’s height.
Although the alerts stated that shots 
were fired, they did not state that an ac-
tive shooter was present.“Obviously, any time you hear ‘shots 
fired’ related to a university or a school, 
everyone’s first thought is going to be ‘Is 
it an active shooter?’” Sasser said. “So 
we wanted to very quickly let everyone 
know that it was not an active shooter 
situation.”
Sasser said that in situations such as 
this, it’s important to follow the direc-
tions provided in the alerts and to notify 
police with any information regarding 
the alerts. 
UPD currently offers active shooter 
safety training that can be accessed on 
its website, Sasser said. 
A message from UPD Chief Linda 
Stump-Kurnick was shared on UF’s twit-
ter following the incident. The tweet 
stated that UFPD issued the alerts out of 
“an abundance of caution during a rap-
idly developing situation.”
“The goal of UF Alerts is to make the 
community aware as quickly as possible 
of potential threats, so that individuals 
can use their best judgment and take the 
best course of action for their own pro-
tection,” the message read. 
@SLagmis
slagmis@alligator.orgUF ‘shots fired’ alert was 
not an active shooter
Police say better safe than sorry
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
Jennings Sr.
The event will celebrate 
Black History MonthWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Beach Fossils to perform at High Dive 
Thursday
The indie-rock band will be accompanied by Surf 
Curse and Negative Gemini at 9 p.m.Feleipe Franks announces transfer to Arkansas
The former Gators quarterback will make his move to SEC West 
pg, 11BLACK LIPS BROUGHT THEIR BRAND OF 
GARAGE ROCK TO HIGH DIVE ON TUESDAY
By Christopher S. Cann
Alligator Staff Writer
Tuesday night Black Lips ripped through their discogra-
phy and new songs during a headlining set at High Dive.
The performance was the ﬁ  rst on their current 2020 tour 
in support of their Jan. 24 album “Sing In A World That’s 
Falling Apart.” The tour will cap off with two nights at the 
Earl venue in the band’s hometown city of Atlanta. 
The group, comprised of frontman Cole Alexander, drum-
mer Oakley Munson, saxophonist Zumi Rosow, guitarist Jeff 
Clarke, and bassist Jared Swilley took the stage after sets 
from Gainesville natives, The Walkers and The Amphet-
amines. 
Before the show, bassist Jared Swilley discussed touring 
Florida, their new album, inﬂ  uences and his experience cov-
ering the Beatles with Sean Lennon and working with Yoko 
Ono. 
Black Lips toured Florida in April 2016 supporting the 
Black Angels. Being Atlanta natives, the band has become 
familiar with Florida and enjoys their time touring the sun-
shine state according to Swilley. 
“We love touring Florida, the weather is always good and 
I think we are one of the few bands that go down regularly,” 
he said.
The initial recording of their new album “Sing In A World 
That’s Falling Apart” occurred in Berlin, but the band re-recorded the album in Los Angeles. Jared said 
Berlin is the band’s second home and they have 
spent the last 10 summers in the German city. 
The singles released this year and in late 
2019, such as “Gentleman,” “Odelia,” and 
“Rumbler,” all have a blatant country twang to 
them. Swilley said this country direction was 
always something they have been heading to-
ward, especially as they have aged. He grew 
up listening to artists such as Buck Owens and 
Charlie Feathers. 
“When you get into your 30s, it’s hard to still 
keep playing punk rock,” he said. 
The newest ensemble of Black Lips features 
the band’s ﬁ  rst female, Zumi Rosow, and their 
ﬁ  rst Canadian, Jeff Clarke. 
“Cole and I started it when we were kids and 
it has been a revolving door ever since then,” 
Swilley said.
Sean Lennon produced Black Lip’s last full-
length album “Satan’s Grafﬁ  ti or God’s Art?” 
which features a cover of the Beatles song “It 
Won’t Be Long.”
“It was Sean’s idea and Yoko gave us the blessing so it 
was an honor,” Swilley said. “The Beatles are my favorite 
band and we got to play through the Beatles equipment dur-
ing that so it was pretty surreal.”
Swilley said that Sir Paul McCartney has heard the cover 
and gave it his blessing as well. 
“My dad was very proud,” Swilley said.Black Lips’ new album “Sing In A World That’s Falling 
Apart” will be available everywhere Jan. 24. When asked 
about the meaning behind the title, Swilley described his 
point of view: “I don’t think the world is falling apart. The 
world has always been falling apart.”
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.org
THE PLAY IS THE THEATRE’S FIRST CO-
PRODUCTION WITH FREEFALL THEATRE
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
An ex-football hero, his high school sweetheart and a 
pioneer ghost walk into a liquor store — but it’s a bit more 
complicated than that.The Hippodrome State Theatre’s latest production “Lone 
Star Spirits,” a play written by playwright Josh Tobiessen, 
ushers in a comical story of family and superstition, as well 
as a new feat for the Gainesville theater.
For the ﬁ  rst time, the Hippodrome is co-presenting two 
productions with St. Petersburg’s freeFall Theatre. The Hip-
podrome will show “Lone Star Spirits” from Jan. 24 through 
Feb. 16, after which the show, including the cast and set, 
will travel to freeFall Theatre and run from Feb. 29 through 
March 29.
“Lone Star Spirits” is a silly but heart-warming comedy 
that takes place in a Texas liquor store. It features a bold, 
seamless cast that ties together all the emotions and idiosyn-
crasies that make friends and family one.
Distantly reminiscent of Netﬂ  ix’s original sitcom “The 
Ranch,” the play focuses on the arrival of Marley, played 
by Marissa Toogood, a former small-town girl who is visit-
ing her estranged father Walter, played by Bryan Mercer, 
the owner of a local liquor store. Complicating the arrival of 
Marley and her ﬁ  ancé is her ex-boyfriend Drew played by 
Haulston Mann, a high school football legend who refuses to 
let go of his former glory and re-sets his sights on his former 
sweetheart. 
Absurdly funny and surprisingly heartfelt, “Lone Star 
Spirits” illustrates the subtle tensions that arise from trou-
bled relationships, and tastes like the bittersweet nostalgia 
of years past and things that could’ve been.
Although the entire play is accompanied by the presence 
of Henry, the spirit of the bear-wrestling pioneer that Drew 
and Walter always drink to without fail, it goes without say-
ing that the most haunting ghost in the story is the lingering presence of words unspoken, and time lost for each of the 
individuals in it.
The play succeeds so spectacularly at this message with 
the strength of its cast. Familiar Hippodrome names Mer-
cer and Toogood perfectly encompass the strained father-
daughter relationship of Walter and Marley, while Mann’s 
portrayal of Drew is as daftly hilarious as he is charming.
“It’s very easy to ﬁ  nd yourself in a lot of these different 
characters,” Toogood said. “They’re so beautifully written 
but they’re so imperfect in such wonderful ways. I think a lot 
of us can relate to going home, and home is always different 
when you go back.”
The second production of the Hippodrome’s collaboration 
with freeFall Theatre will be “Marie & Rosetta,” a show pro-
duced by freeFall Theatre that will then head to Gainesville 
and run from Feb. 28 through March 22.
Stephanie Lynge, the Hippodrome’s artistic director and 
director of “Lone Star Spirits,” is optimistic about the co-
productions and thinks it is a great opportunity for the two 
theaters.
“It gives us a way to kind of cross-pollinate on the artistic 
side,” Lynge said. “It really allows us to grow artistically, 
and it’s also a way for us to stay ﬁ  scally responsible in these 
much tighter economic times.”
“Lone Star Spirits” will be on stage seven shows a week 
beginning Jan. 24. Tickets can be purchased online through 
the Hippodrome’s website.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgBlack Lips perform first show of tour at High Dive 
Hippodrome’s “Lone Star Spirits” is hilarious and heart-felt 
MUSIC
THEATRECourtesy of Dani Pujalte
Black Lips performs songs off their latest album, “Sing In A 
World That’s Falling Apart. ”  
Courtesy of Allison Durham
Bryan Mercer and Marissa T oogood play 
Walter and Marley, father and daughter, in the 
Hippodrome’s “Lone Star Spirits. ” 
8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE ATTENDED AT 
THE HIGH DIVE
By Julia Collins
Alligator Staff Writer
Jennifer Vito stood alone on stage. The bright light blinded 
her eyes and the microphone was lanky, cold and unforgiving.
It was the year 2015, and Vito was the only standup come-
dian in Gainesville. 
She decided to change that.
Over the years, “Jenarchy,” as she’s known onstage, cul-tivated a comedy scene that is now as alive as a heartbeat, 
prompting her to organize the ﬁ  rst Gainesville Comedy Con. 
The Saturday evening event, hosted at High Dive, saw more 
than 100 people attend and 16 comedy acts. The Sunday por-
tion took place at the University Club and featured comedy bur-
lesque and an open microphone after-party.
The energy in the High Dive that night was palpable, the 
audience roaring with laughter at most of the jokes. It was a 
drastic difference from when Vito started in the Gainesville 
comedy scene. 
Once the audience was settled inside, Vito went onstage and 
introduced the event. She did a few jokes, including one about 
a “Tide-PODS-related incident,” and then welcomed the ﬁ  rst 
act onstage.
The ﬁ  rst comedian was Daniel Biddle, a tall, lanky public 
school teacher by day and comedian by night. Biddle’s humor 
had the crowd laughing right from the start. He humanized 
teachers with anecdotes about rallies, his students and the X-
Men. 
Biddle ended his set with, “Those kids treated me like a god. 
They came up to me in the hallway and said, ‘Thank you for 
your service.’”
Every comedian had their own ﬂ  avor. One talked about race, 
another politics and one even compared himself to Seth Rogan.
“I am not Seth Rogan undercover at a Gainesville comedy 
festival,” Daniel Perea said. “Though when God made me, he 
really just hit the copy and paste button with the tubby, white, 
Jewish comedian thing.”
The night ended with an improv group called House Improv. 
They closed the show with a bang, touching on a range of top-
ics from Dolly Parton to strawberry milk to Narnia — and the 
audience loved it. 
“I would’ve thought standup would be easier than improv, 
but it’s not,” said Marcus Ball, one of the members of House Im-
prov. “We’re not planned funny — it all just kind of comes to-
gether onstage. Standups are expecting laughs at certain spots. We’re just hoping for the best.”
The comedy convention will be a yearly or bi-yearly event, 
Vito said. “The Gainesville comedy scene is growing and thriv-
ing, and I’m just trying to keep the audience growing with it.”
@5JuliaAnn 
juliacollins@uﬂ  .eduGainesville Comedy Shows hosts inaugural Comedy Con
DOWNTOWN
Courtesy of Laura San Juan
Alainna Whatley performs her stand-up set about 
a life-changing experience she had at 13 years old 
in the Walmart bathroom.
THE TOM MILLER SHOW: 
REVEREND ANGELDUST’S 
TABERNACLE OF HEDONISM AT 
HARDBACK CAFE
By Chloe Greenberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Sure to out-weird all Gainesville oddities and 
obscurities, The Tom Miller Show celebrated 
its 35th anniversary with its latest installment, 
“Reverend Angeldust’s Tabernacle of Hedonism 
with your Host, Tom Miller: Undertown Edition” 
at the Hardback Cafe Wednesday.
Tom Miller, 53-year-old Gainesville resident 
and live entertainer, began The Tom Miller Show 
in 1985. He has been running the ever-changing 
and indeﬁ  nable show under different names and 
at various Gainesville venues ever since.
“It’s kind of an open mic night, but it’s partly 
a show,” Miller said. “It’s partly reality and it’s 
partly ﬁ  ction.”
The show’s current installation showcases 
the Reverend Angeldust, a character created and 
personiﬁ  ed by Paul Cohen, and the Church of 
Absurdism, a religion offered by Cohen and Mill-
er. Mostly for absurdist and comedic purposes, 
the goals of the church are inclusivity, respect, 
legalizing marijuana and worshipping the Great 
Dumpster Goddess Jamba, Miller said.
The “open mic” component of the show is 
an invitation for anyone to entertain, perform or 
share whatever they would like with the audi-
ence. Some longtime followers of the show have 
come to adopt niche roles in it and are expected 
to take the stage — what they will do with their 
stage time is often unknown and unpredictable.
Rose Loston, known as Granny, is a “house-
less” Gainesville woman who has a recurring role in the show and gave a prayer for the audi-
ence to kick off Wednesday night’s event. Fol-
lowing Granny, a Gainesville man who goes by 
Tape Werm performed original murder-themed 
songs and lit ﬁ  recrackers out of his nose. 
“It would be fair to say that we have a cast,” 
Miller said. “And the cast ﬁ  nds us. We don’t hire 
anybody. It’s just people who are willing to con-
nect closer to the show than anyone else, and 
they keep coming.”
Among other acts were the local grunge band 
The Friendly C**ts and Michael Garvin’s “What 
Am I Wearing?” and ask-me-anything-style seg-
ments. Garvin is a visual artist and the church’s 
Minister of the Interior.
Longtime supporter of the show and col-
league of Tom Miller is Hardback Cafe owner 
Alan Bushnell. A 60-year-old St. Petersburg na-
tive, Bushnell opened the original Hardback in 
1989, focusing on cultivating a local band scene.
“We just provide a venue for people to do 
their creative work,” Bushnell said. “And he’s 
[Miller] always taking advantage of the oppor-
tunity. And that’s all I exist for — is just to give 
people opportunities.”
The “Reverend Angeldust’s Tabernacle of He-
donism” is a performance art spectacle that not 
even those involved can fully understand. It rep-
resents all that is outrageous and offensive, and 
they have no plans of changing that. 
“A lot of people think we’re really weird and 
really subversive and they think we’re a cult,” 
Miller said. “Respecting each other for our differ-
ences, and thinking of our diversity as a strength 
— if that’s weird, I want to be as weird as pos-
sible.”
@_chloegreenberg
cgreenberg@alligator.orgWITH A FEW STAND-OUT 
DISHES, NEWK’S EATERY 
EARNS A 7/10
 Katie Delk
Alligator Staff Writer
With hand-cut produce, meat and 
cheese, and handmade cakes, Newk’s Eat-
ery is sure to make you feel at home.
“I know every restaurant says that they 
want to take care of their customers, but 
for us everything is focused on our guests,” 
associate manager Philip Stevens said. 
“We’ve had a lot of people come out and 
a lot of positive feedback online and in the 
store,” 
Farmer’s Market Classic Sandwich - Al-
though this sandwich is meatless, it certain-
ly isn’t lacking in ﬂ  avor. The earthy squash, 
zucchini, portabella mushrooms, caramel-
ized onions and spinach compliment the 
house-made basil mayo sauce well.  The 
11-grain bread — soft on the inside and 
crunchy on the outside — completes the 
sandwich. The smoked Gouda and toma-
toes are delicious additions, tying the sand-
wich together.
Deanna Lambert, a 43-year-old counter 
server, suggested this sandwich. As a veg-
etarian, she said there are many options for 
her at Newk’s Eatery.
“It’s easy to eat here especially because 
I know everything is fresh in house,” Lam-
bert said. “I think that makes a big differ-
ence in the taste.”
Five Cheese Mac & Cheese - This mac 
and cheese is a Newk’s family recipe. 
Tossed with a rich blend of Asiago, Ver-
mont white cheddar, Parmesan and Am-
merlander Swiss, the small dish contains a variety of ﬂ  avors. 
Under the top layer of cheddar cheese, 
the elbow pasta is cooked to a golden 
brown. While the sauce is thin and the noo-
dles lack a bite, the dish has a nice ﬂ  avor 
throughout. 
Pepperoni Pizza - A California style 
pizza, it is thin and crunchy. The Campioni 
pepperoni is briny and slightly crisp, and 
packed a ﬂ  avorful punch. With the addition 
of basil, tomatoes and cauliﬂ  ower crust, the 
pizza is light, fresh and feels healthy. How-
ever, the pizza could beneﬁ  t from a bigger 
portion of toppings, as it felt a little sparse.
According to Stevens, this pizza is one 
of the most popular. While it manages to 
balance savory with sweet tomato sauce, 
the dish lacks the kick needed to set it apart 
from the standard American restaurant. 
Dozen-layer Chocolate Cake - Decadent 
and moist with a silky icing, this cake leaves 
you wanting more. Unlike the produce and 
cheeses that are hand-cut each morning, it’s 
obvious that the cake was made a few days 
prior — particularly because it is presented 
in a plastic container. Even still, the taste 
and texture more than make up for the pre-
sentation.
Overall, Newk’s stayed true to their 
word in terms of hospitality. Full of wel-
coming faces and Southern charm, it really 
does feel like home. The food is pretty pric-
ey but not unreasonable given the quality. 
While the mac and cheese and pizza didn’t 
stand out as anything great, the sandwich 
and cake make Newk’s worth a visit.
Overall rating: 7/10
@katie_delk
kdelk@uﬂ  .eduLocal absurdist art show turns 35 Food Review: Newk’s Eatery
DOWNTOWN
 FOODPerformances By:
• S/LAUGHTER HOUSE COMEDY
• Gainesville Improv Guild
• House Improv
• Generation Sketch Comedy
• Keg of Laughs
• Allie Goodwich
• Jennifer Vito
• Alainna Whatley
• Andrew Wilkerson Jr.
• Zachary Weidner
• Derrick Ross
• Cam InksAton
• Giles Chickering
• Daniel Biddle
• Caleb Frost
• Daniel Perea
• Roberto G. Munoz
• Emma Porter
• Spencer Mikell Acree
• Niousha Nyurie AldanaBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2bd/2bth fully furnished townhouse, SW 
Gainesville, stone's throw from Haile Town 
Center, front garden, back porch face woods, 
high ceiling, utilities & wifi included, $350/
wk. No pets. Email: vchow331@yahoo.com    
2-10-20-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1, - very nice 5BR house. 
Remodeled kitchen, game room, large yard, 
W/D incl, fireplace. Call or text 352-339-2342 
to see. $1800/mo 1803 SW 43rd Ave. More 
info at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com      
1-22-20-5-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      1-24-
20-19-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-141For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Jared Tamarkin
(c)2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/22/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/22/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, Janury 22, 2020
ACROSS
1 Construction 
guideline
5 Pitfalls
10 Bible book that 
chronicles the 
conversion of 
Paul
14 Rake prong
15 Soprano Fleming
16 Fluctuate
17 500 sheets of 
paper
18 “I’m on __!”
19 Access, as 
a computer 
program
20 Combat
23 Characterized by
24 Provide parenting 
for
27 Art Deco icon
28 Compel to land, 
as a plane
32 Massage 
therapist’s 
employer
34 Penn. neighbor
35 Handling the 
situation
36 Lilly of 
pharmaceuticals
39 Coffee cup 
insulators
42 Texting format, 
for short
43 “Boogie Nights” 
actor Reynolds
45 Night school 
subj.
46 Fashion plate
48 Red or white unit
51 Put one over on
54 Islamic 
denomination
55 Oregon city near 
the mouth of the 
Columbia
58 Speaking 
Spanglish, say ... 
or a hint to what’s 
hidden in 20-, 28- 
and 48-Across
62 Competent
64 Suck-up
65 Afrikaans 
speaker
66 Shiraz’s land
67 Make one’s case
68 Cupid’s wings
69 Anti-DUI org.
70 Tango moves
71 “This is for you”DOWN
1 Guitar support
2 Missouri River 
capital
3 Fill with affection
4 Fixes in place
5 Activist’s handout
6 Install new 
shingles on
7 Quote book abbr.
8 Ill-gotten gains
9 Move for money
10 Guacamole 
ingredient
11 Underwriting?
12 Roman three
13 Many a 
crossword clue: 
Abbr.
21 Ocean trenches
22 Fury
25 Enjoy the pool
26 Tonsillitis-treating 
MDs
29 Former 
“Entertainment 
Tonight” 
co-anchor Nancy
30 Make growl, as 
an engine
31 Sheet music 
symbol
33 Actor Baldwin
36 Goes back out37 Humdinger
38 Like a rock-solid 
contract
40 Language suffix
41 Start of 
civilization?
44 Constantly
47 Bureaucratic 
bigwig
49 Impersonated
50 On the injured list
52 Camden Yards 
player53 One-dimensional
56 Eye annoyances
57 Be on the same 
page
59 Share-a-ride 
pickup hrs.
60 Microsoft Excel 
command
61 Compensation
62 Crossbow 
wielder’s asset
63 Maidenform 
garment
By Ed Sessa
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/18/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/18/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, January 18, 2020
ACROSS
1 Indian anna, e.g.
5 Baked potato 
topping
11 Billy the Kid 
preceder?
14 It’s tossed into 
a pot
15 Play with 
Freudian 
implications
17 Result of spilling 
the beans
18 Freudian 
component of 
15-Across
19 Catering 
preparation
21 Whale fare
22 Jam-packed
23 1989-’90 
Broadway  
one-man show
26 Gift-wrapping 
occasions
27 Arm of the sea
28 Serial standout
30 Short rules?
31 Enjoyed a parlor 
game
32 Stumble
33 Market research 
pioneer
34 Suitable for family 
viewing
37 Actress 
who voiced 
Duchess in “The 
Aristocats”
39 Cry over spilt 
milk?
40 Contemporary of 
le Carré
41 Movie character 
who might say 
3-Down
42 Facebook nudge
43 Texting nicety
44 Finalized, with 
“up”
45 Join the cast of
47 Propaganda 
tactics
48 It’s usually stuffed 
on planes
52 Suspicious of
53 Garden support
54 Storm preceder, 
at times
55 “I kissed thee 
__ I killed thee”: 
Othello56 Govt. savings 
vehicles 
discontinued in 
1980
57 “Red Balloon” 
painter
DOWN
1 Hand warmer 
only used 
outdoors
2 Little crack
3 “No clue”
4 Settles softly
5 Managed to 
get by
6 German title
7 Forest’s Oscar 
role
8 Drive
9 Acid Rain 
Program org.
10 Have a pouty 
face
11 Carousel location
12 Seeker of turkeys 
in alleys?
13 Eponymous 
jumps
16 Gonna
20 Hanoi holiday
23 Hobbyist’s 
organizer24 Fingers
25 __ deck
28 Scabbard
29 Dad bud, often
31 Tourist attraction
33 Badger or hound
35 “Punch buggy” in 
a car trip game
36 Full of joy
38 “25 Words or 
Less” host 
Meredith
39 Wells predator40 Who on TV, with 
“the”
41 Turn sharply
42 It holds things 
together
44 Ticket prices?
46 Archibald of the 
NBA
47 Cowboys’ city, 
familiarly
49 Lump
50 Green opening
51 Taboo
01/17/20
answer on pg. 1010  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14
LEARN HOW to make an
extra $400 per week
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: collegecash.fun        1-22-20-4-14
After School Counselor
This is a part time afternoon position M-F 
working with girls ages 5-14. Required to 
pass level II background screening. Apply at 
www.girlsplace.net.      1-24-20-4-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist. BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info                                    
1-29-20-5-14
Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Fun fact: “Alma mater” comes from the Latin meaning 
“nurturing mother.”
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an 
ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle 
service. 373-FINDTutor-needed to help perform high energy cal-
culations for the universe. Energy of Inflation, 
Energy of Big Bang, black hole energy with a 
caveat. Grad or Dr. student with open mind. 
Contact Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-5-
20-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
1.  ____ shoots
1.  Cow or buffalo5.  Music ____
2.  ____ school6.  Plush
3.  Type of marsupial 7.  Accused
4.  Remained OBBOAM
NEBVIODOVEI
CSUYH
ALCMEID
OSMSPOUADEBLM
TSEDYAANSWERS: 1A-Bamboo  5A-Video  6A-Cushy  7A-Blamed
1D-Bovine  2D-Medical  3D-Opossum  4D-Stayed  B-Dave Thomas1-22-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person appeared in more than 800
commercials for the company he founded.BONUS
1. Who was the last Montreal Expos pitch-
er to lead the National League in saves for 
a season?
2. Pitcher Nolan Ryan had the most strike-
outs in the decades of the 1970s (2,678) and 
1980s (2,167). Name either pitcher who ﬁ  n-
ished second to him in those decades.
3. In 2018, Notre Dame's Brian Kelly be-
came the third person to win the AP College 
Football Coach of the Year Award twice since 1998. Name either of the other two to do it.
4. Which NBA team was the ﬁ  rst to visit the White House after win-
ning a championship?
5. Who holds the NHL record for most Game Seven career points 
in the NHL playoffs?
6. When was the last time before 2019 that Denny Hamlin captured 
a spot in the NASCAR Cup Series Championship 4?
7. How many times has Canada reached the ﬁ  nals of tennis' Davis Cup?
1. Who was the last pitcher before 
Arizona’s Zack Greinke in 2018 to 
have a hit, an RBI and a stolen base in 
at least two games in a season?
2. Name either of the major-league 
pitchers who led his respective league 
in shutouts a record seven times.
3. When was the last time before 2018 
that Army’s football team was ranked in 
The Associated Press Top 25 poll?
4. Dwane Casey holds the record for 
most career regular-season victories 
(320) as coach of the Toronto Raptors. 
Who is second?
5. When was the last time the Boston 
Bruins won 50 or more games in con-
secutive NHL seasons?
6. The U.S. women’s soccer team 
set a Women’s World Cup group stage 
scoring record in 2019 with 18 goals 
in three games. What country had held 
the record with 17 goals?
7. How many fights did former 
heavyweight boxing champion Joe 
Frazier have after losing to Muham-
mad Ali in the Philippines in 1975?
Answers
1. Bob Gibson, in 1969.
2. Walter Johnson (A.L.) and Grover 
Cleveland Alexander (N.L.).
3. It was 1996. 
4. Sam Mitchell, with 156 victories 
(2004-09).
5. The Bruins did it from the 1970-71 
season through the 1973-74 season.
6. Norway (1995).
7. Two fights.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
November 25, 2019King Features Weekly Service
answers below1. Ugueth Urbina, with 41 saves in 
1999. (The franchise moved to Wash-
ington after the 2004 season.)
2. Tom Seaver (2,304 strikeouts in 
the 1970s) and Fernando Valenzuela 
(1,644 strikeouts in the 1980s).
3. Nick Saban (2003, 2008) and 
Gary Patterson (2009, 2014).
4. The Boston Celtics, in 1963.
5. Justin Williams, with 15 points.
6. It was 2014.
7. Once, in 2019.The sacred rights of 
mankind are not to be 
rummaged for among old 
parchments or musty records.
—Alexander HamiltonSports Quiz answers
CryptoQuote answer
PUZZLE  
SOLUTIONSFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
www.alligator.org/sportsUF football commit earns fifth star in 247 composite
Gervon Dexter, a 2020 defensive tackle from Lake Wales, Florida, was 
bumped to a five-star prospect in the 247Sports composite rankings, which 
averages multiple recruiting rankings. He is the No. 24 overall prospect in 
the class and the No. 2 defensive tackle.Cameron Miller was named 
SEC Co-Men's Runner of the 
Week after a 20.81 second, 
NCAA-leading 200 meter dash 
at the Gamecock Opener last 
weekend.
FOOTBALLMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Former Gators quarter-
back Feleipe Franks is mak-
ing a move to the SEC West.
Franks announced Mon-
day night on Instagram that 
he is transferring to Arkan-
sas by simply writing “New 
Beginnings” with an edited 
photo of him in a Razor-
backs uniform.
On Dec. 1, he posted a 
photo on Instagram that 
said, “I plan on exploring 
my options of entering the 
NFL Draft or playing my fi-
nal year elsewhere.”
Seven weeks later and 
Franks has made his move 
to the SEC West, adding to 
the division’s active offsea-
son which saw its top two 
quarterbacks declare for 
the draft in Joe Burrow and 
Tua Tagovailoa and a slew 
of coaching hires, includ-
ing Sam Pittman at Arkan-sas. Pittman was previously 
the associate head coach 
and offensive line coach at 
Georgia. His hiring at Ar-
kansas was announced a 
week after Franks’ original 
Instagram post that said he 
was leaving Florida.
Franks’ time at UF saw 
the highs of a dominant 
Peach Bowl win over Michi-
gan in a year that he started 
all 13 games and the lows 
of a four-win campaign in 
which he shared time un-
der center. He finished his 
career as a Gator with 4,593 
passing yards, 38 touch-
downs, 17 interceptions and 
an additional 438 yards and 
eight touchdowns on the 
ground.
He started the first three 
games of the 2019 season 
for Florida, leading the 
team to a 2-0 record before 
he dislocated his ankle with 
a fracture in the third quar-
ter against Kentucky. He missed the remainder of the 
season, and backup quarter-
back Kyle Trask took over 
the starting job and led the 
team to an 11-win season.
Franks is joining an Ar-
kansas program that won 
just eight games in the past 
three seasons, going 2-10 
in 2018 and 2019 and fin-
ishing at the bottom of the 
SEC both years. Nick Starkel 
was the Razorbacks’ lead-
ing passer this season, ap-
pearing in eight games and 
throwing for over 1,100 
yards, seven touchdowns 
and 10 interceptions.
Barring a highly un-
likely Florida-Arkansas 
SEC Championship Game, 
Franks will not face off 
against his former team, as 
the Gators and Razorbacks 
do not play until 2023.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBy Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Forward Keyontae Johnson 
caught an inbounds pass with 
0.5 seconds to go in the game.
With his team down by 
two, Johnson laid the ball up 
at the buzzer, and it found the 
bottom of the net — much to 
the dismay of the home crowd.
Johnson then clapped as if 
his late-game heroics would 
continue on to overtime while 
his teammates jumped and 
celebrated. They basked in 
their  teammate’s clutch perfor-
mance — except forward Kerry 
Blackshear Jr. — who stared 
blankly at his team while on 
the baseline. Maybe he saw 
that the ball didn’t leave John-
son’s fingertips in time.
The referees confirmed 
Blackshear Jr.'s suspicions af-
ter a review. No basket. 
Florida’s men’s basketball 
team lost to LSU 84-82 on Tues-
day in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The Tigers entered the 
matchup as the top team in the 
SEC and seemed like the favor-
ite.This was on the heels of 
Florida’s most impressive win 
of the season in which it dis-
mantled then-No. 4 Auburn 
on Saturday by 22 points in 
Gainesville.
Nevertheless, UF (12-6, 4-2 
SEC) and LSU (14-4, 6-0 SEC) 
have a recent history of tight 
games dating back to last year 
where two of the three match-
ups went to overtime, and the 
total difference in points was 
only seven (236-229).
This game was no excep-
tion.
The offense was sporadic 
for both teams in the first half, 
and it usually followed a good 
defensive play.
The Tigers had multiple 
possessions with sloppy play 
leading to seven turnovers. 
Florida took care of the ball un-
til the Tigers brought the full-
court press.
Freshman guard Ques 
Glover struggled against the ag-
gressive defense and had three 
turnovers in the first half.
LSU kept the game close by 
capitalizing on those steals and 
scored 11 points on UF’s six first half turnovers.
The opening half ended 
with UF leading 36-34 after 
guard Scottie Lewis drained a 
fadeaway jump shot at the top 
of the key with three seconds 
to go.
Lewis led Florida at the half 
with nine points, while LSU’s 
leading scorer, Trendon Wat-
ford, had 10.
In the second half, LSU’s ag-
gression was the catalyst for its 
eventual win.
The Tigers went 16 of 31 
from the field and cashed in on 
17 points from the free throw 
line — they had 24 in the game.
Earlier in the week, coach 
Mike White praised LSU’s tal-
ent — especially its ability to 
convert from the charity stripe.
“They’re fantastic in a lot of 
areas,” White said on Monday 
during media availability. “Get-
ting to the foul line; converting 
free throws at a really high clip; 
they are arguably the best of-
fensive rebounding team in our 
league.”
White’s praise was war-
ranted. LSU was second in the 
SEC in free throw percentage at 76.3 and had the No. 2 offense 
in the SEC — averaging 79.9 
points per game — entering 
Tuesday’s game.
 The Tigers stretched the 
lead to 11 at one point be-
fore Johnson hit back-to-back 
threes in the game’s final min-
ute to give Florida hope.
It wasn’t meant to be. The 
officials determined that the 
ball didn’t leave Johnson’s fin-
gertips before the final buzzer.
Johnson and guard Noah 
Locke led UF with 16 points 
each. Blackshear Jr., who was 
suffering from a stomach virus, 
had 15 points, as did guard An-
drew Nembhard.
Six of LSU’s players scored 
in double digits and were led 
by forward Emmit Williams 
with 19.
After playing the top team 
in the SEC, the schedule only 
gets harder for the Gators. 
Florida plays No. 1 Baylor (16-
1) at 8 p.m. on Saturday in 
Gainesville.
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.org
Franks announces transfer to Arkansas, will stay in the SECJohnson’s layup misses buzzer, Gators lose on the road
Alligator File Photo
Feleipe Franks led Florida to a 10-win season in 2018. His 2019 season was cut 
short by an ankle injury in the third game of the year.Alligator File Photo
Keyontae Johnson scored 16 points, including a pair 
of clutch three-pointers, in the road loss at LSU.
12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2020
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - close“PITCH”er Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
with Karaoke!NBA Twitter is ca-
pable of sway-
ing the lasting 
perception of 
players’ legacies 
decades from now.
I know that sounds 
drastic, but it’s true. I’m 
not talking about a viral 
GIF or fans snifﬁ  ng out 
what may or may not 
be Kentavious Caldwell-
Pope’s burner account.
I’m talking about All-Star voting 
and the absolute joke that it has be-
come.
The size of your fan base (team or 
individual) should not dictate whether 
you have a place on the All-Star team. 
Popularity is clearly taking precedence 
over actual basketball prowess in the 
fan voting, and 
it’s laughable. But not for players 
like Damian Lillard or Devin Booker 
who have been, and continue to be, 
overlooked by fans.
Lakers guard Alex Caruso is giv-
ing Trailblazers guard Damian Lillard 
a race for the third-most backcourt 
votes in the deep Western Conference. 
To put into context how blasphemous 
that is, Lillard lit up Golden State for 
a career-high 61 points in a win on 
Monday night. Caruso, in nine games 
played since the calendar ﬂ  ipped to 
2020, has scored 50 total.
But at least Lillard is beating out 
Caruso in votes. Here are some West-
ern Conference guards who are behind 
Caruso and his 5.6 points per game av-
erage in the voting: Russell Westbrook 
(25.3 points, 7.9 rebounds and 7.3 as-
sists per game, second-best player on a 
playoff team), Donovan Mitchell (24.7 
points, 4.2 rebounds and 4.3 assists per 
game, best player on a playoff team) 
and Devin Booker (26.8 points, 4.1 re-
bounds and 6.4 assists per game, best 
player on a team that is two games out 
of the eighth seed in the West).
Booker has been in the league for ﬁ  ve years and has aver-
aged north of 22 points per 
game for four of those sea-
sons. All he has to show 
for it is a nod to the All-
Rookie team because he’s 
been on the lowly Suns for 
his entire young career.
I don’t think Booker 
should be in any MVP 
conversations but don’t 
penalize a good stats, bad 
team guy when it comes to the All-Star 
game, especially if bad stats, good team 
guys like Caruso and Boston’s Tacko 
Fall (four games played) are showing 
up on ballots.
Now is a good a time as any to out 
myself: I am a Lakers fan. But I don’t 
think Caruso or Dwight Howard should 
be anywhere on these ballot returns.
I am also a basketball purist. Two 
things can be true at once.
It’s criminal that Booker has yet to 
be named to an All-Star team or that 
Lillard missed the cut in 2015-16 and 
2016-17. A few years ago, the NBA 
changed the All-Star voting format be-
cause of online campaigns, like those 
for Fall and Caruso, that almost put 
Zaza Pachulia among the NBA’s best. 
Now, fans account for 50 percent of 
the vote for starters and members of 
the media and players each get a 25 
percent share.
Those who do not make the start-
ing roster (two frontcourt spots, two 
guards, and there’s a whole other de-
bate to be had about these near-archaic 
designations in a positionless league) 
can then be named to the reserves by 
the league’s coaches, or not.
Consider this my call to reason: 
vote for those qualiﬁ  ed to be among 
the NBA’s 24 best players. If you’re 
waiting every 24 hours to submit a 
vote for an undeserving player, then 
you’re exactly what’s wrong with fan 
voting. And don’t be surprised if the 
fan voting share is chopped again if 
this current trend continues.NBA All-Star fan voting is brokenKyle’s Files
By Kyle Wood
Twitter: Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
A tenth of a second proved 
to be the difference between 
the Gators and LSU on Tues-
day. 
Down 11 with 3:24 to go on 
the road against the current 
conference leader appeared to 
be a death sentence. 
But somehow, the Gators 
trailed by just two with half 
of a second left in the game. 
Guard Andrew Nembhard in-
bounded the ball to forward 
Keyontae Johnson, who ap-
peared to have scored a layup 
to beat the buzzer, tie the game 
and send it to overtime. 
But upon further review, the ball was still on Johnson’s ﬁ  n-
gertips when the clock expired, 
giving the Tigers the 84-82 win. 
That extra split second was 
the difference between another 
miraculous comeback for Flor-
ida and another “quality loss” 
come tournament time.
Such is life in college basket-
ball. 
Winning on the road against 
LSU (14-4, 6-0 SEC) was always 
going to be a difﬁ  cult task for 
the Gators, especially since 
it fell right in the middle of a 
daunting three-game stretch 
that ends on Saturday when No. 
1 Baylor comes to Gainesville. 
The thing about the Gators 
(12-6, 4-2 SEC) recently is that 
they haven’t lost games be-
cause of their offense, some-
thing that has been fairly com-
mon throughout coach Mike 
White’s tenure. 
Florida has scored at least 
65 points in each of its last sev-
en games, and it shot over 50 
percent from the ﬁ  eld against 
LSU. The Gators’ offense ranks 
in the top 30 in adjusted of-
fensive efﬁ  ciency, according to 
KenPom. 
The problem for Florida has 
actually been defense, which 
has been White’s calling card 
during his time in Gainesville. 
The Gators have given up an 
average of 79 points in their 
last four losses, while the of-
fense averaged roughly 70 
points. 
UF has ﬁ  nished in the top 
25 in KenPom’s adjusted de-
fensive efﬁ  ciency metric in White’s four previous seasons, 
but that hasn’t been the case 
this year. 
The Gators are currently 
ranked 48th by that metric, 
which would be the program’s 
worst mark since the 2011-12 
season. 
Offensive performances like 
the one Florida produced on 
Tuesday night should end in 
victories most of the time, but 
defensive performances like the 
one it had in the second half 
will prevent it from doing so. 
UF allowed the Tigers to 
shoot over 50 percent from the 
ﬁ  eld in the second half, and 
LSU plastered the offensive 
glass, grabbing 15 offensive 
boards for the game. The Tigers 
only scored 11 second-chance 
points, but that also includes 
a crucial two points scored by 
LSU forward Darius Days off 
his own rebound to create that 
11-point gap in the ﬁ  rst place.  
LSU’s offense was aided by 
24 makes on 31 attempts from 
the free-throw line, but it was 
still a poor defensive effort 
from Florida on Tuesday. 
The offense has signiﬁ  cantly 
improved since its struggles at 
the beginning of the season, 
but the same hasn’t happened 
on the defensive side of the 
ball. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgUF falls fraction of a second short
Alligator File Photo
Noah Locke scored 16 points 
and hit four three-pointers  
on Tuesday night.
