Audrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
Clifford the Big Tight EndALLIGATOR     MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020   SPECIAL EDITION
FEATURE
By Christian Ortega
Sports Writer 
When people are asked to de -
scribe a close friend in a word, 
it’s common to find them gaz -
ing at the distance as their brain 
scrambles to find the appropriate 
response. The momentary lapse 
for thought, varying from Joy 
from Inside Out-like efficiency or 
workers in SpongeBob’s brain of -
fice scrambling through burning 
ruins, leads to mixed responses. 
Poll anyone close to tight end 
Clifford Taylor IV, a 21-year-old 
graphic design senior, and they 
snap back like parrots repeating 
the one word they know: deter -
mined. 
So when Taylor announced he 
wanted to join the football team 
his sophomore year, they didn’t 
doubt the 6-foot-5, 245-pound 
athlete’s odds to make the roster. 
But, there were surprises. 
Taylor ended his four-year 
athletic career at Olympic High 
School in Charlotte, North Caro -
lina, as a three-year captain and 
two-time all-conference player. 
However, he earned his accom -
plishments on the hardwood playing basketball. In fact, until 
he started playing in Florida’s in -
tramural league, he never played 
competitive football during his 
life. 
He wanted to be an outsider. 
When Taylor was accepted to UF 
in 2017, like his father decades 
before, he packed his bags and 
moved more than 450 miles south 
to Gainesville. 
As a freshman, he was inter -
ested in walking on to the bas -
ketball team, so he reached out to 
then-assistant coach Dusty May to 
find out he could join the team. 
Before anything came to fruition, 
May left UF to become Florida 
Atlantic’s head coach. Taylor’s 
plans fell through. To keep him -
self active, he spent the year play -
ing rec-league basketball when 
possible. 
The next year, his roommates 
needed someone for a spot on 
their intramural flag football 
team. Taylor loved watching foot -
ball; he never considered playing. 
But, he took their offer. 
Without knowing, the boy who 
grew up watching Tim Tebow roll 
through the college football land -
scape would be on his way to joining the very team he idolized. 
“Once he’s hooked on one 
certain thing, you’re really 
like not gonna get in his 
way, ” Noah Paretsa, 21-year-
old UF senior studying 
marketing, and Taylor’s 
friend said. 
Jared John, Taylor’s childhood 
friend, and now-21-year-old Flor -
ida State University student, said 
college technically wasn’t the first 
time Taylor tried playing football. 
When the two were in seventh 
grade, John convinced Taylor 
to join his middle school team. 
During the first practice, they 
took their turns against tackling 
dummies during one of the first 
drills. They put their hands in 
the dirt one-by-one, made their 
best Ndamukong Suh impressions 
and brought down the dummies. 
When it was Taylor’s turn, he 
bounced off the bag. 
However, when Taylor started 
playing intramural football at UF 
as a sophomore in 2018, it was a 
different story. 
Perets, one of Taylor’s IM teammates, said defenders stood 
no chance against him. 
“You could see that his natu -
ral talent would show,” Perets 
said. “I could miss my throw by 
about three yards up, three yards 
left, three yards right, three yards 
down, and he’s gonna come up 
with it.”
Growing up, Taylor was al -
ways the biggest kid in class. Both 
his parents were athletes, too. His 
mother played basketball and 
taught him the sport when he was 
two years old. His father taught 
him baseball. The concoction of 
genes and years on the court laid 
the foundation for Taylor’s ath -
leticism. 
It was Taylor’s intelligence 
that gave him an edge against the 
competition, John said. 
“He was definitely one of the 
better players on the floor,” John 
said. “He wasn’t always the most 
dominant, but what separated 
him was his own IQ.”
His flashes of dominance on 
the gridiron eventually caught the 
attention of Gators players watch -
ing his games. After a game, Tay -
lor said former walk-on Robert 
Clay walked up to him and asked 
if Taylor ever thought about play -
ing football. 
“Honestly, it never crossed my 
mind,” Taylor said. “I was just 
doing this for fun.”
Taylor said Clay encouraged 
him to try out as a wide receiver 
or tight end. 
That chance encounter coin -
cided with Florida’s upcoming 
matchup against the visiting LSU 
Tigers. It was one of the countless 
games he attended at The Swamp, 
but this time the atmosphere was 
infectious. Any doubts about 
walking on were washed away.
However, Taylor needed to 
hone his gifts if he wanted to 
make the change from Gronkows -
ki-like performances against in -
tramural teams to wearing orange 
and blue for the Gators. 
Perets said Taylor’s hands 
were like bricks when they started 
training, so he worked with Taylor 
to improve his route running and 
catching for three months. Perets 
said they took turns texting each 
other three times a week when ei -
ther got the itched to practice. 
So Taylor did as he always 
does: he worked and blossomed. 
They practiced running routes 30 
to 50 times each practice, paired 
with drills to improve Taylor’s 
catching.
“It was really good for him to 
see some sort of live-action out 
wide and running routes, and us -
ing his hands and body position 
to Moss defenders,” Perets said. 
Even with the work he put in to 
get better, faster, stronger, there 
was no guarantee he would make 
the roster the following year. He 
would be trying out against play -
ers who likely had years of experi -
ence playing football. For those close to Taylor, there 
was little room for doubt. 
“You don’t just walk onto an 
SEC football team unless you’re 
Clifford Taylor, ” John said.
Taylor was a diehard Gators 
fan growing up; the kind of kid 
that would call out fans of rival 
schools when he’d see them in 
class, John said. The months he 
spent practicing came to fruition 
when he made the team in Feb -
ruary 2019. While kids grow up 
dreaming of playing for their fa -
vorite college football team, few 
ever get the opportunity to make 
the cut. 
“It was like, ‘Okay like, this 
is real,’” he said. “This wasn’t a 
dream. This isn’t like just a joke 
anymore. This is like the real 
deal.”
But storybook endings don’t 
come without twists. 
While he made the team, Tay -
lor couldn’t practice because his 
class schedule conflicted with 
Florida’s practices. It wouldn’t 
be until June that he would get to 
work with the team officially. 
When they were in school to -
gether, John said Taylor frequent -
ly doodled in his notebook. 
Basketball served as an outlet 
for Taylor; it just wasn’t enough. 
So Taylor drew when he could. 
When he wasn’t, he was playing 
the piano, drums or trombone. It 
wasn’t a surprise for anyone pass -
ing by his Charlotte home to hear 
faint sounds of R&B, soul or Earth 
Wind and Fire from one of Tay -
lor’s instruments. 
“If I wasn’t playing sports, I 
definitely would wanna be a mu -
sician or producer,” Taylor said. 
When it wasn’t basketball sea -
son, he designed graphics for oth -
er athletes, a hobby he continued 
as a Gator. It’s a talent he said 
was self-taught, and as he refined 
his art, he realized that graphic 
design was his passion. 
“Once I got to Florida, it shed a 
whole new light as far as my ma -
jor goes,” Taylor said. 
As social media evolved, so did 
Taylor.
Around the team, Taylor is 
known as the “social media guy.” 
On Twitter, he has more than 
1,000 followers. Instagram, more 
than 52,000. TikTok, more than 
180,000. His success on those 
platforms, where he frequently 
blends his sense of humor with 
life as a college football player, 
comes from a lifetime of express -
ing himself. 
He said he’d received offers to 
work as an ambassador once his 
UF career comes to an end. 
“My first day on the app, I 
had about 10, which were close 
friends, then the next day after 
my first vid went viral, I already Walk-on: The Clifford Taylor IV story
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 15Courtesy to The Alligator
A six-year-old Clifford Taylor IV holds an Earth Wind & Fire album on Christmas.
•   •   •
•   •   •We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperUF IFAS ends use of prison labor
The push to end the practice has been advocated by activist 
groups for nearly a decade, pg. 8
Vice President Mike Pence campaigns in The Villages
The VP visited the nearby retirement community Saturday for a 
rally, pg. 7Packing the Swamp?
Alligator Sports writer Tyler Nettuno makes his 
case for why he believes coach Dan Mullen’s 
comments regarding stadium capacity Saturday 
were irresponsible and tone-deaf, pg. 14
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 7
EMPATHY AND UNDERSTANDING: 
KEYWORDS FOR STUDENTS AND 
PROFESSORS THIS SEMESTER 
By Rachel Slay
Alligator Staff Writer
Two months into UF’s mostly online Fall 
semester, students and faculty alike still 
struggle with the new virtual classroom 
environment.
UF professors and students agree it takes 
patience on both sides of the screen. With 65% of UF’s classes held online this Fall, 
students and professors are scrambling 
to set schedules, struggling to maintain 
productivity and trying to cope with 
minimal social interaction.  
The announcement of UF’s mostly online 
Fall semester left Hannah Thomas, a 19-year-
old UF animal sciences sophomore, nervous 
about her productivity and concerned for 
the lack of collaboration in her courses.
All but one of Thomas’ classes are 
asynchronous, meaning they do not have 
any live meetings. She decided to return to Gainesville for the semester knowing 
she would need to mimic a regular class 
schedule to be productive. 
Thomas wakes up around 8 a.m. to go 
to the Reitz Union almost every day of the 
week, she said. She rents a room on the 
second floor, with a big window overlooking 
Green Pond, and stays for about seven 
hours doing assignments and studying. If 
she is alone in her apartment everyday, she 
can’t be productive, so sometimes a friend 
will join her at the Reitz, she said. 
“I still have a lot of fear and doubt, but I think I’m hopeful,” Thomas said. “As I’ve 
been seeing this semester progress, I’m like 
‘OK, this can be a reality.’”
As classes progress, having less 
engagement with her teachers and 
classmates is a struggle because she is so 
social, she said. 
“It’s mental health stuff, trying to 
navigate what life will look like now, in a 
way that’s safe for our community and for 
yourself,” Thomas said. “And it’s hard. It’s 
a learning curve for us all.” Students and professors weigh in on the virtual classroom experience at UFEmily Felts / / Alligator Staff
The Reitz Student Union is seen primarily empty on Wednesday, Oct. 7, 2020, during the results of the student government elections. It was a very different scene from 
the year before when Student Government parties crowded the first floor of the on-campus location as the results were announced.
SEE ONLINE SCHOOL,  PAGE 72019
2020T oday’s Weather
ISSN 0889-24234   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 7
ABOUT 6,000 STUDENTS VOTED IN 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS – 3,000 
LESS THAN IN SPRING 2019 
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government’s current majority party, 
Gator Party, dominated the elections Oct. 7, winning 
45 of the 50 Senate seats. Independent candidates 
won the two seats they ran for, and one seat remains 
vacant. 
“I couldn’t be more proud of Gator Party for con -
tinuing its legacy and for doubling down on its ser -
vice to all Gators,” wrote Trevor Pope, the Student 
Body President and Gator Party member, in a text 
message to The Alligator.
Short voting lines ended with an empty Reitz Stu -
dent Union. In pre-pandemic semesters, hundreds of 
candidates and students craned to watch the super -
visor of elections announce voting results from the 
staircase.
This semester, Reitz Union’s seats grew cold and 
its doors closed on the two candidates watching for 
election results and late-night studiers at 11 p.m. be -
fore the Supervisor of Elections announced the re -
sults over a Zoom meeting at about 11:30 p.m. 
Independent candidates Zachery Utt (Murphree 
Area) and Jamison McAdams (Lakeside Complex) 
won in their districts, according to the election re -
sults.
Change Party won two seats in District D. Gradu -
ate and Family Housing is still vacant and did not 
have any candidates.
Progressive Party and Union Party did not win any 
of the 23 seats they collectively ran for.
Gator Party, which is now a year old, ran on a 
platform of increasing the number of student tickets 
offered for home football games, distributing materi -
als to test drinks for the presence of date-rape drugs 
and auditing UF buildings for ADA compliance and 
environmental sustainability.
Across elections Tuesday and Wednesday and 
through the early and absentee voting process, 6,130 
students voted. Students cast 3,698 votes through the 
absentee and new early options. Gator, the current 
majority party, ran alongside three new parties this 
election: Change, Union and Progressive.
About 9,900 voted in Fall 2019 SG elections – al -
most 3,750 more than this semester.
SG uses a $22 million budget of student fees to 
fund student organizations, Student Legal Services 
and the Recreational Sports department.
None of the new parties benefited from their usual 
foot traffic marketing. Supervisor of Elections Hay -
ley Price created early voting as a COVID-19 safety 
precaution for all students and absentee voting for 
students in quarantine.
UF Provost Joseph Glover and the UF Supreme 
Court rejected online voting in September. The online 
option was declared unconstitutional in 2006 and has 
remained a contested SG issue since. Some senators 
and students hoped online voting would make voting 
simpler and more accessible.Parties weigh in on results
Independent candidate Zachery Utt won 43% of 
Murphree Area votes. When he heard his win dur -
ing the election results announcement, Utt said he 
screamed so loudly his neighbors called his dorm’s 
resident assistant.
“I ran a zero-dollar campaign and won and that 
shows you don’t need money to win elections in Stu -
dent Government,” he said.
Utt will start his new SG chapter by improving the 
fire alarm system in Fletcher and Sledd halls. 
Colin Solomon, Change Party president, said the 
outcome was unexpected, but the party is willing to 
work with it. 
“We're going to take that and we're going to go 
into Spring as the best-run campaign this university 
has ever seen,” he said. 
The party will elect a caucus leader in the Senate 
to try and address all of Change’s platform points to 
the best of their ability, he said. 
Progressive Party President Alfredo Ortiz said 
the low voter turnout wasn’t only disappointing but 
unconstitutional, but he did not explain how. Ortiz 
requested the Supervisor of Elections investigate the 
validity of the elections Wednesday before the results.
“I won’t base the future of my party off a fraudu -
lent election,” he said.
Ortiz said he wants to continue Progressive Party’s 
work by creating a socialist party.
Union Party campaign manager Ethan Lomio said 
elections are difficult for new parties, and he was 
proud of the votes they received, despite not filling 
any seats. Union candidates got 400 votes total for the 
eleven seats they ran for. 
“Win, lose or draw — Union Party is here to stay,” 
he said.
Independent Jamison McAdams (Lakeside Com -
plex) declined to comment on his win.
Fewer voters rush to polls
Riccardo Ansaldi, a 26-year-old UF astronomy and 
geology senior, said he couldn’t vote in his first SG 
election at the Keys Complex polling location because 
he didn’t bring his phone to the polls with him.
To log in to vote at polling location computers, 
students need to use Duo Push to verify their Gato -
rOne login information, just like logging into Canvas 
or One.UF.
Ansaldi isn’t tied to his phone, he said, so he 
didn’t bring it from his District C location to the vot -
ing booth. He said he would try to vote again at Keys 
later that day.
“Not only did they make me come down here, but 
they didn’t allow me to vote,” he said. 
Within the polling location, Ansaldi said he felt 
unsafe voting in person. The hallways leading to the 
polling station and the room itself were narrow.
Assistant Supervisor of Elections Jeremy Grant 
said his hour-and-a-half training for election day 
didn’t include how to help students vote in that sce -
nario.
Anna Magruder, an 18-year-old UF biology fresh -
man, felt compelled to vote at Murphree due to park -
ing issues on campus. In order to get to her job, she 
has to bike one mile to her car, so she hopes her vote 
will change that.
She also was concerned about the sanitation pro -
cess at Murphree.
“I know that those computers aren't getting sani -
tized in between each person,” Magruder said. “I'm 
gonna go home and probably sanitize my stuff be -
cause I don't know how many people have touched 
the computer before.”
Corbin Bolies, Meghan McGlone and Thomas 
Weber contributed to this report. 
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.orgSubscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinion Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett MullenaxGator Party wins 
majority of Senate seats
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Members of Change Party react outside the Reitz 
Student Union as Gator Party members win a 
majority of district seats in the University of Florida 
Student Senate on Wednesday, Oct. 7, 2020.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization 
for the Gainesville Urbanized Area 
Gainesville Metropolitan Area Mobility 
Virtual Workshop Notice 
October 26, 2020 at 3:00 p.m. 
Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, Facebook and the 
Alachua County Video on Demand Website [link below] 
www.alachuacounty.us/video
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when prompted 
use code 670 965 3024 and participant identification code 2522482 
Live Broadcast Public Comment Call-In - Call 929.205.6099, Access Code - 273-174-8038 
The Gainesville City Commission and the Alachua County Commission  
[sitting together as the Metropolitan Transportation Planning  
Organization for the Gainesville  Urbanized Area] recently  
adopted its Year 2045 Long-Range Transportation Plan  
Cost Feasible Plan for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization 
will conduct a mobility workshop  to discuss multimodal 
[bicycle, pedestrian, roadway and transit] transportation  
issues.  Share your concerns and ideas on mobility within the 
Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  Th is workshop will be part of the 
Metropolitan Transportation Pl anning Organization October 26 , 2020 regular business meeting. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency,  the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area w ill meet virtually on October 26, 2020 at 3:00 p.m. 
Visit our Long-Range Transportation Plan website at http://ncfrpc.or g/mtpo/LRTP.html
More detailed information concerning this workshop can be obtained in several ways: by visiting the 
website at www.ncfrpc.org  (click Metropolitan Transportation Pla nning); by writing to the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization, 2009 NW 67th Place Gainesville, Florida 32653; or by calling 
352.955.2200.  Public participation is solicited without re gard to race, color, national origin, sex, age, 
disability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation or gender identity.  Any 
person requiring special assistance or accommodation s, under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 
or persons who require translation services (free of ch arge), to participate in this public hearing should 
contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at least 48 hours before the workshop. 
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$15 Haircut with Student IDWHEN COVID-19 SHUT DOWN 
FLORIDA SCHOOLS IN MARCH, IT ALSO 
INTERRUPTED STATE TESTING AND 
COLLEGE ENTRANCE EXAMS
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
Applying to college can be overwhelming. 
Applicants have to contend with lofty admis -
sions requirements, a barrage of deadlines dif -
fering by school and an array of essay topics 
that leave 500 words to share a life story. 
Now, there is also the added hurdle of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. When COVID-19 shut 
down Florida schools in March, it also inter -
rupted state testing and college entrance exams. 
Some students are still struggling to catch up.
Current Alachua County high school seniors, 
already stressed out by college applications and 
the pandemic, are also battling SAT and ACT 
exam cancellations and a limited number of 
testing sites, said Jennifer Taylor, supervisor of 
school counseling and student services in Ala -
chua County Public Schools. 
“Everything kind of stopped, and it was dif -
ficult for students,” Taylor said.
Some colleges and universities across the 
country are waiving college testing require -
ments due to the additional hurdles to testing 
in the current environment. However, no major 
public Florida universities are among them.For Florida students, college entrance exam 
testing is a key element for statewide scholar -
ships.
Gov. Ron DeSantis extended the deadline 
for the Bright Futures Scholarship Program to 
December for the Class of 2020. In past years, 
students generally had until the end of August. 
Florida students who already graduated have 
more time to meet testing requirements for the 
program, which awards lottery-funded scholar -
ships for those who meet specific test scores, 
volunteer hours and grade point averages. 
DeSantis hasn’t extended the Bright Futures 
deadline for current seniors. It remains Aug. 31, 
2021.
Information from the Florida Department 
of Education reveals that about 32,000 2020 
Florida seniors met all other Bright Futures re -
quirements except for their ACT or SAT scores. 
About 8,000 more students may qualify for 
Bright Futures if they retake the SAT or ACT 
and score higher.
Now, current college freshman and high 
school seniors may be scrambling to take col -
lege entrance exams before Dec. 1 to meet the 
scholarship’s requirements or college applica -
tion deadlines. 
However, taking exams can be a challenge 
with limited capacity at testing sites and col -
leges not extending deadlines.
So far, UF has not extended its Nov. 1 col -
lege application deadline. In the past, UF has extended deadlines in certain cases, as when 
Hurricane Matthew impacted applications 
across the state. 
Fifty-three test centers for the Oct. 3 test day 
had disruptions, and 36 were closed, according 
to the list of Florida SAT test centers. One of 
two centers in Gainesville was closed. There is 
only one more test date on Nov. 7 before the 
new deadline for meeting Bright Futures re -
quirements. 
For the Nov. 7 test date, six of the 312 poten -
tial centers closed so far, according to informa -
tion on the College Board website.  
The ACT has felt similar disruptions. There 
was only one test Oct. 10 at Gainesville High 
School for the entire county. Future offerings 
are after the Bright Futures deadline.
Florida puts more money into merit-based 
scholarships than need-based scholarships 
when compared to other states, Holly Bullard, 
chief strategy and development officer at the 
Florida Policy Institute, an independent public 
policy research nonprofit, wrote in an email. 
“The lack of investment in need-based aid 
means we are underinvesting in our students of 
color,” Bullard wrote.
White students are more likely to receive the 
scholarship than students of color, according 
to 2019-2020 data from Bright Futures. About 
56% of the aid was given to white students, 
compared to 4% to Black students and 25% to 
Hispanic students. Census data shows Florida is about 53% white, about 17% Black and 
about 26% Hispanic.
“I think in this time of COVID-19 and the 
barriers for the SAT for all families, we should 
reexamine the barriers to economic mobility for 
certain Floridians, and why they’re there,” she 
wrote.
In Alachua County, DeSantis’ extension 
allowed more students to test and still be eli -
gible for the scholarship program, Taylor said. 
However, she doesn’t know how many ACPS 
students might have been affected by the gov -
ernor’s decision. 
The ACT can also act in place of certain 
standardized tests, which measure a student’s 
understanding and preparedness on certain 
subjects, she said. These exams, like the Flor -
ida Standards Assessments, are sometimes re -
quired to pass on to the next grade or graduate.
In-person and Digital Academy students will 
be able to access testing on campus, such as the 
PSAT, the preliminary SAT and ACT, which are 
now being administered to juniors who weren’t 
able to test last year, Taylor said. 
Digital Academy students will come into 
schools and test separately from brick-and-
mortar students, she said. The county PSAT 
tests dates are Oct. 14 for in-person students 
and Oct. 17 for Digital Academy students. The 
ACT was Oct. 6 for in-person students and will 
be Oct. 20 for Digital Academy students. 
@feinberg_sophie
sfeinberg@alligator.orgCOVID-19 school closures challenged students’ standardized testing6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020
#orangeandbluesubTry the Orange & Blue sub, made with chicken tenders and topped with  
buffalo sauce and blue cheese dressing. Save time before class.  
Order ahead for in-store pickup at publix.com/orangeandblue . A taste  
of school spirit .MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR    7
THE HUNDREDS OF 
SENIORS FROM THE 
VILLAGES WERE MOSTLY 
MASKLESS
By Thomas Weber and 
Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writers
A sea of red, white and blue emit -
ted the smell of sweat and barbecue. 
Pairs of cargo shorts, “Trump” socks 
and New Balance shoes shuffled 
around each other to get a better look 
at U.S. Vice President Mike Pence.
Pence spoke maskless from a 
stage during his campaign speech 
at The Villages — a massive retire -
ment community west of Orlando — 
drawing hundreds of carefree, non-
distanced President Donald Trump 
supporters Saturday afternoon. The 
crowd of about 500 people was pre -
dominantly made up of people 50 
years or older; there were more lap 
dogs than children. 
“The road to victory runs right 
through Florida,” Pence said.
The ZIP codes making up The 
Villages have totaled 1,766 CO -
VID-19 cases as of Saturday night, 
according to the Florida Department 
of Health’s COVID-19 dashboard. 
There have been 734,491 positive 
cases in Florida since the pandemic 
spread in the U.S. in March.
Risk for severe illness from CO -
VID-19 increases with age, according 
to The Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. 
Pence didn’t discuss COVID-19 
deaths, but praised Trump’s travel 
ban on China and mentioned the 
president and first lady’s recovery 
after contracting the virus.
“If you cherish faith, freedom, 
law and order — and life — in 24 
days we’ve gotta reelect President 
Donald Trump for four more years,” 
Pence said, referring to the Nov. 3 
Presidential Election.
In 2019, The Villages’ population was 98.2% white, and 79.7% of resi -
dents were 65-years-old or older, ac -
cording to a U.S. Census Bureau re -
port. Trump previously campaigned 
in The Villages in October 2019.
By the time Pence arrived 30 min -
utes late, the crowd’s final form was 
reminiscent of a large-scale Fourth 
of July celebration. People packed 
into the six-foot distancing spaces 
between seats, and about a third of 
them kept their masks on — fewer 
wore them properly. 
Pence talked about the vice 
presidential debate and Trump’s 
pro-military policies. He criticized 
Democratic presidential nominee Joe 
Biden’s policies, claiming he was go -
ing to defund the police and pack the 
court.
The Biden campaign has said it 
will not take money away from po -
lice and has not answered whether 
or not he will pack the court, which 
means adding seats to the Supreme 
Court. 
Congressman Daniel Webster of 
Florida’s 11th District spoke before 
Pence and said America’s neighbor -
hoods and communities won’t be 
safe under a Biden presidency. 
Hands and MAGA signs shot into 
the air when Pence spoke of “back -
ing the boys in blue” or four more 
years for Trump. The crowd jeered 
and booed at mentions of Biden, 
vice-presidential nominee Kamala 
Harris and Democratic Speaker of 
the House Nancy Pelosi.
The Villages’ paramedics — 
decked out in face and neck cover -
ings, sunhats and rubber gloves — 
were stationed with wheelchairs just 
outside the perimeter, fully prepared 
to infiltrate the crowd and rescue 
fainting seniors who succumbed to 
the 90-degree heat. They rescued 
at least six attendees, their “Make 
America Great Again” signs droop -
ing in defeat as they were wheeled 
out of the rally. 
The speech was held outside of 
Brownwood, a town in The Villages.
Life-sized statues of bulls and cowboys surrounded the town’s en -
tryway, and a rustic sign hung over 
the road: “Brownwood,” it said — a 
Disneyland-esque, cowboy-themed 
strip mall. The faux-wild-western 
village’s buildings looked more like 
saloons and barns than modern-day 
businesses.
But rather than riding horses — 
or cars — residents zipped through 
the streets in golf carts, sub-25 mph, 
while Trump and American flags 
flapped in the wind behind them. 
Hundreds of golf carts streamed 
into an empty lot next to the town 
square. The fleet lined the perimeter 
of the event’s designated seating 
area, parked and facing the stage like 
a drive-in theater. 
Crowds of chattering people 
dressed in matching MAGA gear 
lined up to enter the lot.
Elaine Kovach, a 75-year-old re -
tiree, said she was offered hand sani -
tizer, masks and water at the event’s 
entrance. She said she wasn’t too 
concerned about COVID-19, and 
she thought everyone she had been 
around was respectful of rules.
Henrietta Amey, a maskless, 
83-year-old Villages resident, said 
she doesn’t wear masks but prefers 
to wash her hands and take vita -
mins.
“I take showers as soon as I get 
home — take my clothes off, put 
them in the washing machine,” 
Amey said. “So far, I’ve been lucky.”
When Trump was diagnosed 
with COVID-19, she said she knew 
he would get through it.
“It takes a lot of prayers, and God 
answers prayers,” she said.
In the event, about 250 seats were 
set in pairs in front of the stage with 
about 6 feet between each, but at -
tendees moved chairs around freely. 
As the crowd filled the no-longer 
socially distanced seats, a plane flew 
over the Brownwood lot tugging a 
banner that read, “Pence is why you 
can’t see your grandkids.”
Esteban Ramirez, a 23-year-old 
energy consultant and attendee, car -ried a “Latinos for Trump” sign at 
the rally.
“There’s not really much of a di -
verse community here, and I think 
it’s really important to try to put 
your voice out there and represent,” 
Ramirez said. 
Almost three hours before Pence 
took the stage, most of the seats were 
filled. Attendees kept themselves 
busy by dancing in a circle to “Stop! 
In the Name of Love” and “Walking 
on Sunshine,” two breaks in a playl -
ist of mostly patriotic country music.
Later, a man and a woman slow-
danced to John Denver’s “Take Me 
Home, Country Roads.”John Leszewski, an 80-year-old 
attendee, said he and his wife’s 
temperatures were not taken at the 
doors but credited any high tempera -
ture to the heat. He said he was not 
worried about COVID-19.
“Let me put it this way,” Lesze -
wski said. “I’m 80 years old, and I 
have no fear.”
@thomasjohnweber 
tweber@alligator.org 
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgVice President Mike Pence holds non-distanced campaign rally in The Villages
Thomas Weber / / Alligator Staff
A Trump supporter waves two “Make America Great Again” signs 
as Vice President Mike Pence spoke at a non-distanced campaign 
rally in The Villages, Florida, Saturday, Oct. 10, 2020.
Successful learning outcomes depend on proper 
preparation, said Albert Ritzhaupt, a UF associate professor 
of educational technology and computer science education.  
“Quality instruction, quality learning experiences, it 
doesn’t matter what format you use,” Ritzhaupt said. “It 
requires a significant amount of training and preparation 
and planning.”
Students can learn and do well with online learning, 
but it is important to note what happened in March wasn’t 
really online learning because of how sudden the change 
was, he said. 
Online curriculum typically goes through an extensive 
vetting process before being put in front of students, he 
said. It has specific procedures and is processed multiple 
times for quality assurance. This is why he said UF’s move 
to hold all classes online mid-March following confirmed 
COVID-19 cases in Alachua County is not considered typical 
online learning. 
Professors may not have it all figured out, but they’re 
learning from their mistakes and making improvements, 
Ritzhaupt said. 
“I guarantee next year, they’re going to do a hell of a lot 
better,” Ritzhaupt said. “But, again, that’s because it takes 
practice.” 
Ritzhaupt has taught primarily online classes for 15 years and said he has gone through the necessary trial and error 
of creating a well-rounded learning environment through 
a screen. Despite the time and effort he has dedicated, 
Ritzhaupt is concerned about the general lack of student 
collaboration, he said.
“I don’t know that we are doing a good enough job 
making sure that the students are engaged with each other, 
right now,” he said. 
The flexible schedule brought by asynchronous classes 
was a difficult adjustment for Sterling Shipp, a 19-year-old 
UF health education and behavior sophomore. It’s hard 
to do everything yourself, like deciding when to watch a 
lecture or do an assignment, he said. 
Before going to bed, Shipp writes out the next day’s 
assignments on a white board, in order of importance. 
When he wakes up around 9:30 a.m. the next day, he has 
breakfast, typically coffee and a croissant sandwich, and 
starts checking items off the list.
Since Shipp was able to create a routine for himself, he 
has been able to maintain all A’s with the exception of one 
high B, he said.
For his biology lab, Shipp will have to dissect a worm in 
his Fletcher Hall dorm room. He was expecting a virtual lab 
because he said they are easier but is nonetheless looking 
forward to the dissection. He thinks it’s crazy that an actual 
dissection can be done in his room.  
“I knew it would be harder,” Shipp said. “But I’m 
willing to put in the work and do what I have to do because 
there’s really no point in complaining if you can’t change 
anything.” 
This semester, online proctoring sites like ProctorU and Honorlock, which require webcams and microphones to 
monitor students while they test, are being relied on more 
than ever because of less in-person testing. 
These proctoring sites aren’t appealing to Corinne 
Huggins-Manley, an associate professor of research and 
evaluation methodology at UF.
Instead, she shares stories of times she has caught 
students cheating in the hopes of encouraging them to be 
fair and honest during her classes. 
Huggins-Manley learns how students write by using 
open-ended questions on assignments. This makes it easier 
to tell when things are copied and pasted because they 
don’t have the student’s voice, she said. 
“Ever since I started doing those spiels and appealing to 
them weekly to remind them of honor codes and fairness, 
I’ve seen a lot less of it in my class, so I’m very happy with 
that,” Huggins-Manley said.
Online learning was not the plan for Anna Toth, a UF 
associate chemistry professor.
She spent the Summer converting her freshman 
chemistry courses to an asynchronous schedule, meaning 
she never sees her students outside of Zoom office hours, 
she said. She is pleasantly surprised at how often students 
come to her for help with the course material.  
“The most important message out of it, for anybody, is 
that we need to be prepared as well as possible for these 
kinds of circumstances,” Toth said.  
@racheljslay
rslay@alligator.orgONLINE SCHOOL,  from pg. 1‘It takes practice’8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020
UF IFAS STOPPED USING 
PRISON LABOR AS OF 
SEPT. 30
By Alan Halaly and Kalia 
Richardson 
Alligator Staff Writers
Local activists and UF students 
have called for UF to end its de -
pendence on prison labor for al -
most a decade. The Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences 
responded by breaking its prison 
labor contracts last month. 
The Coalition to Abolish Pris -
on Slavery, a Gainesville activist 
group founded in early June, an -
nounced on Oct. 1 IFAS will stop 
using prison labor as of Sept. 30. 
Jeanna Mastrodicasa, the IFAS 
associate vice president for op -
erations, confirmed all contracts 
with the Florida Department of 
Corrections have come to an end. 
The institute hasn’t used inmate 
labor during the COVID-19 pan -
demic since mid-March.
To advocate for change, CAPS 
partnered with organizers such 
as GoDDsville Dream Defenders, 
Florida Prisoner Solidarity and 
Divest UF, as well as with UF 
student organizations, including 
the Hispanic Student Association 
and the Black Student Union. 
The groups sent mass phone calls 
and emails to UF President Kent 
Fuchs, the UF Board of Trustees 
and IFAS. More than 200 emails and 
calls were sent out through July 
and August, said co-founder Salil 
Bavdekar. In less than six months, 
CAPS was able to achieve its goal 
of ending IFAS’ prison labor con -
tracts with the FDC. 
Mackintosh Joachim, a 
21-year-old UF women’s studies 
and political science senior, has 
wanted UF to stop using prison 
labor for years. He quit his job at 
Aramark, UF’s food service part -
ner, in 2017 when he realized 
they used prison labor.
“Essentially, a prison is still a 
way that we all could be slaves,” 
Joachim said. “It is very immor -
al.”
Minimum-to-medium custody 
inmates still completing their 
sentences sometimes participate 
in work camps, wrote Rob Klep -
per, an FDC spokesperson, in an 
email. All able-bodied inmates 
are required to work during their 
sentence, according to state stat -
utes. They can be assigned to 
work squads like the ones for -
merly used by IFAS, and labor is 
usually unpaid.
UF and IFAS saved about $1.7 
million a year from prison labor, 
according to a statement released 
by IFAS. Across nine sites, the 
work was used to promote agri -
cultural research and provide pro -
duce for the East Coast.
Florida has benefited from in -
mate labor for more than a cen -
tury, according to a report by the Gainesville Sun. UF uses it 
the most compared to other state 
universities in Florida, especially 
in its agricultural centers. Since 
2015, the university has used 
more than 156,000 hours of state 
prison labor.
CAPS wants UF to cancel con -
tracts with all company partners 
that use prison labor, including 
UF food service partner Aramark, 
Bavdekar said. It’s also calling for 
UF to make an official statement 
detailing the extent of the prac -
tice. 
However, IFAS hasn’t made a 
public announcement about the 
end of the contracts and doesn’t 
plan to, Mastrodicasa said. 
“It’s something that we’re not 
too happy about because one of 
our demands was that UF actually 
owns up and actually puts out a 
statement saying ‘Hey, it is finally 
over,’” Bavdekar said. 
To him, UF isn’t taking respon -
sibility for the number of laborers 
or unpaid hours of work it used 
to harvest crops, clean equipment 
and operate machinery.
“That is unacceptable if you 
agree that prison slavery is bad,” 
he said. “So, our main objective 
was to stop using it as soon as 
possible.”
Prison labor saved IFAS an av -
erage of $14 per inmate, accord -
ing to an IFAS blog post. Gene 
McAvoy, an IFAS stakeholder re -
lations director, said researchers 
will now have to redirect some funds from fertilizer, pest and 
disease control research to pay 
workers.
“It was a reaction to social 
unrest in the country,” McAvoy 
said. “But I don’t know if it really 
was the right reaction.” 
After Black Lives Matter pro -
tests throughout the summer, 
Fuchs announced on June 18 
the university would take steps 
to address racism. This included 
ending UF’s ties with prison farm 
labor because work squads dis -
proportionately consist of Black 
inmates. He promised to termi -
nate all contracts involving prison 
labor in agricultural centers from 
the FDC by July 1, 2021.
“The symbolism of inmate 
labor is incompatible with our 
university and its principles and 
therefore this practice will end,” 
Fuchs wrote in a statement to the 
UF community.
While IFAS Director McAvoy 
said he didn’t speak to any of 
the inmates, he feels many aren’t 
forced to work. 
“If I was sitting behind bars, 
and I had a chance to get out, 
work out in the fresh air and sun -
shine and do something construc -
tive besides looking at four walls, 
it might be attractive,” McAvoy 
said. 
Manu Osorio, the lead organiz -
er of GoDDsville Dream Defend -
ers, the local chapter of an orga -
nization founded after the death 
of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, said UF students and faculty need 
to recognize how deeply the pris -
on industrial complex is embed -
ded into academia.
“We must stand up and find 
all of these exploitative indus -
tries because it is our money as 
students, alumni and faculty that 
is being used to exploit people,” 
Osorio said. “We have to stand 
together and demand changes.” 
The push to end prison labor 
spans throughout Alachua Coun -
ty. 
Alachua County Commission -
ers voted to end prison labor con -
tracts with the FDC in 2019, said 
Kevin Scott, a formerly incarcer -
ated organizer with Florida Pris -
oner Solidarity who lobbied the 
commission on the issue. 
While in state prison, he said 
he witnessed the immense physi -
cal and psychological toll prison 
labor took on his fellow inmates. 
He said he’s proud that the coun -
ty commission was the first elect -
ed authority in Florida to end its 
prison labor contracts.
“People do not understand 
how the person on the side of the 
road in the blue outfit gets to be 
there,” Scott said. “You’re mal -
nourished, strip-searched to and 
from work every day — it’s dehu -
manizing.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org
@kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.org
LOOKING AT THE BENEFITS AND 
CHALLENGES OF ONLINE ADVISING
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
With unprecedented times come unprec -
edented changes, and academic advising 
has been no exception. 
To protect advisers and students alike 
from the spread of COVID-19, UF advis -
ing has been moved online, meaning face-
to-face meetings have been replaced with 
Zoom calls. Now, students talk to advisers 
on a screen and have a much more dis -
tanced relationship than before.
Advisers were concerned that virtual ad -
vising wouldn’t be as effective, said Joseph 
Spillane, director of UF’s Academic Advis -
ing Center and associate dean for student 
affairs at the College of Liberal Arts and Sci -
ences. But data from adviser evaluations, 
through which students give feedback on 
their advising sessions, show positive re -
sults.
“Students feel as though their remote 
advising sessions are relatively easy to ac -
cess, and that they’re about as effective as 
in-person would be,” Spillane said.
The data also show that while some 
students look forward to in-person advis -
ing again, about an equal number said they 
liked virtual advising better, Spillane said.
Virtual advising has come with challeng -
es, including issues with WiFi and audio or 
video problems, Spillane said. Advisers also 
struggled to connect with students and get 
into deep discussions. But Spillane said he’s 
seen improvements.“I think students are feeling comfortable, 
not just asking very specific or technical 
questions on a remote advising session, but 
really getting into the big picture questions, 
like ‘Is this major really right for me?’” he 
said. 
Spillane also said that while advis -
ers feared they would see fewer students 
this Fall, the numbers generally haven’t 
changed.
“If you add in all of the forms we’re pro -
cessing, all the emails we’re answering, the 
overall volume of students that we’re deal -
ing with is very much the same,” Spillane 
said. 
Justin Ma, an 18-year-old UF exploratory 
engineering freshman, went to online peer 
advising for the Herbert Wertheim Col -
lege of Engineering twice. He said it went 
smoothly both times, and he got more than 
he expected out of the virtual venue. 
“It cuts out the trouble of me having to 
take time out of my day, walk to the hall, 
and then talk to them,” Ma said. 
In his sessions, Ma asked about getting 
involved in clubs and internships and de -
ciding on a major. 
Annie Gjineci, a 19-year-old UF informa -
tion systems sophomore, went to advising 
for the Heavener School of Business in Au -
gust. She said the sessions were easy to set 
up.
She emailed her adviser and received a 
link to their schedule, she said. Gjineci said 
she then picked a time and was sent a Zoom 
link.
“For me, it’s a little easier to speak to 
people in a virtual setting than it is in per -
son,” she said.Both Ma and Gjineci said they would feel 
comfortable using virtual advising again.
Keisha Hunte, Heavener School of Busi -
ness academic and career adviser, said she 
feels encouraged by how virtual advising is 
going.
“Everyone’s finding a way, or has found 
a way, to adapt to this new environment,” 
Hunte said.
Spillane said advising will remain virtual the rest of Fall, and while advisers are still 
able to help students, he said they miss col -
laborating with one another in person.
“Even though we’re happy with how 
remote advising is going, I think we’re all 
looking forward to the day when we can be 
back in person,” Spillane said.
@joprison
joprison@alligator.org UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences ends use of prison labor
Virtual advising proves to be accessible, successful during pandemic
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Laure Deliscar, a 20-year-old UF biology junior, studies on the second floor of 
Library West on Friday, Sept. 11, 2020. Deliscar said she appreciates library patrons’ 
mindfulness with social distancing.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
Election Day is 
November 3.
You can vote early.
You can vote 
by mail.
You can vote on 
Election Day.
Go to voteamerica.com/ students
VoteAmerica. comAbsentee defense to blame for Gators’ first loss 
Florida dropped its first game to Texas A&M this weekend. The 
41-38 loss left the Gators feeling burned, especially coach Dan 
Mullen, pg. 16Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE ANNUAL EVENT WILL RETURN 
FOR SEVEN LIMITED-CAPACITY 
SHOWS
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s just a jump to the left: After six months 
of closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
High Dive is bringing back its annual shadow 
cast showing of “The Rocky Horror Picture 
Show.”
For the first time since closing, the venue 
is reopening its doors for a live event to con -
tinue its traditional cult classic performance.
The experience will be modified this year 
to accommodate concerns due to the COV -
ID-19 pandemic. The film, which is renowned 
for its themes of sexuality and identity, holds 
a tradition of shadow cast performances that 
take place across the U.S.
High Dive has been live-streaming con -
certs since July, said Pat Lavery, the venue’s 
facility and events manager. Lavery said a lot 
of consideration went into bringing the show 
back. 
Still, High Dive ultimately decided to put 
on more showings than usual with a limited 
capacity and socially distanced seating to al -
low fans to experience the event safely. 
“We really didn’t want it to not happen 
this year,” Lavery said. “We’ve been doing 
it for so long. We wanted to figure out some 
kind of way to do it that would be safe and 
also viable so that we could cover costs, and 
we think we’ve done it.”
The venue has put on the popular produc -
tion with shadow cast performance group 
Frankie and the Pretenders since 2013. The 
event features a showing of the 1975 film with the live cast performing dances from the mov -
ie in front of the screen.
Seven “Rocky Horror” performances will 
take place at the venue this year. Shows will 
be offered Oct. 14, 15, 21, 22, 27, 29 and 31. 
The performances begin at 8:30 p.m. and 
tickets sell for $15 in advance on the venue’s 
website.
Lavery said audiences will be limited to 
30% of High Dive’s capacity or about 60 peo -
ple. Seats will be arranged in a checkerboard 
pattern and distanced appropriately and will 
be available in groups of two, three and four 
guests. Solo guests will be able to sit in the 
bleachers on the sides of the viewing area.
High Dive’s beer garden will be open for 
food and drink starting at 7 p.m. Drinking and 
eating will only be permitted outside, mean -
ing all guests will be required to wear masks 
inside at all times. 
While the performance will look different 
from past years, Lavery said he does not think 
the experience will be dulled for the audience.
“The performers definitely will not be go -
ing out into the crowds like they have in the 
past,” Lavery said. “But we still think it’s go -
ing to preserve the unique character of the 
show.”
Audiences will not be permitted to bring 
throwing props or water props, like water 
guns, of any kind, according to the venue’s 
website. Guests can only bring newspapers 
and gloves to the event. 
Shay Smith, choreographer and co-director 
of Frankie and the Pretenders, said perform -
ers will be wearing masks during the event. 
While they will be worn to promote safety, 
Smith said the masks will be decorated by 
each performer to complement their character 
and exhibit “as much campiness as possible.”Smith said while the show has been ad -
justed for public safety concerns, she believes 
guests will be equally enthused as in previous 
years and find the event rewarding.
“The audience is going to be so ready for 
entertainment and just being out and doing 
something fun,” Smith said. “They’re hungry 
for that, and we are going to be able to pro -
vide it for them.”
Lavery said the state-mandated closures 
posed a difficult challenge for the venue. 
While closed, its monthly fixed costs were 
over $10,000, with its only revenue generated 
from alcohol and ticket sales. 
The venue held a benefit concert via 
livestream Sept. 19 with local bands Arrows in 
Action, Causa and The Real You to raise mon -
ey to fund its reopening. Lavery said while 
reopening its doors to the public again will be 
a positive step, the venue has more progress 
to make before returning to normalcy.
“It is a morale boost, just being able to do 
what we do,” Lavery said. “But financially, 
it’s desperately needed. A lot of money was 
lost during the six months we were closed, 
and it’s going to take a long time to recover 
from that.”
Astrid Rojas, a 20-year-old UF marketing 
junior, said she has always been interested in 
attending the showing and will finally attend 
this year in light of the music venue’s finan -
cial concerns.
“I’m a huge ‘Rocky Horror’ fan,” Rojas 
said. “In the words of Princess Diana, “‘Rocky 
Horror’ had quite completed my education.” 
Every year the show passes and I regret not 
attending, so this year I plan on attending.”
For Smith, the performance is an opportu -
nity to interact with the people closest to her 
while doing something she loves.“We all come together as a cast like we 
are a family,” Smith said. “My son and I did 
this show together for a very long time. That 
was weird, because what mom and son do 
‘Rocky Horror’ together? But it was this big 
family thing.”
@marcar313 
mcarrillo@alligator.org
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
Grace Lamerson speaks softly, laughs at 
herself and says, “I’m a musician,” with a 
hesitance that makes you question wheth -
er she even believes it herself. 
But the apprehension evaporates when 
it comes to her music. Under the name 
“Bambii,” Lamerson, an 18-year-old 
Gainesville native, brings her fresh indie-
pop flair to the local music landscape. Her 
newest single, “Red Corvette,” released 
Oct. 5, is a display of her developing sound 
and concept as well as a new creative di -
rection for future projects.
Lamerson’s music offers chill-wave mu -
sic with a twist: a distinctly retro feel she 
said was inspired by her love for classic 
styles and aesthetics.
“I really like vintage stuff and vintage 
music, and vintage clothing and styling,” 
she said.Her brand is tinged with the concept, 
even her name. Lamerson said she came 
up with the moniker after watching “The 
Carrie Diaries,” an 80s-inspired spinoff of 
“Sex and the City,” when a character calls 
someone “Bambi.” 
One extra “i” later, the name stuck. 
Her light vocals floar over dreamy gui -
tar melodies that call back to ‘70s soft 
rock and early 2000s alternative pop. It’s 
a sound that she and her longtime collabo -
rator Zachary Rodriguez created together 
from their affinity for a variety of genres, 
she said.
Lamerson has been steadily releasing 
music for just over a year. Her debut EP, 
“Dreamache,” came out in 2019 and was 
followed by two singles: “Sunsets” later 
that year and “Religion” in May. 
The vintage aspect is apparent once 
again on these projects. Minimal percus -
sive elements back floaty synth lines, and 
samples reminiscent of cassette tapes and other older audio forms make up the intros 
and outros.
“Red Corvette” is a departure from this 
traditional sound. The song is faster and 
more upbeat, with hyperpop instrumentals 
that Rodriguez said were inspired by his 
own taste in music. 
“We’re going with a way more hyperpop 
vibe. Our sound is definitely influenced by 
that,” Lamerson said. 
“Red Corvette” represents a thematic 
shift as well. Whereas the “Dreamache” EP 
addressed tumultuous relationships and 
teenage insecurities, the new release proj -
ects a decidedly more confident image.
The promotional photos and the music 
video, both shot by Michelle Chwala, an 
18-year-old Gainesville videographer, are 
tinted with a light yellow hue that feels 
nostalgic and dream-like. 
Chwala and Lamerson weren’t alone in 
the process, though: “Red Corvette” and its 
accompanying music video represent a col -laborative effort from a host of local talent. 
Rodriguez and Will Frenchman, another 
Gainesville producer, produced the song; 
Heather Terricola, a frequent production 
partner of Rodriguez, was responsible 
for the mixing and mastering; Grizzly, a 
20-year-old Gainesville rapper, contributed 
a verse; and Chwala shot the video and the 
promotional photos. 
For Lamerson, it was critical that the 
track’s creative team had young, local fo -
cus.   
“It’s definitely important to support 
people your age and local people, and I 
think all the people I’ve worked with are 
really talented and deserve to have recog -
nition,” she said. 
“Red Corvette” is available on all major 
platforms. 
 
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgDo the time warp again with High Dive’s socially distanced ‘Rocky Horror’ 
Gainesville artist Bambii releases new single ‘Red Corvette’
THEATRETHEATRE
MUSICMUSICCourtesy to The Alligator
Garret Pogue and Devin Huchingson 
in last year’s “The Rocky Horror Picture 
Show” performance at High Dive.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail -
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Café Risqué
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
352- 466- 3803
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Cooks / Waitresses / Managers / Performers
Apply NOW
11-2-8-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         10-12-3-15
16 Health Services
Attention Senior Medicare Users in the Donut 
hole. Save up to 80% off prescription with a 
free RX coupon. Visit Coastal Rx.com today.   
10-12-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/12/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/12/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 12, 2020
ACROSS
1 Hyundai sedan
6 Meet in 
competition
10 Maker of nonstick 
cookware
14 French red wine 
with a physician 
in its spelling
15 Black gem
16 Home for bees
17 *Party drink in a 
bowl
19 Spring flower
20 Soft slip-on
21 “Très sexy!”
22 Source of some 
tweets
23 Costumes
25 Spiral-horned 
antelope
27 Approx. takeoff 
hr.
28 Owner of the 
restaurant NOLA
31 Biker’s stunt bike, 
briefly
33 State with a 
three-word capital
37 Novelist Jong
38 Burlesque wrap
39 Carpenter’s 
accessory that 
might hold the 
ends of the 
answers to 
starred clues
41 Haul with effort
42 Kicking partner?
44 Lowly worker
45 Jolson and 
Jarreau
46 Depends (on)
48 Space-saving 
abbr.
50 “My Cousin 
Vinny” star
52 Underground 
chamber
55 Shed feathers
57 Earthy pigments
59 Verizon ISP
61 Israeli diplomat 
Abba
62 *Software help 
text
64 Actress Meyer of 
“Dragonheart”
65 Gardner who 
created Perry 
Mason
66 Sampler’s sip
67 Apple topper68 British mil. honors
69 Villain’s look
DOWN
1 Car radio letters
2 State in which 
astronauts float
3 Elicit
4 French monarch
5 Pantomime
6 Hoops offenses
7 Actress Gunn of 
“Breaking Bad”
8 Rinse or spin
9 Breathe out
10 More like a wafer
11 *School 
evacuation 
exercise
12 Hertz rival
13 Out of concern 
that
18 Hall & Oates or 
Sonny & Cher
24 Second-largest 
U.S. state
26 Rival co. of Visa
29 Post-op areas
30 Fall behind
31 Tree trunk
32 *Pre-WWII 
aircraft used for 
postal deliveries34 T-shirt or polo
35 Brewery output
36 “Perry Mason” 
network
38 35-Down seller
39 Golf ball supports
40 Like challenging 
push-ups
43 Mekong River 
country
45 Royal flush card
47 Put points on the 
board49 Sports bar 
fixtures
51 Cake finishers
52 Relinquishes 
formally
53 Salary increase
54 Actor Nick
55 What docs 
prescribe
56 Last bio
58 Saintly aura
60 Villain’s look
63 Breeze creator
By Bruce Haight
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/06/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/06/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2020
ACROSS
1 Meat on a skewer
6 Better mtge. deal
10 Subtle “Look this 
way”
14 Gulf of __: Red 
Sea inlet
15 Horror movie 
helper
16 Healthy
17 Albacore and 
yellowfin
18 “Darn it!”
20 Ingredient in 
some Tibetan 
cheese
22 Genealogy aid
23 Pie-mode link
24 Cut out early
25 “Heavenly!”
26 Mont Blanc, e.g.
29 Beatles’ meter 
maid
31 Hunk of dirt
33 Lea plea
34 Fast-food chain 
named for its 
founders, the 
Raffel Brothers
36 Pro Football Hall 
of Fame receiver 
Michael
39 Splendor
41 Maple extract
42 Born yesterday, 
so to speak
43 Female folklore 
deity
44 Part of a plug
46 Word with pool 
or park
47 First name in 
country
49 List-ending abbr.
50 Finish
51 Crayon shade
53 Legendary Greek 
mount
55 Drink with scones
57 Ideal way to 
work, teamwise
59 “No idea”
63 Living labyrinth
65 Time off, 
informally
66 “The Clan of 
the Cave Bear” 
author Jean
67 Kitchen cooker
68 Clear the board
69 Nimble70 Let off steam
71 Drops below the 
horizon
DOWN
1 Pop singer Perry
2 Water color
3 River border
4 Hawaiian-born 
president
5 Sherlock Holmes 
portrayer in 15 
movies
6 Gamble
7 __ trip
8 “On Golden Pond” 
actor or actress
9 Dramatically 
twisty
10 Awesome, in 
’90s slang
11 Wise counsel
12 Blizzard remains
13 Grade for a soph
19 Autumn 
occurrence, and 
a hint to the start 
of the other four 
longest Down 
answers
21 Bandit’s hideout
24 Silicon Valley 
region26 “You got that 
right!”
27 Like many doilies
28 Interpreter of 
lines
30 Recipe amt.
32 “... boy __ girl?”
35 Predicament
37 Lendl of tennis
38 Uncool one
40 Copy
45 Kid-lit’s __ the 
Great48 “I, Robot” author
51 Comedy club 
sounds
52 Exhaust
54 Ward (off)
56 Gaming giant
58 Hideous
59 Like knees during 
a squat
60 MRI image
61 Face concealer
62 Focus group?
64 Buddhist sect
10/05/2020
solution  on page 10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today ★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-131For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. ABSOLUTELY 
HUGE! Gorgeous Wood Floors, central 
AC/HT, dishwasher, laundry room, fenced, 
pets OK $1,890 per month. 352-665-8166
10-26-20-8-2
Available Immediately. Blocks away from UF 
& shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes utilities 
& wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call Brenda 352-
672-8657  10-12-20-4-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
Friends don’t let friends 
catch COVID-19.
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
New 3 bedroom 2 bath (built 2018) home in 
small upscale subdivision, many many up -
grades. 9 minutes to UF (3.3 miles). Asking 
$320,000. 352-301-2403. By appt. only     
10-12-1-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY10 For Sale
readreadmeme
solution  below
answers  below
1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Where was the ancient kingdom 
of Numidia located?
2. LANGUAGE: What is the op -
posite of the word convex?
3. GEOGRAPHY: In which body of 
water is the island of St. Vincent 
found?
4. COMICS: What was the name 
of Superman's pet monkey?
5. HISTORY: Who was the king 
of England at the time of the 
American Revolution?
6. LITERATURE: Which 20th-
century novel featured a charac -
ter called Atticus Finch?
7. MEDICAL TERMS: What does 
the term "idiopathic" mean in 
diagnosis of a condition?
8. U.S. STATES: Which state's 
resident might be nicknamed a 
Jayhawker?
9. GAMES: How much money 
does each player start with in the 
board game Monopoly?
10. AD SLOGANS: Which auto 
company adopted the slogan 
"Fahrvergnugen"?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution  below
Mega Maze  solutionTrivia Test  answers1. North Africa
2. Concave
3. Caribbean Sea
4. Beppo
5. George III6. "To Kill a Mockingbird"
7. Of unknown cause
8. Kansas
9. $1,500
10. Volkswagen. The slogan means 
"driving enjoyment."
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020
20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment
NOTICE OF VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a virtual public meeting via 
communications media technology to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE AND TIME:  October 26, 2020 at 
3:00 p.m.
PLACE: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, 
Facebook and the Alachua County Video on 
Demand Website [link below]
www.alachuacounty.us/video 
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when 
prompted use code 670 965 3024 and par -
ticipant identification code 2522482
Live Broadcast Public Comment Call-In - Call 
929.205.6099, Access Code - 273-174-8038
PURPOSE:   Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area, including Virtual Mobility Workshop
A copy of the agenda may be obtained 
by visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org 
(click Metropolitan Transportation Planning) 
or may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th 
Place, Gainesville, Florida one week prior 
to the meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a virtual meet -
ing via communications media technology.  
The meeting is a virtual public meeting, as 
permitted by Florida Governor’s Executive 
Order No. 2020-69, as extended.  The public 
may submit comments to the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area through email 
(escalante@ncfrpc.org) or by calling into the 
public comment message line when prompt -
ed to call during the meeting.  Public com -
ment will be taken by telephone for all non-
ministerial items on which the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area votes.  Once 
public comment is opened for an item un -
der discussion, please call the public com -
ment telephone number.  Callers comments 
will be limited to three minutes.  In addition, 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization will open telephone lines for 
a public comment session for the public 
to discuss items not on the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area agenda.  
Public comment during the public comment 
session will be limited to three minutes per 
each caller.  Virtual Public Workshop and 
Citizens Comment agenda item calls should 
be limited to transportation planning issues 
within the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  
Duration of the Virtual Public Workshop and 
the Citizens Comment agenda item may 
extend as long as calls are received.  The 
public is encouraged to submit any written or 
photographic documents prior to the meet -
ing to escalante@ncfrpc.org.  Any questions 
regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area Office at 352.955.2200, extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser -
vices (free of charge) should contact Michael 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.
10-12-20-1-20WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.
 ¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR   13 
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
When the COVID-19 pandemic forced 
classes online and sent students home, many 
were left with an unprecedented amount of 
free time. For some, that time was used to 
take summer classes or learn new skills. But 
for others, it was used to bring to life goals 
they’d been dreaming of for years or sponta -
neous passion projects. 
Wacky Sauces LLC
On a hot day in June, 
Logan Ritten posed the 
fateful question to his sis -
ter, which would eventu -
ally launch his business.
“Wouldn’t it be funny 
if I sold f------ hot sauce?”
He then created an Instagram account, 
called F------ Hot Sauce until Ritten decided 
to change it to the less-profane name of his 
LLC, Wacky Sauces, and has been posting 
hot sauce memes on it since.
Prior to that day, the 22-year-old UF aero -
space engineering senior had been experi -
menting with making hot sauce for about a 
year. 
His obsession with spicy foods took off 
when he started a garden. Today, he grows 
more than 30 varieties of peppers, including 
some of the hottest in the world.
He describes “F@*king Hot Sauce,” as 
a nice kick for spicy-food lovers and really 
hot for the less tolerant. The sauce is primar -
ily fresno chilis and smokey habaneros with 
molasses for sweetness, ghost chili powder, 
vinegar and lime.
The small hot sauce community is very 
supportive, he said. When he started out, he 
asked many small businesses for advice. To 
this day, he Zooms with friends he’s made in 
the “pepper community” on Saturday nights 
to talk and try hot peppers.
It’s what led him to try the hottest pepper 
he’s ever had — the 7-Pot chili pepper.
“It was so hot that it made my tongue feel 
like it was white hot and on fire,” he said. “I 
went blind for like 30 seconds.”
Ritten, who has become a certified Florida 
Foodhandler, makes his sauce in a commer -
cial kitchen in New Smyrna. He then bottles 
and ships the sauce himself. 
So far, Ritten has sold about 150 bottles 
for $12 each.
He is about halfway to making the money 
back he spent to start Wacky Sauces, he said. 
In the beginning, he almost maxed out his 
credit card.
He said Wacky Sauces is a direct result of 
all the free time he had during quarantine. He 
never would have started his business oth -
erwise.
Ritten’s hot sauce meme account has 
2,512 followers as of Sunday evening. It’s 
filled with inside jokes about the “Bröther -
hood of Zauce” and the “horrifying Big Hot 
Sauce” industry. He said the memes are a 
marketing technique he learned from the 
Slim Jim Instagram account, which was run 
by one of his inspirations, Andy Hines.
“The memes have sort of taken on a life of 
their own. There’s like a story behind them 
at this point,” he said. “You look at my page, 
and you’re like, ‘What does this even mean?’”
Ritten’s girlfriend, Noelle Chin-Vance, a 
22-year-old UF environmental engineering se -
nior, witnessed the whole process. She recalls 
a moment early on when the pair touched 
their eyes after handling peppers. She said the pain was horrible and their attempt at 
rinsing their eyes out with water only made 
it worse.
“We had to get a bowl of milk and put our 
eyes in it,” Chin-Vance said. “And then we’re 
just standing in the kitchen with one eye in 
the milk just thinking ‘How did I get here? 
I’m 22-years-old and I’m sticking my eye in 
milk.’”
But beyond that incident, she has been 
cheering him on the entire time.
“I’m just very proud of him. I’m very 
amazed at how far it has come especially 
with COVID,” she said. 
QT Stylez
By the time she was 
in second grade, Ta’Neil 
Malcolm was already run -
ning a fashion show. 
It was a small one at 
her prep school in Jamai -
ca where she helped girls 
pick out outfits to wear, but it sparked her 
interest in the fashion industry. She learned 
how to sew from her grandmother at age six 
and always accessorized her school uniform.
She said she remembers getting in trouble 
as a child for cutting up her clothing so she 
could sew outfits for her dolls.
Today, the 19-year-old UF biomedical en -
gineering sophomore runs her own online 
boutique, QT Stylez.
“It really has always been my goal at some 
point in my life to create a platform to dis -
cuss my ideas about fashion,” she said. “In 
my head I was like, ‘I know I’m young, but 
if it’s possible, I want to get started on this.’”
The brand started off selling bonnets, 
which are silk head coverings that keep 
curls intact while one sleeps, Malcolm said. 
From there, she progressed to sunglasses, 
handbags, visors, headbands and belts. She 
sources and buys all the products from manu -
facturers in the U.S. and Asia before reselling 
them.
She hopes that someday soon she will find 
a manufacturer who will help produce her 
own original clothing and accessory designs.
At first, Malcom didn’t think anyone 
would buy from her. But after her friends re -
posted her products on social media, the re -
sponse was incredibly positive. 
“I’m so thankful and grateful of those 
people up to this day,” she said. “Because if 
it wasn’t for them, I probably wouldn’t have 
continued.”
As a Black woman, Malcolm said she 
knows the inherent struggles her community 
faces when trying to start their own busi -
nesses. According to the U.S. Census’ most 
recent Annual Business Survey, Black Ameri -
cans own 2.2% of the nation’s businesses. Of 
those, 36.1% are owned by women.
Anything people can do to support these 
Black women is important, she said.
“Just do anything that says, ‘I see you. I 
know it’s hard, but you’re still trying, and 
you’re still showing the world that you’re go -
ing to show up to this business, even though 
it’s hard,’” Malcolm said. 
Malcolm’s mother, 42-year-old Tawea 
Miller, helps promote the boutique on social 
media.
Miller recalls Malcolm loving fashion from 
a young age.
“I used to always dress her up when she 
was little. She automatically loved it,” Miller 
said.
Miller is glad her daughter is pursuing 
something she is passionate about and that she has the opportunity to support Malcolm.
Although she still wants to pursue a ca -
reer in biomedical engineering, Malcolm said 
she will continue to develop and expand QT 
Stylez.
Her mission is simple.
“In my soul, my goal is to allow all women 
to be their best selves.”
StudyDate
College students used 
to swiping right and left 
on dating app profiles 
can now put their skills to 
good use with the Tinder 
of educational apps: Stu -
dyDate.
With classes online and social gatherings 
restricted, app co-creator Zachary Shenkman 
said the time has never been better to intro -
duce an app like StudyDate.
The app, which launched Sept. 3, con -
nects UF students based on their classes, in -
terests and study habits, said Shenkman, a 
19-year-old UF computer science sophomore.
Students create a profile on the app and 
an algorithm presents them with users who 
could be good study partners. Users then 
choose to “like” a profile by swiping to the 
right or “dislike” by swiping to the left. After 
a user “likes” a profile, they can send a mes -
sage even before they get “liked” back.
The app only works for students with veri -
fied UF email addresses, but the creators plan 
to expand the app in the future, Shenkman 
said.
“There are some other social networks 
that people use to meet each other, but none 
of them really incorporate the same swath of 
features that we do,” he said.
Users can choose to chat in the app, which 
also has a feature where users can schedule 
Zoom meetings with each other.
About 700 students use the free app, Shen -
kman said.
Producing the app remotely wasn’t dif -
ficult, Shenkman said, because the creators 
code collaboratively online. But he does think 
the COVID-19 pandemic aided the app’s 
success. Within two days, about 200 users 
downloaded the app. Nine days later, there 
were about 500 users.
“People are looking for other outlets to 
connect with people without having to do it 
in person,” he said. “So there really isn’t a 
better time for a product like ours.”
Nihar Soman, a 19-year-old UF finance 
sophomore, has used the app since it 
launched.
“It promotes an environment where stu -
dents can collaborate and work together to 
motivate each other in an environment where 
COVID has stripped away that kind of sense 
of communication,” Soman said.
Shenkman began work on the app in April 
with Wuseok Jung, a 19-year-old UF comput -
er science sophomore, and Joshua Ryals, a 
21-year-old UF computer engineering senior.
They worked remotely for the entirety 
of the process. While Shenkman and Ryals 
stayed in Florida, Jung said he visited family 
in South Korea.
Because of the time difference, Jung said 
he was often up after midnight on Zoom and 
Slack, a messaging app.
One of his fondest memories of the experi -
ence was when, after months of work, the 
app was finally approved to be sold by the 
Apple App Store in the middle of the night.
“It happened at 2 a.m. and I woke up, 
went to the App Store and I checked and saw it there,” Jung said. “We were all just super 
elated and super excited. I wish we had got -
ten to see it together.”
Sweets by Mich
Stuck in her home -
town over the summer 
with little to do during 
self-isolation, Michelle 
Valoz started a bakery.
The Miami-based 
vegan bakery, Sweets by 
Mich, operates out of Valoz’s parents’ home 
kitchen. She makes all the goods herself with 
the occasional help from her mom, Michelina 
Valoz.
The creation of Sweets by Mich wasn’t 
intentional, though, said Michelle, a 21-year-
old UF telecommunication senior. The busi -
ness started after a friend asked to purchase 
a Key lime pie Michelle posted on her Insta -
gram.
“I thought she was joking at first, but she 
was genuine,” she said. “I really didn’t expect 
it to take off in the way it did.”
Michelle said most of her recipes are 
adapted to be vegan from recipes she finds 
online.
“I want people to see that they can still 
enjoy the foods that they love without having 
to sacrifice anything,” she said.
Customers placed orders for local pick-up 
or delivery through the bakery’s website. All 
deliveries were done by Michelle or her dad 
with masks on for safety, she said.
As a small child, Michelle spent all her 
time in her play kitchen, which she named 
“La Corona,” which means “The Crown” 
in Spanish. When she was 11, she said she 
made her family gather around the toy and 
order off handwritten menus she crafted be -
fore serving them plastic food.
Michelle learned to bake through a lot of 
trial and error, she said.
Once, she threw away a red velvet cake 
she made for a customer because it turned 
out chalky and didn’t rise in the oven. She 
made another which turned out better — un -
til she started decorating. The icing fell off the 
cake and made a gooey mess as it dripped 
down the sides.
“It was quite literally falling apart,” she 
said. “It looked like one of those Pinterest-fail 
cakes.”
Michelle said she doesn’t think she would 
have started the bakery without the time she 
spent in self-isolation because of the pan -
demic. Now, she wants to pursue baking af -
ter graduation.
“It’s always been on the back of my mind, 
to bake, I’ve always loved it so much,” she 
said. “But I’ve been scared to dedicate myself 
to something so risky.”
Michelle only sells her products in Miami. 
While she’s in Gainesville for school, her 
mother, Michelina, took over baking and sell -
ing doughnuts through Organic Food Kings, 
a Miami food truck. Michelle will be back to 
taking orders when she goes home for Winter 
Break.
Like her daughter, Michelina, 51, never 
imagined Michelle would pursue baking as 
a job.
“She always planned something big for 
herself, so I’m not surprised it evolved into 
this,” Michelina said. 
All graphics created by Shannon Ahern 
// Alligator Staff
@noroneill
noneill@alligator.orgPandemic startups: UF students turn self-isolation into success
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
Midfielder Syd Kennedy was 
Florida’s lone scorer in the 
Gators’ 2-1 loss to Texas A&M on 
Sunday. She scored the goal off 
of a pass from forward Madison 
Alexander in the 58th minute. .UF volleyball ranks No. 2 in the SEC Preseason Coaches’ Poll
The Gators volleyball team ranked second in the volleyball SEC Preseason 
Coaches’ Poll announced last Wednesday. UF ranked right below longtime 
rival Kentucky and just ahead of Missouri.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
There are an abundance of reasons why the Gators lost their first game of the 2020 season 
against Texas A&M on Saturday.
There’s the fact that they allowed 32 first downs. There’s the fact that UF’s defense gave 
up 500 yards of offense for the second time in three weeks. There’s also the fact that TAMU 
converted on 12 of its 15 third-down opportunities.
But Florida coach Dan Mullen fixated on one variable during his postgame press conference.
“The crowd was certainly a factor in the game,” he said. “I know our governor passed that rule 
so certainly; hopefully, the UF administration decides to let us pack The Swamp against LSU — 
100% — because that crowd was certainly a factor in the game. I certainly hope our administration 
follows the governor.” 
“The governor has passed a rule that we’re allowed to pack The Swamp and have 90,000 in 
The Swamp to give us the home-field advantage Texas A&M had today.”
The “rule” Mullen is referring to is the decision from Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis to allow stadi -
ums in the state to return to full capacity as part of “Phase Three” of reopening. No professional or 
collegiate sports teams in the state have announced plans to return to full capacity.
Asked for a follow-up by Orlando Sentinel columnist Mike Bianchi, Mullen had the opportunity 
to clarify his comments. He had the chance to walk back his statement. Instead, he doubled down.
“Absolutely, I want to see 90,000 at The Swamp,” Mullen said. “The section behind our bench, 
I didn’t see an empty seat. It was packed, the entire student section. It must have been 50,000 
people behind our bench going crazy. Hopefully, that will create a home-field advantage for us 
next week because we’ve passed a law in our state that allows us to do that.”
I get that Mullen was frustrated. To clarify, no laws have actually been passed in the state of 
Florida regarding stadium capacity. Watching on the broadcast, it did appear as though the fans at 
Kyle Field — at an announced capacity of 24,709 — weren’t particularly keen on social distancing.
I also know it can’t be fun to have microphones shoved in your face moments after suffering a 
devastating and emotional loss — one that has real-world impacts on you and your family.
But these aren’t justifications for his comments, which were highly irresponsible. More irre -
sponsible, perhaps, than he realized in the moment.
These sentiments fly in the face of the consensus of public health experts, who say that large 
gatherings (such as tens of thousands of fans attending a sporting event) put participants at a 
higher risk of contracting COVID-19.
Even with capacities at stadiums significantly reduced, the staff has struggled to enforce safety 
regulations.
My colleagues Noah Ram and Zachary Huber were at Florida’s home opener against South 
Carolina last week, where the attendance for the game numbered 15,120 (below the maximum 
allowed capacity of 20%).Despite the stadium’s attendance being reduced to below a fifth of 
its total capacity, they reported that staffers had difficulty or weren’t al -
ways making sure fans were wearing masks. When the game ended, so -
cial distancing was thrown to the wayside as piles of fans tried to leave.
Without sufficient contact tracing, it’s impossible to know exactly 
how impactful these games are on the spread of COVID-19. Once the 
fans (many of whom come from out of town) leave the stadium and 
return back to their hometowns, they could carry the virus with them. 
Currently, there’s no way of knowing if that’s the case.
To suggest that UF should increase the capacity of The Swamp to a 
full 88,548 now is absolutely ludicrous. 
It was a comment born of frustration and misplaced blame at his team’s struggles, which have 
been consistent through three games regardless of locale and crowd size. Luckily, Athletic Director 
Scott Stricklin seems to agree.
He told Bianchi, who wrote a column criticizing Mullen, that the UAA currently has no plans 
to expand the capacity at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
“We continue to follow UF Health and campus guidelines,” he said. “I’ve not heard anything 
about campus adjusting (its) guidelines.”
It’s encouraging to see that public safety will likely triumph over the idea of “home-field advan -
tage,” but it doesn’t make Mullen’s comments any less tone-deaf.
Many students have had their lives totally upended by the pandemic. They’ve been forced to 
pay full tuition for online classes, which are often less substantive than their in-person counter -
parts. Many put themselves at risk of infection daily, whether from living in a dorm or taking select 
classes in person.
A number of these students won’t get to walk in a formal graduation, and a sizable proportion 
of those will be first-generation college graduates whose families won’t get the chance to see their 
dreams realized.
And yet, despite that, Mullen thinks it would be a good idea to cram nearly 90,000 of them into 
a concrete bowl once a week in the name of “competitive advantage.”
Such a suggestion is laughable.
I’m sure Mullen didn’t consider the full weight of the words he used and how ridiculous his 
idea was, given the circumstances. I fully expect him to retract those comments during his press 
conference on Monday.
But the fact that he would even entertain the idea of filling the stadium demonstrates a con -
cerning level of apathy from the leader of a program directly responsible for the safety of over 100 
players and staff. 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgMullen’s ‘pack The Swamp’ comments were off-baseNothing But Nettuno
Tyler Nettuno
twitter: @TylerNettunoSPECIAL EDITION   MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR    
had about 6,000,” he said about 
his TikTok following. “I thought 
it was a one-time thing, but I did 
another, and another and haven’t 
stopped since.”
Taylor said he gets most of 
his ideas after practice. He said 
he treats TikTok like a competi -
tion, and when inspiration rears 
its way in his head, he always 
wants to produce the video before 
someone else does. Some videos 
take five minutes to make, but he 
said it’s not rare to have one take 
20 minutes to write, film, edit and 
post. 
“In this era, social media is al -
most essential to one’s life, and 
I think being able to have a rela -
tively good platform to share my 
fun, goofy side is truly a bless -
ing,” Taylor said. “I never in a 
million years thought I’d be what 
people call TikTok famous.”
John first met Taylor when the 
two were in the same sixth-grade 
class.
A Florida State Seminole fa -
natic, John walked in on that first 
day with a shouting Seminole temporarily tattooed on his arm. 
It wasn’t long until Taylor took 
notice and asked about the tattoo. 
According to John, Taylor said, 
“This won’t be a good friend -
ship.”
“He’s always the center of at -
tention,” he said. “He’s kind of 
hard not to be around. He’s al -
ways a good time to be around.” 
But, even with Taylor’s invit -
ing personality, it’s easy for a 
walk-on to get lost in a roster of 
more than 80 players. 
Taylor, who joined without the 
clout of a high rating on Rivals or 
247Sports, said he was initially in -
timidated. Quaylin Crum, a walk-
on athlete and close friend of Tay -
lor’s, said it wasn’t long until the 
team embraced the new tight end 
in the locker room. 
Throughout this summer, head 
coach Dan Mullen repeatedly ex -
pressed that each player should 
use their platforms to amplify 
their voices. Quarterback Kyle 
Trask’s tweet in support of the 
Black Lives Matter movement 
gained more than 4,000 likes and 
600 retweets, Trevon Grimes’ re -
ceived more than 800 likes and 93 
retweets. 
While in Gainesville, Taylor attended protests and used ev -
ery inch of his 6-foot-5 frame and 
a megaphone to make sure his 
voice was heard. 
But still, he jostled over the 
idea of using his social media to 
raise further awareness. 
“I used to be intimidated 
when I use my voice because 
I figured, ‘Okay, well, if I use 
it, are they really gonna listen 
to a walk-on who’s never 
played before?’” Taylor said.
But following an intimate con -
versation with Mullen, the head 
coach’s vote of confidence gave 
Taylor the reassurance that his 
voice matters. 
So, he put himself in the fight 
for equality. 
On Sept. 14, 2014, Taylor and 
a friend went to a nearby Mar -
shall’s with their allowance burn -
ing through their pockets. They 
walked around and left without 
purchasing anything. When they 
walked out to the parking lot, 
Taylor said two police officers 
stopped him, and Taylor was told 
he “fit a description.” 
Taylor said he was brought to 
the ground for around 10 minutes. “Why aren’t you checking my 
friend?” Taylor said. “Why are 
you just trying to embarrass me 
in front of everybody right now? 
And, a cop looking at me with a 
straight face literally said, he said, 
‘Are you gonna make me say it?’.”
When he was pinned to the 
ground, Taylor said he fought 
through waves of emotions as he 
struggled to understand why he 
was forced into that position. 
“As a kid, you never expect 
that to happen,” Taylor said. 
So he used his presence on so -
cial media to leverage his voice. 
He fought for racial equality; he 
fought for the rights of college 
athletes. And as he and the Gators 
held conversations discussing ra -
cial inequality in America, his 
anxiety disappeared. 
“I think the intimidation fac -
tor kind of shied away, quite a bit 
actually after they allowed me to, 
you know, use my voice,” Taylor 
said. 
But, Taylor’s messages com -
bating racial inequality in Ameri -
ca weren’t limited to social media. 
Peters said he and Taylor 
would regularly talk about race in 
the U.S.
“He knows that there actually 
is an issue going on because he’s 
lived it firsthand,” Perets said. Taylor’s schedule is simple. 
He wakes up each morning at 
5 a.m., eats what he can, and by 6 
a.m., he’s lifting weights. 
Later, he has a team meeting 
at 8 a.m., class from 8:45 to 2:30 
p.m., another team meeting at 3 
p.m., practice starts 45 minutes 
later, and ends at 5:30 p.m. After, 
it’s time for homework.
The life of a student-athlete is 
simple, right?
“I mean, it is a hectic schedule, 
but it’s not as bad as some people 
portray it,” Taylor said.
While he doesn’t show up on 
SportsCenter like fellow tight end 
Kyle Pitts, he’s still among the last 
to leave the field after practices. 
Because Taylor loves being a 
Gator, he relishes the fulfillment 
that comes with pursuing his pas -
sion while living out a childhood 
fantasy. 
While he doesn’t know what 
the future holds, few can doubt 
he will make the most of it. 
cortega@alligator.org
@unofficialchrisFEATURE,  from pg. 2He has over 180,000 TikTok followers
Alligator File Photo
Morris McFadden, a 21-year-old telecommunication and production major and one of the organizers of the protest, hugs Clifford Taylor IV (back right) during a 
protest on June 6.
•   •   ••   •   •rooftoprooftop
@@ 11 11amam
SundaySunday
 brunchbrunch
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
DOORS DOORS @ @ 9:30 AM9:30 AM
THIS SATURDAYTHIS SATURDAY
ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2020   SPECIAL EDITION
FOOTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
Can reptiles get rope burn?
If the answer is yes, then hope -
fully UF has enough ointment for 
coach Dan Mullen, defensive co -
ordinator Todd Grantham and the 
80-man roster to lather on their 
hands upon touching down in 
Gainesville. In a  tug of war be -
tween Florida and Texas A&M on 
Saturday, the Aggies yanked the 
rope across the marked line with 
a game-winning field goal at the 
last second, forcing the Gators’ 
faces into the mud.
“This one, it hurt a little bit 
more, because I don’t think we 
expected to even be that close,” 
linebacker James Houston said 
about the loss. “We wanted to 
blow them out and send a state -
ment.”
A&M’s 41-38 victory gave the 
Aggies a 3-2 all-time series lead 
against the Gators. It gave Flori -
da some perspective on just how 
lacking its defense has been this 
season.
Aggressive defense and an ab -
sentee offense is a Florida tale as 
old as Tim Tebow’s alumni sta -
tus. But at this point in the 2020 
campaign, it’s clear the opposite 
holds true.The Aggies were 12 for 15 on 
third down, breathing life into 
the “third and Grantham” phe -
nomenon. They had the ball for 
nine more minutes than Florida, 
which allowed them to run 18 
more plays than the Gators. A&M 
racked up 205 rushing yards to 
Florida’s 90, averaging 5.4 yards 
per carry.
Mullen seemed convinced af -
ter the game that Texas A&M’s 
famous 12th-man crowd gave it a 
distinct advantage. He said “there 
must have been 50,000 behind 
our bench going crazy.”
However, ESPN reported that 
24,709 fans were at Kyle Field 
Saturday afternoon, about 9,000 
more butts in seats this weekend 
than last at The Swamp. Even still, 
none of Mullen’s players shared 
his spectatorship sentiment.
“I mean, it’s nothing that we 
couldn’t manage,” Kyle Trask 
said when asked about the A&M 
crowd. 
“We’re used to 90,000 in the 
stands,” Nay’Quan Wright said, 
echoing his quarterback’s mes -
sage. “This is nothing new to 
us. We’ve just got to back to the 
drawing board and clean some 
things up as a team.”
Regardless of his team’s 
psyche, Mullen said he “absolute -ly” wants to see a packed house 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium from 
now on. 
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis’ 
Phase 3 reopening plan allows all 
stadiums in the state to return to 
100% capacity. 
It’s worth noting Florida could 
not sell out last weekend with 
only 20% of the stadium’s seating 
capacity. Skip Powers, director of 
football communications for the 
University Athletic Association, 
told WCJB TV20 it’d continue to monitor the situation and consult 
with its healthcare professionals 
before making any stadium capac -
ity changes earlier this week. Ath -
letic director Scott Stricklin told 
the Orlando Sentinel that UF has 
no plans to lift current stadium 
restrictions. University president 
Kent Fuchs confirmed such senti -
ments via Twitter Sunday night.
Mullen’s frustration seems 
misplaced, however. Did the fans 
at Kyle Field Saturday knock the 
ball out of Malik Davis’ hands in the fourth quarter? Did the fans 
create wide-open channels for 
the A&M run game to expose for 
60 minutes? Did the fans allow a 
season-high 41 points?
Mullen’s players might want 
to save a little extra ointment 
for their coach. He seemed more 
burned by the loss than anyone 
else.
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgGators burned after first loss of the season
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF’s defense allowed Texas A&M to convert on 12 of its 15 third-downs in a 41-38 loss on Saturday.
