We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperCouple fights for criminal justice reform
Since Ernest Walker’s release from jail, he’s been working with 
his girlfriend, Danielle Chanzes, to help repeat offenders , pg. 5
Embattled ACPS Superintendent Clarke to resign
Karen Clarke to resign June 30 following negative evaluations, 
schoo l board election , pg. 4Easter Island, Florida Swamp
Rapa Nui soccer player Izzy Kadzban took her talents 
that landed her on the Chilean national team from 
one of the most remote islands in the world to the 
Gators’ soccer team,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 14
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
The Holiday Gator beams orange and blue beneath the Century Tower on Nov. 20, 2020. The steel 
sculpture, which will be lit until the week of Dec. 21, was crafted by Leslie Tharp, a Gainesville artist 
and blacksmith who graduated from UF’s College of the Arts.
FUCHS SAID THE SWITCH 
TO HYFLEX WILL BE HARD 
ON INSTRUCTORS
By Thomas Holton
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs 
talked about his plans to steer 
the university away from virtual 
classrooms next semester — from 
behind a Zoom screen.  
Just before Thanksgiving 
Break, UF President Kent Fuchs 
reflected on a Fall semester that’s 
approaching its final stretch.
“I have been immensely proud 
of the university and how our 
students and our staff and our 
faculty have all adjusted,” he 
said, diplomas and family photos 
filling up his background.
But not all in the campus 
community agree that 5,293 cases 
since March 18, the second most 
of any university in the nation 
acording to The New York Times, 
amounts to functioning with 
COVID-19.
Fuchs challenged the university 
to make this academic year the 
best ever on Aug. 28. Nearing the 
halfway mark, he faces questions 
and backlash over the feasibility 
of HyFlex classes, the health of 
faculty and students and a Spring 
semester with no Spring Break.
For as difficult as Fall has 
been, Fuchs believes Spring 
will be even more challenging. 
In preparation, he’s consulted 
with UF Health experts and state 
officials while also accelerating 
plans to outfit classrooms with 
needed technology. 
“We believe we know how to 
do this,” Fuchs said. “I’m certain 
we do.” 
To reach administrators’ goal 
of offering the same number of 
in-person classes as were offered 
last Spring semester, face-to-face 
courses will be taught in a HyFlex 
method, in which professors will 
teach to both in-person and online 
groups. Almost 4,700 in-person 
classes were taught in Spring 
2020.
Fuchs said there was no formal 
survey gauging student interest in 
face-to-face classes, but constant 
emails from students and parents 
asking for an in-person option 
helped solidify UF’s plans. He 
said students who’ve struggled 
to learn virtually deserve other 
options.
“It’ll be more difficult,” Fuchs said. “But I believe it will provide 
a richer set of opportunities for 
students.” 
However, many professors feel 
like their health and that of their 
families are being put at risk.
United Faculty of Florida-UF 
and Graduate Assistants United-
UF, faculty and graduate student 
unions, have objected to the Spring 
plans since they were announced 
in October. Members from both 
unions protested outside President 
Fuchs’ on-campus house on Nov. 
1 and created a petition rejecting 
in-person classes for the Spring, 
which has over 3,300 signatures 
as of Sunday.
Fuchs said he empathizes with 
these concerns but believes UF 
has the ability to deliver these 
classes safely. He thinks student 
and faculty attitudes toward in-
person classes are a mixed bag, 
with no one prevailing opinion.
“There are also faculty who 
very much had been eager to get 
into the classroom and have not 
been able,” Fuchs said.
At the beginning of the Fall 
semester, students coming back 
to Gainesville helped contribute 
to 1,971 confirmed COVID cases 
at UF in September. Fuchs has 
faith in UF’s Spring plan but 
acknowledged the likelihood of a 
similar spike in cases in January 
and February. 
“There’s gonna be more 
COVID in our community, in our 
state, in our nation, likely than 
we’ve ever had,” Fuchs said.
Fearing the effects of such 
a spike, 181 faculty members 
have received COVID-19-related 
accommodations for the Spring 
through the Americans with 
Disabilities Act. Of those, 78 will 
be allowed to teach remotely, 
with the rest being provided 
“enhanced classroom safeguards” 
like face shields and N95 masks. 
Fuchs believes these 
accommodations will be sufficient. 
Many professors disagree.
“I’m certainly appreciative of 
anyone that is concerned about 
their own health or the health of 
others,” Fuchs said.
Faculty’s concerns don’t stop 
at health and safety either.
Fuchs addressed backlash 
over the UF Board of Trustees 
passing an amendment giving 
the university the ability to 
enact furloughs, stressing the 
administration has no immediate UNION LEADERS SAY 
MEASURES TO PROTECT 
FACULTY AND 
STAFF MEMBERS 
AREN’T SUITABLE
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff Writer
UF has denied 144 UF professors 
the ability to teach remotely this 
Spring, leaving some to feel like 
UF has put their safety at risk.
As of Sunday, 222 high-
risk faculty members requested 
accommodations through the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, 
most asking to teach remotely. 
Only 78 people were granted that 
request, said Jodi Gentry, UF’s 
vice president of human resources, 
at a UF Faculty Senate meeting 
Nov. 19.
Instead, UF provided the 
remaining professors “enhanced 
classroom safeguards.” These 
include personal protective equipment like N95 masks and 
face shields as well as increased 
sanitation, wrote Hessy Fernandez, 
UF’s director of issues management 
and crisis communications, in an 
email.
UF’s choice to offer the 
professors the safeguards instead 
of the remote accommodations 
comes as COVID-19 cases surge 
statewide. As of Sunday, the 
university also ranks second in 
The New York Times’ dashboard 
of universities with the highest 
number of COVID-19 cases.
Each disability accommodation 
request is handled on a case-
by-case basis, Fernandez wrote. 
The ADA, passed in 1990, 
prohibits discrimination based 
on disabilities and requires 
employers to accommodate them. 
That can include changing a 
person’s expected responsibilities 
and increasing accessibility in a 
workplace.
To receive an accommodation 
for the Spring, faculty members must fill out a temporary 
exemption form with their high 
risk condition and a medical 
certification, or doctors’ note, 
confirming the claim. 
Then a UF medical advisory 
committee, made up of UF Health 
officials, reviews them and 
determines whether or not an 
accommodation can be granted.
Fernandez declined to comment 
on any of the specific professor 
denials. In their decision letters, 
professors were not given a reason 
their accommodation requests 
were denied.
The process does not have a set 
deadline, Fernandez wrote, and 
requests can be submitted at any 
time.
Stephanie Smith, a 61-year-old 
UF English professor and cancer 
survivor who was denied a remote 
accommodation, said she didn’t 
feel UF could guarantee her safety.
Smith said she reached out President Fuchs looks ahead to 
controversial Spring semester
‘It doesn’t have to be this way:’ UF faculty angry 
with COVID-19 ADA accommodations for Spring
SEE FUCHS,  PAGE 3 SEE ADA,  PAGE 3T oday’s WeatherTHE LARGEST INCREASE IN VOTES CAME 
FROM VOTERS AGED 66 AND OLDER
By Steven Walker
Alligator Staff Writer
New voting data from the November 
election revealed increased turnout across most 
demographics in Alachua County.
The county saw turnout increases among voters 
identifying as Black, white, Hispanic and ‘other’ 
compared to 2016, according to Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections data. Turnout for men and 
women also increased, but turnout for those who 
didn’t identify as either decreased. 
Alachua County voting trends followed 
surges in turnout nationwide. A fiery campaign 
between incumbent President Donald Trump 
and President-elect Joe Biden drew more voters 
than ever before. Biden won Alachua County by 
27 percentage points, more than 38,000 votes. 
More than 154 million people voted despite the 
COVID-19 pandemic, according to the Associated 
Press.
Three of every four registered voters in Alachua 
County cast a ballot in November’s election, 
according to Supervisor of Elections data. County-
wide turnout increased 1.7% from 2016.
The largest increase in votes came from voters 
aged 66 and older. About 6,300 more people in this 
demographic voted compared to 2016. Nationally, 
voters aged 65 and older accounted for about one 
in five ballots, according to Edison Research exit 
polling.
Young voters aged 18-25 voted in slightly fewer 
numbers in Alachua County compared to 2016. 
About 1,000 fewer voters in this demographic cast 
a ballot compared to 2016. However, this data 
does not account for the numbers of UF students 
who chose to vote in their home counties instead 
of Alachua County, as Fall semester has been 
mostly online. Gainesville saw a disproportionate 
loss in college-aged voters compared to other 
municipalities.
Voters 18-29 made up 17% of all voters 
nationwide, according to exit polling. About a 
quarter of ballots in Alachua County were cast by 
voters aged 18-30. That total surpasses national 
trends but is less than the almost 30% that the 
group accounted for in Alachua County for 2016.
National estimates show a substantial increase in youth voting turnout. An estimated 53% to 
56% of the voting-eligible population aged 18-29 
voted in the 2020 presidential election, according 
to an estimate from Tufts University. In 2016, 
an estimated 45% to 48% of the voting-eligible 
population aged 18-29 voted in the presidential 
election. 
White voters accounted for more than two 
thirds of Alachua County ballots, while Black 
voters made up 15%. This followed national 
voting trends but was disproportionate to Alachua 
County demographics, where the population is 
60% white and 19% Black, according to 2019 
census estimates. 
White turnout in Alachua County increased 
from 76% in the 2016 presidential election to 78% 
in November. Black turnout in Alachua County 
increased by less than 1%. 
White women were the largest voter 
demographic in Alachua County in November’s 
election. The group accounted for 36% of Alachua 
County’s more than 140,000 votes. 
Votes by women slightly surpassed their 52% 
share of the county’s population, according to 
census estimates. Nationwide, women were 52% 
of voters, according to exit polling.
Ballots from Hispanic voters accounted for 
about 7% of ballots in Alachua County for the 2020 
presidential election; less than their estimated 
10% share of the county’s population. Turnout in 
Alachua County among these voters increased 2% 
from 2016. Nationally, Hispanic voters made up 
13% of ballots, according to exit polling.
 
@swalker_7
swalker@alligator.org 
ISSN 0889-24232   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 14
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  
Classified advertising can be placed at that location 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except 
for holidays. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any 
means without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except during 
holidays and exam periods. During UF summer 
academic terms The Alligator  is published 
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Matt Phillippe, Olivia Symczak, Lily 
Laserna, Lori Sharabani, Samantha 
Workman, Elly Frierson
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Content DeveloperMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Ian Baldwin
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM :
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinions Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgSocial Media Interns
Graphic Design Intern
Sales InternLead Strategist
Account ExecutiveSarah Bhatt, Ella Choi, Vivian Lukasik, 
Donya Mansoorian
Adam Cohen
Ella Kulak, Matthew OhlhaberRichard Forbes
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.comInterns Katherine Dubina, Lucas Smith, Rodolfo 
Luzardo, Garrett MullenaxCounty voting demographics 
show increased turnout
STANDARD GARAGE  
BY UF NOW OPEN!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable monthly & yearly rates!
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$15 Haircut with Student ID
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
Come see for yourself why CAMPUS is better than a bank!As a not-for-profit financial co-op, owned by our members, it’s in our DNA 
to support the community and the organizations that support them.
campuscu.com/community-ad (Promo code: UF150)
 Visit us online to learn how to open a Free Checking Account1 and earn up to $150!2
Your non-profit or student organization ad HERE.
Visit campuscu.com/community-ad to learn more.
Membership is open to students, faculty and staff of the University of Florida, UF Health, and all residents of Alachua County!3 
One bonus per household. Offer not available to members with an existing CAMPUS checking account. 1. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member 
must elect to receive eDocuments.  2. Credit approval required. Offer subject to change without notice. May not be combined with any other offer. Member must elect to 
receive eDocuments and deposit over $200, per month, for the first 3 months. If the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will 
be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT 3. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required.
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
furlough plans.
“To achieve the goals we have 
for the institution, which is to be 
thought of worldwide as one of 
the top five best public research 
universities, we can’t shrink our 
people,” Fuchs said. “We have to 
grow our people.” 
The main personnel change 
in response to the pandemic was 
a hiring pause, he said. Another 
employment effort was UF keeping 
residence hall staff on payroll even 
with students away from campus 
over the summer.
Faculty and students have 
expressed concern over whether 
HyFlex classes will provide an 
adequate educational experience 
and whether professors will be able 
to make the adjustment.
To adapt to HyFlex, Fuchs 
recommends faculty take advantage 
of resources UF offers on teaching 
more effectively, both online and 
in-person, though he’s deferring to 
specific departments and professors 
on how they should best handle the 
actual running of the class. 
“I’m not teaching myself, and 
so I try to not tell the faculty how 
to teach or how to do it better,” he 
said.
The HyFlex method was 
implemented in Alachua County 
Public Schools this semester 
with mixed results, with teachers 
speaking out at school board 
meetings about the difficulty of 
splitting the focus between in-
person and online students. 
Ahead of Thanksgiving Break, 
Fuchs also touched on UF’s decision 
to cancel Spring Break this year in 
favor of extending Winter Break by 
a week.
Part of what contributed to 
Fuchs’ reasoning are memories of Spring Break in 
2020, when UF, 
which had one 
of the earliest 
Spring Breaks 
in the nation, 
saw COVID-19 
first hit 
Gainesville as 
students came 
rushing back to 
campus, causing Fuchs to announce 
a switch to online classes on March 
11, just two days after the semester 
resumed.
With no break, Fuchs said the 
Counseling and Wellness Center 
will inform students and the rest 
of the UF community how to take 
care of their mental wellness. 
As students express frustration 
with long wait times at the CWC, 
President Fuchs implored them to 
reach out to him directly if they 
have problems.
“There is now, and there will be, 
extra mental stress and strain,” he 
said.
Fuchs said seeing a potential 
COVID-19 vaccine on the horizon 
will alleviate some stress that’s 
been brought on by the pandemic 
as pharmaceutical companies like 
Pfizer and Moderna make progress.
As the Zoom call came to a 
close, Fuchs said he looks forward 
to being interviewed a year from 
now about UF football’s national 
championship or the university’s 
Nobel Peace Prize win. Basically 
anything except the effects of a year 
that has left 266,000 Americans 
dead from COVID-19.
“It may be when we look back 
a couple years, three years, four 
years, that we’ll say ‘Yep, that was 
a really good year. That was one of 
the best years,’” he said.
@Thomas__Holton
tholton@alligator.orgto her physician at UF Health 
Shands Hospital, who warned her 
she was at high risk for severe 
complications from COVID-19 
due to her past chemotherapy 
treatment.
Despite that, when she applied 
for remote teaching in the Spring, 
she was denied. That caused her 
to consider retirement for the first 
time in her 30-year tenure at UF, 
she said.
“They’re doing it in a way that 
is causing a lot of people anxiety, 
stress, fear and anger,” Smith 
said. “It doesn’t have to be this 
way.”
Bobby Mermer, a co-chair of 
Graduate Assistants United-UF, 
the graduate student union, said 
he wants professors who are 
older than 50, have pre-existing 
medical conditions or care for 
other at-risk family members 
to be given the option to teach 
remotely.
Those are the guidelines from 
the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, who recommend 
those in such categories take 
extra precautions.
“The accommodations that are 
being offered are perfunctory,” 
Mermer said.
He would also like to see 
in-person classes restricted to 
buildings built in the last 30 
years.
“The university should err on 
the side of caution,” Mermer said.
In a June article for the 
Chronicle of Higher Education, 
Arlene Kanter, the director of 
the disability law and policy 
program at Syracuse, wrote most courts have not considered 
working from home a reasonable 
accommodation under the ADA. 
In those cases, colleges 
and universities may consider 
it an undue hardship, which 
allows an employer to deny an 
accommodation it deems as 
too difficult and unnecessary to 
grant, she wrote.
Malini Schueller, a 63-year-old 
UF English professor, was denied 
a remote accommodation despite 
having asthma, she said.
Schueller said she is set to 
teach her Spring course, which 
centers on Asian American and 
African American interactions, 
in Matherly Hall, which was 
built in 1953. Schueller spent the 
Fall semester teaching her three 
global colonialism courses online. 
Schueller, who said she hasn’t 
been to a grocery store since the 
onset of the pandemic, is not sure 
whether she’ll enter a classroom 
next semester. But she feared 
losing her job. 
“It just seems like I put in my 
hard effort for this university and 
for the department and, when I 
need something, the university is 
just telling me to go dot-dot-dot 
myself,” Schueller said.
Both GAU-UF and United 
Faculty of Florida-UF, the faculty 
union, introduced a number of 
measures to combat face-to-face 
courses. That included a petition 
signed by over 3,300 people as of 
Sunday, a public press conference 
and multiple protests.
UF has long stated its desire 
to return to pre-COVID-19 levels 
of operation in Spring and 
announced plans last month to 
have more in-person courses.This comes despite COVID-19 
cases once again surging 
throughout the nation. Florida 
reported more than 10,000 new 
cases on Nov. 15, the highest 
number since late July.
“They’re accommodating them 
by providing an N95 mask and 
a face shield,” said Paul Ortiz, 
the chair of the United Faculty 
of Florida-UF, the faculty union. 
“That stretches the idea of what 
I would call an accommodation.”
Other Florida universities 
have taken different approaches. 
Florida Atlantic University passed 
a resolution on Nov. 16 that 
allows faculty and staff who are 
older than 65 or care for those 
at high risk for COVID-19 to be 
equally considered for a remote 
teaching assignment.
A UF School of Architecture 
professor who taught online 
this semester described the 
accommodation process — 
coming amid conversations 
about furloughs — as “unspoken 
blackmail.”
The professor, who asked to 
remain anonymous due to fear 
of losing his job, was denied a 
remote accommodation despite 
having asthma and a heart 
condition.
He said UF should be more 
proactive in how it manages the 
crisis, including delaying the 
start of in-person classes until 
summer. 
“This is what the university 
must understand — no one wants 
this, but we have to be sensible 
to each other,” the professor said.
@CorbinBolies
colies@alligator.orgFUCHS,  from pg. 1ADA,  from pg. 1‘We know how to do this’ 3,300 signed petition against in-person class
Fuchs
STUDENTS HAVE AN EASIER 
TIME FINDING PARKING SPOTS 
WITH FEWER PERMITS SOLD
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
Fewer students purchased 
parking decals this semester, piling 
on a third semester of losses for 
UF Transportation and Parking 
Services.
TAPS sold 25% less decals to 
students and faculty this semester 
than in Spring 2020, director Scott 
Fox said. With fewer students on 
campus this semester due to the 
COVID-19 crisis and online classes, 
TAPS has cut down on spending.
“That revenue has to pay for 
salaries,” he said. “It has to pay 
for lighting bills on all our parking 
garages. It has to pay the debt for 
our parking garages.”
TAPS is an auxiliary service, 
Fox said. All of the department 
expenses, from staff to construction, 
are paid for by the department’s 
revenue.
Even with decreased decal 
sales, Fox said the service is 
making enough to sustain itself. 
The department froze hiring, held 
off on equipment purchases and 
delayed replacing old vehicles. The hiring freeze has occurred since the 
university wide freeze in March.
Sidney Ho, a 19-year old UF 
biology sophomore, parks her 
white Toyota Camry at Reitz 
Student Union’s parking garage 
every Friday for her organic 
chemistry lab.
Last semester, Ho left an hour 
early to visit on-campus friends. 
When she couldn’t find a spot after 
circling parking lots and garages, 
she would drive back to her off-
campus house and take the bus. 
Now, she only needs to leave 20 
minutes early. 
“It was really hard to get a spot. 
I had to circle around a couple 
times, but this semester I was 
always able to get a spot,” she said.
When UF canceled on-campus 
classes in Spring 2020 due to 
COVID-19, TAPS lost over $1 
million in decal refunds. It also 
stopped charging for decals over 
the Summer.
“From April through the 
Summer we received no decal 
revenue,” Fox said. “That’s the 
primary source of our revenue.”
The department has not used its 
savings again since making up for 
the refunds, Fox said. It is waiting 
to see how many decals will be 
purchased next semester with 
more in-person classes.But, not everyone is pleased 
with parking this semester.
Molly Pringle, an 18-year-old UF 
business administration freshman, 
said finding spaces around her 
residence hall is still hard.
For the first month of the 
semester, Pringle couldn’t find 
any Red 3 spots for her silver Ford 
Fusion near Yulee Hall. Red 3 is a decal reserved for on-campus 
students who have completed 
fewer than 50 college credits.
She parked on Fraternity Row, a 
20-minute walk, for the first month 
of the semester. She didn’t use her 
car but walked to and from the 
Delta Delta Delta sorority house.
After a month, she found 
parking spots at the Norman Parking Garage but still doesn’t use 
her car often.
“There’s never any spots for my 
decal. I wish I had the option to 
buy another decal,” she said. “I’d 
even pay more money.”
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
AFTER ALMOST THREE DECADES 
WORKING IN THE SCHOOL DISTRICT, 
CLARKE ANNOUNCED THAT 
SHE IS RESIGNING, 
EFFECTIVE JUNE 30
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
The superintendent of Alachua County 
Public Schools is resigning effective June 
30 after a series of negative evaluations and 
community pressure. 
Karen Clarke, 51, sent in her resignation 
after poor evaluations from two board 
members in June and a new board member, 
Diyonne McGraw, was elected in August. 
Education activists have also called 
Clarke’s leadership ineffective and are 
demanding changes, such as further 
addressing the achievement gap between 
Black and white students in the district.
A special board meeting at 7 p.m. on 
Monday will discuss the superintendent’s 
contract, according to the agenda. 
Clarke announced her departure three-and-a-half years after being appointed as 
superintendent in a Nov. 10 letter to the 
school board. She wrote the board inducted 
Nov. 3 should have the opportunity to select 
a new superintendent. 
In the letter, Clarke, who worked at 
ACPS for almost three decades, celebrated 
the district’s accomplishments, such as 
gaining voter approval for the Half-Cent for 
Schools sales tax initiative, which created a 
fund through a local sales tax for facilities 
improvements and the rebuilding and 
remodeling of schools. 
She said she resigned effective June 
because she didn’t believe it would be fair to 
leave in the middle of a school year amid a 
pandemic. It also gives the board plenty of 
time to fill the position, she added. 
“It’s a difficult decision to make when 
you’ve been a part of a district for so long, 
both as a student and as an employee of the 
district,” she said.
Alachua County has some of the widest 
disparities in education outcomes between 
Black and white students in the state. The 
student body of around 30,000 is about 30% 
Black and about 80% of teachers are white, 
according to the school district’s 2019-20 
Equity Plan.
The superintendent, who is white, 
was rated on six district goals within the 
evaluation, which include a focus on 
eliminating all “D” and “F” schools, raising 
low test scores and implementing the district 
equity plan, with a focus on the achievement 
gap.
Lake Forest, Williams and Idylwild 
Elementary schools have “D” ratings, 
though there are no “F” schools. There are 
also continuing inequities. Alachua County, 
according to the district equity plan, continues 
to have the widest achievement gap in the 
state between Black and white students. 
In the evaluations, Eileen Roy, who 
recently retired from her position on the 
school board, Gunnar Paulson and Robert 
Hyatt all rated Clarke as highly effective. All 
of them are white. 
However, Tina Certain and Leanetta 
McNealy, who are Black, rated her performance as unsatisfactory. 
Certain has been on the board for two 
years. While she was an accountant, she, her 
husband and her children are products of the 
ACPS system. 
“All of us, the school board as well as the 
superintendent, we are all fierce supporters 
of public education,” she said. “We just have 
different visions and viewpoints on how to 
get there.”
While Certain has a collegial relationship 
with Clarke, she said she wanted to see more 
aggressive action, particularly with low-
performing schools and students. 
Leanetta McNealy, a former teacher and 
principal of almost 40 years, was first elected 
to the board in 2012. 
“I wish her well with whatever her future 
endeavors might be,” McNealy said. “Just 
know it was surprising to see the notification 
about her intent to resign.”
Although she supported other candidates 
for superintendent positions during Clarke’s 
2017 appointment, McNealy said she has 
much respect for the superintendent and 
always collaborated with her to improve the 
school system. 
“One thing I can say is that we learned 
to disagree agreeably, and I think that’s 
important,” McNealy said. 
School Board Member Hyatt said he 
believes Clarke has done a “superb” job 
under challenging circumstances. While 
he’s disappointed she’s leaving, he said he’s 
not surprised because of the negative June 
evaluations. 
Hyatt praised Clarke for the district’s high 
graduation rate of about 88.5% and for her 
support of the arts through efforts like the 
One Mill that help fund things like magnet 
programs and the arts, which first passed in 
2008, and is up for a vote every four years. 
He noted that UF has come to the district for 
advice on Hyflex.
“She’s one of the best people that I’ve ever 
worked with,” he said. “I taught for 38 years, 
and I’ve seen my share of principals and 
superintendents, and she’s right up there.”
To some community members, Clarke’s 
June resignation isn’t enough. Clarke needs to go before the end of 
2020, said Armando Grundy-Gomes, an East 
Gainesville resident and graduate student. 
Grundy-Gomes said he has been a 
community organizer since 2006 and has 
run for elected office twice, concerned with 
facets of the Gainesville and greater Alachua 
County communities. 
He attends community meetings, including 
those for the school board, and said he has 
expressed concerns about Clarke during the 
last two years.
People in the Alachua County Community 
have expressed hope with the historic make-
up on the school board and their chance to 
foster change. For the first time, three Black 
women are on the board. 
However, the three Black women on the 
school board aren’t a “magic wand” to fix the 
issues in the school district alone, Grundy-
Gomes said. 
“We are all in this together,” he said. 
Chanae Jackson, a local parent and 
community organizer, called for Clarke to 
resign at an Oct. 20 education event. At the 
Nov. 3 school board meeting, Jackson called 
for effective leadership once again. 
When talking about Clarke’s resignation, 
she said ineffective leadership creates an 
environment where teachers, support staff, 
students and parents don’t feel safe, protected 
or heard. Jackson cited the achievement gaps, 
the school reopening process and increases of 
COVID-19 cases and teacher resignations.
Clarke said she has always tried to be 
accessible and responsive to those who 
disagree with her. She noted that the district’s 
first equity plan was developed during her 
tenure and added that graduation rates for 
African American students increased from 
68% in 2017 to 80% in 2019.
While Clarke said she doesn’t know what’s 
next, her child will continue to attend ACPS. 
“So obviously, a very tough decision to 
make. But, you know, it was just the right 
one for right now,” she said.
@feinberg_sophie
sfeinberg@alligator.orgAfter pressure and negative evaluations, public school superintendent resigns
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator StaffAubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
Superintendent Karen Clarke
COVID-19 opens up parking spots for students still on campusWALKER WAS RELEASED FROM JAIL AFTER MORE 
THAN 8 MONTHS ON NOV. 3
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
Danielle Chanzes’ eyes watered when her boyfriend 
called her from the Alachua County Jail for the last time. 
He would be freed that evening.
After hearing the news, she drove to the nearest Burger 
King and got him his favorite meal, a Whopper with 
fries. Ernest Walker, Chanzes’ 42-year-old boyfriend, was 
released from the Alachua County Jail on Nov. 3 after being 
held more than eight months without bond.
Chanzes, a 27-year-old activist, is fighting for restorative 
and rehabilitative criminal justice reform to reduce 
staggering recidivism rates, which is the rate at which 
convicted criminals become repeat offenders in Florida. 
Walker also advocated for others from behind bars, 
connecting inmates to Chanzes. 
In January, Walker was arrested for violating the terms 
of his probation after being accused of grand theft auto. 
He has a long history of incarceration, first serving a 
ten-year sentence in prison for a slew of charges, including 
battery and cocaine possession in 2003. Later, he returned 
to prison for another two-year sentence in 2012 for violating 
parole. 
He also has been in and out of jail on petty charges since 
his last release from prison in 2014 — before his jail time 
in 2020. 
Prison is where offenders serve their sentences after 
they’re convicted, while jail is where the accused await 
trial or sentencing. Walker was held in the Alachua County 
Jail for over eight months.  
Walker’s story of repeated offenses is similar to that of 
many other former inmates. Between 2007-2015, more than 
one third of inmates released returned to Florida prisons 
within five years of their prison release date, according to 
data from the Florida Department of Corrections. 
Chanzes is an organizer with the Florida Immigrant 
Coalition and formerly worked with the Legal Empowerment 
and Advocacy Hub. She now collaborates with lawyers as a 
courtroom advocate to help defendants get lesser sentences.
Often at the jail protesting for criminal justice reform, 
night shift guards instantly recognized Chanzes when she 
went to pick up Walker that brisk 50° night, she said. 
She said she believes that the U.S. criminal justice 
system leaves vulnerable people behind. 
“The people that end up incarcerated are hurt people,” 
Chanzes said. “Hurt people, hurt people. These are people 
with unresolved trauma who are dealing with mental 
health issues and addiction, sometimes even acting out of 
survival.”
If someone had intervened and addressed his mental 
health and addiction issues earlier in his life, Chanzes said 
she thinks Walker wouldn’t have had to serve 12 years in 
prison.
“This is an issue that is personal to me,” Chanzes said. “I 
hope others don’t wait until it becomes personal to them.”Syraj Syed is a narrative counseling specialist at Your 
Authentic Self Work, a counseling service that aims to 
empower individuals and organizations toward conscious 
growth by owning their life’s narrative. He works with 
Walker and others formerly incarcerated to address their 
traumas. 
In January, Syed began to counsel Walker while he was 
still incarcerated both on video chat and in person.
“In a poetic sense, it’s to help them see the boundaries 
of the prison they exist in,” he said. “Not one of bricks and 
steel, but one of the mind.”
Syed has also worked with the Legal Empowerment and 
Advocacy Hub and attended a national participatory defense 
retreat with Chanzes. He noted the deep connection she felt 
to Fox Rich, a woman who fought for her husband’s release 
for decades and is now the subject of “Time,” an Amazon 
Prime documentary.
“That’s what Danielle has in her,” Syed said. “It’s 
intrinsic.” 
Chanzes said she and Walker have been inseparable 
since they met in 2018. 
They met while Chanzes was registering voters in East 
Gainesville’s Duval Heights neighborhood with the Florida 
Immigrant Coalition, she said. 
The couple didn’t see each other for a while after that 
day, Chanzes said, until she returned a month later to 
register more voters and heard someone honking their car 
horn at her. It was Walker.
Chanzes was by his side during his hearing, too. 
Walker chose an open plea, which meant that his fate 
was entirely at the hands of the judge. He said it was 
difficult to hear the prosecution attack his character.
“It intrigued me that he was able to stand up there for 
seven or eight minutes about how much I’m a bad guy 
when he’s only met me twice in court in front of a judge,” 
he said. 
Walker said he’s grateful for the leniency the judge 
showed him because he expected to have been sentenced to 
up to six years in prison. Chanzes and a team of community 
activists supported him through the hearing, he added.
While in jail, Walker said it felt as if time was frozen 
even though the world kept turning. 
“When I was released, it was sort of a stillness, a 
quietness and a sense of peace that came over me,” he 
said. “On the inside of jail, it’s these cold gray walls, and 
everything echoes. Everyone talks too loud. Just to be 
released — that was a blessing.”
What Walker missed most all those years, he said, 
was being unable to see his three children grow up into 
teenagers.
While at the jail, Walker organized for Chanzes’ 352 
Freedom Fund from the inside, connecting activists to 
harder-to-reach inmates.
“I’m just her sidekick,” he quipped. 
Walker said helping inmates get released from the jail 
was an effort ordained by God. Many inmates offered to 
repay him for his help, but he only asked them for one 
thing — to make the right choices.
After being in and out of prison and jail for almost two 
decades and spending more than eight months in a bleak jail cell, Walker said he can’t picture reverting to his old 
way of crime, drug use and evading the police. He said he’s 
now taking the time to learn healthy habits.
He said he’s overcoming addiction through Alcoholics 
and Narcotics Anonymous meetings and therapy. He also 
meets with the Torchlighters Re-Entry Support group, 
where former inmates share their struggles adjusting to life 
in the free world. The group is organized by Community 
Spring, a Gainesville-based organization with a goal of 
dismantling structural poverty.
“My nine to five was clocking into the streets,” Walker 
said. “Intensive therapy is something that I welcome. Every 
day is not going to be a good day, but this is something that 
I need.”
Hope Johnson is an organizer with Community Spring 
and co-founder of the Torchlighters Re-Entry Support group 
where she regularly works with Walker. In her life, she said 
she’s had relatives behind bars. She met Chanzes while 
attending a meeting for the family members of incarcerated 
individuals.
Johnson first saw Walker in person in the courtroom, 
where he was brought out in handcuffs and a striped 
jumpsuit. The image, she said, reminded her of slavery.
She said she believes he’s putting in the work to listen 
and learn, often taking detailed notes.
“I find myself at ease just realizing that I’m not just here 
to help Ernest,” Johnson said. “I’m here because it’s saving 
my life knowing that I’m helping to save yours.” 
Focused on rebuilding his life, Walker hopes to become 
an activist, mentor and motivational speaker.
Walker pointed out that he’s seen firsthand how hard 
it is for former inmates to readjust to society, mentioning 
how many go on to experience homelessness. Usually they 
become repeat offenders. 
“What I’ve learned is that I have to crawl before I 
can walk and walk before I run,” Walker said. He sees 
readjustment like wearing a gas mask during an emergency 
on a plane. It’s not possible to help others without placing 
one’s own gas mask on first. 
To Chanzes, the criminal justice system should address 
the needs of people who commit crimes instead of defaulting 
to lengthy prison sentences. Everyone in the community 
has value, she said, no matter their record. After organizing 
from behind bars, Walker said he will join Chanzes when 
he feels ready and able. 
“We shouldn’t address their issues by throwing people 
in cages, locking them up and throwing away the key,” 
Chanzes said. “Justice doesn’t have to be punitive or 
carceral, it can be restorative and transformative. If we 
want safer communities, that’s the way we have to do it.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
Gainesville couple fights for criminal justice reform
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator StaffCourtesy to the Alligator
Danielle Chanzes, 27, came to visit her boyfriend 
Ernest Walker, 42, in October 2019 outside the Sid 
Martin Bridge House, a residential substance abuse 
treatment program.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
HUNDREDS OF STUDENTS WORKERS 
WILL EARN NEW WAGES IN 2021
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
Many of UF’s student workers will get a 
paycheck boost in 2021 when Florida raises 
its minimum wage.
This general election, 60% of Floridians 
voted to raise the minimum wage to $15 an 
hour by 2026. It will raise to $10 an hour 
in 2021 and increase a dollar every year. 
Florida has raised its minimum wage 15 
times in the past 10 years. 
UF employs 874 people at the current 
Florida minimum wage of $8.56 per hour, 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in 
an email. Over 90% of those employees are 
students.
“The minimum wage increases regularly, 
and we automatically adjust as part of our 
normal business process,” Orlando wrote. 
“This time will be no different.”
Orlando did not explain how UF adapted 
to past wage raises, where money for 
increased wages came from, if employees 
were let go or if hours were reduced.
About 70% of UF’s minimum wage 
workers are employed by five departments, 
Orlando wrote: Office of Student Affairs, 
Reitz Student Union, Housing and Residence 
Education, Baby Gator, a UF preschool, and 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, UF’s agricultural program.
UF Housing and Residence Education 
employs 79 student assistants for minimum 
wage, spokesperson Sara Tanner wrote in 
an email. 
“We follow and implement any changes 
in laws and regulations accordingly,” she 
wrote.
The wage raise will cost the housing 
department between $125,000 and $175,000 
per year, Tanner said.
Kyleigh Caicedo, a 22-year-old UF 
sustainability studies senior, has worked 
as a desk assistant for UF Housing for two 
years. She works shifts at residence halls 
across campus helping locked out residents 
and sorting mail.
Caicedo earns $8.75 an hour after a 
raise, she said, and has been working for 
a year. She voted in favor of Florida raising 
the minimum wage.
“My parents are not rich, I need to afford 
my own groceries,” Caicedo said. 
The job also allowed her to find a 
work-life balance after struggling with her 
academics and personal grief after the death 
of her uncle in sophmore year.
“For students, time is very precious, and 
it’s easy to feel very torn between trying 
to work to survive and trying to do well 
in classes and make sure you don’t fall 
behind,” she said.
When Caicedo couldn’t pick up as many 
hours some semesters, her parents would step in to help her financially.
“I know that there’s a lot of other students 
who weren’t in that position to be helped 
out at all,” she said. “With a $10 minimum 
wage, those would be the students who 
would be helped out the most.”
Most of IFAS’s minimum wage workers 
are student assistants in labs and research 
projects, said Jeanna Mastrodicasa, IFAS’s 
Associate Vice President for Operations. 
These minimum wage positions fill all areas 
of a research project, from tending to plants 
and animals to analyzing data.  
IFAS hasn’t made any plans on how 
to compensate for the upcoming wage 
increases yet.
“Certainly we will pay whatever is 
required by the state,” Mastrodicasa said.
Faculty factors in these research 
assistants’ wages when writing research 
grants, she said. Calculating the increased 
minimum wage into grants will be the 
biggest change IFAS will make.
Teresa Marrone, a 21-year-old UF 
business administration senior, is a 
supervisor-in-training for the Stephen 
O’Connell Center. She spends her shifts 
setting up for basketball and volleyball 
games, breaking down bleachers and 
sanitizing them. 
She makes $8.85 an hour and has had 
four or five raises since beginning two years 
ago. The raise to $10 in 2021 will be her 
largest single raise.“When they give us our 20 cents, 40 
cents, 50 cents, it truly makes a difference 
in our paychecks,” Marrone said. “Admin 
understands that we’re worth more than 
what we currently get paid, and we 
understand we’re worth more than we 
currently get paid.”
Marrone said she voted in favor of 
the wage raise, as it would give her extra 
income to spend on groceries and other 
commodities in her life.
“I would be getting paid what I deserve,” 
she said.
When UF moved classes and campus 
events online in Spring 2020 due to 
COVID-19, Marrone said the O’Connell 
Center shut down, so she wasn’t getting 
paid. Only now are events picking up again 
with basketball and volleyball games.
“There’s events we missed out on hosting 
because of COVID and therefore money that 
we weren’t receiving from our clients,” she 
said.
At the beginning of the semester, she 
worked only one hour during her shifts out 
of fear of COVID-19, she said. In November, 
she got her first paycheck over $100 since 
the pandemic began.
“It is not a living wage currently,” she 
said.
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.orgIFAS IMMOKALEE-BASED 
CENTER TEAMS UP WITH 
FLORIDA AGRICULTURE 
DEPARTMENT
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer
Joe Yzaguirre was a farmworker 
crew leader in Immokalee, Florida, 
where he bussed workers to farms 
each day. 
On his last day of work before 
taking time off in June, the 54-year-
old started to feel ill. He appeared 
tired and had difficulty breathing, which prompted his wife to take him 
to North Collier hospital in Naples, 
30 miles west from Immokalee.
Yzaguirre tested positive for 
COVID-19 mid-May. After a 17-day 
battle with the virus, he passed away 
on June 5.
“Sometimes he has no days off,” 
said Liza Yzaguirre about her late 
husband, Joe. “It’s every day, every 
day, every day.” 
Those working in agriculture 
have asked for aid from the state 
since June, which has been sparingly 
delivered. The Florida agriculture 
commissioner never requested 
personal protective equipment from the emergency management office, 
according to Politico.
Immokalee, which does not have 
a hospital, has had 2,574 COVID-19 
cases as of Sunday, according to the 
Florida Department of Health. 
The UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Science acts as the bridge 
between UF scientists and farmers 
with a research center in Immokalee. 
The IFAS Southwest Florida Research 
and Education Center in Immokalee 
helped disseminate research for 
farmers, who inform where research 
is most needed.
This Fall, it extended its ongoing 
farm labor COVID-19 safety training 
through October. But advocates want 
action from the state beyond the 
education UF is capable of. 
Alliance for Fair Food national 
co-coordinator Uriel Perez said the 
Florida government is not helping 
the local farmworkers, who are piling 
into buses with 50 others to get to 
work and not being given PPE by the 
state. 
One recommendation the IFAS 
center makes is to wait 20 minutes 
after workers get off a bus to clean 
it, she said. This was derived from 
CDC research that found droplets can 
remain airborne  up to several hours.
“UF is one of the top agricultural 
schools in the country, yet leaves 
much to be desired in standing with 
migrant farmworkers,” Perez said.
Yzaguirre shared her husband’s 
story with the UF IFAS center’s 
outreach team at the urging of those 
close to her husband.
“I told my daughter-in-law, I said, 
‘It feels like sometimes it has to hit 
your home so you understand,’” 
Yzaguirre said. “And those are words 
that I regret.”
The center’s COVID-19 program 
aims to educate agricultural employers on how to protect their 
farmworkers, Kimberly Morgan, an 
economist for the center, said.
Cases of young, healthy people 
falling ill with the virus like 
Yzaguirre prompted the Immokalee 
center to start educating agricultural 
employers on how to keep workers 
safe, she said.
Morgan said that the agriculture 
industry was doing things that 
shouldn’t be done during a 
pandemic. While states were going 
into lockdown, tens of thousands of 
farmworkers were headed to Florida 
for the harvest. 
“We’re not supposed to be on 
vacation,” Morgan said. “But, you 
know, these folks aren’t vacationing.”
In six online seminars over Zoom 
from August to October, the center 
trained 799 employers and labor 
contractors across Florida, each 
employing anywhere from a dozen 
to several hundred workers. 
These trainings discuss case 
studies of those in the community 
that have been impacted by the virus 
as well as tailor CDC guidelines to the 
unique work environment of a farm.
In Gainesville, UF IFAS students 
studying agriculture are educating 
themselves on the lack of protections 
of migrant farmworkers in Florida 
during COVID-19.
The UF chapter of Minorities in 
Agriculture, Natural Resources and 
Related Sciences invited the Coalition 
of Immokalee Workers to speak at 
an Oct. 13 event. The coalition is 
a nonprofit organization made up 
of migrant farmworkers that was 
founded to address the abuses that 
farmers face in the industry. 
The event focused on the work 
being done by the coalition to protect 
migrant farmworkers from COVID-19 
as well as the history of farmworkers’ rights advocacy in Gainesville.
More than 145,000 agricultural 
workers have tested positive for 
COVID-19 across the country, 
according to Purdue University.
The Immokalee coalition 
has gathered more than 49,000 
signatures as of Nov. 30 on a petition 
demanding community-wide testing, 
contact tracing, PPE and economic 
relief to the area. Immokalee has a 
large Hispanic community –– 72% of 
its population identify as Hispanic or 
Latino.
Saddie Vela, MANNRS 
community service committee 
chairperson, joined the IFAS 
Diversity and Inclusion committee 
this semester, where she helps the 
college foster a better environment 
for students of color.
“The governor blamed their 
spike in cases due to Immokalee, 
specifically Immokalee and the 
farmworkers,” Vela said.
In June, Gov. Ron DeSantis’ 
statement that farmworkers caused 
Florida’s spike in COVID-19 
cases was disputed by the Florida 
Department of Agriculture. The 
department said this was inaccurate 
because farmworkers had already 
left Florida when the harvest ended 
in May.
The wife of the late farmworker, 
Liza Yzaguirre, said her husband 
planned to finish the year out and 
then hire another driver to take over 
for him. He didn’t even have the 
option to make this choice.
“He was looking forward to 
getting all his work finished so that 
he could relax,” she said.
@Jack_prator
jprator@alligator.org
Student workers at UF largest recipients of minimum wage increaseUF IFAS provides education as farmworkers ask for government aid
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
Joe Yzaguirre (middle) tested positive for COVID-19 mid-May. 
After a 17-day battle with the virus, he passed away on June 5.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Do you want ‘Bama?
The Gators defeated the Kentucky Wildcats on Saturday, but 
they have a few things to work on before they get to the SEC 
Championship, pg. 12 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE PROJECT ENCOURAGES 
SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH 
FASHION TRADING
By AJ Bafer
Avenue Staff Writer
Fast fashion is a mess that 
stretches from Moscow to Midtown 
Gainesville.
Maria Blokhina would know — 
she was born in Siberia and raised in Russia’s capital. As global groups 
like the Russian Fashion Council 
continue to push for abandoning fast 
fashion and rethinking consumer 
culture, the 25-year-old UF graphic 
design graduate student has been 
thinking ahead.
She wanted to create something 
to help consumers navigate the 
clothing industry in a way that 
encourages conscious wearing 
instead of rapid consumption, she said. 
“Clothes are supposed to be used 
way more often,” Blokhina said. 
“I’m looking at my huge wardrobe 
and understanding that I’m part of 
the problem.”
So, she started Thriftika.
The “clothing library” works 
like a typical library but, instead of 
books, customers can rent and use 
clothes as payment at Infinity Hall. 
Blokhina said she wants people 
to see clothes as assets instead of 
closet-fillers.
Participants can bring up to 
four pieces from their wardrobe in 
exchange for those in the library’s 
inventory — preferably the same 
number they brought. Borrowed 
clothe must be brought back after an 
agreed amount of time, she said.
Thriftika had a few participants 
for its first session Nov. 15, and 
Blokhina said she moved the 
program’s next session to early 
January so more people can 
participate. People interested can fill 
out a sign-up form in the @thriftika_
project Instagram account’s bio, and 
they’ll be sent specific details and 
instructions.
While the majority of the project’s 
inventory is Blokhina’s clothing at 
this point, a couple of people were able to take part in the swap.
Charlotte Harmon, a 20-year-old 
UF advertising junior, was one of 
them. She said she found out about 
the project through Thrift Club at 
UF, as Blokhina was a guest speaker 
at a general body meeting, and knew 
she wanted to take part.
After choosing a time slot, 
Harmon said she paid a temporary 
deposit and signed a document that 
holds participants responsible if they 
damage any clothes they take. 
Thriftika’s inventory rack held 
garments tagged with information 
about each piece, like if the items 
were ripped, and how much a 
deposit would be to pick them up, 
she said. There was also a dressing 
room to try on the clothes.
In exchange for the four items 
she brought, she said she took 
away a pair of jeans — handmade 
by Blokhina — and a skirt. Once 
Harmon gave up her own pieces, 
Blokhina added them to a document 
to keep track of them.
Harmon had never seen a clothing 
library before and said it excited her 
because she doesn’t get to wear the 
clothes she has enough. 
If other people heard more 
about the “ugly side” of the fashion 
industry, like unjust wages and unethical conditions for underpaid 
workers, she said they’d support it, 
too.
“It’s such a waste going through 
clothes,” she said. “It really hurts 
my heart when I see the amount of 
waste that comes from the clothing 
industry.”
Thrift Club President Gabrielle 
Ray, a 19-year-old UF anthropology 
sophomore, said the club gave 
Thriftika a platform because both 
projects hope to create sustainability 
awareness and encourage people to 
be clothing-conscious. 
By putting clothes they don’t 
wear often in a space where other 
people can use them, she said 
Thriftika encourages a culture less 
focused on consumption.
Ray had also never heard of 
anything like it and said she wants 
to take part in the future — even 
though, like other fashion addicts, 
she’s very attached to her own 
wardrobe.
“There are so many pieces in my 
closet that have probably never been 
worn or maybe worn once,” she 
said. “I would love for those to get to 
see the light.”
@ajbafer
abafer@alligator.org
STUDENTS HAVE 
ADAPTED TO REDUCED 
SERVICES AND SMALLER 
OPPORTUNITIES
By Manny Rea
Avenue Staff Writer
Madison Weech said she 
preferred not to deal with other 
people and the noise when she 
worked in the UF Marston Library 
basement.
New COVID-19 library 
practices have curbed those quiet 
opportunities. Masks, upturned 
tables and stickers encouraging 
social distancing have affected 
studying efficiency, said Sebastian 
Tirado-Vélez, a 19-year-old UF 
computer science sophomore.
With overlapping courses, 
he and Weech, a 19-year-old 
UF Spanish and health science 
sophomore, have studied together 
since freshman year.Their studies last year in 
the basement for calculus and 
chemistry transferred over to 
studying at home in the summer 
and now the current library set-up 
as a “quaranteam.”
To combat the spread of 
COVID-19 in public spaces, the UF 
George A. Smathers libraries have 
reduced computers, tables, hours 
and capacities. Materials such as 
books and DVD’s are placed in a 
72-hour quarantine before being 
put back on the shelf.  
While understanding the 
precautions, Weech said she 
feels there is less structure in 
their plans since online learning 
has compounded her new study 
environment.
“At this point, it’s not just 
studying,” Weech said. “I gotta 
make the time to teach myself too.”
Weech and Tirado-Vélez could 
not return to the usual spots.
“Marston was convenient for 
me to get my caffeine fix and my meal,” he said about the downstairs 
Starbucks that has been closed for 
Fall. Marston also closed group 
study rooms.
The study duo moved to other 
nooks, including the Health 
Science Center Libraries, the Latin 
American and Caribbean Collection 
of Smathers Library, and the study 
rooms in Hume Commons. There, 
they can find spots to work together 
or find quietude. 
However, one time, the duo 
worked without their masks and 
were served a notice about UF’s 
COVID-19 behavioral expectations.
It was only a courtesy warning 
from the area coordinator, 
explaining that future violations 
will lead to conduct charges, 
Weech said.
“We were let off easy, as the 
kids say,” Tirado-Vélez said.
At Hume, the rooms are a 
typical scramble to save seats. Its 
vicinity to Hume Hall makes it a 
popular place to be, Tirado-Vélez said. They often go for the lone 
closed-door room so they can use 
the board and enclosure to work on 
class lectures and homework.
Library West remains widely 
used with its still-open Starbucks 
despite differences in services 
offered in the past.
The biggest change is the shift 
from 24/7 to limited hours, said 
Kevin Yang, a 32-year-old UF 
information systems and operations 
management master’s student. It 
operates from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
Mondays through Thursdays, 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Fridays, closed 
Saturdays and 12 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
Sundays.   
His second year at UF, coming 
from Taiwan, Yang visited the 
library four times a week. He would 
take advantage of the dual-monitor 
computers on the third floor to 
have applications, assignments and 
personal browsing side by side.
He has been able to maintain 
his studying with the transition.“I’m doing well with the new 
practices and because of the 
smaller number of students,” 
Yang said. “The staff are doing 
well with reminding students to 
be socially distanced and to wear 
their masks.”
mrea@alligator.orgThriftika’s clothing library gives garments a second life
Socially distanced UF library guidelines alter student study plans 
FASHIONFASHION
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLECourtesy to The Alligator
Maria Blokhina, a 25-year-old UF graphic design graduate 
student, created Thriftika to encourage fashion consumers to 
shop ethically through trade.
For those sunset drives to 
Payne’s Prairie.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFYMONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinionsIn mid-March, the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, I was contracted by the Florida 
Department of Health (FDOH) to begin working as an epidemiologist and contact tracer 
for one of the county health departments. I was excited for this opportunity to utilize 
the knowledge and skills I had accumulated throughout my studies in public health and 
epidemiology to help others. 
The beginning of the pandemic was a challenge as the other contact tracers and I 
worked to adapt to rapid changes in guidelines and protocols brought about by newfound 
knowledge of this novel virus. It was also a unique time in that the concepts of widespread 
lockdowns, quarantine, contact tracing and even COVID-19 itself were new to many folks 
in the community. 
Following my temporary deployment at the health department, I returned to UF and 
joined the newly developed UF Health Screen, Test & Protect program. Since then, the 
program has grown immensely, and the team has acquired some of the most diligent and 
compassionate individuals from both within and outside of the university. 
Most of our team works in one or two large rooms within the UF Emerging Pathogens 
Institute. We each have our own desks, usually equipped with two monitors and a FDOH 
laptop, that are spaced at least six feet apart to adhere to social distancing guidelines. The 
area is reminiscent of a call center in that we wear headsets, are on the phones the majority 
of the day and are connected through a main phone system to easily track incoming calls 
and transfer calls between one another when needed.
New cases of COVID-19 are reported to us every day. After receiving these cases, we 
reach out to them as soon as possible to conduct a thorough interview – taking anywhere 
from 30 minutes to one hour per case. 
At the beginning, many folks were skeptical and not necessarily eager to divulge important 
personal information, such as date of birth and address (these are usually the first questions 
we ask to ensure we are talking to the correct person and that the person lives in the county 
we are working for). During the interview, we attempt to identify any close contacts that the 
case may have had during the time in which they were potentially infectious. The next step is to reach out to every single contact to alert them of this potential exposure. 
Our other responsibilities include answering phone calls from community members and 
providing public health education on how to prevent spread to others, inputting interview 
data to the FDOH surveillance system (which is ultimately sent to the CDC) and calling to 
release cases and contacts from isolation and quarantine, respectively. 
Personally, I find the investigative aspect of case interviews to be fascinating and the 
opportunity to work with and help our community members extremely rewarding. 
At the end of the day, I think that, apart from the necessary knowledge, the most 
important quality of a successful contact tracer is empathy. We work in this field every 
day, and it can be easy to forget that other people in the community may not have the same 
knowledge or experience with this pandemic as we do. Therefore, it is important to build 
trust, not only to acquire information, but also to ensure that members of the community 
feel acknowledged and supported during this time.
First-hand experience working as an epidemiologist and contact tracer during this 
pandemic has provided me with a unique perspective in that, while I fully appreciate 
and adhere to guidelines, I am also able to acknowledge and address the hesitancy and 
skepticism of others. Working at UF Health Screen, Test & Protect is a constant reminder of 
the importance of these guidelines. 
Prior to the pandemic, I had plans for international travel and family vacations over the 
holidays. Instead, I had a small dinner with only my immediate family for Thanksgiving and 
will do the same for Christmas. Although this may seem disappointing, I am thankful for 
their health and remind myself of the potential implications of large gatherings and travel.
While it is not always easy to make decisions for the collective benefit of others as 
opposed to personal interests, I believe it is essential in order to prevent further spread, 
especially to high risk populations such as those over 65, during the approaching holiday 
season.
Emily Klann has her master’s in public health and is a third-year doctoral student in the 
Department of Epidemiology. She is currently working part-time as an epidemiologist for the UF 
Screen, Test & Protect program.What life has been like as a COVID-19 contact tracerColumn
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to 
fact-check and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also 
welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.I was not a person who took 
COVID-19 seriously. Never would I 
have imagined that wearing a mask 
in public would become the norm. 
I steadfastly believed it would be 
all over in a month, two months tops. I 
was worried more about my plans for the 
Super Bowl than I was about a year-long 
pandemic. 
It wasn’t until I caught COVID-19 that 
the actual gravity of the situation really 
hit me. I caught the virus at the tail end of 
April, and what started as nothing more 
than minor symptoms turned into a five-
day hospital visit and $3,000 of medical 
debt. I worried more about the debt than 
the fact that I could have died, worried 
more about getting behind in class than I 
did about the medical debt.
It turns out I was worrying about the 
wrong thing.
I lost my senses of smell and taste 
once I was admitted to the hospital. 
There really was not much to eat in the 
hospital except ginger ale and graham 
crackers, both of which I could not taste. 
It has been seven months since I was 
first admitted to the hospital, and in those 
seven months I have not had the joy of 
being able to smell. My sense of smell is 
completely gone. My sense of taste is so 
distorted that no foods taste the same as 
they did before I had COVID-19.
When I say that COVID-19 made me 
vegetarian, I am not being hyperbolic. 
I have only shot a gun once in my life, 
but one thing that I can never forget is 
the smell of firing a gun. It’s a pungent 
smell, a smell that’s metallic and sulfuric. 
It is not a pleasant smell, and I am sure 
anyone who has ever fired a gun will 
understand. That smell, the sulfuric gunpowder smell, is what I taste every 
time I eat. 
When I eat a spicy chicken sandwich 
from Chick-fil-A, it tastes like gunpowder. 
When I try to enjoy a nice filet mignon 
from Amy’s Steakhouse back home, it 
tastes like gunpowder. Almost every food 
now has a sulfuric taste, except for the 
majority of fruits and vegetables. I am 
now entirely vegetarian, which is not 
something I would have ever wanted to 
call myself. 
With being vegetarian, there exists a 
certain sort of pain that is a pain unlike 
any other, which I call “the pain of going 
to dinner with your friends, only for 
you to find out that the only vegetarian 
options on the menu are salad, french 
fries and onion rings.”
I did not get COVID-19 from going out 
to parties, or even from friends. I suspect 
I caught the virus from simply working as 
a cashier at Publix, before masks became 
mandatory. 
Frankly, I am over the pandemic 
as well. I’m sick of it, and I am sick of 
hearing about it. I am sick of having to 
wear a mask everywhere, and I am sick 
of being expected to stay cooped up in a 
dorm. I’m selfish. I want to go out and 
have the full college experience. I want 
to be able to actually have class in person 
instead of over an 11-inch screen. 
I understand where people are coming 
from. I understand why people still go 
out. I understand why Midtown is packed 
every weekend. But I do have to ask: 
Now that you know what happened to 
me, is it really worth it?
Gabriel Acosta is a UF biochemistry 
freshman.As an international student from Colombia 
living in the U.S., every once in a while 
I find myself wondering: What defines 
freedom in America? This question 
appears to be a subject of debate, even 
among the general populace here. Despite the 
frequency with which I engage the question, I 
never quite conclude what it truly means. 
As a public health student, the COVID-19 
pandemic has been an incredibly rich stage for 
learning. But it has also brought forward some 
foundational flaws in how policy is communicated, 
especially regarding the management of the 
spread of the virus. 
Face masks, for instance, have proven time 
and time again to be an effective way to reduce 
the spread of the virus. Yet millions of Americans 
refuse to wear them, as they see it as a fundamental 
violation of their freedom. The government and 
both its parties have failed to enforce mask use 
in public, with not enough places in the U.S. 
penalizing the lack of compliance with fines.
While I understand some lawmakers might be 
hesitant to enact such policies for fear of litigation 
or political fallout, from the perspective of an 
outsider, the idea of following science as means 
to protect the general population possibly ending 
up in litigation or political blowback is ridiculous. 
For example, the U.S. has very strict laws that 
prohibit driving under the influence of alcohol 
or drugs, as doing so would be a public health 
concern, endangering both the person who 
partakes and those on the road. If risking the lives 
of both victim and perpetrator by driving under 
the influence is against the law, how come the 
lack of mask use is not, when it is essentially the 
same thing?
I have a hard time fathoming anyone equating 
these elements of road safety as a violation of 
their freedom, but that is exactly the argument 
anti-mask people are making. From a public 
health standpoint, driving under the influence 
and refusing to wear a mask during a pandemic of an airborne pathogen are comparable behaviors, 
both endangering the general population. 
Why is one referred to as law and order while 
the other is chastised as a violation of freedom? 
If countries across Europe are enforcing mask 
use with hefty fines in response to the alarming 
increase in cases, does that mean they are not free 
under the American definition of freedom? Has 
the definition of freedom become so politicized 
that it has completely lost its true meaning?
I do not write with the intention of voicing 
favor or criticism toward any one political party or 
ideology. Truly, it all boils down to this: Science 
is not and cannot be political. Science is based on 
facts. I can acknowledge how certain fields like 
climate change have become politicized, as there 
are large corporations that stand to lose money if 
there is a transition from fossil fuels to renewable 
and clean options of energy. 
There, the motive to muddy the waters of 
science with politics is clear. 
With mask use, however, it is crystal clear 
that we aren’t doing enough of it because of 
political reasons that will leave us all in a lose-lose 
situation.
The American people, first responders, doctors, 
nurses, the economy and the government are all 
suffering because of the uncontrolled situation 
with the virus. I write this not only as a future 
doctor of public health but as a human being 
living in the reality of this pandemic. 
The truth is, I don’t really know where the 
lines of freedom are drawn when it comes to the 
safety and health of the people in America. It is 
not clear who draws the lines between freedom 
and laws. Sometimes they’re drawn by science, 
sometimes by religious beliefs and sometimes by 
economic or political interest. It seems there is no 
simple answer to what freedom is in the land of 
the free.
Daniel Acosta is a first-year public health 
doctoral student in the Department of 
Environmental and Global Health.I lost my senses to COVID-19. Now I can’t eat meat What does freedom mean during a pandemic?Column ColumnBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist.
BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info
12-7-20-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting minimal quantities of 
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
Between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Remaining fall semester
Mondays only thru 12/7
Spring semester (beginning in January)
May increase two days per week - to be 
determined.
Email elight@alligator.org
Please include references.
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         11-30-8-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-7-20-16-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
Maestro Mechanico
I am a Master Mechanic I buy cars running 
or not call me Pete 352-301-0999 or email 
backtolife732@gmail.com   
11-30-20-2-12
13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES - NOW 
HIRING bartenders and sandwich makers. 
Day and night shifts available. Friendly and 
Fast Paced. Reliable transportation required. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.   
12-7-20-2-141For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. Immed oc -
cupancy. ABSOLUTELY HUGE! Gorgeous 
Wood Floors, cent AC/HT, dishwasher, laun -
dry room, fenced, pets OK $1,795 per month. 
352-665-8166                               1-26-20-6-2
HOUSES FOR RENT NEXT AUGUST
Quality homes walk or bike to campus.
See homes at WWW.gainesvillequalityrental -
homes.com call or text 352-339-2342 for appt.  
1-11-20-4-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4 Roommates
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
Female roommate needed for 2bdrm 2.5 bath 
townhouse near UF. Rent includes cable and 
internet. $50 application fee. First months 
rent and move-in fees paid. Utilities divided 
equally. Call 352-321-0554.          11-30-20-2-4
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
The MC Hot-N-Happy Home School 
Supplies for Tools needed for Online 
Learning. Over 1,000 items of cheap sup -
plies. https://www.mchotnhappy.com  
11-30-20-4-10  
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-1012 Autos
readreadmeme
Now you can easily submit Now you can easily submit 
your classified ad for print your classified ad for print 
and/or web editions right and/or web editions right 
through our website!through our website!
just go to:just go to:
www.www.alligatoralligator .org.orgBy Kurt Krauss
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/30/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/30/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, November 30, 2020
ACROSS
1 Two-wheelers
6 Haunted house 
sound
10 Stick a fork in
14 Standing at 
attention, say
15 Oscar winner 
Paquin
16 Soft drink nut
17 Big burger chain, 
literally?
20 Yale student
21 Homes for bears
22 Con jobs
23 __ strength: 
ability to 
withstand 
stretching
25 On the briny
27 “I Can’t Help 
Myself” R&B 
group, literally?
32 Honors with a 
fancy party
35 “Wild Blue 
Yonder” mil. 
group
36 __ de Janeiro
37 Dutch cheese
38 Worker in a shaft
40 Curve in a road
41 Round Table title
42 Locker room 
powder
43 Walrus features
44 Many a sports 
car, literally?
48 Floor space 
calculation
49 Sticks around
53 Big rigs
56 Bowling targets
57 Animal doc
58 Exec’s dressy 
suit, literally?
62 One of 12 in a 
foot
63 Farm size unit
64 Confess
65 Classic grape 
soda
66 Hair colorings
67 Handy carryalls
DOWN
1 Procreate
2 “Go, me!”
3 Enter, as data
4 Cardio readout
5 Small apartments6 Wall calendar : 
nail :: shopping 
list : __
7 Burden
8 “__ further 
discussion?”
9 Old horse
10 Airport porter
11 Forum wear
12 High school 
reunion attendee, 
briefly
13 Howls at the 
moon
18 Puppy’s cry
19 Make __: employ
24 Flower holder
25 Semicircular 
cathedral area
26 Lead actor or 
actress
28 Postal scale unit
29 “__ bien!”
30 Sty cry
31 Snow pea 
holders
32 Come clean, with 
“up”
33 Falco of “The 
Sopranos”
34 Butler’s 
quarters?
38 Female horse39 “Casablanca” 
heroine
40 Town
42 Wasting few 
words
43 Sawbuck
45 Meditative martial 
art
46 Restaurant in an 
Arlo Guthrie hit
47 Fork prong
50 Discus or pole 
vault51 Prompt, as a 
forgetful actor
52 Staircase 
divisions
53 “Wheel of 
Fortune” choice
54 German article
55 Kind of drawing: 
Abbr.
56 Dijon dad
59 Note-taking aid
60 Aloof
61 __ Jima
By Evelyn Rubin and Ross Trudeau
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/24/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/24/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, November 24, 2020
ACROSS
1 Risqué
5 Blunders
10 Occupied
14 Return from a 
cave?
15 Lets loose on
16 App downloader
17 Waikiki neckwear
18 Property 
valuations
20 Fruit tree 
grouping
22 Corner PC key
23 Hose problem
24 Eco-friendly, as a 
container
28 “That’s what __ 
said!”
30 Eaves dropping?
32 Not e’en once
33 Author Fleming
34 Actress  
Rooney __
35 End of a threat
37 Wile E. Coyote 
explosive
38 It precedes 
beauty, per a 
saying
39 Photog’s deg.
40 Partnership abbr.
41 Not up to the 
task
43 Ego
44 Vegas action
45 Fashion designer 
Rabanne
46 Mild expletive
48 Words before 
“vey” and “gevalt”
49 Lola in a Manilow 
song, e.g.
51 Sing strongly
53 “Chuck” star 
Zachary
54 Deserved
57 Officially give, as 
a exam
61 “Get out of the 
way!”
62 Item of interest?
63 SALT topic
64 Sign of things to 
come
65 Slack-jawed
66 Beaujolais grape
67 Nine-digit IDs
DOWN
1 Realtor’s move
2 Taiwanese laptop 
brand
3 “Tuesday” special 
with fowl filling4 Super Mario’s 
dinosaur
5 Underwater 
snorkeling done 
behind metal 
bars
6 W. Coast cop 
force
7 Web access co.
8 Package
9 19th-century 
French gift to 
New York City
10 Road section 
for public transit 
vehicles
11 50-st. country
12 French salt
13 Wall cal. periods
19 Org. that handles 
returns
21 Kangaroo or 
kinkajou
24 Early electronics 
co.
25 ’70s fashion 
trend ... and 
features of 3-, 5- 
and 9-Down
26 TV journalist 
Stahl
27 Puts up
28 Crunch cousins
29 ESPN journalist 
Storm31 Wrath
36 Roof support 
beam
39 Ryan of “You’ve 
Got Mail”
42 Game with 
strikes and a  
ball
43 NBC revue that 
gave us “More 
Cowbell”
47 Label for two 
“Aretha” albums
50 Mil. head honcho52 Stretches at a 
wedding?
54 Tableland
55 Like some 
oxymoronic odds
56 Lairs
57 Mobile home: 
Abbr.
58 Boxer or Borzoi
59 Chairman 
mentioned in 
the Beatles’ 
“Revolution”
60 Pro __
11/23/2020
solution on page 10
answers below1. The Little Brown Jug is a trophy 
awarded in the rivalry between what 
two college football teams?
2. Where did former British basketball 
standout Pops Mensah-Bonsu play col -
lege basketball from 2002-06?
3. What defensive back was known 
for wearing a "pro cap" on his helmet 
during his career with the Buffalo Bills 
from 1986-93?
4. Who did Ashley Force defeat in the Top 
Fuel Funny Car final race to win the 2008 
NHRA Summit Southern Nationals?
5. What Puerto Rican boxing great, a 
champion in three weight classes, was 
shot to death in November 2012?
6. What two-time NFL rushing yards 
leader (1938, '40) went on to serve on 
the U.S. Supreme Court from 1962-93? 
7. In 2011, who became the oldest player 
ever -- at age 43 -- to score a goal in the 
Stanley Cup Finals?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
Sports Quiz  answers CryptoQuote  solution
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
11..    TTyyppee  ooff  ssttiinnggeerr
11..    FFrreennzziieedd55..    RReedd  ________
22..    MMoorree  ssppaacciioouuss  66..    FFrroozzeenn  ssttrruuccttuurree
33..    FFiifftthh  GGrreeeekk  lleetttteerr  77..    ________  NNoorrwwoooodd  
44..    AAwwnniinngg,,  ssuunnsshhaaddee  RRNNTTHHEEOO
CCIICCHHTTEESSOOSSRRCC
IIOOLLOOGG
RROOEERROOIIMM
PPNNOOEESSLLIIDDYYRRBBNNAA
PPOOAAYYNNCCAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--HHoorrnneett    55AA--CCrroossss    66AA--IIgglloooo    77AA--BBrraannddyy
11DD--HHeeccttiicc    22DD--RRoooommiieerr    33DD--EEppssiilloonn    44DD--CCaannooppyy    BB--CCoorrssiiccaa1111--3300--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: NNaappoolleeoonn  BBoonnaappaarrttee  wwaass  bboorrnn  
oonn  tthhee  iissllaanndd  ooff  ________  iinn  11776699..
BONUS
We may eliminate death
someday, but I doubt if
we'll ever eliminate taxes.
— Robert A. Heinlein1. The Michigan Wolverines and the Minnesota Golden Gophers. 
2. George Washington University.
3. Mark Kelso.
4. Her father, John Force.
5. Hector "Macho" Camacho.
6. Byron "Whizzer" White.
7. Mark Recchi, Boston Bruins.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
: PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
 alligatoralligator
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida to play Tennessee at 3:30 this Saturday
The Gators are slated to face off against the Volunteers at 3:30 p.m. ET this 
Saturday on CBS. UF has played two noon games in a row, and this game 
will be the second game of Florida’s season to start in the 3:30 time slot.Kadarius Toney brought back a punt 
for a 50 yard score in Saturday’s win 
over Kentucky. It was the first UF 
punt return for a touchdown in two 
years, when Freddie Swain did it 
against Colorado State in 2018.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
FEATURE
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
Sitting in her Seminole County home 
decorated with Moai statues and stocked with 
pareos, a Polynesian cloth garment, a 17-year-
old Izzy Kadzban received long-awaited news.
She became the first Rapa Nui player to 
represent the Chilean national soccer team. 
The UF striker’s path to international 
stardom wasn’t out of the ordinary for the 
American soccer player. At the age of 4, she 
signed up for recreational soccer in Grand 
Rapids, Michigan, and joined the Kraze Krush 
club team in Oviedo after moving to Florida six 
years later. But Kadzban and her Indigenous 
roots forged an exceptional experience in the 
states. 
The Rapa Nui are a Polynesian ethnic group 
that settled Easter Island around the year 1200 
and are most  remembered for building the 
giant, anthropomorphic statues covering the 
island. 
In 1888, Chile annexed Easter Island, 
home to a Rapa Nui population ravaged by 
climate change and European exploration. The 
population teetered on the brink of extinction, 
with just 111 surviving Rapa Nui a decade 
earlier. The Chilean government helped the 
Indigenous population rebound to 4,500 and 
allowed future generations of Rapa Nui to build 
a life on the island. Kadzban's grandmother is 
entirely Rapa Nui and came to the U.S. in the 
1960s with her husband, who served in the 
U.S. Air Force.
Despite hailing from one of the most 
remote islands in the world, Kadzban said her 
grandmother made sure to keep the island’s 
culture close to her family. She noted the 
many Rapa Nui customs and traditions that she practiced growing up, 50 years after her 
grandmother left. 
“In my upbringing, I grew up listening to 
Rapa Nui songs,” Kadzban said. “I still listen 
to them to be honest, quite frequently. I took 
Rapa Nui dance classes when I was a kid when 
I was on the island, and when we sing happy 
birthday, we always sing it in Rapa Nui as 
well.”
It was likely that her Rapa Nui background 
led Kadzban to pursue soccer. The world’s 
game extended its roots to the distant pacific 
island more so than in America. 
“My husband was like, ‘Soccer isn’t even 
a sport over here,’” said Kadzban’s mother, 
Jannete Kadzban. “But when I was on the 
island for my graduation, on Sundays, we 
would watch the men play soccer on the 
field from after church until dusk, and it 
was something that brought our community 
together.”
Jannete was her first coach. She wanted to 
introduce the game as a physical activity that 
her daughters would enjoy. However, once 
Isabelle chose soccer over gymnastics at 9, the 
sport became a source of incredible passion 
and focus for her.
Amid frequent trips to Easter Island, the 
Kadzban family moved from Michigan to 
Maryland and finally to Lake Mary, Florida. 
The Chilean international initially struggled 
with these moves, especially to the Sunshine 
State. 
“The first few years, I didn't really like 
Florida much at all,” said Izzy.  “It was just too 
hot. But now I can't see myself leaving Florida 
because I love the climate so much.”
With comfort off the pitch came success on 
it, as Izzy caught the eye of Lake Mary High 
School coach Bill Eissele.
“Izzy was determined, always on task and 
worked hard and everything she did,” Eissele 
said. “She was a really exceptional player.”
Izzy became a prolific striker in Class 7A 
soccer, scoring more than a goal a game her 
senior season and earning a United Soccer 
Coaches All-American selection. Around this 
time, 
she and her father uncovered she would be 
allowed to play for the Chilean national team.
FIFA’s eligibility rules allow players to 
declare for a nation if a player, parent or 
grandparent was born in the territory. As 
her grandmother was born on Easter Island, 
Isabelle received a call up to the under-17 
Chilean national team.
When Kadzban made her first trip down to 
South America in La Roja’s famous red jerseys, 
her grandmother, whose initial 5,000-mile 
journey made Izzy’s success possible, cheered 
on from the stands. 
“Her grandmother has been there,” Janette 
said. “She saw Izzy’s first goal when none of 
us did. It’s a testament to who she is and our 
connection to the island “
After stints with the under-17 and under-20 
sides, a 17-year-old Izzy earned the interest 
of coach Jose Letelier and joined the senior 
team in October 2019 for two friendlies against 
Uruguay.
“We had been talking with the coaches all 
summer about potentially getting a call up,” 
Izzy said. “I was very excited and had no 
remorse about leaving school to go play. I was super excited and I was hoping that I could 
perform well enough just to get called back up 
again.”
Leaping to senior level international soccer 
is difficult at such a young age, but Eissele 
believes Izzy’s success can be attributed to her 
unique skill set. 
“She is unique in the female game,” Eissele 
said. “There are very few players that want to 
take players on, one-on-one. It's very difficult 
to teach, and she has it.”
It takes exceptional maturity to play a game 
thousands of miles from home, a strength 
which Izzy’s mother can attest to. 
“I almost think Izzy has always been old,” 
Jannete said. “Just because of her focus, it’s 
always just been on soccer and school.” 
And while most high schoolers spend a 
Tuesday night in October studying or watching 
Netflix, Izzy spent it by floating a 92nd minute, 
left-footed effort over the Uruguayan keeper. 
Her strike clinched a 3-1 victory for her country 
and sent 18,000 Chileans at the Estadio El 
Teniente into a frenzy. 
“I was really excited, but I was also really 
surprised,” Izzy said. “I wasn't expecting 
to score a goal to be honest, but I was super 
excited once it happened. It was probably the 
best night of my entire life.”
Izzy was a fully fledged international 
before signing to play collegiate soccer. She 
committed to Florida in November 2019.
“At UF, the culture is really tight-knit, and 
I really like that,” Kadzban said regarding her 
decision to commit to Florida. “I also really 
liked how Becky Burleigh is super involved, 
not only in soccer stuff but in players’ lives as 
well.”
Florida soccer coach Becky Burleigh’s interest in the Rapa Nui starlet was fueled by 
Izzy’s character off the pitch as much as her 
ability on it.
“Becky is more concerned about the 
character of her players than how good they 
are on the pitch,” Eissele said. “Izzy is a great 
kid and a really hard worker. So most of my 
conversations with Becky were about her 
character. We already knew she was a great 
player.”
Kadzban’s grandmother has already 
returned to Easter Island, and the freshman 
attacker hopes to join her grandmother in 
living on the island at some point. 
For now, though, Izzy will traverse SEC 
country and travel between three continents. 
She hopes to join many of her international 
teammates in playing professional soccer 
in the National Women’s Soccer League or 
somewhere around the world after her career 
in Gainesville comes to an end. 
While she didn’t see much playing time 
with the Gators this season, recording a 
season-high 13 minutes against Tennessee, 
Izzy bonded with her teammates off the 
field. She participated in Black Lives Matter 
protests, including the Aug. 28 demonstration 
in Gainesville.
Wherever Izzy goes, her Rapa Nui pride, 
and her flag, will always come along for the 
ride. 
“Honestly, being Rapa Nui is one of the 
things that I am most proud of,” Izzy said. 
“Mostly because of how proud I am to be 
my grandmother's granddaughter. I'm really 
proud of her, and I feel really close to her.”
@dawalsh_UF
dwalsh@alligator.orgEaster Island to Gainesville: Documenting Izzy Kadzban’s journey to international soccer
Courtesy to The Alligator
Kadzban dribbles the ball on a run during the Gators' Covid Cup scrimmage on 
Thursday, August 20, 2020 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium in Gainesville, Florida.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Kadzban holds the Rapa Nui flag. The 
flag depicts a Reimiro, a moon-shaped 
ornament worn by Easter Island natives, 
and two heads at each end of it.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2020
escanear escanear aquíaquí
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
FOOTBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
So far, Dan Mullen cleared his biggest 
hurdle.
His Florida Gators (finally) defeated 
the Georgia Bulldogs under his tenure 
as head coach. That opens up his 
second hurdle: Barring any particularly 
unforeseen circumstances, UF will find 
itself in the SEC Championship Game for 
the first time under Mullen.
But if the Gators play like they did 
against Kentucky on Saturday, they won’t 
celebrate the feat for long.
Florida has started slow the last two 
games. It ended the first half leading 17-
10 against a winless Vanderbilt team, 
and at the end of the half on Saturday, 
it led Kentucky by only four points, 14-
10. Both games saw adjustments from the 
Gators: UF only allowed seven points in 
the second half of the Vanderbilt game 
and gave up none in the second half of 
Saturday’s game against the Wildcats, and 
the offense scored 21 and 20 points in the 
second half of both games, respectively.
“I think (the team was) probably a 
little disappointed with how they played 
in that first half,” Mullen said after the 
Kentucky game.
When the Gators get to the SEC 
Championship, though, they’ll likely 
be met by college football’s tyrannical 
empire in the Alabama Crimson Tide. And the Crimson Tide don’t start slow.
In fact, Alabama has yet to have a first 
half of football this year without scoring 
at least 20 points. They score 26 points 
on average in the first half compared 
to Florida’s 24.6, and across the last 
two games, the Tide have outscored the 
Gators in the first half 49-27.
Quite frankly, managing only seven 
offensive points against the Wildcats in 
the first half — the other seven came on 
special teams due to a punt return from 
wideout Kadarius Toney — won’t cut it 
against quite a few teams in the SEC, 
much less its fiercest combatant.
The defense hasn’t been giving up 
many points to these types of teams. 
However, allowing Vanderbilt to march 
down the field and score on its first drive 
and letting Kentucky tie the game early in 
the second quarter are the types of plays 
that prompt Mullen to start screaming at 
defensive coordinator Todd Grantham on 
the sideline. Florida managed to make 
the necessary adjustments at the half 
when facing both unranked teams, but 
the Crimson Tide will be harder to adjust 
to when the two squads’ fated clash in 
Atlanta’s steel arena arrives.
Not only has Alabama let up just 10 
second-half points in its last two games, 
it has let up just 13 points total over the 
last three and is allowing just 8.8 points 
per second half all year. The Tide haven’t 
let anyone adjust to their scheme, and Florida shouldn’t count on doing the 
same come the SEC Championship.
If Florida wants to beat Alabama, 
it cannot start slow like it has the past 
two weeks. The Gators need to come 
out fast and bolt down on the defensive 
side of the ball when the game in Atlanta rolls around. If they don’t, they’ll find 
themselves in the same exact spot they 
were in the past two years of Mullen’s 
tenure.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgYou want ‘Bama? Don’t play like Saturday
Courtesy to The Alligator
Tre’Vez Johnson (16), Jesiah Pierre (40) and Rashad Torrence II (22) celebrate in the 
Gators game against Kentucky in The Swamp on Nov. 28.
