We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperFood trucks are coming to campus
See what’s coming today, pg. 5
First Alachua coronavirus case conﬁ  rmed
UF is also asking professors to prepare to go online, pg. 4Florida’s winning streak snapped 
by FSU
The Gators dropped their ﬁ  rst game of the 
season on Tuesday night losing to Florida St. 
2-0, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 67
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
STUDENTS FOR BERNIE
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Will Hudgins, a 19-year-old UF computer science freshman, and Sophia Prendiville, a 
19-year-old UF mathematics freshman, take a photo with a cutout of Vermont Sen. Bernie 
Sanders in front of the Reitz Union. 
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
When Khadijah Dabo votes, she’s voting for 
three people instead of one. 
Dabo, the daughter of Senegalese immigrants 
who are unable to vote in U.S. elections, said she 
wasn’t necessarily raised with a “roadmap” of 
American politics. Rather than parties, her parents 
raised her on principles: to be respectful, open-
minded and honest. 
But when she goes to the polls, she has herself 
and her parents to think about.
She said these values have helped shape her 
political views, which have increasing importance.
“It affects them,” Dabo, a 20-year-old UF health 
science sophomore, said. “If they were deported, 
where would that put my family?”
It’s personal questions that could compel Dabo 
to vote more liberally or conservatively.
Eighty-four percent of black voters are either 
Democratic or lean toward the party, while about 8 
percent at least somewhat identify as Republicans, 
according to the Pew Research Center.Although black voters appeared to favor former 
Vice President Joe Biden on Super Tuesday, younger 
black voters brought a different perspective to the 
polls, according to The Guardian.
In search for a candidate who will address 
problems that speciﬁ  cally affect the black 
community, many black voters including Dabo, 
have aligned with Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders for 
president.
Dabo said she supports Sanders because of his 
promise for an easier pathway to citizenship, which 
she hopes will beneﬁ  t her Senegalese parents, who 
have lived in the U.S. for more than two decades.  
She said her mother always talks about how 
difﬁ  cult it is for her to ﬁ  nd work and travel because 
of her immigration status.
“She loves to travel, and she’s kind of just stuck 
in the states,” Dabo said. “She can’t go anywhere 
because she wouldn’t be able to come back.”
Dabo also believes in affordable and equal 
access to healthcare. She trusts that Sanders’ 78 PERCENT OF MUSLIM 
AMERICANS APPROVED OF 
PRESIDENT OBAMA
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
As a Muslim, Wafaa Ateyah said 
she felt most vulnerable during the 
2016 presidential election.
Weeks after President Donald 
Trump’s initial proposal of a ban 
on predominantely Muslim coun-
tries, Ateyah was riding on an RTS 
bus from campus to the Oaks Mall 
when someone got on, pointed at 
her and mouthed the words “f--- 
you.”
She stayed silent.
Ateyah, a 22-year-old Egyptian-
American UF alumna and associate 
research coordinator in the univer-
sity’s psychology department, said 
this wasn’t the ﬁ  rst time she real-
ized her faith had become a target. 
For her, these challenges as a 
Muslim woman have only wors-
ened under Trump’s administra-
tion. Even pumping gas in her car 
while wearing a hijab has become a 
source of anxiety, Ateyah said. 
With more than one million reg-
istered Muslim voters in the U.S, 
the group is expected to be a decid-
ing factor in the 2020 elections, ac-
cording to a press release from The 
Council on American-Islamic Re-
lations, America’s largest Muslim 
civil liberties organization.
The organization added that 
they believe the election season is 
continuing to fuel anti-Muslim and 
anti-immigrant hate. They believe it 
was rise as Election Day approach-
es. 
Only 16 percent of Muslim 
Americans approve of Trump as 
president, according to a 2019 sur-
vey from The Institute of Policy 
and Understanding or ISPU. This 
number dropped drastically from 
2016, when surveys showed that 
78 percent of Muslim Americans 
approved of then-President Barack 
Obama.
“Whether it’s the stares that 
you’re going to get, or just the ver-
bal attacks that you’re going to get 
or even in your place of worship,” 
Ateyah said that she’s experienced DACA RECIPIENTS AND 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
WEIGH IN ON PRIMARIES
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michell Hernandez and Saira 
Gonzalez do not exist. 
The two are undeﬁ  ned in UF’s eyes, 
marked down as resident aliens despite 
not being residents. Their status as 
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals 
(DACA) recipients has left them feeling 
conﬁ  ned, they said. 
Students like them are affected 
from the get-go, Gonzalez said. 
Preview is exciting for most, but hard 
for undocumented students who 
know they could be pulled aside and 
told something is wrong with their 
documentation, or that they are not 
eligible for ﬁ  nancial aid. 
“The things that most students 
experience, we are very isolated in,” 
Hernandez said.
Hernandez, a 22-year-old 
microbiology and cell science senior, 
is the co-president of immigrant rights 
group UF Chispas. Gonzalez, an 
18-year-old anthropology sophomore, 
is the group’s assistant membership 
director. They immigrated from Mexico 
at 1 and 3 years old, respectively.
Hernandez and Gonzalez are two of 
2.2 million temporary lawful residents 
in the U.S., according to Pew Research. 
Their status permits their residence 
in the United States even though they 
are undocumented, but makes them 
unable to vote in the upcoming Florida 
primary election on March 17, further 
setting them apart from fellow students. 
Still, like many other students 
who won’t be able to cast a ballot, 
their history has them invested in the 
election, where they try to make their 
voices heard. 
Civic duty
Hernandez and Gonzalez have lived 
in the United States their entire lives, 
ﬁ  rst applying for DACA at 16 years old. 
The program allows undocumented 
immigrants who were brought to the 
U.S. as children to be granted residency, 
renewable every two years.
It is estimated that half of eligible 
recipients are in high school or college, 
according to the Hechinger Report. 
DACA was rescinded in 2017, and What do black UF students want 
from presidential candidates?UF Muslims 
have 
concerns for 
safety, policyDACA students 
rely on others 
to vote
SEE CAN’T VOTE,  PAGE 6SEE BLACK VOTERS,  PAGE 6 SEE MUSLIM,  PAGE 6Older black voters appeared to favor former 
Vice President Joe Biden on Super Tuesday
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
This series of stories is a part of The 
Alligator’s coverage on how minority 
communities and UF students feel 
about the 2020 presidential primary 
election, candidates and policy. Read 
current and future coverage of these 
issues online at bitly:/ /ifa.news/2020. T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  81° LOW  55°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Early Voting
When: Now until March 14 
from 9 a.m.-6 p.m. 
Where: Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections Office, 
Tower Road Branch Library, 
Millhopper Branch Library, 
Legacy Park Multipurpose 
Center, Orange Heights Baptist 
Church, Reitz Union
What: Alachua County 
residents can decide on the 
party nomination for the 
U.S. presidential election. 
In addition, Gainesville 
residents can decide on city 
commissioners for District 2, 3 
and an at-large seat.
THURSDAY
Local Comedy Showcase 
When: 8 p.m. 
Where: High Dive, located at 
210 SW Second Ave.
What: High Dive hosts a local 
comedy showcase headlined 
by Surfer Jesus and featuring 
other local comedians 
including Lunchbox, Allie 
Markwich, Niousha, Jacob 
Wall, Adam Brown, Emma 
Porter and AJ Hentges. If you 
want to be featured in the show, 
you can email highdivegville@
gmail.com. Tickets are $6 in 
advance and $8 on the day 
of the show. Must be 18 or 
older unless accompanied by 
a parent or guardian. There is 
a $3 additional fee for anyone 
under 21 years old. 
FRIDAY
Up All Night: A One Direction 
and Jonas Brothers Night!
Where: TheSL8, located at 10 
E. University Ave.
When: 10 p.m.-1:30 a.m.
What: Pure Nostalgia hosts a 
dance night that will feature 
the music of One Direction, 
the Jonas Brothers and the 
solo careers of each member. The event will feature photo 
opportunities and themed 
drinks. General Admission 
is $10 and a $15 ticket will 
get attendees entry and two 
themed drinks. Must be 18 or 
older to attend.
Moonlight Market
Where: The AUK Market, 
located at 2031 NW Sixth St.
When: 5-9 p.m.
What: The Moonlight Market 
will have a selection of 
handmade goods, plants, 
vintage goods and art from 
local vendors. Attendees can 
have coffee and tea at Curia On 
The Drag and Don Miller will 
play music hosted by Curia 
Radio. Dad’s Bar will also have 
a menu of alcoholic beverages 
available to drink. The event is 
free to attend.
SATURDAY
Murder at the Casino
Where: Cyprus & Grove 
Brewing Company, located at 
1001 NW Fourth St.
When: 6-10 p.m.
What: Y-Not Theatre presents 
“Murder at the Casino,” an 
interactive murder-mystery 
experience. Upon arrival 
to Cypress & Grove, guests 
will be given two envelopes 
that will include character 
traits and clues to help solve 
the mystery and will work 
together to find the killer. 
Light refreshments, a silent 
auction and casino-themed 
games are also featured at the 
event. Tickets are $20.
SwampCon: HACKED
Where: Reitz Union, located 
at 686 Museum Road
When: 9:30 a.m.
What: SwampCon is a free 
convention held on UF’s 
campus that is student-
organized and volunteer-run. 
This year, it will be held with a “Hacked” theme, paying 
tribute to cyberpunk movies 
and role-playing games from 
the past. The event will include 
vendors and artists, multiple 
panels, a costume contest, 
an art room and much more. 
SwampCon begins on Saturday 
and will run into Sunday. 
Gainesville Food Truck Rally
Where: High Dive, located at 
210 SW Second Ave.
When: 5-11 p.m.
What: High Dive holds a 
food truck rally for Aces in 
Motion, a Gainesville charity 
focusing on at-risk or disabled 
youth. Attendees can vote for 
their favorite food truck with 
a donation, and the winning 
food truck will receive a prize 
from a local sponsor. More 
than 10 local vendors will 
have food trucks for the event 
and live music will be played 
inside High Dive beginning 
at 6 p.m. The event is free to 
attend. Vegan and vegetarian 
options are available. 
SUNDAY
Third Annual Community Arts 
Fest
Where: 516 NE Second Ave.
When: 2-5:30 p.m.
What: The Third Annual 
Community Arts Fest will 
feature an orchestra of acoustic 
instruments performing the 
folk tune “Shenandoah.” 
Anyone who owns an 
acoustic instrument is free to 
rehearse with the group, and 
participants will perform along 
with the Star Center Theatre 
and the Caring and Sharing 
Learning School. Scenes from 
the story of the song will also 
be acted out silently as the 
orchestra plays. The event is 
free to attend. 
TEDxUF 2020: Paradox
Where: The Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts, located at 
3201 Hull Road
When: 12-5 p.m.
What: TEDxUF: Paradox is 
a free TEDxUF conference 
that seeks to bring UF and 
Gainesville communities 
together. The event will feature 
numerous guest speakers, 
community labs, food trucks 
and more. A livestream will be 
provided for those who cannot 
attend the event. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 67
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorCopy Desk Chiefs
Katelynn Joyner, kjoyner@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, Annie Hassan, 
Manny ReaEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
Sweet T ea performs in her second outfit during the University Club Drag Race show Monday night. 
She is the current reigning champion.T atiana Azalea and Alexia Fantasia compete in a lip sync battle for 
the chance to stay on the University Club Drag Race show Monday 
night. The two performed to the song “Unpretty” by TLC.Aurora Whorealis performs Monday night during the University 
Club Drag Race show, where the theme was “Why Would She Wear 
That?” She bases her look on her love for embroidery.
And...pose!
Eight drag queens competed 
for the best ugly haute 
couture look during the 
University Club Drag Race  
show Monday night. The 
show featured performances 
by two co-hosts and the 
reigning champion from a 
previous drag race. There 
was also a cake-eating 
competition and lip sync 
battle to determine which 
drag queens would return to 
compete next week. 
Photos by Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
IT WILL LIKEL Y BE 
REQUIRED SOON 
By Hannah Phillips and 
Alex DeLuca
Alligator Staff Writers
The ﬁ  rst case of coronavirus in Ala-
chua County has been conﬁ  rmed as a 
68-year-old Georgia woman, said Ala-
chua County Department of Health ad-
ministrator Paul Myers.
Myers said anyone who has recently 
come in contact with her has been iden-
tiﬁ  ed and quarantined. Her exposures in 
Alachua County are “minimal” and the 
risk is low.
When asked if anyone at UF had 
been potentially exposed, Myers said he 
was “not going to get into those details.” 
In order to prepare for a potential out-
break of the virus, UF Public Affairs sent 
out an email Monday notifying students 
that UF Provost Joe Glover instructed faculty to start moving their in-person 
classes online to combat the spread of 
the coronavirus. 
Though it is not currently a require-
ment, there is a “strong probability” 
that classes will be online by the end of 
Spring semester, according to the email. 
UF’s chief information ofﬁ  cer concluded 
after several evaluations that UF has the 
technical capacity to move fully online, 
said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
A group of “senior leadership” from 
UF Emergency Management and the UF 
Student Health Care Center is meeting 
often to discuss the next steps, Orlando 
said. One of these steps may be to al-
low UF faculty to work exclusively from 
home. 
“The situation is changing so rap-
idly, you know, all options are being dis-
cussed,” Orlando said. “We have to look 
into the future at what could happen.”
As of Tuesday night, eight more coro-
navirus cases were conﬁ  rmed in Florida, 
according to the Florida Department of Health. Though 
Monday’s email 
was the ﬁ  rst 
campus-wide 
announcement, 
some professors 
began making 
the change over 
spring break. 
“In the inter-
est of reducing infection among the cam-
pus community over the next weeks, I 
urge you to go online only,” wrote Eric 
Triplett, the UF microbiology and cell sci-
ence department chair and professor, in 
an email to his colleagues Wednesday. 
Princeton, Columbia, Harvard and 
Stanford universities have all made simi-
lar moves. Florida State University has 
also begun to consider transitioning to 
online classes, according to The Talla-
hassee Democrat. 
Kalie Januszkiewicz, a 20-year-old 
UF microbiology sophomore, said she 
was disappointed to learn over spring break that two of her classes, astrobiol-
ogy and molecular genetics, were mov-
ing entirely online. 
Her astrobiology professor works for 
NASA, Januszkiewicz said, and her ge-
netics professor is eccentric. They’re her 
favorite professors, and she’ll miss see-
ing them in person. 
She said she isn’t looking forward to 
using online classes, where the amount 
of reading and lecture material can 
quickly pile up. 
“It’s the microbiology department, so 
I guess they have to lead by example,” 
she said. 
On Tuesday, Gator Dining Services 
sent an email to students notifying them 
that its employees would wash their 
hands every 15 minutes, change out 
utensils out every 20 minutes, sanitize 
high-touch areas such as doors every 30 
minutes and discontinue reusable cups. 
UF sent an announcement March 2 
requesting that all students and employ-
ees returning to UF from China, South Korea, Italy or Iran self-quarantine, or 
isolate themselves, for 14 days before 
returning to campus. 
Aside from 41 students and two 
faculty members, who were asked to 
self-quarantine after traveling to Italy 
for a study abroad program, Orlando 
said there is no way to know how many 
people have traveled to “high-risk” 
countries. 
It is almost certain that there are fac-
ulty and students who have traveled in-
ternationally that the university does not 
know about, he said. 
“Here’s the challenge we’re facing: 
We know who’s traveled overseas if 
they are on ofﬁ  cial university business 
and have registered with the Interna-
tional Center,” he said. “But that’s not 
everybody.”
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.org 
@AlexLDeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgFirst Alachua coronavirus case reported; UF starts going online
4,700 PEOPLE HAVE VOTED
By Anna Wilder 
Alligator Staff Writer
Coronavirus may have disrupted classes and 
events, but it hasn’t stopped Gainesville residents 
from voting early.
Early voting hasn’t decreased, said TJ Pyche, the 
spokesperson of Alachua County’s Supervisor of Elec-tions office. About 4,700 people have voted early this 
year, which is 600 more than those who voted early 
in 2016.
The first case of coronavirus in Alachua County 
was confirmed Tuesday night, said Paul Myers, the 
county’s director for the state health department. UF 
is also asking staff to prepare to switch its classes on-
line. 
“I don’t think we have any way of knowing if the 
coronavirus will affect voting, but our office is making preparations to prepare for it if it does,” Pyche said. 
Pyche also said voting stations are being wiped 
down and cleaned under guidelines from the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Pyche said there aren’t any provisions for quaran-
tined voters, but if conditions were to get to that point, 
the office would reach out to the Florida Department 
of State and assess.
Steven Noll, a UF history professor, said the 1918 
flu pandemic was the last time a virus like corona-virus affected so many. It caused 50 million deaths, 
compared with the more than 4,000 who have died 
from coronavirus.
Noll said that the coronavirus could affect voting 
this November, but not the students. 
“I don’t think students are worried about it at all, 
they’re much less worried than old people,” Noll said. 
@anna_wilder
awilder@alligator.orgEarly voting sites taking extra measures in midst of coronavirusCOVID-19
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
EXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
ELECTION DAY: TUESDAY, MARCH 17
EARLY VOTING FROM FRIDAY, MARCH 6UF Graduate 1983
College of Agriculture
Degree in Food Science
Served as Senior Biological 
Scientist for Interdisciplinary 
Center for Biotechnology
“MOVE GAINESVILLE FORWARD”
Paid political advertisement approved by Scherwin Henry for Gainesville City Commission At-Large, Seat 2FOR GAINESVILLE CITY 
COMMISSION AT-LARGE, SEAT 2VOTE FOR
HENRYSCHERWIN
EXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
EXPERIENCE    LEADERSHIP    VISION
WWW. SCHERWINHENRY .COM
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
THE BILL PROPOSED FLORIDA POL YTECHNIC 
UNIVERSITY AND NEW COLLEGE OF FLORIDA 
MERGE WITH UF
By Elisabell Velazquez
Alligator Contributing Writer
In less than a month, proposed bill HB 7087, which 
would merge Florida Polytechnic University and New 
College of Florida with UF, died in the Florida House of 
Representatives Friday.
The proposal was sponsored by Randy Fine, House 
Higher Education Appropriations Subcommittee Chair-
man. 
Originally, the bill would merge FPU with UF and 
NCF with Florida State University. After a few amend-
ments, it changed to suggest the merge of both the 
independent colleges with UF. 
FPU is located in Lakeland, and NCF is in Sarasota.
In a Higher Education Appropriations Subcommittee 
meeting Feb. 28, Fine said that making FPU and NCF 
independent were political decisions driven by power-
ful legislators at the time.
“Frankly, when we do things that are driven largely 
by politics, they generally turn out to be mistakes,” 
Fine said.
Fine argued the consolidation of the colleges would 
save money, but he did not specify the exact numbers.
The faculty, students and graduates of the two in-dependent colleges did not agree with the idea of the 
proposed bill. 
Donal O’Shea, president of NCF, said the plan was 
hastily conceived without proper study, discussion and 
public comment. 
“New College is one of the best-valued colleges 
in the country,” O’Shea said. “It has achieved many 
marks of greatness since becoming an independent 
public college, but lumping it under UF will cause it 
to lose its special identity and its national rankings.”
Kyley Miller, an incoming NCF freshman, said the 
bill left too many questions unanswered.“I wanted to go to New College because of its 
unique curriculum, but for it to be merged with anoth-
er school, that’s not what I signed up for,” Miller said.
FPU spokesperson Lydia Guzmán said the merger 
bill would take away from the university’s distin-
guished curriculum. 
“Each university offers something different,” 
Guzmán said. “Our university offers a very unique op-
portunity for students to immerse themselves in a cur-
riculum that is 100 percent for STEM.”
Prior to becoming independent colleges, FPU and 
NCF were part of the University of South Florida. 
Matthew Bermudez, a prospective FPU student, said 
he chose the university because of the STEM program 
and hands-on experience offered at the college.
“Having a school directly based on math and sci-
ence was a big deciding factor for me, but if the bill 
(was) passed, the advantages of why I am going to 
Florida Polytechnic University would no longer be ad-
vantages,” Bermudez said.
The university would have worked with the gov-
ernor, legislature and the rest of the State University 
System if the merge occurred, UF President Kent Fuchs 
wrote in an email.
“We remain focused on UF’s primary legislative 
agenda to bring resources to our existing campus and 
existing offsite locations... that will help the University 
of Florida earn sustained recognition as one of our na-
tion’s top five public universities,” Fuchs wrote.Merger plan dies in Florida House of Representatives
Courtesy to The Alligator 
Florida Polytechnic University, located in Lakeland, will 
not merge with UF.
THERE WILL BE A DIFFERENT 
FOOD TRUCK ONCE A WEEK
By Charlene Medders
Alligator Contributing Writer
The center of UF’s campus will have a 
new food service.
UF Business Services is beginning a tri-
al run for four food trucks to sell food on 
campus once a week for four weeks, said 
Jenn Moyer, the spokesperson for Busi-
ness Services.
The food trucks will be available 
Wednesdays from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on 
the grass lot between Fifield Hall and the 
microbiology building near Lake Alice.
There will be a different truck selling 
food each week starting Wednesday, Moy-
er said.
Big Island Bowls, a food truck that sells acai bowls, will be the first to start the 
trial.
Selling burgers and fries, Loagies will 
be the next food truck available March 18, 
Moyer said. PDQ, a fast-food chicken res-
taurant, will be on campus on March 25. 
To finish the trial, Soup to Nuts, a food 
truck that sells soups and sandwiches, 
will be on campus on sApril 1.
Staff at the Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences requested business ser-
vices to perform the trial, Moyer said.
“People on that side of campus have 
been asking for food services, but it is 
very hard to build there,” Moyer said. 
“Hopefully, we can give them some bet-
ter options, and they won’t have to leave 
their office.”
Eric Triplett, professor and chair of the 
microbiology and cell sciences depart-
ment of IFAS, requested food truck ser-vices last Fall semester, and Business Ser-
vices started working with him.
Triplett said that he thinks there is a 
big need for food services at that loca-
tion because there are five departments 
of IFAS in the area, and there are enough 
people to support a weekly food truck ser-
vice. He thinks there are not enough food 
options for the number of people there.
Triplett believes there will be a positive 
reaction to the food truck services start-
ing, and it will have good results.
“This is a great opportunity to get food 
around campus without building any 
more infrastructures,” Triplett said.
Wilcley Lima, the associate director of 
Business Services, said the idea for the 
food truck has been going on for a couple 
of months. He expects a turnout of more 
than 100 customers. 
“The location chosen is an area where there are too few people to support a per-
manent food service location, but there 
are enough people where a food truck 
may make sense,” Lima said.
Lima said the food trucks do not have 
a formal relationship with UF, but they 
operate as subcontractors with  UF’s food 
service provider Aramark. 
He said that Aramark has worked with 
these food trucks for several years, and 
they have sold food on campus before for 
special events like Gator Growl.Food trucks to serve acai bowls, chicken near Lake Alice
Food trucks coming to UF
March 11: Big Island Bowls — acai 
bowls 
March 18: Loagies — burger and fries
March 25: PDQ — chicken 
April 1: Soup to Nuts — soups and 
sandwiches 6   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
acts of xenophobia, racism and Islamophobia 
that she feels have been normalized under the 
current administration.
Ateyah said an ideal administration is a trans -
parent one that amplifies the voices of all peo -
ple and encourages a culture of care, especially 
when it comes to issues such as healthcare, im -
migration and the environment. 
For her, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders embod -
ies this ideal. 
Sanders has won the support of U.S. Reps. 
Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib, the first two 
Muslim women elected to the House, as well as 
EMGAGE, one of the biggest Muslim political ac -
tion committees in the nation.
“His political history speaks for itself,” Ateyah 
said. 
Ateyah said Sanders has continuously advo -
cated and fought for the rights of all marginal -
ized, oppressed and underserved people. She 
said it’s important to elect a president who prior -
itizes the needs of the people over personal gain.
“Bernie is the type of leader that will make 
sure everyone is at the table and no one has to 
go through a continuous cycle of struggle to have 
their experiences heard and validated.” 
Sana Nimer, the current UF district B sena -
tor and former 2018-19 president of UF Islam On 
Campus, said she believes the current presidency 
has brought out “so much of the hatred that al -
ready existed.”
There have been more than 20 anti-Muslim at -
tacks on mosques in Florida since 2005, accord -
ing to the American Civil Liberties Union. 
 The 22-year-old UF biomedical engineering 
senior cited Trump’s statements, such as “I think 
Islam hates us,” as well as his plan for a “total 
and complete” shutdown of Muslims entering 
the United States.She said she and Muslims across the nation 
are still recovering from the 2019 New Zealand 
mosque shooting and the 2015 execution-style 
murder of three Muslim college students in 
North Carolina.
Nimer said that not only as a woman, but as a 
Muslim Palestinian American, she feels like she 
must be hyper-aware of her surroundings at all 
times. 
“It’s just that fear that no matter what you do, 
there’s always a threat,” Nimer said. 
While Nimer declined to say who she’s sup -
porting this upcoming election, she said it’s im -
portant to her that foreign policy issues such as 
the ethnic cleansing of Uighur Muslims and the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict are addressed by po -
tential candidates. 
There are only a few candidates who have a 
history of supporting the views they preach, she 
said. 
“We’re not asking for much,” Nimer said. 
“We just want to be able to just like live safely 
without having to worry that we’re going to be 
attacked at any moment.”
Although a new president may not get rid 
of this threat that she and other Muslims face, 
Nimer said that it does play a role in national 
acceptance of acts of hatred fueled by racism, 
xenophobia and Islamophobia.
“It’s a lot less encouraging for people to 
commit conflicts like that once they know that 
they’re not being supported by the head of state 
and not literally be cheered for at rallies for stuff 
like that,” Nimer said.
People died to give us the right to vote, Nimer 
said. She said that anyone able to honor those 
who sacrificed their lives for this right should 
use their vote to do so.
“Don’t underestimate the power of your 
vote,” Nimer said. 
@SLagmis
Slagmis@alligator.orgMUSLIM,  from pg. 116% approve Trump
Medicare for All plan could effectively 
address the racial and socioeconomic 
disparities experienced by the black 
community. 
Through her studies as a health 
science student, she said she’s learned 
about how the quality of healthcare 
for people of color can be negatively 
affected by Eurocentric research, 
or research that focuses on white 
people, and doesn’t account for how 
healthcare could differently affect the 
black community, she said. 
Because people of color are 
disproportionately in lower 
socioeconomic levels, they are often 
unequally able to get the healthcare 
they need.
“The healthcare system is 
neglecting lots of minorities and 
making health care access difficult,” 
Dabo said.
Sanders has large appeal among 
college students because of his goal 
to provide free college and cancel 
student debt, said Michlyne Bellas, a 
Haitian 20-year-old.
As a UF business administration 
junior, Bellas said she previously 
favored capitalism because she 
thought it was best for economic 
growth. 
But after learning more 
about socialism through social 
organizations, she now believes that 
capitalism is anti-black, citing the 
inability for many black people to 
move up socially because of a lack of 
generational wealth stemming from slavery.
“We don’t have a lot of luck with 
ownership within our population,” 
she said, “and that can be perpetuated 
to the exclusion of black and brown 
people within the top one percent.”
In the primaries, Bellas said she 
will likely vote for Sanders, a self-
proclaimed democratic socialist, 
because she believes socialism 
could benefit Americans in the black 
community who are disenfranchised.
On the other hand, Bellas’ parents 
plan to vote for Biden.
“They are looking for someone 
who can promote stability, someone 
who can actually get stuff done,” she 
said.
Bellas said that while her parents 
don’t support socialism because 
they associate it with an unstable 
government, she believes her 
experience as a college student has 
allowed her to become more educated 
on its benefits.
Even though she already has an 
idea of who she’s voting for, Bellas 
still wants to be more informed before 
casting her ballot at the end of the 
week. 
To do this, she said she planned 
to attend a town hall hosted by UF’s 
Black Student Union on Wednesday, 
which will help educate attendees on 
the 2020 presidential candidates.
“I don’t want to be a one-issue 
voter,” Bellas said. “I’m trying to be 
the most educated voter possible.”
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgBLACK VOTERS,  from pg. 184% of them are left-leaning
about 800,000 recipients live in 
uncertainty as this action’s legitimacy 
is being decided on in the Supreme 
Court. Having lost her DACA status 
and protections in the past before she 
could pay the $500 it cost to renew it, 
Hernandez is familiar with worries 
of being pushed into an unfamiliar 
country, she said. 
“All I really have known is the 
United States,” Hernandez said.
In her home town of Ruskin, 
Florida, Gonzalez has seen families 
like hers torn apart and community 
members held in detention centers. 
While her status has helped in 
pursuing her career goals, Gonzalez 
said she is limited in her options and 
fears the threat of deportation that 
looms over her family.
“It’s up in the air, and it’s kind of 
like our lives are up in the air, too,” 
she said.
Both said they have a deep sense 
of voting’s importance. Gonzalez 
said she sees voting as a way to 
express your opinion and support 
others politically. She understands 
its weight since she cannot vote 
herself. 
“It’s just an important thing to do, 
and I think a lot of people take it for 
granted,” Gonzalez said.
Sai Chickakuragodu, president 
of UF Volunteers for International 
Student Affairs, said he has seen 
voter apathy firsthand. 
Growing up in Ocala, Florida, 
Chickakuragodu did not have the rights of a regular citizen. The 
21-year-old microbiology junior was 
born in India and moved to the U.S. 
when he was 3 years old. 
This is his first election since he 
became a U.S. citizen in January. 
It was not a simple process. 
Chickakuragodu was threatened 
with deportation in 2007 after a 
mistake from his family’s lawyers, 
he said. He dropped out of school 
and his dad lost his job.
“It was kind of a chaotic period,” 
he said.
But Chickakuragodu became 
politically active after this and 
spent 2016 and 2018 canvassing 
for election candidates, he said. 
Knocking on every door in Ocala, 
he was struck by the lack of interest 
while he was trying so hard to be 
able to vote.
“It was just really frustrating to 
see voter apathy growing up,” he 
said.
However, people in other countries 
care deeply about American politics, 
according to Annie Ratsathanuwati. 
The 22-year-old accounting junior 
from Thailand is one of more than 
6,000 international students at UF, 
and said she has a longstanding 
relationship with American politics. 
Ratsathanuwati remembers her 
fifth grade teachers holding a poll on 
who the students thought would win 
the U.S. presidential election. Later 
while studying abroad in Germany, 
she recalled following the 2016 
election. All of her classmates were 
interested in American politics, and 
she still is.“I just feel like the U.S. can really 
shape the future of the world,” she 
said. “It’s just interesting for me to 
see where this is going.”
As another international student, 
Hamza Albasit, a Pakistani 22-year-
old economics and information 
systems senior, finds himself 
engrossed in the same way, he said. 
He has experienced politics back 
home, in Norway where he attended 
high school and in the United States, 
all of which differ significantly, he 
said. 
He remembers being alarmed 
after talking to people who didn’t 
vote in 2016 because they thought 
their ballot would be insignificant.
“As Americans I thought that 
people would feel a civic duty to 
do it,” Albasit said. “It’s completely 
irrational to not go and put your 
voice in it.”
Political picks
Restricted from sending a ballot, 
these students still maintain interest.
Ratsathanuwati considered 
making a campaign contribution 
to Pete Buttigieg’s campaign before 
he dropped out, but found out 
her donation would be considered 
“foreign intervention.”
While she does not see a particular 
platform as extremely unsound, she 
is unsure if any candidate would 
be able to unite a split nation. 
But in spite of polarizing policies, 
Ratsathanuwati believes candidates 
can see eye to eye environmentally.
“I really believe in climate 
change. I know a lot of democratic 
candidates believe that too,” she 
said. “That’s something that I think 
all of them have in common.”Albasit said he is ideologically 
left-leaning after his time spent in 
Norway, seeing what he believes is 
the better side of socialism through 
policies like universal healthcare. His 
favorite candidate is Bernie Sanders.
“He has been consistent over the 
years,” Albasit said. “The issues that 
he says are important right now he 
was vocal about before as well.” 
Chickakuragodu was leaning 
toward voting for Elizabeth Warren 
before she dropped out for her strong 
ability to put the pressure on big 
banks and CEOs, but now supports 
Sanders because their goals are 
similar, he said. 
UF Chispas is a nonpartisan 
organization seeking to expose people to information on 
immigration, helping them decide 
if they want to vote for a candidate 
based on those facts. Hernandez and 
Gonzalez pursue this goal without 
expressing their own affiliations, 
they said.
But Hernandez believes people 
should strive to know what they’re 
voting for because the perspectives 
and policies of each candidate differ 
drastically, she said. 
“Trying to understand the holistic 
approach of a candidate and what 
you’re voting for is important,” 
Hernandez said. “I would like 
people to vote on my behalf with the 
privilege and power that comes with 
the right to vote.”CAN’T VOTE,  from pg.1 They still make voices heard
Carly Blum // Alligator Staff
Michell Hernandez, a 22-year-old UF microbiology and cell science 
senior, and Saira Gonzalez, an 18-year-old UF anthropology 
sophomore, work with UF Chispas. Both are DACA recipients, 
and Hernandez is co-president, while Gonzalez is the assistant 
membership director. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
STORY:GNV to be held Saturday at the 
Cade Museum 
The storytelling conference, hosted by Self Narrate,  
will feature T erri Bailey, Lanette Hart and more. Men’s Baseball falls to Florida State
The Gators were shut out by the Seminoles 2-0 on Tuesday 
night pg, 11
THURSDAY, MARCH  12, 6 – 9 PM
FREE FOOD + ADMISSION
Made possible by UF Student Government 
and the Office of the Provost.harn.ufl.edu/museumnights
FREE FOOD + ADMISSION
FREE FOOD + ADMISSION
ASIA
CREATES
Applications for the class of 2024 are available on our website.
www.sacklerschool.org provides extensive information about Sackler SOM
For further information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.orgTHE ACTOR, MUSICIAN AND 
ACTIVIST LIVED IN ALACHUA 
COUNTY FOR FIVE YEARS
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
River Phoenix was 18 when his family 
bought a ranch house on the northern edge 
of Paynes Prairie in 1988, according to the 
Gainesville Sun.
From an early age, Phoenix established 
himself as one of America’s brightest young 
talents. His breakout role as Chris Chambers 
in the Stephen King ﬁ  lm adaptation of 
“Stand By Me” earned him critical acclaim 
that was later enhanced by his Academy 
Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor 
for “Running on Empty” in 1989.
Aleka’s Attic, a band founded by Phoenix, 
was made up of Josh Greene, drums; Tim 
Hankins, viola; Josh McKay, bass; and his 
sister, Rain, on vocals. The band played 
packed shows in every Gainesville venue 
they could, according to Alan Bushnell, 
owner of Hardback Cafe. 
Bushnell said he was a personal fan of the 
band and understood their popularity in the 
early ’90s Gainesville music scene.
“I always loved the band,” he said. “It 
was very melodic and just very beautiful.”
Bushnell recalls River’s family coming out to the ﬁ  lled venues and going to many other 
bars and venues around downtown.
“His sister Rain Phoenix was in the band 
and little brother Joaquin would come out to 
see them as well,” he said. “It was a family 
affair.”
The band even performed at UF during a 
presidential campaign rally for Bill Clinton 
and Al Gore in October 1992.
After the band’s potential deal with 
Island Records in the early ’90s fell through, 
Aleka’s Attic recorded an album’s worth 
of material with the intent of putting it out 
independently, but the material never got an 
ofﬁ  cial release, according to Variety. 
The band partially recorded the album 
at Mirror Image Studios, which went on to 
become the site of Heartwood Soundstage in 
Gainesville, according to Alligator archives. 
In December 2018, Rain announced on 
Instagram that Aleka’s Attic singles would be 
released. She fulﬁ  lled her promise in January 
2019, by releasing “In the Corner Dunce.”
Aleka’s Attic’s music was more than 
garage rock; for a young band, the music 
was complex. 
River was a spokesperson and advocate 
for veganism and animal rights, and he took 
on challenging roles. In “My Own Private 
Idaho,” he plays a male escort alongside 
Keanu Reeves. 
Michael Tighe, a photographer, was fascinated by the young actor and ﬁ  rst met 
him in 1990.
He ﬂ  ew down from New York City to 
Gainesville to photograph River.
“His family had this beautiful wild piece 
of land on the edge of a swamp,” he wrote  
in Eye of Phorographer Magazine. I was 
there for two days. We smoked pot, drank 
beer, climbed up to his treehouse, swung on 
a rope, bounced on his trampoline and went 
on an alligator hunt just to spot one and we 
did.” 
River and his family celebrated his last 
birthday at Kesl’s Coney Island, a vegetarian 
restaurant he frequented, located in the 
Gainesville City Center, according to the 
Sun-Sentinel.
On Halloween 1993, River died outside 
of the Viper Room in West Hollywood on 
Sunset Boulevard from a combined drug 
overdose. He was 23.  
River was cremated and his ashes were 
scattered under a scrub oak tree on his 
family’s property in Micanopy, according to 
Barry C. Lawrence’s book “In Search of River 
Phoenix: The Truth Behind the Myth.” 
In 2012, the River Phoenix Center for 
Peacebuilding was founded by River’s 
mother, Heart Phoenix, and husband Jeffrey 
Weisberg. The goal of the alliance is to 
enrich the lives of individuals, families and 
communities through peacebuilding and global sustainability.   
When his brother, Joaquin, collected his 
Oscar for Best Actor for his performance in 
“Joker,” he quoted an unreleased song River 
wrote titled “Halo.” 
“Run to the rescue with love, and peace 
will follow.” 
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgRiver Phoenix: old haunts and movements
MUSIC
Alligator Archives 
River Phoenix was the frontman of 
Gainesville alternative rock band 
Aleka’s Attic.  .
By Julia Collins
Avenue Staff Writer
“Dude, we’re getting the band 
back together!” might sound like 
a corny line from a coming-of-age 
ﬁ  lm— and it probably is— but it’s 
also a soundbite that has been used more than 26,300 times and 
counting on popular social media 
application TikTok.
TikTok users can create videos 
using popular “sounds,” which 
can be songs, lines from shows or 
movies, or people’s own voices. 
“Dude, we’re getting the band 
back together!” is a line in a 
song called “Fabulous” from the 
popular Disney Channel show 
“Phineas and Ferb.”
One of the main characters of 
the animated show, Phineas, was 
voiced by Vincent Martella, a 
former UF student. Martella, 27, 
attended UF from 2011 to 2012 
in pursuit of an online business 
degree before “getting too busy” 
with Phineas and Ferb and other 
projects. 
“Sometimes I’ve thought about 
what it would have been like to 
have done the normal college 
experience, especially at a school 
as big as UF,” Martella said. “I’m 
glad I kept up with acting though; 
it’s given me some really amazing 
opportunities.”
Martella said the song 
“Fabulous” was recorded around 
2008 for the ﬁ  rst season of the 
show. “In regards to ‘Fabulous’ 
coming back on TikTok, I ﬁ  nd that hilarious,” Martella said.
Martella is currently working 
on a new Phineas and Ferb 
movie that’s set to be released on 
Disney+ this year, among other 
acting pursuits.
The person who put the song 
“Fabulous” on TikTok and helped 
it become popular wasn’t Martella, 
though. It was Molly Carstens, 
an 18-year-old from Columbus, 
Nebraska.
Carstens originally thought of 
using the sound for a TikTok about 
One Direction she was making.
“I was just watching Phineas 
and Ferb on Disney+ and that 
episode was on,” Carstens said. 
“There were rumors going around 
about a (One Direction) reunion, 
so the sound ﬁ  t quite well.”
The sound is 25 seconds long 
and can be found by searching 
“original sound - mollscar” on the 
TikTok sound search page. 
Carstens also said she didn’t 
expect her sound to become a 
trend. She currently has more than 
32,000 followers on the app under 
the username @mollscar and 
makes videos mostly about One 
Direction and Harry Styles.
Like Carstens, many people use 
TikTok to make creative and fun videos.
Camilo Vivas, a 22-year-
old UF nutritional sciences 
senior, and six others are the 
creative minds behind UF’s 
ofﬁ  cial TikTok page @uf. 
The group is led by Matthew 
Duffy, a 22-year-old UF 
telecommunication senior.
The @uf TikTok account 
currently has more than 
93,600 followers, 1.2 million 
likes and is veriﬁ  ed on the 
app.
“My favorite TikTok 
we have done was the one 
where we told people we 
invented Gatorade,” said 
Kristen Casey, a 20-year-old 
UF advertising junior who 
works for the UF TikTok. 
“It really blew up on TikTok 
more than we thought, 
which was really fun to follow 
as the views and likes went up. 
So many people loved the video 
and really didn’t know Florida 
invented Gatorade.”
Casey and Vivas said that the 
process for creating a UF TikTok 
starts from the ground up. 
“An idea has to not only work 
for the UF brand but also appeal 
to the viewers on each speciﬁ  c 
platform,” Casey said. “We look 
at trends in the media and try and 
go off of that.”
The video clips are then shot 
on their phones and edited with 
Adobe Premiere Pro.
“After getting approved by 
our boss, he will upload it to the account,” Casey said. “And we get 
to watch how the video is received 
on TikTok.”
A new TikTok they are creating 
is using the “Fabulous” audio. 
“Dude we’re getting the band back 
together!” will soon be featured 
on the @uf TikTok page.
The Independent Florida 
Alligator can be found on 
TikTok, under the username @
theﬂ  oridaalligator.
@JuliaAnnCollins
juliacollins@uﬂ  .edu
By Chloe Greenberg
Avenue Staff Writer
Break out your darkest eyeliner and your gaudiest 
studded chokers. It’s prom night.
High Dive is hosting Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst EmoProm “I’m 
Not Okay” Edition Saturday at 9:30 p.m. 
EmoProm is a young touring “emo-DJ-driven” dance 
party with all the classic attributes of a high school 
prom. Having started in December, it’s a mixture of the 
traditional and the counterculture, complete with slow 
dances, prom-style photoshoots and a special dedication 
to the emo alternative scene.
EmoProm co-founder and resident DJ Michael Silver 
said EmoProm was birthed from an idea he had for an 
emo party. When his colleagues at Vinyl Music Hall in 
Pensacola gave him the OK, they found themselves with a 
name, logo and the ﬁ  rst few versions of the event planned 
out by the end of that same day. 
“EmoProm is the club night for those who hate club 
nights, for the couple looking to re-charge that spark, and 
for the lonely soul looking to not feel so alone for the night 
– can’t be lonely singing along with hundreds of other 
people right?” Silver wrote in an email. 
Saturday’s event is being dedicated to Silver’s “kings 
of emo”: My Chemical Romance. He considers the night a 
celebration of the band’s current reunion tour.
High Dive facility and events manager Patrick Lavery 
said High Dive has worked with EmoProm organizers on a variety of events in the past but has never hosted an 
EmoProm before. 
“This is a new event that they just started, and we are happy to bring it to Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time on its 
inaugural run,” Lavery wrote in an email. 
While there is no enforced dress code, attendees are 
encouraged to go all out, sporting either alternative emo 
fashion, semi-formal prom attire or any combination of 
the two, according to EmoProm’s event page.
Reﬂ  ecting the event’s theme of inclusivity and 
uniqueness, the even will crown “prom royalty” for best 
dressed, rather than “king and queen.” EmoProm is for 
all, he said, so it made sense to ditch traditional gender 
associations. 
“After every event we have a meeting to see what we 
can do better, or change so that the next show is better 
than the one we just performed,” Silver said.
Between the stage effects, acts mimicking beloved 
emo music videos and custom EmoProm alcoholic drinks, 
Gainesville’s emo and emo-loving are invited to relive a 
night of the past and embrace the music they love. 
“I’m just looking forward to seeing a group of people 
who love this music as much as I do,” Silver wrote. “I love 
to see people going all-out with their outﬁ  ts, I have seen 
some amazing outﬁ  ts since we’ve started doing this and 
that has been one of my favorite parts of it. I hope that I 
see a large crowd in front of me at High Dive as I’m DJ’ing 
the night away.”
EmoProm tickets can be purchased via EventBrite or 
High Dive’s website for $8 in advance and $10 day of show. 
A buy three, get one free and couples prom pack special 
are available. Song requests can be texted to EmoProm’s 
request line at 213-787-4224.
@_chloegreenberg
cgreenberg@alligator.org8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
Neil Diamond, AC/DC, Eagles 
and the Jo Bros— here are 
classics we love. 
SPOTIFY
TikTok trends are “Fabulous”
    An emo night to remember
LIFESTYLE
NIGHTLIFEScreenshot of TikT ok
The ofﬁ  cial UF account 
combines Gator content 
with popular TikT ok trends. 
How TikTok, a former UF student and “Phineas 
and Ferb” all came together
Courtesy to the Alligator
EmoProm will visit High Dive Saturday night 
following the Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally. 
High Dive to host Gainesville’s irst EmoPromBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      3-13-
20-12-2
LAW SCHOOL/ GOLF COURSE ADJACENT
5BR/3BA
Available August 1st. Rent $2100/mo
Call 904-862-1009    3-30-20-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
May 1-July 31 Summer Sublease
Lexington Crossing
3700 SW 27th St. Apt. D-101
Gainesville, FL 32608
1b/1b within 4b/4b with 3 male roommates 
$600/month
Furnished, In-room laundry, Free parking
Please call (352) 213-7121      3-13-20-4-4
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk driversGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
3-13-20-12-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-141For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Bryant White
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/11/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/11/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, March 11, 2020
ACROSS
1 School of thought
4 1972 Kentucky 
Derby winner __ 
Ridge
8 Landlocked 
African country
12 Sense of balance
15 Half of a folk-rock 
duo
16 *Orson Welles’ 
role in “The Third 
Man”
17 Public square
18 Court answers
19 Org. promoting 
fluoridation
21 State of calm 
attentiveness
22 Fair-haired
23 *James T. Kirk 
player, in recent 
“Star Trek” films
26 Kareem, once
27 Deli order
29 Police trickery
30 Koala’s hangout
32 Crest container
34 “Bus Stop” 
playwright
35 Dollar bill, e.g. 
... and what 
the ends of 
the answers to 
starred clues 
have in common
38 Curly top
40 Landlocked Asian 
country
41 “Elephant Boy” 
boy
45 Jigsaw unit
47 Color printer 
refills
49 “What’s shakin’?”
50 *“Pogo” 
cartoonist
52 Finds the right 
words, say
54 Step into 
character
55 It may need 
massaging
56 Crouch down
57 Word with ice or 
cookie
59 *“Damn 
Yankees!” star
63 Wetland birds
64 Pushing to the 
limit
65 “Put a tiger in 
your tank” brand66 Babe in the 
woods
67 LP successors
DOWN
1 “More or less” 
suffix
2 Desktop item
3 “The Big Sleep” 
private eye
4 Most populous 
Arabian 
Peninsula city
5 Pandora’s boxful
6 Sundial seven
7 PIN point
8 End of a soldier’s 
URL
9 Jaw-dropping
10 Cough drop
11 Absurd
13 WWII light 
machine gun
14 Class ring 
number
15 Acting fitfully
20 Talk smack 
about
22 Deli order
23 Pitiless
24 Boot stud
25 Legendary 
Hollywood hot 
dog restaurant28 French summer
31 “Snowy” bird
33 Black shade
36 Houston NBA 
team
37 “Try me”
38 Cochise followers
39 Instagram 
overlays
42 Like some lions
43 Rifle handle
44 Good times
46 Brain scan inits.48 Costume spangle
50 Fritter away
51 They may be 
drawn
53 Country duo 
Brooks & __
56 Bandleader Artie
58 Rock producer 
Brian
60 DOJ division
61 Bikini half
62 Some NFL 
linemen
By Amanda Rafkin and Ross Trudeau
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/10/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/10/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, March 10, 2020
ACROSS
1 __-been: 
washed-up celeb
4 Shared again, as 
a story
10 Samantha Bee’s 
network
13 Frequently found 
in poetry?
14 One with a 
hunger
15 Go bad
16 Citrus drink in 
a sea breeze 
cocktail
19 Philosopher 
Kierkegaard
20 Dawn goddess
21 Bridal veil trim
22 Packed in a 
slatted box
25 Like bath mats
27 Frivolous legal 
entanglement
29 Prez on a fiver
30 “Cream of” 
concoction
31 Lonely place, so 
they say
35 Former
37 Part of rpm
39 Actress Russo
40 Bury
43 Frontier lawman 
Wyatt
46 HBO rival, briefly
47 French luxury 
retailer since 
1854
50 Gives a hand
53 Celebrity socialite
54 One who stirs 
the pot
55 Former flier
57 “Live” sign
59 2011 Dolly Parton 
single, and what 
homophonically 
happens twice 
in 16-, 27- and 
47-Across
63 Night before
64 Most authentic
65 Generation __
66 “Lust for Life” 
singer Lana __ 
Rey
67 How theater 
seating is 
arranged
68 Hurricane center
DOWN
1 Keeps to oneself
2 Early form of 
Latin jazz3 Like the most 
twinkly sky
4 Boxing official
5 Musician’s asset
6 “Can’t deny that”
7 They might bring 
you to tears
8 Releases from a 
cage
9 Basketball’s 
Erving, familiarly
10 Dry run
11 Italian lawn 
bowling game
12 Pricey
14 Gossipy sorts
17 Podded plants
18 Coat named for 
an Irish province
23 “Music for 
Airports” 
producer Brian
24 Bra spec
26 Med. research 
agency
27 Tough spot to 
self-trim hair
28 Olympic swords
32 Simulated launch 
site
33 Taking a 
vacation,  
Brit-style
34 Lowly worker36 English 
“L’chaim!”
38 Sitar master 
Shankar
41 Jan. and Feb.
42 Words 
introducing a plot 
twist
44 Road groove
45 Hit the buffet in a 
major way, say
48 “Scout’s honor!”
49 Singer Turner50 Played a part
51 Push roughly
52 Jason of “How 
I Met Your 
Mother”
56 Guthrie of folk
58 Like avocados 
ready for 
guacamole
60 Bi- plus one
61 Tree with elastic 
wood
62 WWII spy gp.
03/09/2010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a 
common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
Is your business, club or organization having 
an event? Do you have a special a nnounce-
ment? Place your ad here and get it noticed!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND. Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors Hiring
Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-18-20-10-14
LOOKING FOR MALES  & FEMALES TO 
WORK WITH PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
Must have HS diploma, vehicle, w/ license 
& registration. Call 352-745-2665      3-13-
20-6-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring Summer Camp, After-School, 
Gymnastics, Dance, Ninja Zone and more. 
Join our team. Apply now:
suncountrysports.com/jobs      3-20-20-9-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hir-
ing deli counter and bar help. No exp need -
ed. Day/Night shifts available. Come to 2327 
N W 13th Street to apply. Must be depend -
able and have reliable trans.      3-13-20-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-
dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan 
sales from April – September. Approx. 20 hrs a 
week, $11/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and 
free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others 
in a professional manner and have a positive 
attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer 
experience is a plus. Apply online for requisi-
tion #: 285852 at www.gatordining.com    3-13-
20-3-14
Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
5-12-20-14
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Environment
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training provided
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501         3-20-
20-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
This Super Affiliate System Will
Make You A Stable Income.
Free Training, Take Action. 
www.digitalmarketinglifestyle.best     3-16-
20-4-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
1. ADVERTISING SLOGANS: Which product was ad -
vertised as "the champagne of bottled beer"?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Which was the first designated na -
tional park in the United States?
3. BIBLE: From which book of the New Testament does 
the proverb "the blind leading the blind" originate?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president established 
the Purple Heart award to military members injured 
or killed in battle?
5. LITERATURE: What is the title of a classic novel 
that its British author originally named "Strangers 
from Within"?6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: Which animal's home is 
called a lodge?
7. FOOD & DRINK: Which spice is described as "the 
Queen of Spices"?
8. MUSIC: Who wrote the libretto and music to the 
opera "The Flying Dutchman"?
9. HISTORY: Which country's revolution was de -
scribed in the book "Ten Days That Shook the World"?
10. ANATOMY: What is the most common blood 
type in humans?
answers below
solution below
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
Sudoku solution1. Miller High Life
2. Yellowstone
3. Matthew
4. George Washington
5. "Lord of the Flies" by William 
Golding
6. Beaver
7. Cardamom
8. Richard Wagner
9. Russia
10. O positiveTrivia Test  answers
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
WE CAN
BE CENSUS TAKERS
For more information or help applying, please call  
1-855-JOB-2020
Federal Relay Service:  
1-800-877-8339 TTY/ASCII 
www.gsa.gov/fedrelay
The U.S. Census Bureau is an Equal Opportunity Employer.APPLY ONLINE!
2020census.gov/jobs
2020 Census jobs provide:
 Great pay
 Flexible hours
 Weekly pay
 Paid training$19/hr
PROMOTE YOUR 
BUSINESS FOR AS 
LITTLE AS $10/ wk!
To learn more contact:    
advertising@alligator.orgWEDNESDAYS
16 Health Services 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
www.alligator.org/sportsAll Florida athletic events to continue as planned
The UAA announced on Tuesday that it's following the advice of campus 
leadership, along with federal, state and local health officials. As of now, 
there have been no plans to cancel any athletic events as it continues to 
monitor the situation.Freshman Rylee Trlicek 
earned the SEC Pitcher of the 
Week award after throwing 
12 scoreless innings over the 
weekend against Auburn.
BASEBALL
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
With a season-high 5,276 
fans packed into McKethan 
Stadium, it was as loud as it 
has been all season during 
the ranked matchup between 
Florida and Florida State.
The bats however, were 
silent.
The top-ranked Gators 
were shut out by the No. 19 
Seminoles 2-0 on Tuesday 
night in Gainesville to put an 
end to their perfect season to 
start the year.
The in-state rivalry started 
off with a colossal mistake by 
the orange and blue.
FSU junior Reese Albert 
was at the plate with a runner 
in scoring position when he 
blasted a fly ball to left-center 
field.UF shortstop Josh Rivera, 
left fielder Austin Langworthy 
and center fielder Jud Fabian 
all converged on the easy out 
— nobody caught it. All three 
ran to midfield while staring 
straight into the sky but the 
ball landed between the three 
of them on its way to the 
ground.
The fly ball resulted in a 
single and a run for freshman 
Tyler Martin to give the Semi-
noles (11-5) a quick 1-0 lead.
Florida (16-1) wasn't as 
lucky at the plate. Third base-
man Kirby McMullen looked 
like he hit a home run in his 
first at-bat of the game in 
the bottom of the first frame 
— before sophomore Robby 
Martin made a spectacular 
play and robbed it by extend-
ing over the right-field wall 
for the out.“I thought I had a chance 
there at first, but he made a 
good play on it,” McMullen 
said.
The score remained the 
same until the eighth inning.
Before that fateful frame, 
both of the teams’ sluggers 
were thoroughly neutralized 
by masterful performances on 
the mound.
UF starter Nick Pogue 
threw five strikeouts and al-
lowed one run and four hits 
and walked one batter in his 
three innings. He was relieved 
by freshman Tyler Nesbitt, 
who struck out four Semi-
noles, allowed two hits and 
no walks in his three innings 
for UF.
And in the top of the sev-
enth frame, UF coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan made another per-
sonnel change when he sent sophomore Christian Scott to 
the mound.
Meanwhile, the Seminoles 
elected to stay with starter 
Antonio Velez all the way un-
til the bottom of the seventh.
Velez was relieved by lefty 
Parker Messick. Besides keep-
ing UF off the scoreboard, 
Velez allowed only one hit, 
two walks and struck out sev-
en at the plate.
“He kept us off balance 
with his change-up and we 
didn’t make adjustments and 
we kept having soft contact 
against him,” McMullen said.
Read the rest online at 
www.alligator.org/sports
@JosephSalvador_
jsalvador@alligator.orgFlorida nonexistent at the plate in its first loss of the season
Emily Felts // Alligator Staff
UF pitcher Nick Pogue picked up his first loss of the 
season after throwing three innings. He allowed one 
earned run and four hits.
LACROSSE
By Christian Ortega
Sports Writer
It started with her — and the 
game’s — first goal. 
Shannon Kavanagh cut past her 
defender toward the crease, and a 
perfectly timed free-position pass 
from freshman midfielder Emily 
Heller gave Kavanagh the space she 
needed to score. The midfielder 
controlled the next two draws, and 
with each moment of success, the 
crowd sang Kavanagh’s name in 
harmony. 
Kavanagh finished the game 
with four more goals and added 
seven draw controls along with an 
assist. It was one of many perfor-
mances that lifted the No. 7 Gators 
over Navy, 17-9. 
And during a characteristically 
cloudy afternoon, with the sun’s 
rays struggling to escape the cov-
erage, Kavanagh basked in the 
warmth of Dizney Stadium’s crowd. 
“Shannon is one of those players 
that at the beginning of the season 
I said, ‘That’s the person we want 
with the ball in her hands,” coach 
Amanda O’Leary said. “She’s a 
catalyst on the defensive end, obvi-
ously with the draw. She’s that all-
around player.”
The game was an example of 
when a team’s offense and defense 
converge seamlessly to create a spectacle worth watching. With 
each picked up ground ball and 
caused turnover, the team transi-
tioned across the 30s. Even though 
Florida (6-2) only caused six turn-
overs, its 18 draw controls and 14 
ground balls were consistent with 
its season averages. Its .548 shot 
percentage was over ten points 
above its average. 
“It takes all seven [offensive 
players] to score a goal,” O’Leary 
said. “Other people have to do their 
jobs off-ball.” 
Kavanagh was the first of three 
Gators who scored at least five 
goals, with redshirt junior mid-
fielder Brianna Harris and junior 
attacker Kassidy Bresnahan joining 
the club. The tally was Bresnahan’s 
career-high, and she said it was 
a great feeling to help her team in 
such a manner. 
Though she was elated to see 
Florida add another win to its re-
sume, Harris left the stadium with 
a bittersweet taste in her mouth af-
ter beating her identical twin sister, 
Navy midfielder Kayla Harris, who 
is older by nine minutes. 
“Obviously I love my team, 
[they’re] all my best friends and 
stuff, but I do always want my sister 
to be successful, and I have a small, 
soft place in my heart for the Navy 
team and the Navy Academy,” Har-
ris, an Annapolis, Maryland, native, said. 
For the sisters, it was a yin-and-
yang performance. All of Brianna’s 
goals came unassisted, while two of 
Kayla’s three points were assists. 
Defensively, the Gators kept 
Navy (2-4) near its season average 
for shooting percentage. The Mid-
shipmen’s 45 percent was three 
points better than the season aver-
age. UF redshirt freshman goalie 
Sarah Reznick did her part, finish-
ing with eight saves and a .533 save 
percentage. The defense was led by 
freshman defender Becky Brown-
dorf, who finished with a team-high 
two caused turnovers.  
This was Florida’s first game in 
which fouls were not an issue. The 
crowd remained calm and collected 
when reviewing the referees’ per-
formances, and the 12 committed 
fouls are a season-low. But O’Leary 
and the team still have more tests 
ahead, including a five-game road 
stretch starting Saturday against 
Brown, and the veteran coach is 
aware that the team has work to do 
before the Gators can hit their peak. 
“They are 100 percent invested 
in really going forward with a pur-
pose,” she said. “Ultimately for us, 
it’s just about one game at a time.” 
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.orgKavanagh, Harris, Bresnahan sink Navy at the ‘Diz’
Alligator File Photo
Junior midfielder Shannon Kavanagh scored five goals during 
Florida's 17-9 victory over Navy on Tuesday afternoon.
12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - close“PITCH”er Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
with Karaoke!MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The Southeastern Conference 
Tournament in Nashville is set to 
tip-off on Wednesday — at least for 
now.
Despite the fear of the coronavi-
rus pandemic bearing down on the 
country, basketball at Bridgestone 
Arena will be played as scheduled.
That means the Gators still have 
a valuable opportunity to help pad 
their NCAA Tournament resume.
Sitting at 19-12, Florida’s record 
doesn’t stand out, but its metric 
numbers are hard to ignore.
According to KenPom, UF’s 
overall rating is 33rd, its strength of 
schedule is 36th and its non-confer-
ence strength of schedule is 22nd.
Combine those ﬁ  gures with ﬁ  ve 
Quadrant 1 victories, and many 
bracketologists predict the Gators 
to be in the 8- to 10-seed range cur-rently.
A productive visit to Nashville 
could mean a jump to the 6- or 
7-seed line, but an early exit poten-
tially leaves Florida sweating on Se-
lection Sunday.
On Thursday afternoon, Florida 
will be tasked with stopping one of 
the league’s most explosive players 
one way or another.
Georgia (15-16, 5-13 SEC) and 
Ole Miss (15-16, 6-12 SEC) will 
matchup on Wednesday night in the 
ﬁ  rst round with the winner earning 
the right to play the Gators.
Rebels guard Breein Tyree (19.7 
PPG) and Bulldogs forward Anthony 
Edwards (19.5 PPG) each have the 
ability to single handedly take over 
games.
“They’re two of the best individ-
ual scorers in the country,” coach 
Mike White said at Tuesday’s media 
availability. “Both (teams) are very 
difﬁ  cult to defend, and both will be prepared defensively against us.”
UF fared well against the two 
teams in the regular season, earn-
ing a 3-1 record. But the win over 
Ole Miss was with Tyree out, and 
both victories over Georgia were 
comebacks, including the 22-point 
second-half deﬁ  cit that was erased 
at the O’Connell Center on Feb. 5.
If Florida were to advance to the 
quarterﬁ  nal round on Friday, it’d 
face a team it lost to in heartbreak-
ing fashion earlier in the season.
Mississippi State stormed back 
after being down as many as 16 to 
the Gators in the O’Connell Cen-
ter on Jan. 28 and won 78-71 after 
shooting just over 60 percent in the 
second half.
Beyond that, a rematch with Ken-
tucky in the semiﬁ  nals likely awaits.
UF lost both contests to the 
Wildcats, with the most recent (an 
18-point second-half collapse) being 
one of the more frustrating losses of the season.
For Florida to advance that far, 
its defense needs to be consistent. 
And that’s something White has 
struggled to get out of his players all 
year.
“We’ve created average defen-
sive habits throughout the entire year that we saw in the second half 
of the Kentucky game,” White said. 
Read the rest online at www.
alligator.org/sports
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgGators hoping for redemption as they eye SEC Tournament
SOFTBALL
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Defense wins championships and midweek 
matchups. 
In a low-scoring affair, Florida beat Penn-
sylvania 3-1 on Tuesday afternoon at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium. The victory came 
two days after UF swept Auburn over the 
weekend to move to 3-0 in the SEC. With the 
win, the No. 7 Gators improved to 22-4 overall 
on the season. 
Robust Return
Although it was not Florida’s most explo-
sive day at the plate, it was a much-needed 
conﬁ  dence boost for two of UF’s main batters. 
The ﬁ  rst two batters in the lineup, junior Han-
nah Adams and senior Kendyl Lindaman, had a slower day at the plate on Sunday against 
Auburn, despite Florida scoring 11 runs. 
But today, the Gators relied heavily on the 
two upperclassmen. All the runs for Florida 
were off of solo-shot homers from those two. 
Adams had two, the ﬁ  rst multi-home run 
effort of her entire career in orange and blue. 
It also doubled her home runs for the year. 
Lindaman’s homer notched her sixth of the 
season. 
Just enough offense
The offense for UF was not quite as ex-
plosive as it was over the weekend against 
the Tigers outside of Lindaman and Adams. 
Florida averaged over six hits per game against 
Auburn and averaged just under six hits per 
game on the season heading into Tuesday’s 
contest. However, against the Quakers (7-6), the orange and blue scored around half of that 
at just three. 
Why? 
One reason was Penn’s senior pitcher, Jen-
nifer Brann. The Houston native may not have 
completely dusted Florida, but she was smart 
in the circle all game. 
She was conservative in her throws to keep 
the Gators at bay and not let the game get 
away from her team. While she gave up six 
hits and four walks, only three of those turned 
into runs against the Gators, whose bats have 
been hot recently. 
Plenty of defense
While Brann’s pitching was strong, Flori-
da’s staff was better. 
Sophomore Elizabeth Hightower started in 
the circle for the orange and blue. The Quak-ers were mostly ineffective against the right-
hander, as she allowed just two hits and one 
run in her four innings of action. 
Insert Natalie Lugo. 
In the ﬁ  fth inning, the junior from West 
Covina, California, replaced Hightower in the 
circle and slammed the door of hope shut on 
Penn. She allowed just two hits and no runs 
through her three innings of play, closing out 
the victory for the Gators. 
Next up
UF has barely any time to enjoy this victory, 
as the Gators host in-state rival Florida State 
Wednesday at 6 p.m. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgAdams, Lindaman down Penn in midweek contestCredit: NBC Sports
Florida’s portion of the bracket in the SEC T ournament.
