We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperBlown away
High winds hit Gainesville on Thursday, pg. 7
What is a winner?
A UF student competed in college Jeaopardy!, pg. 6Nembhard shines in comeback win
Guard Andrew Nembhard scored 19 of his 
25 points in the second half of UF’s 22-point 
comeback win against UGA on Wednesday,
pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 56
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
IN MEMORIAM
Lily Strickland // Alligator Staff
A picture of Denise Grifﬁ  ths surrounded by a stuffed monkey, candle and rose as people come by to 
write meaningful words about her on two posters Monday in the UF Institute of Black Culture. See the 
gallery and read about Grifﬁ  ths’ memorial on pg. 3.By Stephany Matat
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents were 
blown away by the intense 
weather Thursday.
Winds were expected to 
go through Gainesville at 25 
mph with gusts up to 35 to 45 
mph until 3 a.m., said Andrew 
Kennedy, a meteorologist at 
the Jacksonville Weather Ser-
vice office. Alachua County 
was under a tornado watch 
until midnight, said Kirsten 
Chaney, a meteorologist at the 
weather office. 
Kennedy said the weath-
er service expected a squall 
line, a strong line of thunder-
storms, to move through the 
Gainesville area Thursday af-
ter 7 p.m. with gusts of 50 to 
70 mph, which caused proper-
ty damage and power outages. 
Chaney said the storms 
were caused by a cold front, which followed the storm after 
midnight and brought temper-
atures to as low as 53 degrees.  
UF spokesperson Steve Or-
lando said UF campus’ power 
was unaffected and that he 
would not know how much 
cleanup costs would be until 
the weather passed Thursday 
night.
“No power outages on cam-
pus so far that we’re aware 
of,” he wrote in an email. 
“Much of our electrical infra-
structure is underground, so 
that helps.”
Wind gusts went up to 50 
mph on campus and got stron-
ger, said UF student forecaster 
Nicolette Zangara, 21. She said 
winds could’ve gone up to 70 
mph Thursday night when the 
squall winds hit.
“I’m mainly concerned 
just about those straight-line 
By Elisabell Velazquez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Across the country, about 
one in three students won’t re-
turn to college for their sopho-
more year. But at UF, the re-
tention rate is much higher. 
UF currently sits at a 97 
percent retention rate, making 
it one of the universities with 
the highest retention rates in 
the country, according to U.S. 
News & World Report. 
The university’s retention 
rate has remained consistent 
— from 2013 until 2017, with 
the exception of 2016, UF had 
a retention rate of 96 percent, 
the Gainesville Sun reported.
Charles Murphy, director of freshmen and international 
admissions, said UF’s Office of 
Admissions has a comprehen-
sive recruitment and review 
process to ensure students ad-
mitted to the college will suc-
ceed.
“We are fortunate to have 
a lot of interest in UF, which 
means we receive many more 
applications than there are 
spaces in the freshmen class,” 
Murphy said. “Because of the 
strengths of our applicants, 
we are confident that every 
admitted student is capable of 
success at UF.”
Among the reasons for 
withdrawing from the uni-
versity are academic perfor-
mance, family emergencies, financial need, homesickness 
and medical circumstances, 
according to U.S. News & 
World Report. 
Analiese DeRoberts with-
drew from UF after her first se-
mester due to homesickness. 
The 19-year-old from Syra-
cuse, New York, struggled in 
adapting to Gainesville so she 
decided to transfer colleges.
“I was unsure if I was mak-
ing the right decision in drop-
ping out,” DeRoberts said. “I 
was nervous I would regret 
it. I think some of my reasons 
were that UF was far from 
home and I’m a big family 
person, so the school was too GPD DISCUSSED CHANGES 
TO ITS IMMIGRATION POLICY
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
Eighteen years ago, a 35-year-old 
Alachua County resident moved to 
Gainesville from Honduras hoping to 
secure a better future for herself and 
her family.  
She stayed in an abusive relation-
ship with her partner of 10 years out 
of fear that if she reported the abuse, 
her undocumented status would be 
shared with U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement.
She said today she still lives in that 
fear.
“Right now, I’m scared of my son 
being alone,” she said at Thursday’s 
Gainesville City Commission meeting. 
“It breaks my heart that my only kid 
can be sent to an orphanage.”
The woman, whom The Alligator 
granted anonymity to because of her 
immigration status, was one of several concerned Gainesville residents who 
spoke about changes to the Gainesville 
Police’s immigration policy Thursday. 
New changes to the GPD general 
order, a measure that outlines law en-
forcement procedures, were carefully 
discussed in Thursday’s meeting. The 
most signiﬁ  cant change involved the 
department’s cooperation with ICE, 
said Terry Pierce, the assistant chief 
of GPD. 
One of several changes to the or-
der states that GPD should only assist 
ICE when there is a task force or joint 
criminal investigation involved. Previ-
ously, the order allowed exceptions 
for cooperation with ICE on a case-to-
case basis. 
The revised order also states that 
ofﬁ  cers “should refrain” from asking 
victims and witnesses about their na-
tionality and provide services regard-
less of citizenship. 
However, in March 2019, a domes-
tic dispute sparked controversy after 
GPD shared details about an individu-Gainesville faces high 
winds, bad weather
UF retention among highest in countryCommission talks immigration
SEE DROPOUT,  PAGE 4 SEE ICE, PAGE 4SEE WINDS,  PAGE 7Winds were predicted to be 25 
mph with gusts up to 45 mph
The retention rates remain consistentT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  61° LOW  36°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.FRIDAY
Destination Okeechobee
Where: Signal, located at 7 SW 
First St.
When: 7 p.m. to 1 a.m.
What: This festival features fi-
nalists playing for a chance to 
perform at Okeechobee Music 
and Arts Festival in March. Local 
Gainesville bands such as Arrows 
in Action, Driveway, Driptones, 
The Forum and Tamayo will per-
form at the event presented by 
Lucid Nightlife. 
Ladies Night Wine Mixer hosted 
by Shift
Where: Wilhelmina Johnson 
Resource Center, located at 321 
NW 10th St.
When: 6:30-8:30 p.m.
What: The Ladies Night Wine 
Mixer is an opportunity to try 
multiple varieties of wine and 
food and to win prizes and min-
gle with eventgoers. Tickets are 
$25 and payments must be made 
through EventBrite or CashApp: 
$Shift2019. SATURDAY 
Florida Rights of Nature 
Conference (RONCon)
Where: Levin College of Law, lo-
cated at 309 Village Drive 
When: 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
What: Civic leaders, activists and 
lawyers from around the state 
of Florida will get together for 
RONCon, a convention focusing 
on a growing national movement 
to recognize the rights of eco-
systems and nature and how to 
legally enforce those rights. The 
event will include a yoga session 
at 7:30 a.m. and a coffee and pas-
tries gathering at 8:30 a.m. before 
the convention begins. Tickets are 
$10 to attend.
The Chocolate Experience
Where: Earth Origins Market, lo-
cated at 1237 NW 76th Blvd. 
When: Noon to 3 p.m.
What: The Earth Origins Market 
hosts a chocolate tasting event 
with a variety of options. The 
tasting includes vegan, no-sugar-
added, dark and milk chocolate 
among other kinds. February Flora and Fauna Fest
Where: Steinmetz Hall, located at 
1881 Natural Area Drive
When: 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.
What: The Flora and Fauna fest 
will feature insect-related crafts 
and an entry into gardening 
with flower selections from local 
Gainesville vendors. The event 
will also feature workshops for all 
ages on plants and insects as well 
as a raffle for eventgoers.
SUNDAY
UF Honors Tour
Where: Graham Residence Hall, 
located at 716 Gale Lemerand 
Drive
When: 1-3 p.m.
What: The UF Honors tour of-
fers a way for participants to 
learn more about the UF Honors 
program. The tour will feature 
an info session with UF Honors 
faculty along with a tour of the 
Honors Residential College at 
Hume Hall. Cookies and drinks 
will be provided. The tour costs 
$5 to attend. Each individual must 
purchase a ticket. 
Mardi Gras Dance Party
Where: Thelma Boltin Center, lo-
cated at 516 NE Second Ave.
When: 3:30-6 p.m.
What: A Mardi Gras dance lesson 
will be offered at 3:30 p.m. The 
Gumbo Limbo Band will perform 
at 4 p.m. and will play everything 
from Zydeco, Cajun, Swamp Pop, 
Waltz and more. A green, purple 
or gold costume/mask is encour-
aged for the event. Tickets are $5 
for anyone 25 and under and $10 
for anyone 26 and up. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 56
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Marianna ColonMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Diane Hernandez, Lonnie Numa andEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Jasmine Rivera, a 21-year-old political science and women’s studies senior, 
spoke ardently about her best friend during Denise Griffiths’ memorial service.Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Students listen to speakers such as Griffiths’ parents, Rivera and leaders from the various 
groups Griffiths was involved with, including SISTUHS Inc., JAMSA and Gatorship.Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Kamula McKnight-Butler and Phillip Griffiths, Denise Griffiths’ mother and 
father, speak fondly of their late daughter and urge her loved ones to celebrate 
her life during her memorial service in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on 
Wednesday evening. “Dezus has dropped the mic, but will always be in the 
building, ” Griffiths said.
By Chasity Maynard and 
Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writers
Tears fell before a memorial service even be-
gan.
A mother stood outside of the Rion Ballroom 
with shaking shoulders. At last, Kamula McK-
night-Butler straightened and entered the room to 
celebrate the life of her daughter.
More than 150 people gathered in the Reitz 
Union Wednesday to honor Denise Griffiths, a 
21-year-old UF senior who died from brain and 
spinal injuries on Jan. 29, almost two days after 
she was struck by a vehicle. Friends and family 
reflected on Griffiths’ life, and she was awarded a 
posthumous bachelor’s degree in English.
McKnight-Butler said she was glad the univer-
sity commemorated her daughter and said she’s 
received love from faculty and organizations.
“We are encased in love,” she said.
Phillip Griffiths, Griffiths’ father, was among 
those who spoke at the memorial. 
He evoked the image of a girl whose nose was 
always in a book. Her fondest souvenir was a li-
brary card from Europe, he said. Griffiths was a 
daughter, a granddaughter, a sister, cousin and a 
grand wizard of the Gryffindor house. 
Behind him, a slideshow was shone, and with 
each rotation, a new photo of Griffiths grinning 
and posing with friends. His speech was punctu-
ated with the sounds of sniffles and occasional 
laughter from the crowd. 
“Her life itself was the mixtape she promised 
us. Denise, it was lit ... Dezus has dropped the 
mic, but she will always be in the building,” her 
father said. 
After the service, he said in an interview that 
eight of his daughter’s organs were donated.
“Even though she’s not here physically, she’ll 
continue to bless someone else,” he said. “And 
the families will continue to enjoy their loved 
ones for longer than we did.”
Gloria McGonigle, Griffiths’ grandmother, 
watched her four children serve more than 100 years collectively in the military, Griffiths’ aunt 
Theresa Abraham said. The family never expect-
ed her granddaughter to be the one who didn’t 
come home. 
“She’s the first person in our family we lost,” 
said A.J. Aiyetoro, Griffiths’ uncle. 
Abraham said her niece was carrying on the 
family’s legacy.
“She was a soldier, a leader and a servant to 
many, and she will definitely be missed,” she 
said.
Griffiths’ best friend Jasmine Rivera, a 21-year-
old UF political science and women’s studies se-
nior, also spoke. The heartbreak she feels is in-
tense, but so is the love that Griffiths left her, she 
said. 
Most people think soul mates are romantic, 
she said, but they’re not. The bond she said she 
shared with Griffiths proved that. 
Members of SISTUHS Inc., Gatorship, the Ja-
maican American Student Association and the 
Black Student Union — all groups that Griffiths 
belonged to — also spoke. Their tributes made 
clear that Griffiths’ impact was far-reaching and 
permanent. 
As the service drew to an end, the slideshow 
remained on the same image that adorned many 
attendees’ shirts. In it, a winged Griffiths is glow-
ing. The words “Rest in Power” surround her.
Aliyah Walters, a 23-year-old UF alumna, was 
Griffiths’ mentor. Griffiths was more than just a 
mentee, she said. She was like a younger sister. 
“It was nice having someone else to love on,” 
Walters said.
She said she was grateful for all the people 
who showed up to Griffiths’ memorial service. 
“She had a family in all of us,” Walters said. 
“I wasn’t the only one who got to experience her 
good in this world.”
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.org
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgDenise Griffiths remembered
More than 150 people attended her memorial4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020
Jewish
UF Hillel 
All are welcome!
Reform & Conservative Friday 
Evening Services: 6pm
Free Shabbat Dinner: 7 pm
Join us for services, 
dinner, or both
2020 W. University Ave.
ufhillel.org
@UFHillelCatholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.orgEpiscopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.comPresbyterian
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship: 8:30 & 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after 
Sunday worship
College Fellowship: Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, Bible 
study and recreation.
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.orgQuaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.orgNon-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482als’ immigration status with ICE.
The agenda item at Thursday’s meeting 
was set to inform the commission about 
the changes, Mayor Lauren Poe said. Com-
missioners have no authority over GPD’s 
order, but the city manager does, he said. 
After consulting with the city attorney, 
City Manager Lee Feldman said because 
of current federal statutes, it would be 
unlawful for GPD to include a statement 
in the order about limiting information to 
ICE.
Feldman said that while he’s sympa-
thetic toward the plight of undocumented 
immigrants, Gainesville is limited by fed-
eral laws. 
Gainesville was a sanctuary city until 
Florida banned its sanctuary cities in Octo-
ber 2019. But now, local governments and 
police departments are required by law to 
cooperate with ICE.
The majority of GPD union members 
aren’t opposed to any changes to the im-
migration policy, said Sheldon McKinzie, 
president of GPD’s union, Fraternal Order 
of Police Lodge 67.
“These changes are really kind of non-
consequential — not really a big deal,” 
McKinzie said.
In McKinzie’s view, it doesn’t matter 
who is an undocumented immigrant and 
who is a natural-born citizen when break-
ing the law.
Liz Ibarrola, the director of immigration 
concerns at the Human Rights Coalition of 
Alachua County, wants GPD to proactively 
withhold the names of victims and wit-
nesses from ICE when reporting on crimes.
Under Florida law, local police depart-
ments are required to hold undocumented 
immigrants who have been detained for an 
additional 48 hours until ICE sends them 
to a detention center. Those imprisoned 
are also detained after serving their sen-
tence or posting bond.
Victims and witnesses in Gainesville 
should feel safe reporting crimes, and GPD 
should carefully cooperate during opera-
tions with ICE to minimize the risk of out-ing their immigration status, Ibarrola said.
The Human Rights Coalition and its 
supporters wore white, a color common-
ly worn for immigration protests, to the 
meeting. They made public comments and 
encouraged city commissioners to consid-
er their suggestions. 
“Gainesville has a title of being a wel-
coming city, but we want to make sure the 
policy in our city supports that,” Ibarrola 
said. 
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.org large in comparison to what I was used 
to.”
Kelviyana Walker, a 19-year-old UF bi-
ology sophomore, said her first semester 
was difficult as she had to adapt to a new 
environment.
“I had to adjust to the hardships of 
independence, and the dorms were not 
helping with that,” Walker said. “I was 
not prepared for the coursework of gen-
eral chemistry, and I had not even known 
about this course load until after the class 
started, so that didn’t help with my ad-
justment. Overall, the first year was a les-
son.”
Joseph Spillane, associate dean for UF 
Student Affairs and director of the aca-
demic advising center at the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, said advisers 
help direct students to appropriate offices 
depending on their issues.
“Advisers work to promote retention 
of new undergraduates by ensuring that 
students understand that seeking help 
when they encounter challenges and dif-
ficulties is a good thing to do, and know 
what resources are available to them for 
support,” Spillane said.
UF students said that academic advis-
ers are helpful in guiding them through 
the undergraduate journey. 
“At first, I decided to come here be-
cause I wanted to become a dentist and 
one of the three dental schools in Florida 
was here,” Walker said. “Eventually, I re-
alized I did not want to be a dentist, yet 
I still stayed at UF because of the presti-
gious reputation it holds and many op-
portunities it has to venture out into your 
chosen field.”
Brinsley Hess, an 18-year-old UF 
chemical engineering freshman, said her 
academic adviser made her transition into 
college a more pleasant one.“My academic adviser helped me in 
choosing my classes for my first semes-
ter and the current semester, and he also 
helped me in deciding whether my major 
is right for me,” Hess said.
Murphy said the university strives for 
a retention rate that reflects the experi-
ence of the students.
“The retention rate is certainly a tes-
tament to the students themselves, and 
they are also assisted by various faculty 
and staff across campus during their time 
at UF,” Murphy said. ICE,  from pg. 1 DROPOUT,  from pg. 1Protesters came dressed in white UF has 97 percent retention rate4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020
Jewish
UF Hillel 
All are welcome!
Reform & Conservative Friday 
Evening Services: 6pm
Free Shabbat Dinner: 7 pm
Join us for services, 
dinner, or both
2020 W. University Ave.
ufhillel.org
@UFHillel
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Presbyterian
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship: 8:30 & 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after 
Sunday worship
College Fellowship: Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, Bible 
study and recreation.
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.org
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482
U.S. News & World Report 
identiﬁ  es family problems, lack of 
money, loneliness, homesickness 
and academic performance as 
reasons to potentially withdraw 
from school. If you are struggling 
with any of these issues, below 
are resources to consider:
U Matter, We Care:
U Matter, We Care assists 
students with care related 
resources and programs focused 
on health, safety and holistic 
well-being.
Counseling & 
Wellness Center:
Services include: short-term 
counseling, group and couples’ 
therapy, consultation, crisis 
services, outreach, referrals, self-
care and more.
Hitchcock 
Field and Fork Pantry:
The pantry is intended to help 
students and faculty who are 
experiencing food insecurity.What to do if ICE knocks on 
your door:
Que hacer si ICE toca tu puerta
• Do not open the door 
No abras la puerta
• Ask the ofﬁ  cer to identify 
themselves and whom they work for
Pregúntele al oﬁ  cial que se identiﬁ  que 
y que te dice para quién trabaja
• Ask if they have a warrant, then 
ask them to slip it under the door
Pídale al oﬁ  cial que muestre la orden 
y que lo pase por debajo de la puerta
• On the warrant, look for your name, 
address and a signature
En la orden, busca su nombre, 
dirección, y una ﬁ  rma
• If you talk to the ofﬁ  cer (outside), 
do not answer any question or sign any 
papers. T ell them you want a lawyer.
Si hablas con el oﬁ  cial, no coneste pre-
guntas o ﬁ  rma papeles. Dígale al oﬁ  cial 
que quieres un abogado.
*From the National Immigration Law CenterFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
Lia Dagostino // Courtesy to The Alligator
A Lucky’s Market customer shops as the store’s closing 
approaches. The store is officially closing on Feb. 12.
AVAST SOLD USERS’ BROWSING 
HISTORY AND GEO-LOCATIONS
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
Avast, the anti-virus software recommended by UF since 
2013, sold the browsing data of millions of its users to third-
party companies like Microsoft and Amazon. 
The data of students who did not opt out of the col-
lection upon downloading Avast may have been included 
in the information that was sold, said Matt Pendleton, UF 
Information Technology senior director. 
Avast’s consent policy outlines what data is sold: IP ad-
dresses, geo-locations and search histories, for starters. 
This is not a data breach, Pendleton added — Avast is 
only one of many software companies that sells user data.
Sensitive information like users’ search terms and view-
ing history on porn websites were also among the data col-
lected, according to a Vice News investigation that broke the story. 
Third-party advertisers like Google and Amazon use the 
data to create personalized advertisements by targeting user 
demographics and browsing habits, according to the policy. 
Avast Director of Communications Whitney Glockner 
Black wrote in an email that the data is stripped of iden-
tifiers so that no personal information is shared. For this 
reason, there’s no way to know which UF students were 
among those whose data was sold, she wrote. 
Following the Vice News investigation, Avast discontin-
ued the practice of using any data collected for any other 
purpose than the core security engine, Black wrote.
Avast CEO Ondrej Vlcek published a letter apologizing 
for the data collection and breach of trust that many of its 
customers felt.
UF initially recommended Avast because it was free and 
used by millions of people, Pendleton said. According to the 
apology letter, Avast data collection began in 2015.
An archived snapshot of the UF Information Technol-
ogy website from Dec. 22 shows step-by-step instructions on how to download Avast. As of Thursday, the page no 
longer exists. 
It was replaced with a message that reads: “We can help 
you install any software that you want to have on your 
computer.”
“We are moving away from recommending specific 
products to students,” Pendleton said. 
Now, UF encourages students to check the settings on all 
software and applications and determine if they can opt out 
of sharing their web browsing data, he said. 
Evan Cowie, a 20-year-old UF classical studies junior 
and tech consultant for the UF Computing Help Desk, said 
he was unaware that Avast sold users’ data.
For now, he said he will reconsider recommending the 
application to students.
“It’s slightly concerning,” he said. “I can imagine feeling 
a bit sketched out.”
@haphillips96
 hphillips@alligator.orgUF student data among information sold by anti-virus softwareBOTH PARTIES FOCUS ON 
STUDENT SAFETY
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
In the wake of an increase in sexual as-
saults on campus, both UF Student Govern-
ment parties prioritized student safety this 
election season.
Inspire Party announced its party plat-
form Wednesday, or its goals if elected this 
semester. Gator Party planned to announce 
its platform in three parts. It posted the first 
part Thursday and the second part today. 
Both parties shared their platforms on social 
media.
Inspire’s goals consist of four main cat-
egories: keeping students safe and healthy, 
helping them reach their potential, making 
sure they are all valued and using SG to 
make a difference. 
Some key points include creating a Living 
Learning Community for LGBTQ+ individu-
als, amending Student Government finance 
codes “to ensure a fair process” for event 
funding and increasing accessibility to men-
tal health and sexual assault resources.
Inspire President Kristen Jackson said the 
party plans to consolidate mental health and sexual assault resources and then make them 
available in multiple languages.
“The goal is to have them available on 
Canvas, a place that all students already 
have to go,” she said. “So if something does 
happen to you, you know where they are.”
Inspire Student Body presidential candi-
date Matthew Diaz said solving the funding 
crisis for student organizations is a campaign 
point he cares about personally. 
As the president of the Indigeneous-
American Student Association and vice pres-
ident of Volunteers for International Student 
Affairs, two organizations that he said have 
lost funding, Diaz said he wants to make 
sure institutions aren’t being undervalued. 
He said he cares about their long-term sta-
bility. 
“I think that one of the big ways that we 
need to focus that, is by having an adminis-
tration that values that [long-term stability],” 
he said. “An administration that didn’t origi-
nally cause the issue to begin with, and one 
that has been sufficiently connected to these 
orgs to know what they want, and how to 
execute it in a way that would actually ben-
efit them in the long run.” 
Gator’s first announcement focused on 
shaping the student experience. Today’s is 
about building for success.
Gator Student Body presidential candi-date Trevor Pope said he is excited about 
the kNOw MORE campaign point, which 
provides support to sexual assault survivors, 
discreet reporting services and prevention 
training.
“We’re not only providing platforms for 
people who have the courage to come out 
and report sexual assault,” he said. “But also, 
we’re like preventing it in the first place.”
Katie Hernandez, Gator campaign man-
ager, said in addition to bringing kNOw 
MORE to UF, she thinks that platform points 
like adding nap pods and an annual Park-
ing Ticket Forgiveness Day will improve stu-
dents’ lives.
“When we were doing platform genera-
tion, a lot of students came with things that 
affect their everyday lives or things that 
they think will end up making their college 
memories better, that weren’t necessarily 
academic in nature,” she said. “And so to-
day’s [Thursday’s] platform release is really 
focused about honing in ‘What is the daily 
life of a Gator?’” 
She said building for success will improve 
accessibility, affordability and help prepare 
students for the professional world.  
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgInspire, Gator release platform pointsTHE STORE IS OFFICIALL Y 
CLOSING FEB. 12
By Stephany Matat
Alligator Staff Writer
Lucky’s Market is officially being 
sold to Southeastern Grocers, according 
to a press release from Lucky’s Market.
Southeastern Grocers will also be 
taking over the Naples, Fort Myers, 
Lake Mary and Melbourne stores, while 
other locations in Florida are going to 
Seabra Foods and Hitchcock’s Markets. 
WCJB reported that “court records 
seemed to indicate Aldi was interested 
in the Gainesville location,” but the 
store is officially confirmed to be sold 
to Southeastern Grocers under an asset 
purchase agreement.
The agreements previously signed 
five leased store properties and another 
owned property to Aldi. The agree-
ments also signed five leased store 
properties to Publix Super Markets, Inc. Now, it includes the Melbourne lo-
cation, which has now been signed into 
the Southeastern Grocers agreement, 
according to the press release. 
Lucky’s will be officially closed on 
Feb. 12. Bill Muccio, the store director 
for Lucky’s Market in Gainesville, said 
he was unsure of what was really go-
ing on because he had heard multiple 
rumors without any word from the 
company itself.
The Alligator reached out to South-
eastern Grocers twice via phone but 
didn’t receive a response by publica-
tion Thursday evening. The Alligator 
also emailed Lucky’s Market to con-
firm the information and received no 
response.
When current Lucky’s employees 
were called to comment, The Alligator 
was told that Lucky’s will not pay sev-
erance to the employees who speak to 
the media and that they are legally not 
allowed to give more information.
The Fair Labor Standards Act does not require employers to pay sever-
ance, according to the U.S. Department 
of Labor. The Employee Benefits Secu-
rity Administration may help an em-
ployee who did not get severance ben-
efits under their employee-sponsored 
plan.
One of the store’s former employ-
ees, Hayden Page, 19, said the compa-
ny is helping employees find new jobs 
by calling recruiters from places like 
Sam’s Club.
About 80 employees will lose their 
jobs at Lucky’s Market, and they will 
gradually be released as the official 
close date approaches, said Eric Cheek, 
the store’s front-end supervisor.
Anna Wilder contributed to this 
report.
@StephanyMatat 
smatat@alligator.orgLucky’s Market in Gainesville being sold to Southeastern Grocers
Inspire:
• Centralize sexual assault and mental 
health resources on Canvas and make 
them available in several languages
• Amend Student Government finance 
codes to ensure a fair process for funding 
student organization events
• Extend Uber Safe Rides and SNAP to 
include morning hours on weekends so 
that students have reliable transportation 
home when they need it most
• Support an LGBTQ+ Living Learning 
Community within UF Housing and 
improve roommate matching for LGBTQ+ 
individuals
• Implement online voting to make 
it easier to participate in Student 
Government elections and to end the 
‘I Voted’ sticker collection system that 
enables corruption in Student Government 
Gator:
• Partner with the Dean of Students 
Office to launch the “kNOw MORE” 
initiative to create a proactive sexual 
prevention culture 
• Create an annual Parking Ticket 
Forgiveness Day
• Navigate ways to improve textbook 
affordability for all Gators
• Create a Transition Cabinet Division for 
transfer, PACE, IA and first-year students
• Ensure SG’s minority outreach program 
(Bridges) is properly funded and supported6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020
HER FIRST EPISODE AIRS APRIL 7
By Valentina Botero
Alligator Staff Writer
Who is Kayla Kalhor?
With her trivia competition experience 
in high school and work as a science bowl 
coordinator at UF, Kalhor, a 19-year-old UF 
chemistry sophomore, packed her bags to 
California to show off her trivia skills in 
the Jeopardy! College Championship.
Kalhor will be the second student af-
ter Brian Johnson, who competed back in 
1994, to represent UF in the competition,  
said Alison Cooke, Jeopardy! Director of 
Communications. Her first episode airs 
April 7 on CBS, but the show will start on 
April 6.
Kalhor competed against students from 
different colleges, including Princeton Uni-
versity, Yale University, Northwestern Uni-
versity and Florida State University. She 
said she is not allowed to release informa-tion about the results to the public.
Thousands of students from all across 
the U.S. apply to be a part of the com-
petition, but only 15 are chosen, Cooke 
said. Kalhor said she took an online quiz 
in March 2019 for the application. Then, 
she was sent to St. Louis, Missouri, in No-
vember for an in-person audition, which 
included another test, buzzer practice and 
a mock interview. 
Kalhor said she applied for the show 
because she is a long-time fan. She previ-
ously applied to Jeopardy! in late 2018 and 
got called back to an audition in June that 
she couldn’t attend, she said. 
Kalhor promised herself she would give 
it another shot — so she did. She said she 
was excited to experience the difference 
between watching it at home and actu-
ally being at the studio under the blinding 
lights. 
“I’m really happy I did it,” Kalhor said. 
“It was a once in a lifetime opportunity.”
Kalhor said she found out she was ac-
cepted into the competition in January 
while she was at Marston Science Library. 
Cooke declined to comment when asked 
about the decision process for Jeopardy! 
and said nobody in the show could provide 
that information.
“I had to leave the library and go 
sit down somewhere because I was so 
shocked,” she said.
After receiving the call, Kalhor told her 
friends and family of the big surprise. Her 
mother, Mary Kalhor, said she was very 
proud of her daughter. 
“My hope for her was that she just made 
herself proud and her school proud and 
that it went smoothly for her,” her mother 
said. “It was quite an accomplishment for 
her.”
The competition provided each contes-
tant with free flights and hotel stays at the Culver Hotel for the four nights they were 
in California, Cooke said. The hotel was 
a mile away from Sony Pictures Studios, 
where the contest was filmed on its own 
set. 
Kalhor would get to the set around 7 
a.m. and finish at about 5:30 p.m. Although 
she missed two days of class, her profes-
sors were all excited for her, she said.
The competition’s winner will receive 
the grand prize of $100,000, while second 
place will win $50,000 and third place will 
win $35,000. Those who make it onto the 
semifinals will receive $10,000 each, and 
those who do not make it past quarterfinals 
get $5,000 each, Cooke said. 
“There’s definitely a little more weight 
to it when you’re actually out there playing 
for real money,” Kalhor said. “So maybe you’re a little more wary about your an-
swer.”
Kalhor said she believes she was chosen 
out of luck, but she also said her person-
ality in the interview could have played a 
role in the decision process. 
She said that meeting Alex Trebek, the 
show’s host, was one of the highlights of 
the experience. Trebek announced last 
March through a YouTube video that he 
had been diagnosed with stage 4 pancre-
atic cancer.
“He’s just an icon for fighting through 
this diagnosis and continuing to host the 
show with the same grace that he’s always 
had,” Kalhor said. 
@lvbotero_
vbotero@alligator.orgUF sophomore competes in Jeopardy! College Championship
Courtesy to The Alligator
Kayla Kalhor is on the bottom right with the rest of the contestants for Jeopardy! 
College Championship.
By Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College’s new president, Paul 
Broadie II, delivered his inaugural address  
Tuesday afternoon. As he steps into his new 
role, Santa Fe students and faculty reflect on 
former President Jackson Sasser’s legacy at 
the college.
After 18 years of serving as Santa Fe’s 
president, Sasser said he decided to step 
down so he could spend more time with his 
wife and five grandchildren. 
Sasser considers his time at Santa Fe to be 
the “zenith” of his career.
“I can’t think of any way it could’ve been 
any better,” Sasser said.
Sasser made an undeniable impact on 
Santa Fe during his time as president, said 
Bea Awoniyi, the vice president of student 
affairs at Santa Fe. She said Sasser imple-
mented numerous programs to increase con-
nectivity and inclusion on campus. 
“He has a great respect for students and 
creates programs to get them involved and 
support student engagement,” Awoniyi said.
During his time as president, Sasser spear-
headed several programs at Santa Fe to create 
an environment where every student has an 
opportunity to succeed, such as My Brother’s 
Keeper, The Spectrum of Success Program 
and Take Stock in Children, Awoniyi said. 
Awoniyi said Sasser started My Broth-er’s Keeper, a program 
designed to increase the 
success of black males 
through mentorship, schol-
arships and leadership 
opportunities,before the 
national program even be-
gan. 
“He did not start it be-
cause it was ‘in,’” Awoniyi 
said. “He started it because he realized the 
need for that program.”
The Spectrum of Success Program, which 
aims to provide students on the autism spec-
trum with employment and life skills, was 
founded by Sasser, Awoniyi said. Sasser 
would implement programs such as these to 
“fix holes when he saw them.”
When Sasser noticed that students who 
participated in Take Stock in Children during 
high school were struggling without the sup-
port of mentors in college, he asked Awoniyi 
to coordinate a similar program to support 
students, she said.
Take Stock in Children provides students 
from low-income families with scholarship 
opportunities and mentorship. Through San-
ta Fe’s program, Awoniyi checks in with stu-
dents struggling academically and connects 
them with resources on campus.
Awoniyi said Santa Fe was the first insti-
tution to provide this program at a college 
level.
“He looks at how the college can actually fill those gaps so that no one is left behind,” 
Awoniyi said.
Overall, Sasser credits the progress San-
ta Fe achieved during his time there to the 
culture of openness and respect the admin-
istration encourages between students and 
faculty.
He said this respect is reflected in the col-
lege’s commitment to serving all students 
equally regardless of age, income level, aca-
demic preparation or grades. 
Alejandro Puga, who served as Santa Fe’s 
student body president from 2018 to 2019, 
said Sasser impacted the college in three dis-
tinct ways: by internationalizing the school, 
having a vision for the future and always car-
ing for students. 
Puga, 21, is now a senior studying po-
litical science online at Liberty University in 
Virginia. He said that Sasser’s efforts as pres-
ident allowed Santa Fe to be one of the few 
state colleges in the U.S. to receive a grant 
to meet with college presidents from other 
countries.
During his time as student body presi-
dent, Puga had the opportunity to meet visi-
tors from Ukraine, Pakistan and Egypt. 
“We learned what was going on in their 
country, and they were learning how the 
college process works in our country,” Puga 
said.
Puga looks forward to seeing President 
Broadie continue in Sasser’s footsteps.
 “I want him to have the opportunity to give his own vision to the college, and to 
make sure that he continues the traditions 
that Dr. Sasser started,” Puga said. 
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgFormer Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser retires
Sasser
During Sasser’s time as president, he…
• Began first Take Stock in 
Children program at a college level
• Started My Brother’s Keeper
• Started Spectrum of Success 
Program
• Led Santa Fe to be the No. 1 
Community College in the nation 
from 2015 to 2016
• Added a Fine Arts Hall to the 
Northwest Campus
• Added three new college 
locations
• Led Santa Fe to begin offering 
bachelor’s degrees
• Allowed student government 
members to sit in on official college 
meetings, Board of Trustees 
meetings and cabinet meetings
• Attended classes disguised 
as a student in order to improve 
student life
• Attended student government 
events
Other schools competing 
against UF:
• Florida State University
• Hendrix College
• Indiana University
• University of Texas
• Carnegie Mellon University
• University of California, San Diego
• Princeton University
• Liberty University
• Northwestern University
• University of Mississippi
• Yale University
• University of Minnesota
• Penn State
• University of Southern CaliforniaFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
NIGHT  9 pm-12 am
$2 Double Wells
$2 Rolling Rock Cans
$2 Pink Whitney Shots
LIVE DJ
(DOWNSTAIRS)
FRIDAYS
on theROOFNEW!Lily Strickland // Alligator Staff
Santa Fe students Myreen Roxas, 19, and Bellaliz Perez, 20, 
experience intense winds at Paynes Praire during the initial gusts 
Thursday.
SOME FLORIDIANS ARE 
CONCERNED ABOUT A 
LACK OF TRANSPARENCY
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida’s public college and uni-
versity students won’t know their 
school’s candidates for president 
until later in the selection process if 
a proposed bill passes.
In January, the Florida Sen-
ate education committee approved 
State Bill 774 in a 6-1 vote. 
The bill explains that state col-
leges and universities would keep 
personal information of the presi-
dential applicants and discussion 
involving the selection of applicants 
secret. Only the information of the 
ﬁ  nalists for the position would be 
released to the public, according to 
the bill.
It still must go through two com-mittees and receive support from 
Florida’s chambers and Gov. Ron 
DeSantis before it can become law.
Some Floridians are concerned 
that a lack of transparency could 
negatively affect how future college 
and university presidents are cho-
sen.
“When things are done in back-
room deals, it leads to cronyism,” 
said Florida State Senator Lori Ber-
man, who was the sole nay vote for 
the measure.
Berman believes that if passed, 
the bill would increase the possi-
bility of employees selecting their 
friends for the ﬁ  nal pool of presi-
dential applicants. Because of this, 
she said there’s really no compelling 
reason to change the application. 
Berman cited Florida’s No. 1 
ranking in higher education in 2019 
by the U.S. News & World Report 
as evidence that the state’s pub-
lic institutions were led by quality 
presidents. If the schools have been success-
ful, there shouldn’t be any issues 
with their current president hiring 
process, she reasoned.
“If it ain’t broke, don’t ﬁ  x it,” 
said Karen Morian, president of the 
United Faculty of Florida, an organi-
zation part of the Florida Education 
Association.
Morian said she ﬁ  nds it “re-
ally disturbing” that a presiden-
tial search wouldn’t be completely 
within public view and scrutiny.
She fears that if the bill becomes 
law, employers will choose weak 
candidates as ﬁ  nalists to ensure 
their preferred nominees get the po-
sition.
“Historically, we tried to move 
a lot of the backdoor shenanigans 
into the sunshine back in the ‘70s,” 
she said, referring to Florida’s sun-
shine laws.
Florida’s sunshine laws are regu-
lations that are meant to increase 
the transparency of government practices, such as the emails of pub-
lic ofﬁ  cials.
“It feels like they’ve slowly been 
chipping away at those sunshine 
laws for a couple decades now,” 
Morian said. “And it feels like this 
is one more piece of that.”
Stephon Adams, a 21-year-old 
UF political science junior, said that 
while the average college student 
won’t care about potential future 
university presidents, he believes 
the proposal will hurt students in 
the long run. 
Without the oversight of univer-
sity students and families, he thinks 
there’s a possibility that future pres-
idents may not be compatible with 
their respective communities.
He said it’s important to be fa-
miliar with the person who’s “most 
important at the university.”
Wallace Mazon, 25, a recent UF 
alumnus in African American stud-
ies, said he was already critical of 
the lack of diversity in top adminis-trative positions in the State Univer-
sity System of Florida.
Mazon said college presidents 
should be allies for the needs of stu-
dents of color and that UF President 
Kent Fuchs has consistently failed 
in doing that, between allowing 
white supremacist Richard Spencer 
on campus and the use of prison la-
bor on UF/IFAS farms.
He believes that if the bill be-
comes a law, more presidents who 
don’t listen to underrepresented 
students will be hired by the uni-
versity. 
“Whoever introduced this bill 
should be ashamed of themselves,” 
he said. “They don’t know what it’s 
like to beg administrators to listen 
to them and actively ﬁ  ght for posi-
tive change on campus.”
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgFlorida bill could make college, university president searches privatewinds, although isolated tornadoes are possible,” 
Zangara said. “These winds can do just as much 
damage as a tornado, coming in that fast.”
She said the UF weather service was notified 
on Monday about these winds, which usually 
warrant a warning. 
An Alligator reporter saw that traffic lights 
were out on West University Avenue and 13th 
Street. Another saw students cover their eyes as 
they walked through dust blowing from the new 
engineering building by the Reitz Union.
Some damages to power lines and tree limbs 
were reported in Alachua County, said Art For-
gey, a spokesperson for the Alachua County Sher-iff’s office. Most power outages were in eastern 
Gainesville, particularly the downtown area, said 
Mark Sexton, the county’s spokesperson.
CBS4 News reported that two flights at 
Gainesville Regional Airport were canceled along 
with Buchholz High School’s band concert and 
Clay County’s after school activities.
@StephanyMatat
smatat@alligator.orgWINDS,  from pg. 1UF campus’ power was unafected BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Watson Truck & Auto Parts
1445 Cox Road, Cocoa, FL 32926
Tuesday, February 11, 2020 at 11AM
Sale will consist of New Car & Truck Parts, 
Accessories, Tools and Supplies (lat-
est brands/models). Plus: Nissan 3-stage 
Electric Forklift Model MHII-19 
15% - 18% BP will apply. $100 ref. cash de-
posit. “As is, where is”.
Preview: Feb 10th from Noon to 5PM and 1 
hour prior to auction
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      2-7-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
Fun fact: The name “Alumni” comes from the Latin 
“Alumnus” which means “foster son.”This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
Freon Wanted: We pay CA$H for cylin-
ders and cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. 
Convenient. Certified Professionals
Call 312-634-6652 or
visit RefrigerantFinders.com      2-7-1-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2bd/2bth fully furnished townhouse, SW 
Gainesville, stone's throw from Haile Town 
Center, front garden, back porch face woods, 
high ceiling, utilities & wifi included, $350/
wk. No pets. Email: vchow331@yahoo.com    
2-10-20-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
“A free press can, of course, be good or 
bad, but, most certainly without freedom, the 
press will never be anything but bad.” 
– Albert CamusBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
answers on page 9
By Andrew Linzer
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/07/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/07/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, February 7, 2020
ACROSS
1 Component of an 
Olympic bronze 
medal
5 Off-road vehicle 
maker?
10 Peddle
14 Brand in a studio, 
maybe
15 Chooser’s choice
16 Onetime capital 
of the Mughal 
Empire
17 Seats facing the 
altar
18 Alley button
19 Genesis problem
20 Soiree for 
woodchip 
manufacturers?
23 Energized
25 Inspection
26 Soiree for certain 
divers?
30 Govt. stipend
31 Angel dust letters
32 Neural transmitter
34 Powerful 2017 
hurricane
37 Soiree for 
spreadsheet 
creators?
41 Solo number
42 Gear for Lindsey 
Vonn
43 Service reward
45 PETA concern
47 Soiree for fake 
coin makers?
50 Need for big dos
54 Spherical 
extremities
55 Soiree for army 
enlistees?
59 Green hue
60 Louvre Pyramid 
architect
61 Chatroom 
spammers
64 Manipulates
65 Really funny 
ones
66 City-
circumventing 
road
67 Hot message
68 American in 
Paris, perhaps
69 One of 11 for 
Julia Louis-
Dreyfus
DOWN
1 12345, for 
Schenectady, NY2 Turner on a 
turntable
3 Times, at times
4 Spirited toon?
5 Actress Hatcher
6 “Top Chef” set 
piece
7 Building project 
for cranes?
8 Get down to 
earth?
9 First pro team to 
play on artificial 
turf
10 Samurai ritual
11 Lab gelatins
12 Pen
13 GOOD Music 
record label 
founder
21 Cholesterol 
letters
22 Presume
23 Common 99-cent 
purchase
24 Hajji’s destination
27 Potter’s creation
28 Plot lines
29 Imitates 
derisively
33 “American Gods” 
author Gaiman
35 Traveler’s 
overnight spot
36 Seasoning seed38 Buoyant 
protection
39 Actress Dern of 
“Twin Peaks”
40 Sch. with a 
Harrisburg 
campus
44 NBA stat
46 Hang up the 
spikes
48 2.3, perhaps: 
Abbr.
49 Slight character 
flaw50 2.3, roughly
51 Come up
52 Big name in 
stopwatches
53 Compilation 
album add-on
56 Per item
57 Spanakopita 
cheese
58 Solidarity  
symbol
62 First of a generic 
trio
63 Expert on bugs?
By Robert Wemischner
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/06/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/06/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, February 6, 2020
ACROSS
1 Diamond problem
5 Plush carpet
9 Test versions
14 Feminist poet 
Adrienne
15 It’s partially 
submerged
16 Valuable violin
17 Italian wine 
region
18 Founder of Edom
19 R2-D2 or BB-8, 
e.g.
20 Parvenu’s 
business 
venture?
23 Beantown NHL 
nickname
24 “__ whiz!”
25 Quarterback’s 
nonchalant 
move?
32 Vague time period
33 Spots for AirPods
34 One may be 
decorated for the 
holidays
35 Sprightly
36 Marmalade bits
38 __ Ren, “Star 
Wars” villain
39 Trig. function
40 Aloha State bird
41 Plumlike fruit
42 Down Under 
withdrawal?
46 Disney doe
47 It’s just over a foot
48 TSA agent’s 
perfected search 
technique?
55 Tropical porch
56 Murdoch who 
received the 1978 
Booker Prize for 
“The Sea, the 
Sea”
57 “What’s the  
big __?”
58 Habituate
59 Retail outlet
60 Mattress option
61 Zaps
62 Neverland pirate
63 What this puzzle 
does here
DOWN
1 German spouse
2 Speech therapy 
target3 Tries to look
4 Plant leaf pest
5 Himalayan guide
6 “Prizzi’s Honor” 
director or 
actress
7 Word of regret
8 Excess
9 Scrubby 
wastelands
10 Chewed the 
scenery
11 Perfume that 
sounds forbidden
12 Surmounting
13 “Pull up a chair”
21 Arthur in the 
International 
Tennis Hall of 
Fame
22 Seaweed-based 
thickeners
25 Buckeye State 
sch.
26 Leading
27 Brightest star in 
Cygnus
28 Taken in
29 “All Because __”: 
2005 U2 song
30 Steakhouse 
order
31 Picked dos32 Dr Pepper 
Museum city
36 Postgame 
postmortem
37 Skin pics
38 Yukon gold rush 
region
40 Au pairs
41 Burlesque bit
43 “’__ the 
Jabberwock, my 
son!’”: Carroll
44 Have great plans45 Pure
48 Mike’s “Wayne’s 
World” co-star
49 Obligation
50 Gets in the 
crosshairs, with 
“at”
51 Disneyland 
transport
52 Norse god
53 Make (one’s way)
54 Old horses
55 Put a match to
02/05/20
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Please recycle this newspaper.Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
HIRING
Housekeepers & Front Desk
for La Quinta. $10.00/hr must be reliable. 
Please call 352-204-4960    2-10-20-5-14
Leasing Agent/Office help - Looking for
enthusiastic person who can follow
directions Hours 1:30-6 pm M-F
Some Saturdays starting in March 11-3 by 
appointment $13-15 /hr Call 954-931-0549 
Between the hours of 1-3 ONLY or
send resume to
countryvillageofgainesville@gmail.com
2-10-20-4-14
Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
SADIE'S FOOD CART
Needs part time help. Weekends. Need reli-
able, non-smoker. Perfect for students and 
single moms. Call Dave @ 352-470-4821    
2-14-20-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees14 Help Wanted 18 Personals
ScrabbleGrams solution Hitori solution1. Which group began as Fat City and 
then Bill & Taffy? (Hint: They eventu-
ally had a short-lived TV show.)
2. Who wrote and released "Knock 
on Wood"?
3. Which one-hit wonder released "It 
Never Rains in Southern California"?
4. Name the singer who started as a 
Los Angeles Lakers cheerleader.
5. Name the 1972 song that contains 
this lyric: "Please swallow your pride if 
I have things you need to borrow, For 
no one can fill those of your needs that 
you won't let show."1. Starland Vocal Band. Their "Afternoon Delight" 
won Best Arrangement for Voices and Best New Artist 
Grammy awards in 1977.
2. Eddie Floyd, in 1966. Co-writer Steve Cropper says 
the song was written on a stormy night, hence the "It's 
like thunder, lightning" lyrics.
3. U.K.-born Albert Hammond. He did, however, pro-
duce excellent songs for others, including "One Moment 
in Time" and "To All the Girls I've Loved Before." 
4. Paula Abdul.
5. "Lean on Me," by Bill Withers. Withers wrote the song 
after moving to California and finding that he missed 
being in his hometown. Club Nouveau released a reg-
gae dance version in 1987.FlashBack answers
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
1. Name The Who guitarist who 
is known for smashing his guitars 
during performances. How did that 
get started?
2. Why did Bob Dylan stop touring 
between 1966 and 1973?
3. What was Wicked Lester?
4. The Polka Tulk Blues Band ended 
up as what band?
5. Name the television show that 
used these lyrics in the theme song: 
“Just sit right back and you’ll hear a 
tale, A tale of a fateful trip.”
Answers
1. Peter Townsend. He accidentally 
broke the head off a guitar during a 
show and afterward continued break-
ing guitars (albeit cheaper ones).
2. He was seriously injured in a 
motorcycle accident, crashing his Tri-
umph Tiger 100SS. Later, however, he 
was quoted as saying he’d wanted to 
get out of the rat race.
3. The original name of Kiss, with a 
short period (1970-1971) being called 
Rainbow. Look for a 1972 bootleg 
album called “The Original Wicked 
Lester Sessions.”
4. Black Sabbath.
5. “Gilligan’s Island,” which aired 
for three seasons from 1964-67, a 
total of 98 episodes. The first season 
was in black and white. The storyline 
tells of castaways who ran aground on 
an island during a storm while on the 
charter boat SS Minnow.
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
January 27, 2020
answers below answers below
1.  Black eye
1.  Easy5.  Protective covering
2.  Forbidden6.  Mythical being
3.  Improve7.  Cheat, swindle
4.  StickRNEHSI
PSIELMCMULH
ENEGI
AGLILEL
AENECHNLECFEE
HEECORANSWERS: 1A-Shiner  5A-Mulch  6A-Genie  7A-Fleece
1D-Simple  2D-Illegal  3D-Enhance  4D-Cohere  B-Al Pacino2-7-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor turned down the lead role in 
“Close Encounters of the Third Kind.” 
BONUS
No, it's not possible. Add the number of exits and entrances. If the sum is even, 
it's possible to end up back where you started. If it's odd, it's not possible.Stickelers answer
Wednesday
solution belowGators sophomore outﬁ  elder 
Jud Fabian was named to the 
Preseason All-SEC Second 
T eam on Thursday. He hit .232 
with seven home runs in 2019.UNC's Tim Brewster to join Florida coaching staff
Just days after the departure of tight end coach Larry Scott for the top job 
at Howard, the Gators add Brewster from UNC, according to 247Sports. 
Brewster coached tight ends for the T ar Heels and is noted as a strong re-
cruiter.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
On coach Dan Mullen's third National Signing Day, the 
Gators have the No. 8 class, per 247Sports.
FOOTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Florida bolstered its 2020 signing 
class on Wednesday with three signings, 
ﬁ  nishing the day eighth in the country.
The Gators signed a pair of four-star 
recruits in wide receiver Xzavier Hender-
son and defensive end Princely Uman-
mielen. 
Henderson, brother of former corner-
back C.J. Henderson, picked Florida over 
Clemson, Alabama and Georgia, among 
other schools. The 6-foot-3 receiver was 
the 66th-overall prospect and the 11th-
ranked wide-receiver recruit in the coun-
try. Coach Dan Mullen gave him a favor-
able comparison to his brother. 
“His brother’s got a little bit more 
technique on him right now, but I think it 
would be interesting,” Mullen said. “He’s 
bigger than (C.J.), and he’s still in high 
school… so I think he’s got the poten-
tial, once we coach him up a little, I don’t 
know, I might have to go with Xzavier.”
The surprise of the day for Florida 
came in the afternoon when Uman-
mielen elected to sign with the Gators. 
He didn’t visit UF until Jan. 24 but still 
picked the Gators over Baylor, Auburn 
and Texas. Umanmielen was the 241st-
overall recruit in the country and ninth-
ranked strong-side defensive end. 
Florida also made former Penn State 
wide receiver Justin Shorter’s transfer of-
ﬁ  cial. The incoming redshirt sophomore and former ﬁ  ve-star recruit caught 12 
passes for 137 yards last season for the 
Nittany Lions. 
By the end of the day, the Gators’ 
class was eighth in the country but sixth 
in the SEC. That, however, also includes 
the commitments of four-star athlete 
Marc Britt and three-star wide receiver 
Leonard Manuel. Britt will sign on Feb. 
20, while Manuel will be signing on April 
1.
As it stands, Florida’s 2020 class is 
deep, especially on the defensive side 
of the ball. Fourteen of the Gators’ 23 
signings were on defense, including ﬁ  ve-
star defensive tackle Gervon Dexter. The 
Lake Wales High star is UF’s ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve-
star signing since 2015 (CeCe Jefferson 
and Martez Ivey). 
Florida went from zero ﬁ  ve-star re-
cruits on its roster last season to four 
with Dexter and transfers Shorter, run-
ning back Lorenzo Lingard and line-
backer Brenton Cox (pending waivers for 
Shorter and Lingard.)
UF stockpiled defensive backs in this 
class as well, signing seven of them, in-
cluding ﬁ  ve four-stars. 
Additionally, Florida ﬁ  xed their depth 
problems at wide receiver after the de-
partures of Van Jefferson, Freddie Swain, 
Josh Hammond and Tyrie Cleveland by 
bringing in Shorter, Henderson, four-star 
Jaquavion Fraziars and Texas graduate 
transfer Jordan Pouncey. 
The Gators also put an emphasis on locking down the recruiting hotbed that 
is the state of Florida. UF has 16 players 
who are either committed or signed that 
are from Florida. Of the top 10 players in 
the Gators’ class, eight of them are from 
the Sunshine State. 
“This is the ﬂ  agship school of the 
state, and this is where kids in the state 
want to play,” Mullen said. “You go back 
and you look at the 2006 and 2008 na-
tional championship teams, there are a 
lot of guys from the state of Florida on 
that roster.”
However, Florida’s class isn’t without 
its drawbacks. For one, the team com-
pletely whiffed at the running-back posi-
tion, failing to sign a single high-school 
prospect at the position.
The biggest problem, however, is that 
the Gators still ﬁ  nd themselves at a dis-
advantage compared to its SEC rivals. 
Georgia signed the top class in the coun-
try and matched Florida’s four ﬁ  ve-stars 
with its 2020 class alone. LSU also signed 
the fourth-ranked class in the country, 
meaning the Gators were outgunned on 
the recruiting trail by two teams they 
play every season. 
Florida’s 2020 class is a step in the 
right direction, but it will still need better 
recruiting efforts in the future to compete 
for both the SEC Championship and the 
College Football Playoff.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgGators ink three signees, adding to their top-10 class
The promises are empty, but the stadium is emptier. 
It was announced Tuesday that the Jacksonville Jaguars would play 
two “home” games in London in the 2020 season. This decision, in 
the contract’s ﬁ  nal year, is a one-game increase from Jacksonville’s 
deal with the NFL to play one home game across the Atlantic Ocean 
per season. Jaguars owner Shad Khan has proven through this choice, and 
through his words, that he doesn’t know anything about his fan base. 
“First, I want to make it clear that our ﬁ  rst priority is winning,” Khan said 
in an interview with Jaguars reporter Ashlyn Sullivan. “And anything we do 
or say away from that will never be more important than giving Jacksonville 
a team that wins and the community can be proud to call its own.”
Not a single word of this quote lines up with a single thing that has actually happened. 
The ﬁ  rst priority is winning? 
Since Khan bought the Jaguars, their record is 38-90. They have had one winning 
season in that span. General manager Dave Caldwell, who Khan has for some reason 
allowed to stick around for eight seasons, is 36-76 in his time in Jacksonville. Coach Doug 
Marrone, who Khan also decided to retain this offseason following a 6-10 year, is 21-28 
since being promoted to head man from offensive line coach. 
Which of those records indicate Khan’s ﬁ  rst priority is winning? NFL GMs and coaches 
simply do not lose that much and last that long if the most important thing is actually 
coming out on top on Sundays. 
And what about his desire to give Jacksonville a team that makes the community 
“proud to call its own?”
How can the city be proud to call the team its own when he makes it share the team 
with somewhere else twice a year? Do you feel like your signiﬁ  cant other is really yours 
if they’re with you only most of the time?That’s insane. 
Khan also went on to say that this move for two games will “bridge the 
gap between now and when we expect the Lot J development to open.” And 
this is supposed to be why he feels the reaction from fans “should be very 
positive.” 
If you aren’t familiar with Lot J, it is essentially Khan and Jaguars president 
Mark Lamping’s  newest project to improve the game day experience in 
Jacksonville. Currently, Lot J is just a section of the parking lot at TIAA Bank 
Field. It is a prime tailgating spot for college fraternities on Florida-Georgia 
weekend. 
The franchise plans to develop that into places for fans to enjoy (bars, 
restaurants, a hotel, etc). But the agreement to develop Lot J between the 
Jaguars and the city was reached in July of 2019. 
To this day, not a single shovel has touched the area to begin development. 
How can you expect fans to take you for your word when it has been six 
months and there’s been no results? It is a slap in the face to Jacksonville and Jags fans 
who support this team wholeheartedly when it shows any signs of on-ﬁ  eld success. Look 
at the 2017 season. 
When the Jaguars made their magical AFC Championship run, the Seahawks and 
Bills games were standing-room only. Carrying over into the next year, the early-season 
revenge game against the Patriots in 2018 was sold out as well. 
And as far as the reaction being positive, whose reaction could Khan possibly think 
that is? 
You don’t have to do much more than go on Twitter and type in “Jags London” to see 
that fans of the teal and black are less than enthused, to put it nicely.
Khan claims the two-game trip across the pond helps NFL football stay viable in 
Jacksonville long term, but they are in danger of losing the community’s faith in them 
to put the city ﬁ  rst anyway. You know what makes the Jaguars viable in Jacksonville? 
Football games in Jacksonville. You don’t know your own fans, Shad KhanMarsh Madness
Graham Marsh
Twitter: @GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11  
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Freshman Scottie Lewis and sophomore Andrew Nembhard celebrate 
together during Florida’s 22-point comeback win against Georgia.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
 
The crowd in Gainesville ex-
ploded as bucket after bucket sank. 
Shooters couldn’t miss, and fans 
sporting orange and blue were in 
awe of the offensive showing.
The upside was on full display 
as no one on this young squad was 
taller than five feet, and on a school 
night no less.
That was the scene at halftime on 
Wednesday as a group of elementary 
school kids played a pickup game on 
the O’Connell Center hardwood on 
superhero night while Florida was 
down 41-26 against Georgia.
An anxious crowd that only saw 
UF make 11 field goals in the first 
half was finally privy to some excit-
ing back and forth action on Wednes-
day when Georgia was in the midst of 
embarrassing UF on its home floor.
Future NBA Lottery pick and 
UGA guard Anthony Edwards might 
as well have been guarded by one of 
those children up until that point. Ed-
wards had 18 points and was 4 for 
5 from three-point range when he 
went to the visitor’s locker room at 
halftime.
A man among boys.Not known to Edwards or any 
of the disgusted fans in attendance, 
but coach Mike White challenged 
his team to show some toughness in 
the second half and even called them 
soft.
“I called them that a bunch 
through this year,” White said. 
“We’re not the toughest team, of 
course.”
A team of boys went into the lock-
er room at halftime, and a group of 
men emerged.
Down by as many as 22, the 
Gators exploded in the second half, 
with their comeback tying a school 
record in the 81-75 win.
Guard Tre Mann lived up to 
his name as the freshman seem-
ingly grew up right in front of the 
Gainesville crowd. He had 11 points, 
all in the second half, and drew two 
huge charges down the stretch.
Forward Keyontae Johnson fin-
ished with 15 points (13 in the sec-
ond half), and no one shined brighter 
than guard Andrew Nembhard.
The sophomore scored 19 of his 
25 points in an 11-minute shooting 
clinic in the second half and had 11 
of UF’s last 12 points. The crowd 
erupted each time the point guard 
made one of his seven second-half field goals.
This was especially the case when 
Nembhard sealed the game on a steal 
and dunk (the first dunk of his col-
lege career) with 19 seconds to go in 
the game to put UF up 79-73.
Much has been expected of 
Nembhard this season, but White 
has stated previously that there is 
never a situation where he goes to 
Nembhard and says, “Hey, you need 
to get us 25.”
An argument could be made that 
White should, however. The Gators 
are 3-0 when Nembhard scores more 
than 20 this season, and his aggres-
sion may be the key to future suc-
cess.
Nemhard said that he didn’t 
go out and try to score 25, but the 
20-year-old from Aurora, Ontario, 
Canada, did bashfully put an end 
to any rumors around his team’s 
psyche.
“I think we’re a confident team, 
I don’t think that narrative of us not 
being (or) not having confidence is 
real…anymore.”
It remains to be seen if this team 
will revert to its immature tendencies 
in the future, but on Wednesday, 
Florida was devoid of any boys. Only 
men played on that court on super-
hero night.
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.orgFrom boys to men
LACROSSE
By Christian Ortega
Sports Writer
Amanda O’Leary opened the first media availability of the 
season, exuding nothing but confidence. 
Though she lost 10 seniors — eight of which were starters 
— that led the team to an undefeated conference record last 
season, this decade ushers in a new era for the team. 
Ranked No. 14 in the IWLCA Preseason Poll, the Gators will 
have an opportunity to test their young roster against No. 18 
Colorado on Feb. 8 at noon. 
“We are going to see a lot of new faces coming into this sea-
son,” O’Leary said. “That’s really exciting for us, we have had 
a great preseason. Our seniors and our upperclassman have 
done a great job taking the underclassmen under their wing 
and making sure they understand the culture and the work 
ethic of this team.”
But they will face some challenges.
The team lost attacker Lindsey Ronbeck, who led the team 
in goals (89) and points (107) last year, as well as three-time 
conference goalie of the year and all-time saves leader, Halie 
Hicklen, to graduation. 
Offensively, junior midfielder Shannon Kavanagh who to-
taled 95 points last season, will command the bulk of Ron-beck’s production. Defensively, senior defender Cara Trom-
betta is expected to have a dominant year. She averaged 1.7 
caused turnovers per game last season. 
Both are preseason All-Americans. 
“Shannon is a very unique player in the fact that she is a 
middie (midfielder) and plays both ends of the field,” O’Leary 
said. “She is super athletic and has a really high lacrosse IQ, but 
more importantly, she is a really good kid — fun to be around 
and fun to coach. She was named a captain, and that was for 
a reason.”
In the goal, redshirt freshman Sarah Reznick will start over 
senior Kenzii Kittell. Reznick was the No. 1-rated goalie in the 
2017 recruiting class after compiling 681 saves during her high 
school career.
Against the Buffaloes, Florida will have to maximize its 
depth if it’s to overcome a talented Buffs team that was second 
in the Pac-12 preseason coaches poll.
If the game goes Colorado’s way, goal-scoring will come 
tough for the Gators. They’ll face senior goalie Julia Lisella, 
who averaged 10.2 goals-against in 2019 (19th nationally). 
Yet, O’Leary remains optimistic about their chances.
“Your first game is always a big gauge in determining where 
you are,” she said. “It will be exciting for us to get out there and 
execute on the things we’ve been working on day in and day 
out. For the first game, we are trying to execute the basics. If we can do that, we will be successful.” 
Part of her confidence stems from the promising group of 
freshmen. Of the 14 newcomers, midfielders Emily Heller and 
Shelton Sawers are poised to provide an immediate impact. 
Another freshman who will be relied on heavily is attacker 
Kaala Puglisi. An expected starter, she will try to help fill the 
void left by Ronbeck, who accounted for 22.5 percent of all 
points and 27.5 percent of all goals scored for the Gators last 
season.
“We lost a lot of seniors last year that had a huge impression 
on our program, but we have 14 freshmen that came in, so they 
are filling the spots well,” Kavanagh said. “We are excited that 
we have a lot of players that didn’t get a chance to show off last 
year that are filling those positions.”
Having coached the team since its inception, O’Leary is no 
stranger to developing a young, inexperienced team, and it’s 
a feeling that has become contagious within the team. If man-
aged properly, this season can continue Florida’s streak of six-
straight conference championships. 
“The mood going into the game on Saturday is excitement,” 
Trombetta said. “It’ll be good to see where we are and see what 
we can build on for the rest of the season.”
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.orgChomp vs. Stomp: Gators open season against Buffaloes 
SOFTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
What were once commanding voices of 
leadership in the locker room, bullpen and dug-
out have now vacated Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium. The echoes of all-time athletes like 
Kelly Barnhill, Amanda Lorenz and Alex Voss 
interfere with loud whispers of doubt from the 
rest of college softball, generating feedback in 
Gainesville.
But, 10-year-old Hartley Georges — Florida 
softball’s adopted teammate — muffles the 
white noise. Last season was Hartley’s first 
with the Gators. She and Lorenz formed a spe-
cial bond, never too far apart in the dugout, both sporting No. 18. 
This season, just as they did before, the 
Gators will look to her for strength. She mo-
tivates Florida’s squad and reminds them that 
there’s more to life than wins and losses. Senior 
catcher Jordan Roberts said that she is “liter-
ally sunshine” in the dugout. At the preseason 
banquet, the Georges surprised the Gators, an-
nouncing that Hartley’s most recent MRI came 
back clear — no evidence of disease. 
“Chills amongst our whole team, I’m sure,” 
senior Jade Caraway said about the Georges’ 
news. “Us seniors, I know for a fact, were look-
ing at each other trying to hold it together...Our 
eyes were filled with tears.”
More than any title, more than any acco-lade, more than dispelling any preseason hesi-
tations, that is what they’re playing for. She is 
what they’re playing for. 
Florida’s 2020 campaign begins tonight in 
Tampa, where the No. 7-ranked Gators will 
face the Illinois State Redbirds in their seventh-
consecutive USF-Rawlings Invitational.
The weekend will kick off the 56-game 
regular season with five games, including Flor-
ida’s first matchup with a ranked opponent in 
No. 17 Michigan. While the Gators have won 
the last five meetings versus the Wolverines, 
coach Tim Walton acknowledges the breadth 
of talent in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
“It’s called fast pitch for a reason, and if you 
pitch really, really well, you’re going to win a lot of games,” Walton said. “I think Michigan 
really has a very good pitching staff. They re-
turned a couple of really good pitchers.”
Independent of the turnover the Gators 
have seen from last season, they are slated 
for a tough non-conference schedule. Florida 
will travel to Palm Springs, California, for the 
Mary Nutter Collegiate Classic at the end of the 
month to battle No. 5 Arizona, No. 14 North-
western, No. 22 Arizona State and No. 4 UCLA 
all in one weekend.
Read the rest online at alligator.org/sports
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgPreviewing Florida’s 2020 season, which begins tonight12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2020
REGISTERTOVOTE!REGISTERTOVOTE!
ELECTION ALERT!   
Check y our r egistration s tatus and r egister to 
vote in t he primar y at: http://nxt gn.us/v oteFLYou MUS T be a r egistered Democr at by 
Februar y 18t hto vote in t he 2020 Florida 
Democr atic President ial Primar y on March 17t h. 
Don’t miss out. Y our v ote is y our v oice.
TEXT2020 T O82623
to receive periodic updat es from Ne xtGen, 
check y our r egistration s tatus, and r e-register.*  
SCANTHE QR CODE
FOR MORE  INFOREGISTERTOVOTE!REGISTERTOVOTE!
*By texting 2 020 to 82623 you consent t o receive periodic updat es from Ne xtGen Americ a. Text HELP f or help , STOP to end. Ms g 
& Dat a rates may apply . https://ne xtgenameric a.org/priv acy-policy/