We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperHelping others cope with unimaginable pain
A look at stigmas surrounding mental health in the Black community 
in and around Gainesville following a summer of unrest, pg. 6
UF’s COVID-19 response adjusts to demand, outrage
On-campus testing locations have increased and saliva testing is 
also now available,  pg. 4Swamp Social Distancing
Alligator Sports writer Declan Walsh talked 
to the University Police Department to see 
how they plan on enforcing social distancing 
guidelines,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 5
FOOTBALL
By Christian Ortega
Sports writer
It was a season opener that 
erased any memory of the past six 
months. 
Eighty-six points, 1,255 yards; 
football is back. 
For the Gators, the display 
showed the wealth of their of -
fense. Kyle Trask had a record 
performance after amassing 416 
yards and six touchdowns through 
the air. Kyle Pitts caught eight of 
Trask’s 30 completions to the tune 
of 170 yards and four touchdowns. “It was just great to be out there 
playing football again, ” coach Dan 
Mullen said postgame. 
While they stole Twitter, the 
offense wasn’t all “Kyle squared. ”  
Senior receiver Kadarius Toney ig -
nited the offense time and time 
again on the way to amassing a 
career-high 154 all-purpose yards 
and a touchdown.
Last season, Toney missed six 
games and finished with 10 recep -
tions to his name. Mullen praised 
the senior’s performance Satur -
day, saying he developed into an 
every-down player. “One of the things we talked to 
him a bunch about was every time 
you get the ball. It’s OK to get ver -
tical and get 4 or 5 yards, ” Mullen 
said. “You don’t have to run around 
70 yards to get those 4 yards. Just 
drop pads and get vertical. I think 
you saw him do that. ”
Toney made his impact early in 
the first quarter, solidifying Flori -
da’s lead with a 50-yard scramble 
on a jet sweep to set up a touch -
down. From then, it was chunk 
play after chunk play.
But, while Toney and the rest of Gators explode offensively, implode defensivelyLauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
About 250 students and residents wearing Black Lives Matter shirts and face masks rallied against 
a Louisville, Kentucky, jury’s Wednesday decision in Breonna Taylor’s case, a Black woman who was 
shot by police in her home in March. Alexandra St Tellien, a UF psychology and linguistics senior, 
gives a speech at the Alachua County Courthouse in Gainesville on Saturday. Read more on page 4.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 11WITH 2020 OFFERING DUAL 
CHALLENGES IN COVID-19 
AND RACIAL INJUSTICE, 
PROFESSORS FIND WAYS TO 
RECONFIGURE 
THEIR COURSES
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff writer
Betty Smocovitis has prepared 
for 2020 for more than 25 years. 
The UF College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences biology and history 
professor’s class, history and evo -
lution of infectious disease, has 
taken on a new purpose — even 
if it’s one she didn’t envision this 
year.
“It’s one things to be talking 
about wars and monarchs who’ve 
died, talking about the Black 
Death, ” Smocovitis said. “It’s an -
other thing to be looking at your 
president not doing what they’re 
supposed to be doing. ”
It’s a relevancy UF professors 
realized these last three semes -
ters as they adjust their curricu -
lum to the major events of 2020 
— the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
nationwide protests against racial 
injustice and a presidential elec -
tion.
That’s given some UF history 
professors new ways to uphold 
their central mantra: using the 
past to understand the present. 
For some, that included compari -
sons, research and tracking CO -
VID-19 throughout Africa.
For Smocovitis, that started in 
the Spring. She monitored CO -
VID-19 from the first outbreak last 
January in Wuhan, China. Though 
the World Health Organization 
only declared the virus a global 
pandemic on March 11, Smocovi -
tis knew it would be one. 
She made her biology students 
in the Spring track the virus’ path 
and observe its transmission rates 
— all while tackling genomes and 
double helixes.
This Fall, with a greater under -
standing of COVID-19, Smocovitis 
has students write weekly two-
page reaction papers document -
ing the current state of the pan -
demic. She found her students 
more invested in the topic as it 
dominates their reality.
“They began to see things like 
the social fabric, tearing — how 
these pathogens can affect ev -erybody, ” Smocovitis said. “But 
our ability to withstand them, to 
function from them is a testament 
to our abilities. ”
Assistant UF professor Fernan -
da Bretones Lane sought to tackle 
those questions in her course in -
troduction to Caribbean history, 
which examines the region from 
the pre-Columbian era to the 
present day. 
She dedicated two of the 16 
weeks to pandemics along with 
COVID-19’s effects on tourism, 
one of the region’s biggest finan -
cial drivers.
“What does it mean that we 
can and cannot go to certain 
places? What does it mean for the 
people that live there as we now 
become a threat?” she said. “It was 
hard for me not to incorporate 
them into my class. ”
That’s become the motto for 
many professors, especially when 
timely issues like systemic racism 
and global health converge.
Megan Cogburn, a UF anthro -
pology doctoral candidate and in -
structor of global health culture, 
has her students write weekly 
journal entries on how the course 
material relates to their own lives 
in a pandemic. 
“I think one thing that I felt was 
a sense of solidarity and commu -
nity with the students. This was 
a process for all of us, ” Cogburn 
said. “It’s a privileged position to 
be an instructor like this, but it’s 
also a humbling one. ”
That led her to dedicate a week 
of her course, which is only in its 
second catalogued semester, to 
race and medicine, noting how 
minorities are disproportionately 
affected by COVID-19.
“We want them to be applica -
ble to students’ lives and students’  
events, but how applicable it was 
was hard for all of us, ” Cogburn 
said.
Nancy Hunt, a history and Afri -
can studies professor, took that a 
step further.
Hunt has been teaching her 
course, health in Africa, for de -
cades at different schools before 
arriving at UF in 2016. But when 
COVID-19 hit, she reconfigured 
her class to focus on the spread of 
the virus across Africa.
Every class, she splits her 15 UF professors tackle 
2020 in their courses
SEE PROFESSORS,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classified advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
VOLUME 115 ISSUE 5
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinion Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgABOUT 186,000 PEOPLE 
ARE REGISTERED TO VOTE 
IN ALACHUA COUNTY AS OF 
SEPT. 18. HERE’S HOW TO 
BE ONE OF THEM BEFORE 
THE DEADLINE
By Steven Walker
Alligator Staff Writer
Time is running out to register to vote.
Voters must register in order to partic -
ipate in the Nov. 3 general election when 
the presidential race between President 
Trump and former Vice President Joe 
Biden is decided. Oct. 5 is the last day to 
register to vote in Alachua County in No -
vember.
As of Sept. 27, about 187,000 people 
are registered to vote in the county, ac -
cording to Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections data. 
About 59,000 people are registered 
for a mail-in ballot in Alachua County to 
vote from home, more than double the 
amount since 2018, according to Alachua 
County Supervisor of Elections spokes -
person TJ Pyche. In the November 2016 
election, only about 29,000 people voted 
by mail.
In order to be eligible to register to 
vote in Alachua County, a voter must be at least 18 years old, a citizen of the U.S. and 
a legal resident in Alachua County. Those 
who meet those requirements can regis -
ter to vote through multiple avenues, all 
accessible through a website maintained 
by the Supervisor of Elections.
The first way to register is through 
the state’s online voter registration portal. 
Voters registered in any Florida county 
can use this portal. The website offers 
English and Spanish options and a way to 
check if you are already registered to vote.
UF also provides a way for students to 
register online through Turbovote.  Flor -
ida residents and out-of-state students 
can register to vote, update their registra -
tion and request a mail-in ballot through 
the website.
Alachua County residents can also 
print out a physical voter registration 
form in either English or Spanish. This 
form can either be mailed to or dropped 
off at the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections Office at 515 N. Main St. in 
Gainesville. Voter registration forms sent 
through the mail must be postmarked by 
Oct. 5 in order to meet the deadline.
The Supervisor of Elections office is 
open from 8:30 a.m to 5 p.m. on week -
days, and until 7 p.m. on Oct. 5.
The coronavirus pandemic has caused 
a sharp increase in mail-ballot requests in 
Alachua County. Registered voters can 
request a mail ballot from the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections website. 
Residents of other counties can register 
for a mail ballot at their county’s Supervi -
sor of Elections website.
Registered voters can also request 
a mail ballot in person at the Supervisor 
of Elections office, or by mail by printing 
out the form on the website and mailing 
it to the Supervisor of Elections office. The 
form is also available in Spanish. 
The deadline to request a mail-in bal -
lot in Alachua County is Oct. 24 at 5 p.m.
Even amid the coronavirus pandemic, 
Alachua County will have 63 in-person 
voting precincts for the Nov. 3 election. 
The Supervisor of Elections website pro -
vides a page where residents can check 
where their voting precinct is based on 
the address used to register to vote. Vot -
ers must vote at their designated voting 
precinct, according to the Florida Division 
of Elections.
UF’s Reitz Union building will serve 
as an early voting location where Ala -
chua County voters from any precinct can 
cast their ballots. Early voting at the Reitz 
Union building is from Oct. 19 through 
Oct. 31. On election day, only voters in 
precinct 31 can vote at the Reitz Union.
swalker@alligator.org
@swalker_7The deadline to register to vote in Alachua 
County is Oct. 5. Here is what you need to know
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
#orangeandbluesubTry the Orange & Blue sub, made with chicken tenders and topped with  
buffalo sauce and blue cheese dressing. Save time before class.  
Order ahead for in-store pickup at publix.com/orangeandblue . A taste  
of school spirit .4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020ABOUT 250 PEOPLE GATHERED SATURDAY
By Grethel Aguila and Asta Hemenway
Alligator Staff Writers
South Main Street erupted with the noise of two con -
trasting voices Saturday afternoon. Some  called for justice 
for Breonna Taylor raising their fists and snapping as slurred 
giggles slipped from the mouths of students celebrating the 
Gators’ win in beer-stained orange-and-blue shirts.
About 250 students and residents wearing Black Lives 
Matter shirts and face masks rallied against a Louisville, 
Kentucky, jury’s Wednesday decision in Taylor’s case, a Black 
woman who was shot by police in her home March 13. 
They gathered Saturday evening at Bo Diddley Plaza, lo -
cated at 111 E. University Ave. and marched to the Alachua 
County Courthouse at 220 S. Main St., for about two hours.
None of the police officers involved in Taylor’s death were 
charged. Brett Hankison, a now-fired Louisville police officer, 
was indicted Wednesday on first-degree wanton endanger -
ment, or behavior that can cause death or severe injury to 
another person. Hankison was charged because the shots 
he fired also went through a neighboring apartment’s walls. 
Organizers from the GoDDsville Dream Defenders, the 
local chapter of an organization founded after the death of 
17-year-old Trayvon Martin, and supporters from the crowd 
went up to speak. 
“This is not the world I wanna live in, ” a speaker said.
Alexandra St Tellien, a protest organizer, stood in the cen -
ter of the crowd.
Every time St Tellien opened Instagram, the 22-year-old 
UF psychology and linguistics senior said she saw pictures 
and videos of Black people who died at the hands of police. 
Since June, she has helped organize protests. 
“I am tired of being brutalized, ” she said to the crowd. “I 
am a Black woman, and I am tired. ”
To St Tellien, the Breonna Taylor decision was a slap in the 
face.“Black women — we’re used, we’re used and used until 
we have like nothing left, ” she said. “And then we still don’t 
get the justice that we need. ”
People who disagree with protesters should look at their 
biases, she said. No one is less human than anyone else.
“If people really believe that like Black Lives Matter and 
Breonna Taylor’s life matter, then you must abolish the sys -
tem that killed her, which is the police. And it’s not a radical 
idea, ” she said. “We’re asking for bare minimum, and that’s 
safety. ”
Gainesville City Commissioner David Arreola said it was 
his right to demand justice at the protest. 
Qualified immunity, where officers are absolved of their 
actions, needs to be abolished because there are too many 
instances in which police use deadly force on Black and 
brown men and women, Arreola said. 
“GPD is a department that is lightyears ahead of many 
other police departments, ” he said. “But we will not toler -
ate them lowering that standard. We will not tolerate them 
abusing people. ” 
While speakers discussed rallying for Black lives, Meg 
Sullivan’s 6-year-old son asked her what protesters’ signs 
said. She told him the signs said “Black Lives Matter” and ex -
plained what happened to Taylor. 
Sullivan, a 32-year-old Gainesville resident, said her son 
told her people who kill should go to jail. So the family de -
cided to protest – they all said the police officers who killed 
Taylor should face the consequences. 
“They rarely go to jail in this type of situation when Black 
and brown bodies are involved, ” she said. 
As a white woman, Sullivan said protesting and exposing 
her two children to injustice is important to unlearn bias, rac -
ism and white supremacy. 
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.org
@AstaHemenway
ahemenway@alligator.orgProtesters gather in Gainesville against 
Breonna Taylor decisionSALIVA TESTS AND 
SEVERAL NEW ON-
CAMPUS TESTING SITES 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE, 
BUT MANDATORY AND 
WALK-UP TESTING STILL 
ISN’T IN UF’S 
CURRENT PLANS.
By Thomas Weber
Alligator Staff Writer
Tens of UF students spent their 
afternoon trying to avoid awkward, 
drool-mouthed eye contact with their 
peers.
The group congregated at Broward 
Hall’s back courtyard for COVID-19 sa -liva tests  — a new service provided by 
UF Health Sept. 19 — while maintain -
ing a six-foot orbit, looking for a place 
to salivate in peace. No clear guide -
lines meant social distancing was up 
to them as they filled their tubes.
UF Screen, Test and Protect said 
it provided about 250 of these sa -
liva tests at the Broward Hall site that 
weekend. This development in the 
university’s testing capabilities, along 
with weekly tests provided through 
screening questionnaires on students’ 
ONE.UF pages, came in response to 
the rising demand for tests after Labor 
Day.
UF is now focusing its surveillance 
testing on residence halls and Greek 
housing, wrote UF Health spokesper -
son Ken Garcia in an email. Some new testing sites in -
clude Murphree and Weil Halls, the 
O’Connell Center, Fraternity Row, So -
rority Row and the Levin College of 
Law west parking lot.
The new weekly questionnaires 
are nearly identical to students’ initial 
Return-to-Campus screenings, which 
students completed before Fall classes 
began. 
Students and faculty can schedule 
tests through it regardless of symp -
toms. If a test is scheduled, the ques -
tionnaire will reappear after five days, 
Garcia wrote. Students can email stu -
dent-screening@ufl.edu and request 
a reset for their questionnaire’s avail -
ability if they have been exposed since 
their last test.
The weekly questionnaires aren’t 
mandatory, but Garcia wrote they’re 
the easiest way to schedule tests, and 
UF Health highly encourages students 
and faculty to complete them. 
Since Aug. 31, 1,864 students and 
faculty have tested positive for CO -
VID-19 both on and off campus, ac -
cording to UF Health’s dashboard. UF 
has tested 5,303 students and 155 em -
ployees this semester.
Chad Wishner, a 22-year-old UF 
computer science senior, said he 
wanted to get tested at the beginning 
of the semester. He gave up when he 
couldn’t figure out how.
“The testing infrastructure is so 
confusing and doesn’t make sense for 
the average student, ”  Wishner said.
Based on one of UF Health’s numer -
ous COVID-19 web pages, he thought 
students could only get tested at the 
Student Health Care Center. Another 
website made him think he could only schedule a test via an email form 
through UF Health.
Wishner later tried to schedule a 
test again after he was exposed to CO -
VID-19 but still didn’t know how. 
He called UF Health about getting 
a test and said he was told the ques -
tionnaire’s link wasn’t displaying on 
some students’ pages. Students were 
supposed to email UF Health to re -
solve the issue.
Wishner said the questionnaire’s 
function should be more clear, and UF 
should be more transparent about its 
testing services. The link to the ques -
tionnaire doesn’t say it’s for scheduling 
tests; it simply reads “Open Screening 
Questionnaire. ” 
“It almost feels like they don’t want 
people to know it exists, ” he said. 
Wishner eventually scheduled his 
test through the questionnaire for 
Sept. 12 at Broward Hall’s Teaching 
and Testing Center.
At the time, the Broward site pro -
vided nasal swab tests. UF introduced 
saliva tests Sept. 19 because they’re 
less invasive — and less painful.
But aside from the awkwardness of 
handing a warm tube of spit over to a 
health care worker, saliva tests have is -
sues, too. 
Some people might have trouble 
producing the necessary two cubic 
centimeters of saliva, and test recipi -
ents can’t have anything to eat or drink 
for 10 minutes before their test.
Garcia wrote nasal swab tests will 
be provided if they are needed, but 
Exactech and UF are no longer pro -
ducing the 3D-printed swabs or the 
test’s mediums. He wrote the univer -
sity is currently relying on a stockpile of these supplies should they be nec -
essary.
UF Health can process about 1,000 
tests a day, and students can expect 
results within 24 to 48 hours, he wrote.
He wrote UF doesn’t currently have 
plans to provide mandatory or walk-
up testing. In a one-on-one with The 
Alligator, UF President Kent Fuchs said 
the university is considering manda -
tory testing for vulnerable groups, like 
people in labs or Greek housing. 
“I don’t understand why there isn’t 
mandatory testing, ” said Lela Myers, an 
18-year-old UF exploratory freshman 
who was forced to live on campus as 
an out-of-state recipient of the Benac -
quisto Scholarship. 
“They’re being very lax about it and 
almost ignoring the fact that there’s a 
pandemic, ” Myers said. 
The Alligator confirmed at least 
one positive case in her dorm, Reid 
Hall.
Before the weekly screenings be -
came available, another student, who 
preferred to remain anonymous, said 
they also faced difficulties scheduling 
a test after their suitemate tested posi -
tive. 
They said they weren’t symptomat -
ic and unsuccessfully tried to schedule 
a test over several phone calls with UF 
Screen, Test and Protect and the Stu -
dent Health Care Center.
By the fifth phone call, the student 
lied about having symptoms, and they 
were able to schedule a test.
They tested negative.
@thomasjohnweber
tweber@alligator.orgUF expands testing procedures in response to student and faculty complaints 
history and biology students into 
small groups, with each person 
responsible for explaining the ef -
fects COVID-19 has on two African 
countries. 
This introduces them to coun -
tries underrepresented in COV -
ID-19 media coverage and allows 
them to understand how race — 
and racism — tie in to a nation’s 
response, Hunt said.
“If you do African history, 
you’re looking at the history of 
racism, ” Hunt said. “History should 
always be taught in relation to the present to help people connect 
with it. ”
She prefers to keep the course 
small, giving every student the 
chance to develop more intimate 
connections — even if Zoom is 
the medium.
“The conversations, they’re 
just beginning, but they’re go -
ing to get intense based off the 
approaches they take, ” Hunt said. 
“It’s the spectrum of science to 
the humanities and the arts. Ev -
eryone has to do a bit of that. ”
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.orgPROFESSORS,  from pg. 1Professors adjust in real timeLauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Hannah Lyons, 22, a UF first-year medical student, swabs a patient in 
the drive-through line in Gainesville, Sept. 19. UF Community Health 
and Family Medicine, SW Advocacy Group and the Alachua County 
Health Department teamed up to organize this free-testing event.
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE STATE COULD HEAD 
TOWARD AN OPEN-PRIMARY 
SYSTEM BY JAN. 2024
By Steven Walker
Alligator Staff Writer
Almost a quarter of Alachua Coun -
ty’s nearly 187,000 registered voters 
cannot vote in primary elections. 
A new amendment to Florida’s 
constitution might change that.
On Nov. 3, Florida voters will vote 
on Amendment 3, which proposes 
an open “top-two” primary election 
system.
The top-two system differs from 
a normal open primary, where par -
ties still have separate ballots. In both 
systems, voters of any party affiliation 
can participate in the primary and 
vote for one candidate. Florida is one 
of nine states in the U.S. that holds 
completely closed state primary elec -
tions, meaning only voters registered 
to a political party can vote in that 
party’s primary election.
If the amendment passes, candi -
dates from all parties would be on 
the same primary ballot, and the two 
with the most votes would face off in the general election. Only two other 
states, California and Washington, 
have a top-two open primary system.
Joshua Christopher, a 35-year-old 
registered Republican in Alachua 
County, said he only aligns with the 
party because of Florida’s closed 
primary system. He plans to vote in 
favor of Amendment 3. Christopher, 
who lives in northwest Gainesville, 
said sheriff elections are something 
he feels left out of because of closed 
primaries. 
“As a conservative, or as a liber -
tarian, I do not have a voice to vote 
who’s going to be my sheriff, ” he said. 
“I don’t believe that’s how the found -
ing fathers wanted it. ”
Democrat Clovis Watson Jr. won 
the party’s nomination to become 
Alachua County’s sheriff on Aug. 18. 
He became the presumptive winner 
when his only opponent, write-in 
candidate Robert Brinkman, with -
drew from the race. The Republican 
party has not nominated a candidate 
for Alachua County sheriff in at least 
the last 20 years.
Christopher said if the amend -
ment passed, he would likely change 
his registration to the Libertarian 
Party.Chris Jones, the vice chair of the 
Alachua County Affiliate of the Lib -
ertarian Party of Florida, said the 
organization does not support the 
amendment. Non-party members 
should not be able to make decisions 
for private organizations, which po -
litical parties are, he said. 
As a registered Libertarian, Jones 
could not vote in the Alachua County 
Democratic sheriff primary on Aug. 
18. Despite not having a voice in the 
primary, he said open “top-two” pri -
maries are not the answer.
“I don’t think it’s great that a large 
portion of population had no say in 
that election, ” Jones said. “But at the 
same time that is what the oppos -
ing party’s job is to do is put forth the 
candidate. ”
The NAACP Florida State Confer -
ence and the League of Women Vot -
ers of Florida have come out against 
the amendment. In a statement, the 
league said it believed a top-two 
system would adversely affect Black 
candidates.
Both the Republican Party of 
Florida and the Florida Democratic 
Party have also come out publicly 
against the amendment, testifying 
to the Florida Supreme Court. Carol Weissert, a political science professor 
at Florida State University research -
ing state politics, said the parties 
might be worried that opening their 
primaries to new voters could create 
unwanted results.
She said the amendment could 
change the number of registered 
non-party voters in the state. More 
voters aged 19 to 29 tend to register 
as non-party-affiliated, Weissert said, 
and they may be more inclined not to 
vote in primaries because they would 
have to change their party affiliations 
to do so.
“That’s the wrong signal to send 
to young voters, ” Weissert said. “We 
want people to vote. ”
An argument in favor of the 
amendment is that candidates will 
adjust their platforms to reach non-
party affiliated voters, she said. 
However, in California, a state that 
adopted the proposed system in 
2010, there is little evidence to show 
that the new system produced more 
moderate candidates out of primary 
elections, Weissert said.
Tom Wells, a former Democratic 
candidate for Florida’s 3rd Congres -
sional District, disagrees. 
“I am willing to vote for amend -ment three and take my chances, take 
our chances, take my grandchildren’s 
chances on the fact that the [no party 
affiliation voters] will moderate both 
rather extreme positions, ” Wells said.
Although Wells supports the 
amendment, he said it’s only a half-
step. He said ranked-choice voting, 
where voters can rank candidates in 
order of preference, would be anoth -
er step to ensuring everyone is repre -
sented. In Florida, the city of Sarasota 
approved ranked-choice voting in 
2007 but has yet to implement it into 
elections.
The former congressional can -
didate said open-primary systems 
would force candidates to engage 
with people outside of their party 
and consider other points of view. 
Wells canvassed to voters with no-
party affiliation for over a year before 
the Aug. 18 primary, he said. 
“We need to let everybody have 
a decision in the primary as to what 
path of destruction we’re going 
down, ” Wells said. “Really fast, or 
slightly slower. ”
swalker@alligator.org
@swalker_7A Nov. 3 election ballot measure could change how Florida holds primary elections
THE MONEY PREVIOUSLY SPENT ON 
A SERVICE “THE VAST MAJORITY OF 
STUDENTS WERE NOT USING” WAS 
USED TO GET STUDENTS 
A STRONGER WIFI SIGNAL
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer
Cable is out and streaming is in, but not just yet 
in UF dorms.
UF Housing canceled its cable services to stu -
dents in residence halls this Fall, excluding graduate 
and family housing, and explained a replacement is 
in the works. This decision was based on usage data 
and cost, Sara Tanner, UF Student Affairs marketing 
and communications director, wrote in an email.
A UF housing survey conducted in February, 
with responses from about 1,000 residence hall stu -
dents, found that most students watch shows and 
movies on their laptops, not a TV, Tanner wrote. Less 
than 12% used cable provided by UF, but nearly 
three-fourths said they used streaming services.
Last year’s dorm cable contract cost UF Housing 
$791,677 for about 7,000 students that were living 
in the dorms, Tanner wrote. So this semester, she 
wrote, instead of paying that annual cable bill, UF 
Housing spent $3.3 million this summer in prepara -
tion for an online semester.
“This upgrade provides better connectivity for 
all including increased access to streaming and 
gaming sites, ” Tanner wrote.
Students who live in the villages, six graduate 
and family housing complexes, told a different sto -
ry, Tanner wrote.
There, 64% of students said they use a TV. Cable 
users and streamers evenly split the responses.
A cable package for students that have small 
children needing to be entertained during the 
week can make it easier on parents that have to at -
tend class.
Internet upgrades like these are what Jessica 
Weber, a 19-year-old UF astrophysics sophomore, 
would like to see more than cable or streaming 
amenities.
“If they were to put money into something, I would say WiFi is more important, ” Weber said.
Weber lives on campus at Lakeside Complex 
with three roommates. A WiFi outage Wednesday 
morning stopped Weber from logging into Zoom. 
Luckily, by her 10 a.m. physics office hours, she was 
online.
This outage does not appear to have been 
caused by any issues with the new dorm infrastruc -
ture, as UFIT attributed the issue to unexpected net -
work traffic that was resolved by 9 a.m.
We’re doing all classes at the dorms or at home, 
so WiFi is necessary, especially for exams, ” Weber 
said.
Weber said not having cable this semester does 
not bother her. She barely watches cable at home 
in Miami.
“Even last year, when we had a TV in the com -
mon room, I never really used it, ” she said. “Because 
I mostly use streaming services like Netflix or Hulu. ”
Jackson Anderson, a 19-year-old UF finance 
sophomore, bought a TV when he moved into 
Lakeside. He wasn’t aware that cable was being dis -
continued until he got on campus.
“It wasn’t a big deal, especially since I have 
streaming services now, ” Anderson said.
Anderson lived in Beaty Towers last year, where 
the common area TV was a gathering place for his 
floor to watch Sunday night NFL games.
“That was actually something I would do almost 
on a weekly basis, especially in the playoffs to watch 
the Ravens get destroyed, ” he said.
Anderson thinks the idea of a streaming ser -
vice provided by UF would be interesting, but only 
hopes that this service would be included in dorm 
payments in the same way that cable was.
In the meantime, and without cable access, on-
campus students will have to wait to see what UF 
Housing decides on.
“We’re kind of caught in purgatory, ” Anderson 
said.
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.orgTHE ANNUAL TRADITION IS MOVING 
TO A CONTACTLESS GIVEAWAY
By Rachel Slay
Alligator Staff Writer
The Beat Tee tradition is one of many Fall 
traditions that has been forced to adapt to the 
special circumstances brought by the ongo -
ing COVID-19 pandemic. 
In previous years, hundreds of students 
lined up outside Emerson Alumni Hall to get 
an exclusive Beat Tee, a custom designed 
shirt saying “Beat” UF’s football opponent for 
that week. This year, due to COVID-19, virtual 
RSVP-links will allow students to participate in 
the contactless giveaway. 
Beat Tees are normally given out by the 
Students Today, Alumni Tomorrow association 
on the Friday morning before home games 
during every football season. Each shirt has 
a unique design, and students, parents and 
alumni collect the shirts every season.
The Beat Tee giveaway is organized by the 
Florida Cicerones through STAT, the student 
wing of the UF Alumni Association. STAT picks 
five major football home games during the 
Fall semester to make shirts for its members. 
In other years, 1,500 shirts were made for 
every game. That number was reduced to 
1,000 this year, Lanie Hibbs, STAT vice presi -
dent for the Florida Cicerones, wrote in an 
email. 
This year, because members cannot line 
up in anticipation for the Beat Tees, RSVP links 
for a giveaway will be emailed and posted on 
the STAT Instagram. Interested participants 
share their  alumni ID and shipping address. 
The shirts will be shipped to members at no 
extra cost. 
Beat Tees bring a lot of excitement for STAT 
members, Hibbs said, so the tradition needed 
to be kept alive during this unprecedented 
time. 
Rather than getting up early to wait in line, 
members are expressing their excitement 
through likes and messages on Instagram, Hibbs wrote.
“Things like this have shown me personally 
that even with a loss of physical togetherness, 
there is still community to be found, ” Hibbs 
wrote. “In my eyes, that’s the beautiful thing 
about the University of Florida as a whole. ” 
Hibbs and her team put in work in the 
months leading up to the first Beat Tee an -
nouncement on Tuesday, she said. The first 
tee is “BEAT USC” for the game against South 
Carolina on Oct. 3.
Students are eligible for a Beat Tee when 
they purchase a student membership on the 
UAA website. The annual membership is $40 
for all students, but a four-year membership is 
available to incoming freshmen at $70.
 Rishi Kondapaneni, an 18-year-old UF bi -
ology and psychology sophomore, decided to 
come to UF from St. Louis, Missouri, after feel -
ing a strong sense of community in UF during 
his campus tour in high school. He said that 
the Beat Tees are an example of that. 
During his freshman year, Kondapaneni 
stood in line for a “BEAT LSU” shirt for three 
hours, on a cold October morning. 
“I remember all of my friends and I were in 
shorts and a t-shirt and it was like 50 degrees 
outside. We were like, man, this kind of sucks, 
but you know you gotta do it for the t-shirt, ” 
Kondapaneni said.
When he and his friends joined the line 
at 6 a.m., about 200 people were waiting, he 
said. As time passed, more people joined the 
line until what seemed like 500 people were 
all waiting to get one of these shirts. 
For Kondapaneni, BEAT Tees, and the tra -
dition behind them, are about more than just 
t-shirts. 
“By doing it this year, there’s a great 
amount of resilience and solidarity being 
shown by the university and the UF Alumni 
Association, ” Kondapaneni said. “It’s an amaz -
ing way to bring happiness. ”
rslay@alligator.org
@racheljslayUF Housing cancels cable TV service, 
explores future streaming alternativeHow the Beat Tee tradition is 
continuing this Fall6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
GAINESVILLE RESIDENTS 
AND ACTIVISTS 
CHALLENGE BLACK 
MENTAL HEALTH STIGMA
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Staff Writer
Sometimes Chanae Jackson 
feels like the weight of the world 
rests on her shoulders. 
Jackson juggles her role as a 
community organizer with being a 
self-employed mother of three and 
a godmother of two. She hosts a 
discussion-based talk show called 
“LOUDD” Conversations, which 
streams on Facebook Live every 
Wednesday. The talk show’s mis -
sion is to inform and empower its 
listeners by discussing political, 
cultural and social issues. 
Following the death of George 
Floyd, an unarmed Black man killed 
by a now-fired police officer in Min -
neapolis, protests spread across the 
U.S., sparking a national outcry on 
systemic racism. It was an emotion -
ally draining time for Black Ameri -
cans and their mental health.
Now, Gainesville’s Black resi -
dents say there’s a need for more 
Black therapists.
Through “LOUDD” Conversa -
tions, Jackson said she hopes to 
create a space for members of East 
Gainesville’s community to discuss 
Black and African American is -
sues on a local and national scale. 
Jackson and her three co-hosts, 
Ty Loudd, Keyon Young and Nate 
Turner, tackle topics ranging from 
cultural appropriation to develop -
ments on the nationwide Black 
Lives Matter movement. 
In early September, Jackson and 
her co-hosts dedicated an episode to mental health within Black com -
munities because the hosts them -
selves felt mentally drained, Jack -
son said. In the episode titled “Black 
Trauma Matters, ” the four hosts dis -
cussed PTSD, what they called post-
traumatic slave disorder, and how 
society perceives Black Americans 
as being able to sustain more pain 
and grief. 
“We live in a society where, as a 
Black person, you can’t weep, ” Jack -
son said.  
To Jackson, Black counselors 
and mental health professionals 
can offer insight into mental health 
and race. 
Jackson struggled to find a 
Gainesville therapist for her daugh -
ter. She said she wanted someone 
who would be patient and empa -
thetic with her fifth grader, who 
needed help with anger manage -
ment. So, she looked for a Black 
counselor.
“He was able to understand that 
the manner in which you commu -
nicate with her is different because 
she’s a Black little girl and her com -
munication style is different, ” Jack -
son said of the counselor. “She’s had 
other counseling that was helpful 
but not nearly as effective as it was 
with that Black counselor. ”   
Amanda Ashley, a 32-year-old 
licensed mental health counselor 
and life coach, is passionate about 
uplifting other Black therapists. A 
resident of Northwest Gainesville, 
Ashley features local Black-owned 
businesses on her professional 
website and hopes to begin a list of 
Black therapists soon.
She said her peers face obsta -
cles when attempting to become 
licensed therapists — even years 
after obtaining their undergradu -
ate degrees. The largest one is the $300 fee to get licensed, she said. 
“A lot of us don’t have the op -
portunities or resources that peo -
ple of other ethnicities may have, ”  
Ashley said. “It’s a barrier within our 
culture. ”
She said she remembers feeling 
undervalued at a former job, which 
would only hire her as a master’s 
level clinician. Ashley needed to ac -
cumulate 1,500 hours of supervised experience before she could apply 
for and take her licensing exam. 
Supervisors were scarce and Ashley 
had to search elsewhere. 
During that time, Ashley was un -
able to afford housing, and later, 
the fees to take her exam, which 
would allow her to apply for a high -
er-paying job. 
“My whole process has been 
filled with a lot of obstacles, ” she 
said. “I’ve been homeless. I’ve been 
in jail. I’ve faced a lot of adversity, a 
lot of judgment. ”
It’s difficult for Black patients 
to receive the mental health help 
they need, Ashley said. Many have 
trouble navigating Medicaid and 
knowing what facilities or private 
practices may accept them. 
Mei Lavaud, a 20-year-old UF 
sociology sophomore, began her 
search for a therapist in May 2019. 
Her efforts to find one, both at UF 
and throughout Gainesville, were 
unsuccessful. 
Lavaud faced the obstacle of 
finding practices that would accept 
her insurance, take new patients or 
even just answer her phone calls. 
Most of the available therapists 
were white men, she said. 
“I knew that wouldn’t really be 
helpful to me because I know how 
Black people are usually perceived, ”  
she said. “When it comes to therapy, 
they will diagnose you with having 
anger issues or an attitude problem 
before they actually diagnose you 
with something serious. ”  
Her search ended six months 
later, about five hours away in her 
hometown of Fort Lauderdale. Ev -
ery two weeks, she’d drive south to 
see her Afro-Latina therapist. Lavaud’s family moved to the 
U.S. from Haiti when she was 3 
years old, and she said she identi -
fies as Afro-Caribbean. Almost two 
decades later, she remembers her 
mother’s words upon their arrival. 
“The first thing my mom did was 
sit down and say ‘You’re Black, so 
you have to act a certain way, to be 
accepted, ’” Lavaud said. “That was 
something that I’ve had to carry 
with me my whole life. ”
Lavaud said she pressured her -
self throughout her studies, often 
overexerting herself, to prove she 
could succeed at the same rigor as 
her white peers at UF. Earlier this 
year, the publicized deaths of black 
lives added to her anxiety, such as 
George Floyd and, later, Breonna 
Taylor, who was fatally shot in her 
sleep by four police officers in Lou -
isville, Kentucky. 
“It was this never-ending cycle 
of seeing more Black people dying, ”  
she said. “Every time you log onto 
social media, it’s another hashtag. 
Another face. Another story. ”  
To Lavaud, Black communities 
should seek mental health coun -
seling because many often turn to 
prayer and religious leaders. The 
Black community should discon -
nect from social media and lean on 
one another for support, she said. 
“Things are starting to change, 
but still needs a whole lot of work, ”  
Lavaud said. “We need more Black 
therapists. ”  
@EdysmarDiazCruz  
ediaz-cruz@alligator.orgA community in mourning demands more Black therapists
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Chanae Jackson enters FedEx to mail refinancing documents in Ocala, Fla., on Thursday, Sept. 24, 
2020. Her responsibilities as a self-employed woman include mailing paperwork, answering phone 
calls, training, keeping up with certifications and billing.Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Chanae Jackson searches for a land surveyor online at her home office in Ocala, Fla., on Thursday, 
Sept. 24, 2020. Jackson is self-employed, has five different businesses and is setting up a website for 
her community work called “The Accidental Activist.” She said being self-employed helps keep other 
people from silencing her voice.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenueKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Florida ties Georgia in season opener
The Gators played No. 8 UGA to a 1-1 draw on Sunday behind 
a goal from Deanne Rose, pg. 12
grifolsplasma.comNew Plasma Donors EARN $300 for 4 donations!*
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!004IA
New donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.
 Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!*
* when applicable
*fees subject to change without notice. We DO NOT pay by WEIGHT!
004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 7/16/20   12:27 PM7/16/20   12:27 PM
Download the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
RESTAURANTS, SHOPS 
AND OTHER SERVICES 
REPRESENTING HISPANIC 
AND LATIN CULTURE
By Samantha Chery
Avenue Staff Writer
Despite living through the 
uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
several businesses and restaurants in 
Gainesville represent cultures of love, 
hard work and community through this 
year’s Hispanic Heritage Month.
National Hispanic Heritage Month 
commemorates the culture and 
contributions of Hispanic and Latinx 
Americans. The month of celebration 
begins Sept. 15 and lasts until Oct. 15 
each year, overlapping with eight Latin 
American countries’ independence 
days.
People of various cultures come 
together to enjoy the food, music 
and talents of Hispanic and Latinx 
Americans. Here are some Hispanic-
owned businesses in Gainesville.
La Aurora Latin Market & Mi Apá 
Latin Café
“All the little things you normally 
miss that you can’t find in town — that’s 
our specialty, ” said Peter Ynigo, who co-
owns La Aurora Latin Market and Mi 
Apá Latin Café with his wife, Aurora.
When the Ynigos arrived in 
Gainesville from Miami in 1995, they 
couldn’t find a lot of international food 
in grocery stores. So four years later, 
they created their own store, La Aurora, 
located at 3733 W. University Ave., 
which they stocked with goods they 
bought in South Florida.
In 2003, the couple founded Mi Apá to provide customers with already-
cooked meals like arroz con pollo and 
Cuban sandwiches with plantain chips.
Over the years, Mi Apá, located 
at 114 SW 34th St. and 15634 
NW Highway 441, has connected 
Gainesville’s Hispanic community 
through food, music, salsa classes and 
domino tournaments, Ynigo said. It’s 
provided learning experiences for 
students on a field trip ordering their 
meals in Spanish and a couple keeping 
the Spanish heritage alive for their 
adopted Honduran daughter.
“Culturally, you’d be amazed how 
similar we are and at the same time 
how different we are, ” he said.
Serenity Beauty Lounge
Serenity Beauty Lounge offers 
manicures, pedicures, nail extensions, 
body waxing and eyelash extensions, 
according to its website.
The lounge, at 1212 NW 12th Ave., is 
led by Sofia Lopez, a Mexican American 
who has been doing nails for more than 
20 years.
Lopez said Serenity Beauty Lounge 
experienced a dip in customers during 
the pandemic, as the luxury of getting 
nails done professionally is one of the 
first things to be cut out of a budget. 
However, the salon has been following 
safety protocols and has increased 
sanitization.
J’s 503 Barbershop
After years of cutting hair at different 
barbershops in Gainesville, finally 
having his own shop was “a dream 
come true” for Israel Mujica, the 37-year-
old owner of J’s 503 Barbershop, at 
5109 NW 39th Ave. Suite D.
He said his favorite part of the 
job is meeting people from different 
countries and cultures. Mujica moved with his family to the U.S. from Puerto 
Rico when he was 16 years old. During 
Hispanic Heritage Month, he plays 
Spanish music and serves food from Mi 
Apá at the barbershop to show pride 
and celebrate the dream he fulfilled in 
his new home.
“It’s awesome to be a business 
owner here in Gainesville and to help a 
lot of people, ” he said.
He’s loved supporting his former 
employees who have gone on to 
run their own shops. Since J’s 503 
Barbershop’s inception in 2014, Mujica 
has given discounts on haircuts during 
back-to-school season for low-income 
families.
Chef JJ Creations
Joshua Joseph is the Haitian 
American executive chef and owner 
of Chef JJ Creations, which offers 
private dinners, meal prep and catering 
services, according to its website.
The company describes the food as 
a Caribbean fusion and serves meals 
including Rasta pasta, barbecue jerk 
nachos and seafood boils with crab and 
jumbo shrimp.
Chef JJ Creations has also held 
pop-up events at places like The Heart 
of Gainesville Thrift Store, Blackadder 
Brewing Co. and the Jonesville 
Persimmon and Fruit Tree Nursery.
In March, the company collaborated 
with the local nonprofit Working Food 
to provide meals for Gainesville families 
battling food insecurity.
Old San Juan Gastronomia
Although Marta Antron, 49, owned 
businesses in Puerto Rico, she never 
wanted to be part of the food industry.
But when she moved to Gainesville, 
she craved the authentic food from 
her culture. Thus, the Old San Juan Gastronomia was created and has 
been operating for about three years, 
serving Puerto Rican dishes including 
Puerto Rican beef stew, empanadas 
and double-fried plantains.
Thanks to the restaurant’s success, 
which is currently accepting delivery 
orders only, Antron said the Old San 
Juan Gastronomia plans to open a 
location at The Oaks Mall food court in 
November.
“I just wanted to thank the 
Gainesville community for their 
support, for taking our food to their 
table and letting us be part of their 
family, ” she said.
Wyatt’s Coffee
Wyatt’s Coffee in downtown 
Gainesville sells espressos, brews, teas 
and pastries. Due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, the coffee shop is only 
taking to-go orders and offers 
contactless pickup.
Wyatt’s, located at 202 SE 2nd Ave., 
opened in 2018 and is currently owned 
by Gabriel and Aleena Chavez.
Cintrón
Cintrón is a new restaurant, located 
at 2441 NW 43rd St., that promises a 
Floribbean flavor. It draws from Cuban, 
Puerto Rican, Dominican and Haitian 
cuisines to provide a twist on American 
contemporary food.
Owner Hector Cintrón, 40, worked 
in South Florida restaurants for more 
than 18 years when he lost his job 
due to COVID-19. Restaurants weren’t 
hiring, so his family drummed up the 
support he needed to start his own 
business in Gainesville.
Cintrón said it couldn’t have been 
possible without help from his family 
and his sister, Wanda, who co-owns the 
restaurant.“As Puerto Ricans, we love to eat, we 
love to cook, and we want to bring that 
same culture, ” he said. “We want to give 
everything out and make people feel 
comfortable. ”
Third House Books
Third House Books, located at 
400 NW 10th Ave., is a Latinx-owned 
independent bookstore stocked with 
a selection of indie reads highlighting 
marginalized voices.
Third House Books is led by Heather 
Halak, a UF English and linguistics 
alumna.
Although the physical location 
is currently closed to visitors, the 
bookstore is still selling books online. 
The shop has hosted “Meet the Author” 
events and an in-house book club.
Elio Piedra
Elio Piedra said he’s more than just 
a DJ — he’s an entertainer. The Cuban 
singer, dancer and percussionist strives 
to bring a fiesta to every gathering he’s 
invited to.
To Piedra, the Hispanic and Latinx 
community is made of fighters and 
dream chasers, working hard to 
accomplish goals for a brighter future. 
They are passionate about family, love 
and being welcoming, and Piedra 
said he’s grateful for the welcoming 
community he’s found in Gainesville.
“I see it as an everyday thing to keep 
celebrating our culture and our pride, 
our music, our food, to keep celebrating 
the fact that we have the opportunity 
to be here and enjoy a better life in the 
United States, ” he said.
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgHispanic and Latinx-owned small businesses to support during Hispanic Heritage Month
CULTURECULTURE
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
EditorialMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinionsAs if college wasn’t stressful enough, the COV -
ID-19 pandemic has sickened and killed peo -
ple we know, amplified racial inequities and 
exploited our personal, social and institution -
al vulnerabilities. Within this context, the UF 
Counseling and Wellness Center (CWC) is launching a 
series of columns about mental health topics relevant 
to our campus.
Students who contact the CWC tell us they are sad, 
angry and exhausted. People who were doing well be -
fore the pandemic are struggling. Students with chal -
lenges are more distressed and have fewer sources 
of support. For all of us, the ongoing fear and uncer -
tainty places unprecedented demands on our mental 
health.
During times of danger, we are hardwired to go 
into survival mode — and survival mode, while help -
ful, does not feel like thriving. Survival mode takes its 
cues from the part of our brain that evolved to keep 
us safe in the face of threats. When our ancient warn -
ing system activates, we fight, flight or freeze. These 
responses are useful in short bursts, but humans get 
traumatized when a heightened sense of threat be -
comes routine. Amidst this pandemic, danger could 
be anywhere, and for communities who have experi -
enced additional harm, those threats are even more 
stark as COVID-19 strikes amid generations of trauma 
and health disparities.
In U.S. popular imagination, mental health is most -
ly a matter of personal responsibility, not something 
intimately connected to broader conditions that af -
fect well-being. Yet perhaps the crises of our time give 
us an opportunity to question this. What does it mean 
to be “mentally healthy” in a place that prizes some 
lives over others? Is that a reasonable expectation of 
individuals? What does mental health look like when 
we’ve lost so much of what we need, when we haven’t 
found a new normal yet or when the new normal is 
anything but normal?
For mental health to be more than a meme, we 
must recognize our personal mental health is deeply 
impacted by the complex and powerful webs of which 
we are a part. It’s easy to get down on ourselves for 
what we do to survive (hello iPhone, ice cream and 
Netflix), unfairly applying old standards from our thriving days to the ways we are now just trying to 
survive. While living with a sense of persistent threat 
right now is actually adaptive, it’s also helpful when 
we can take even mini-breaks from that kind of en -
ergy. Our mental health is inseparable from our envi -
ronment, yet we can do certain things to reduce the 
chaos and restore moments — if not more — of rela -
tive calm and safety.
I asked the CWC counselors and psychologists 
what they are doing to stay grounded, and I’ll end 
with a few of their responses. It’s important to remem -
ber no one, not even mental health professionals, can 
do everything. Most of us are just focusing on one or 
two ways to feel kind of okay.
I try to do just one thing at a time.
I move my body. Any kind of movement helps.
I get outdoors, even for a short time.
I’ve been writing down specific people and things 
for which I’m grateful.
I set realistic expectations for myself.
I thank myself for showing up, even if I didn’t per -
form perfectly.
I make my bed.
I limit my alcohol consumption.
I focus on changing oppressive systems rather than 
beating myself up for struggling within them.
I connect with my friends — phone calls can be a 
nice break from screens.
I use a mindfulness app such as Insight (free), 
Headspace (reduced cost for students) and Calm.
I listen to uplifting or fun music and podcasts.
I put most of my attention on what I can control.
I choose shows, movies and social media that edu -
cate, entertain and inspire.
I keep experimenting to find out what I need from 
day to day.
For more in-depth, personal conversations about 
mental health in college, check out the CWC Talks 
podcast on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. And as al -
ways, for students who would like to consult with a 
counselor, please call the CWC at 352-392-1575.
Sara Nash is a Clinical Associate Professor
 at the CWC.VOTE 
vote.org turbovote.org rockthevote.org vote.
gov nass.org fairvote.org headcount.org better -
knowaballot.com 
Any of these websites will take you step-by-step 
to register to vote, get a mail-in ballot and find a polling 
place no matter where you live. 
Many young people between 18- and 30-years-old want 
to vote but don’t. Follow the directions on any of the above 
websites and you will vote. 
Young people can determine the outcome of this elec -
tion. Your future depends on it. Whether it’s local elections 
or national, you have the power to change all our futures for 
the better. Don’t let the older generation be the ones to de -
cide your future. A much higher percentage of over-60-year-
olds vote, but YOU are a bigger chunk of the eligible voters. 
YOU must be the ones to determine YOUR future. VOTE. 
As Bernie Sanders said: “Are you willing to fight for that 
person who you don’t even know as much as you’re willing 
to fight for yourself?...Are you willing to fight for young peo -
ple drowning in student debt even if you are not? Are you 
willing to fight to ensure that every American has health care as a human right even if you have good healthcare? 
Are you willing to fight for frightened immigrant neighbors 
even if you are native born?” 
Can you do something about climate change and racial 
justice? Si se puede! 
Then VOTE!
It’s easy. Go to one of those websites and register. Look 
for any state deadlines for either registering or applying for 
a mail-in ballot or for mailing it back. Each state is different, 
but the websites have it all covered. 
Then mail in your ballot, drop it off in a ballot box or go to 
the polls with a friend on early voting days or Election Day.
Make a plan. Put it in your organizer. Do it now! Before 
it’s too late. 
You can also sign up at your local election office to be a 
poll worker! 
Please. Our lives depend on it. 
Sincerely, 
Pat Kaplan 
A grandmotherPartying: it’s what college kids do. Partying during a pandemic? That 
shouldn’t be what college kids do. It is irresponsible for our gover -
nor to condone partying while our state and country is under siege 
by a pandemic.
There is no shortage of photos on social media of people acting 
irresponsibly, especially this past weekend as many students enjoyed heavily 
breathing on one another as they watched the Gators’ glorious triumph over 
Ole Miss.
If you looked around Midtown and Downtown Gainesville, you honestly 
wouldn’t be able to tell if there was a pandemic going on. It looked like a nor -
mal away game day with students flooding the streets and the bars.
We are disappointed and not shocked that the rugged individualism of 
American culture has made for a society that cannot grasp the concept of 
caring for about people.
Gov. Ron DeSantis hasn’t helped in the slightest.
With his move toward the full reopening of bars and restaurants, DeSantis 
is very much putting our state further down a path toward disaster.
The pandemic hasn’t been kind to DeSantis. No one wants to be the face 
of failure when it comes to the pandemic. We went from seeing columns that 
mused “Where Does Ron DeSantis Go to Get His Apology?” in May to “Florida 
governor owes an apology for blaming COVID-19 spike on ‘Hispanic’ workers” 
in June. In July, Florida emerged as the world’s new epicenter for COVID-19.
A poll released by Florida Atlantic University this month noted that DeSan -
tis’ approval among Florida voters has dipped and his disapproval has soared.
In his latest gaffe, last week, DeSantis suggested that a “bill of rights” be 
created to protect college students who go out and party. 
“I personally think it’s incredibly draconian that a student would get po -
tentially expelled for going to a party, ” DeSantis said. “That’s what college kids 
d o.”
What a peculiar view from DeSantis on what rights deserve to be pro -
tected.
Also stirring up a storm last week was DeSantis’ proposed legislation that 
criminalizes disorderly protests. Quickly condemned by the American Civil 
Liberties Union as being hostile to the First Amendment right to protest and 
earning mixed reviews from even law enforcement officers, the bill is pure 
political theater. 
Why else would DeSantis call on lawmakers to pass the bill via a special 
session in November instead of during the regular session this upcoming 
March? He hasn’t called on lawmakers to do the same to address Florida’s 
broken unemployment system or looming budget crisis. 
But wait, there’s more: Let us also not forget that DeSantis once again 
found himself on the wrong side of history last week by denying the restora -
tion of civil rights to Desmond Meade, the man who spearheaded the felon 
voting rights restoration amendment that passed in 2018. Though Meade is 
able to vote because of his amendment, he still isn’t able to serve on a jury or 
join the Florida Bar until pardoned.
Our state government in the meantime has spent over $1.7 million dol -
lars to defend its 2019 law that requires felons to pay owed fees before being 
eligible to vote, a law civil rights groups call a poll tax.
DeSantis once again made headlines last week when he asked Attorney 
General Ashley Moody to ask the FBI and Florida Department of Law Enforce -
ment to investigate former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg for rais -
ing money to help felons in Florida pay their fees.
We wish Gov. DeSantis would reevaluate why he prioritizes the right to 
party over the right to public assembly or the right to vote. Fighting for the 
right of college students to party is a very strange hill to die on.
Will history be kind to Gov. DeSantis? Probably not. Every day that passes, 
how much of a political disaster the COVID-19 pandemic is becomes clearer 
and clearer while the rest of the world watches in horror at the decline of the 
once great American nation. We are not proud of our country, state or gov -
ernor. 
The Editorial Board is made up of the Editor-in-Chief, Digital 
Managing Editor, Engagement Managing Editor, News Managing 
Editor and Opinions Editor.How counselors at the CWC are coping with the pandemicLetter from a concerned grandmother on the importance of voting The right to party? Gov. DeSantis is 
on the wrong side of history
ColumnDear Students
The Alligator encourages letters and columns from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. Columns should not exceed 750 words. Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to 
fact-check and edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters and columns to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Editorial cartoons are also 
welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.April Rubin
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORRosmery Izaguirre
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORZachariah Chou
OPINIONS 
EDITORDana Cassidy
NEWS 
MANAGING
EDITORKyle Wood
EDITOR IN 
CHIEFBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/28/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/28/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 28, 2020
ACROSS
1 Sampras of 
tennis
5 Biological 
pouches
9 Monastery leader
14 Door-to-door 
cosmetics 
company
15 Folksy Guthrie
16 Lose one’s cool 
completely
17 *Half of a two-
piece suit
19 Tossed in a chip
20 Devious sort
21 “__ the matter?”
23 General with a 
Chinese dish 
named for him
24 Village cousin
26 Beer after a shot
30 Actress 
Anderson
31 *Indian spiced 
drink
32 Mental giant
35 Like gloomy 
skies
37 Garr of “Tootsie”
38 Cotton thread
39 In need of a 
towel
40 Blue eyes, e.g.
41 Italian sparkling 
wine
42 Dolts
43 Get a new tenant 
for
44 *Winter Olympics 
squad
46 “So that’s it!”
48 Oppressive ruler
49 Grab with a 
toothpick
50 Old ultrafast 
plane, briefly
53 Popular search 
engine
55 Light humor
57 Colgate rival
60 Stop a fight ... 
and a hint to a 
literal feature of 
the answers to 
starred clues
62 Burnett with 
a namesake 
Golden Globe
63 Checklist 
component
64 Barn topper
65 At that place
66 Anklebones
67 Cogito-sum linkDOWN
1 Blue Ribbon 
brewer
2 Lesser of two __
3 Planned 2020 
Olympics city
4 Oklahoma 
city NNW of 
Oklahoma City
5 Ho Chi Minh City, 
formerly
6 Museum display
7 Class cutup
8 Last year’s frosh
9 Mystery award 
named for a 
British writer
10 *Miniature 
garden grower
11 Flier that sleeps 
upside-down
12 Reveal, to a poet
13 Danson of TV
18 Nary a soul
22 Needing a 
rubdown
25 Domed Native 
American 
dwelling
27 Make off with
28 Like a wolf’s 
howl
29 Singer Bonnie
30 *“American 
Crime” actress31 Keep tabs on a 
tabby
32 Leave the 
launching pad, 
with “off”
33 Foolhardy
34 Up and about
36 Slo-mo reviewer
40 “Jeopardy!” host
42 Sworn statement
45 Make possible
47 Italian sub meat
49 Not exactly, 
informally50 Shankar’s  
strings
51 Bitten by bees
52 Versatile blood 
donor
54 “In memoriam” 
bio
56 “__ le roi!”
57 Costume-buying 
mo.
58 Cheer word
59 “All bets __ off”
61 Fish that swims 
backwards
By George Jasper
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/22/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/22/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2020
ACROSS
1 Web site?
6 Guitarist Atkins
10 Director 
Preminger
14 Composer called 
“The March King”
15 Per person
16 Brunch, for one
17 Madison Ave. pro
18 “Night” author 
Wiesel
19 Saharan
20 Top line of 
a lawyer’s 
solicitation ad
23 Seafood platter 
accessory
25 AFL partner
26 Advertising 
come-on
27 Make beloved
29 Olds luxury car
31 Gamer’s coin
33 Bit of ice hockey 
deception
34 SUV’s “U,” briefly
35 Leveling device
39 Pesky 
V-formation fliers
43 Thumbs-up
47 Gold and silver
48 Rhythmic Ravel 
classic
49 Its symbol is Sn
50 “Breaking Bad” 
org.
51 Iconic video 
game since 1978, 
and a hint to the 
circled letters
55 “Garfield” dog
56 Executes
57 Hot under the 
collar
60 “Ant-Man” star 
Paul
61 Let off, as steam
62 Developer of 
51-Across
63 Big name in 
speakers
64 Reject as false
65 Highest world 
capital city
DOWN
1 “__ matter of  
fact ... ”
2 “The Fox and the 
Hound” fox
3 Retrace one’s 
steps4 “Aha!”
5 Provincetown’s 
peninsula
6 R&B singer Green
7 In good shape
8 Vaper’s smoke, 
for short
9 Shakespeare’s 
Globe, e.g.
10 Certain 
Nebraskan
11 Mother in 
Calcutta
12 Followed, as a 
suspect
13 Grizzled veteran
21 Desperate, as 
straits
22 Storied “Fountain 
of Youth” seeker 
Ponce de ___
23 Rosary sphere
24 With respect to, 
in a memo
28 Fannie __: 
mortgage 
nickname
29 Wreck 
completely
30 Signed off on
32 Casserole fish
35 Ready-go link
36 “D’oh!” gesture
37 __ of Man38 Arizona city or 
landform
39 Apple center
40 Steered clear of
41 In the center of
42 Colonel’s 
aspiration, 
perhaps
43 Soak up
44 Sonny and Cher, 
e.g.
45 Grunge fashion 
staples46 Ebb
49 Evoking a  
“Yum!”
52 Alaskan gold rush 
town
53 Blood conduit
54 British singer __ 
Ora
58 __ of Good 
Feelings
59 Jazz trumpeter 
Gillespie, 
familiarly
09/21/2020
solution on page 10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
WE BUY FISHING REELS Penn, Hooker, 
Blue Marlin & More! Honest - Reliable. We Pay 
Top Dollar. Call or Text Scott: (517) 515-4517    
9-28-1-13
14 Help Wanted
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Café Risqué
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
352- 466- 3803
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Cooks / Waitresses / Managers / Performers
Apply NOW
11-2-8-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                            9-28-1-15
16 Health Services
HEARING AIDS!! Buy one/get one FREE! 
High-quality rechargeable Nano hearing 
aids priced 90% less than competitors. 
Nearly invisible! 45-day money back guar-
antee! 855-501-9969                          9-28-1-16
BE A HERO. 
WEAR A MASK!
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Are your online classes putting you to sleep?  
READ THE ALLIGATOR INSTEAD!1For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. ABSOLUTELY 
HUGE! Gorgeous Wood Floors, central 
AC/HT, dishwasher, laundry room, fenced, 
pets OK $1,890 per month. 352-665-8166
10-26-20-8-2
Available Immediately. Blocks away from UF 
& shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes utilities 
& wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call Brenda 352-
672-8657  10-12-20-4-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
4 Roommates
1BR/1BA available in 2BR/2BA Condo
Close to Shands. $400/mo + 1/2 utils.
W/D. Call 352-318-1702                          9-28-3-4
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-7-20-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY10 For Sale
11..    LLaammeenntteedd
11..    TTaassttee,,  ttrryy55..    BBoooott  ccaammpp  ccoommmmaanndd
22..    MMoouunnttaaiinn  ________66..    PPoouunnccee
33..    IImmpprroovvee77..    NNeewweesstt
44..    AAddmmiitt,,  wweellccoommeeGGDDEESSIIHH
MMAAEELLSSPPHHAAMMRRCC
GGEELLNNUU
RROOLLIILLAAGG
HHAAEENNEECCNNSSAALLTTTTEE
EEPPCCAATTCCAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSiigghheedd    55AA--MMaarrcchh    66AA--LLuunnggee    77AA--LLaatteesstt
11DD--SSaammppllee    22DD--GGoorriillllaa    33DD--EEnnhhaannccee    44DD--AAcccceepptt    BB--TTeelleeggrraapphh99--2288--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  iinnvveennttiioonn  ooff  tthhee  eelleeccttrroonniicc  ________
ddaatteess  bbaacckk  ttoo  tthhee  llaattee  11883300ss..
BONUS
solution below answers below
1. GEOGRAPHY: In which mountain range 
is Mount Everest located?
2. AD SLOGANS: "What can brown do for 
you?" is a slogan for which company?
3. GOVERNMENT: What is the subject matter of 
the 12th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution?
4. MUSIC: In what year was Live Aid held, a 
relief concert to benefit the Ethiopian famine?
5. PSYCHOLOGY: What is a fear of flying called?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a group of 
porcupines called?
7. LANGUAGE: What kind of sentence is the 
following: "The five boxing wizards jump 
quickly"?
8. GAMES: What is the most frequently land -
ed-upon property in the Monopoly game?
9. FOOD & DRINK: In which two U.S. states 
are coffee beans grown commercially?
10. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which modern 
author wrote, "Autumn seemed to arrive 
suddenly that year. The morning of the first 
September was crisp and golden as an apple"?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Mega Maze  solutionTrivia Test  answers1. The Himalayas
2. United Parcel Service (UPS)
3. Election of the president and vice president
4. 1985
5. Aviophobia or aerophobia6. A prickle of porcupines
7. A pangram, in which every letter of the al -
phabet is used.
8. Illinois Avenue
9. Hawaii and California
10. J.K. Rowling
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.
UF QB Kyle Trask threw for six 
touchdowns and 416 yards, which 
ties current Bengals QB Joe Burrow 
for most touchdown passes thrown 
in an SEC opening game. Trask is the 
first Gator to throw six touchdowns 
in a game since Chris Leak in 2004.Gators ranked No. 3 in AP Poll
Florida moved up one spot in the Associated Press’ college football poll after 
its win over Ole Miss on Saturday, bypassing the Georgia Bulldogs to become 
the third best team in the nation. UF is the second-highest ranked SEC team 
in the nation behind Alabama and it is also No. 3 on the coaches’ poll.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
the offense were relentless, the de -
fense couldn’t resist relenting. 
Mississippi compiled 613 total 
yards. Matt Corral sliced through 
the Gators defense and picked up 
445 total yards. 
There were a few wins for the 
Gators defensively, however. They 
sacked Corral four times and 
edged the Rebels in total tackles 
80-77. 
But the rust was more than ob -
vious. The team had little time to 
prepare defensively, as Mullen fre -
quently mentioned the team’s lack 
of time to prepare for the season. 
But they have to acclimate them -
selves quickly. 
In the secondary, Rebels junior 
receiver Elijah Moore made 227 
yards out of ten receptions. Over -
all, Mississippi averaged 18.5 yards 
per reception. The Gators didn’t 
get a break either on the ground 
as they gave up 170 yards. “They did a great job of get -
ting their talented guys the ball in 
the same way we did, of creating 
matchups, ” Mullen said. “We’ve just 
got to get cleaner and better for 
next week. ”  
Whether the defense picks up 
the pieces in a week remains to be 
seen. 
South Carolina put up 379 total 
yards against Tennessee Saturday, 
and the Volunteers narrowly beat 
the ‘Cocks 31-27. 
Florida remains the heavy fa -
vorite for the matchup against 
the ‘Cocks. Whether it will serve as 
another way to break the defense 
back into its old habits won’t be 
found until the game clock reads 
zero. But Florida will rarely hang 
50 on a team, and against stiffer 
opponents later this season, the 
defense will need to match the 
offense’s edge if Florida wants to 
find itself in the College Football 
Playoff. 
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Trask threw 6 TDsCOVID-19
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
For the 80th consecutive year, 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium will wel -
come the Florida faithful into its 
concourses. 
However, for returning Gators 
fans, game days in Gainesville 
will look quite different. 
On Sept. 3, UF announced 
football games would be limited 
to roughly 20% capacity for spec -
tators, meaning that 17,000 will 
be allowed in for next Saturday’s 
contest against South Carolina. 
The university also released an 
operational summary, providing 
more details on ticket collection, 
parking, restroom management 
and other aspects affected by the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Many other contests in Florida 
have faced criticism for their lax 
social distancing enforcement. 
Several high school football 
games have been attended by 
large and tightly packed groups 
of spectators. Even at the college 
level, Florida State faced criticism 
as fans failed to wear masks and 
maintain a proper distance.These practices are prohibited 
in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Masks 
are required, and fans can only sit 
in every other row. Still, questions 
remain as to how the university 
will enforce these regulations. 
“The university police depart -
ment will not be responsible for 
the application of mask and dis -
tance policies”
“There will be police officers 
present at the game just like 
there normally would, ” Lieuten -
ant Scott Summers of the Uni -
versity Police Department, said. 
“Our role is largely the same as it 
has been. We aren’t in charge of 
maintaining social distancing. ”  
Summers also stressed that 
fans should try to familiarize 
themselves with the operational 
summary for COVID-19 preven -
tion and noted that fans can use 
the Florida Gators app to report a 
social distancing violation in the 
stadium.
Robert L. Cook, a UF epidemi -
ology professor, believes there 
are a few glaring oversights in 
the plan. 
“I think there are unclear pen -
alties for violating the rules, ” Cook said. “If people are drunk in the 
stadium or fighting they can be 
kicked out. The same should go 
for fans violating procedures. ”  
He also said the policy for 
skybox seating was problematic, 
as the arrangements allow up to 
four people in an elevator at a 
time.
Cook called for the stadium 
to provide free masks for fans to 
use in the stadiums. Masks, espe -
cially disposable ones, are rather 
fragile. The elastic can break eas -
ily, which could lead to increased 
exposure to the virus.
Cook highlighted the opening 
of Disney World as an example of 
a large outdoor gathering that 
didn’t lead to outbreaks of CO -
VID-19, meaning these sort of 
events are possible amidst a pan -
demic. 
“The most important thing 
is keeping space. Physical space 
drops the risk of an outbreak a 
lot, ” he said.
dwalsh@alligator.org
@dawalsh_UFUPD not in charge of social distancing
Kyle Wood / / Alligator Staff
The University Police Department will not be in charge of social 
distancing when Florida plays South Carolina in its first home game at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Fans can use the Florida Gators app to report a 
social distancing violation in the stadium.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Kyle Trask connected with tight end Kyle Pitts for four touchdowns in Florida’s win 
over Ole Miss on Saturday.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020
rooftoprooftop
@@ 11 11amam
SundaySunday
 brunchbrunch
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
DOORS DOORS @ @ 9:30 AM9:30 AM
THIS SATURDAYTHIS SATURDAY
SOCCER
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
Cameron Hall pounded the ground in frus -
tration. Her golden opportunity to grab a late 
winner against the No. 8 team in the nation 
fell harmlessly into Georgia goalkeeper Emory 
Wegener’s arms as the crowd put their hands 
behind their heads in the stands of Donald R. 
Dizney stadium.
After a long-awaited return to SEC soccer, 
UF earned a point in a gritty 1-1 draw against 
the Georgia Bulldogs. 
Florida looked dominant and controlled 
possession throughout the first half, as No. 8 
Georgia was largely content to let the Gators 
be on the ball. 
However, UGA generated the better scoring 
opportunities in the first 10 minutes. An effort 
in the seventh minute was deflected, ultimately 
falling comfortably into the arms of UF’s senior 
keeper Susi Espinoza. A minute later, Espinoza 
was nearly caught off her line, as a long-range 
effort from Georgia forward Mollie Belisle was 
fired just over the goal.
Despite their methodical buildup, the 
Gators’ 12th-minute breakthrough came from a 
direct play. Junior defender Georgia Eaton-Col -
lins played a long ball up from midfield, finding 
senior Deanne Rose behind the Georgia back 
three as she managed a tidy finish into the left 
side of the goal. Florida, 1-0.
UF had an opportunity to double its  advan -
tage three minutes later, as Eaton-Collins rose 
for an uncontested header but failed to make 
contact. Florida continued to look for a second goal, 
as a 22nd-minute free-kick fizzed just wide of 
the left post. Four minutes later, a UF corner 
was kept in the danger area after a poor punch. 
The Gators were ultimately denied by the 
strong right hand of Wegener.
UGA grew into the game in the last 15 min -
utes of the first half. Georgia’s Weldon Korker 
took a left-footed effort that narrowly missed 
the top right corner, and a 38th-minute strike 
had Espinoza at full stretch, as Abby Boyan just 
fired outside of the left post.
Ultimately, UGA was gifted an equalizer off a 
poor pass across the back line. Georgia forward 
Chloe Chapman intercepted the pass around 
midfield and was clear on goal. She fired a left-
footed effort past Espinoza to tie the game at 
one with five minutes remaining in the first half.
UF was certainly the stronger team through 
the first half, maintaining 72 % possession and 
creating better opportunities. 
The Bulldogs came out of the locker room 
displaying intense pressure that echoed from 
their 1-0 upset victory last weekend against 
South Carolina. The Gators struggled to keep 
possession and committed several turnovers in 
their defensive third. 
A sloppy back pass from Florida’s Laney 
Steed five minutes after the break led to a UGA 
chance from ten yards out. Espinoza was able 
to do just enough to force the shot wide, keep -
ing the game tied at one. 
Espinoza came to the Gators’ rescue once 
again in the 63rd minute as Georgia attacker 
Kayla Bruster was left unmarked at the back 
post. Espinoza got down to her left quickly, pushing the ball away from the danger area. 
Coach Becky Burleigh praised her keeper for 
this save, describing it as a game-changing mo -
ment. 
Burleigh mentioned that her team was pre -
pared for the Bulldogs to transition from a mid 
block into a higher press, and eventually, Flor -
ida adapted to Georgia’s pressure. In the 70th 
minute, the Gators forced a pair of smart saves 
from Emory Wegener.
Rose found herself in space after running 
behind Georgia’s left wing back and center 
back, but she held onto the ball too long as We -
gener was off her line quickly enough to snuff  
out the opportunity. Shortly after Alivia Gon -
zalez turned her defender and struck the ball 
towards the bottom corner. Wegener made an 
excellent save, forcing the shot out for a corner 
and kept the game tied at 1-1. 
With overtime looming, both teams played 
positive soccer and looked for the win. The best 
opportunity from this spell came in the 82nd 
minute as UF piled on the pressure and fired a 
shot just over the crossbar. 
It appeared that Florida found the winner 
with just 15 seconds remaining in overtime, as 
Cameron Hall found herself with an open head -
er ten yards from goal.
She skied her effort and Georgia escaped 
to Athens with a point, marking the first time 
the Bulldogs have earned a result in Gainesville 
since 1995.
UF will host Alabama on Oct. 4 at 5 p.m., 
where coach Burleigh expects to see an im -
proved performance. 
“It was a really physical game, I think there were like 20 fouls, which isn’t really our style of 
Play, ” Burleigh said. “And the fact that we were 
able to step up and handle that says a lot about 
our team.
“We need to improve upon our technical abili -
ty and tactics and build momentum in a real week 
leading up to a game. That’s going to be so nice. ”
dwalsh@alligator.org
@dawalsh_UFFlorida earns draw against No. 8 Georgia in season opener
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
UF goalkeeper Susi Espinoza puts down 
a goal kick in Florida’s win against 
Georgia. She had four saves over the 
course of the game.
