We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperHow UF students are campaigning 
UF students have started presidential candidate groups, pg. 6
Hustle and bus-tle
Gainesville’s self-driving bus is testing again , pg. 6UF tops FSU at College Matchday
The No. 2 Gators beat the No. 21 Seminoles 
by a score of 4-1 on Saturday, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 54
MOST OF PROGRESSIVE 
PARTY’S CANDIDATES 
DROPPED THURSDAY
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Just nine days after Progres-
sive Party registered to run in a UF 
Student Government executive and 
Senate race, the party formed on 
progressive political values in SG 
crumbled. 
On Jan. 21, Progressive officially 
registered with Student Government 
as the first official political third par-
ty on campus since Spring 2018. But 
by Thursday night, two of their ex-
ecutive ticket candidates and many 
party members hoping to run for 
Senate resigned.
And the party’s founder Alfredo 
Ortiz — who introduced himself on 
Facebook as a candidate for Student 
Body president with Progressive —  
might not even be eligible to run 
under his own party now, according 
to UF Student Government election 
codes. There are no candidates run-
ning for Senate with Progressive, 
said Brandon Reis, a former Pro-
gressive candidate and the de facto 
president of the party’s dissolution 
board.
In order for a political party to 
stay in the running, the party must 
have at least six people running for 
Senate or candidates on a ticket to-
gether vying for Student Body presi-
dent, vice-president and treasurer. 
SG election codes state that any 
party that doesn’t meet these quali-
fications will be disqualified from 
the election. 
But how did Progressive Party  — 
the first legitimate third party since 
Challenge Party in Spring 2018 — 
get to this point?   
The Alligator has compiled a 
timeline of key events over the last 
two weeks that led to these resigna-
tions. Here’s how the newly formed 
party dismantled.
Friday, Jan. 24How an SG 
party fell 
apart in 9 
days
Laura San Juan // Alligator Staff
Izzy Dusek, a 19-year-old University of Tennessee, Knoxville political science freshman, and Connor Shelander, a 19-year-old 
University of Tennessee, Knoxville mechanical engineering sophomore, practice before they compete during the 54th annual 
Green Gator Division Two Senior Mix Epee. Both were excited to compete in Florida. 
SEE SG, PAGE 4
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
Denise Griffiths, a UF English language 
and literature senior, died Wednesday after 
succumbing to brain and spinal injuries. She 
was 21.
Griffiths was a spoken word poet and as-
piring rapper. She wrote about being a black 
woman in America, her agency over her body 
and her desire to be seen and appreciated.
Though she wasn’t able to produce the mixtape she promised friends and family, 
Griffith’s writing lives on as a testament to her 
talent and compassion. 
Griffiths’ grandmother, Cynthia Gainey, 
keeps videos on her phone of Griffiths per-
forming. In one, she recites a poem she wrote 
about police brutality and violence against 
black people. 
“I’m hurting for my people. I’m tired of 
hashtags,” she said. “Tensions building up 
while the justice system lags. If we all unite, 
imagine the lives we could save – in the land of the free and the home of the brave.”  
About a month and a half before she died, 
Griffiths told her grandmother she registered 
to be an organ donor, Gainey said. Gainey was 
surprised and upset, and she asked why. 
“She stood right there and looked back at 
me,” Gainey said, pointing to the middle of 
her living room.  “She says, ‘Granny, if I can 
help somebody while I’m no longer here, I’m 
supposed to do that.’”
UF CANCELS STUDY 
ABROAD TRIPS TO 
CHINA IN THE WAKE OF 
CORONAVIRUS
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
UF announced Friday it will not 
approve or reimburse future stu-
dent and employee trips to China 
until further notice due to the coro-
navirus.The email also said any faculty 
and staff who had plans to visit 
China in coming weeks have can-
celed their plans. Several people 
who were registered with the UF 
International Center for trips to 
China had their trips canceled, said 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
Orlando said he does not know 
how many trips in total were can-
celed, because not all students reg-
ister with the International Center.
Mabel Cardec, a spokesper-
son for the International Center, declined to comment on the trip 
cancellations. She said the Inter-
national Center acts in accordance 
with UF’s statements.
“Like every other university and 
hospital in the country, we are tak-
ing all appropriate precautions and 
continuously engaged in important 
conversations to ensure the health 
and safety of the university com-
munity,” according to UF’s state-
ment. 
It is not known if or when some 
of the trips to China will be re-scheduled. There are currently no 
students in China, Orlando said.
Any trips planned for China 
outside of the International Center 
after Friday will have to be paid 
out of pocket, and they will not be 
reimbursed. Orlando said he is not 
sure if trips planned before Friday 
will be reimbursed.
“I’m certain the International 
Center will work out some other 
kinds of arrangements for them,” 
he said.Spoken word and black excellence: Remembering Denise Griffiths
Her optimism and morality lives on in friends and family
UF stops student and employee trips to ChinaSEE GRIFFITHS,  PAGE 3
SEE CHINA,  PAGE 3T oday’s WeatherSubscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classified advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  75° LOW  44°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
MONDAY
2020 Florida Ruminant Nutrition 
Symposium
Where: Best Western Gateway 
Grand, located at 4200 NW 97th 
Blvd. 
When: 2 p.m.
What: The 2020 Florida 
Ruminant Nutrition Symposium 
is a multi-day event focused 
on the newest info in regard to 
dairy and beef cattle nutrition. 
The premier event is centered 
on ruminant nutritionists, vet-
erinarians, feed industry pro-
fessionals and others in allied 
industries. The symposium 
also allows for networking op-
portunities with people in these 
fields. The symposium will fea-
ture numerous topics presented 
on the subject of ruminant nu-
trition. 
TUESDAY
Frank 2020
Where: The Hippodrome 
Theatre, located at 25 SE Second 
Place
When: 6 p.m.
What: The seventh annual 
Frank 2020 event is a gathering 
of communications strategists, 
behavioral and social scientists, 
artists, business leaders and 
more who strive to use their re-
spective fields to push for social 
change. The three-day event 
will feature plenty of network-
ing opportunities for commu-
nicators, lunches, dinners and 
numerous talks, presentations 
and informative skills sessions 
throughout the event.
WEDNESDAY
Mac Powell and the Family 
Reunion
Where: High Dive, located at 
210 SW Second Ave.
When: 8 p.m.
What: Mac Powell and the 
Family Reunion are a rock, coun-
try and gospel band founded by Mac Powell, former lead singer 
of Grammy Award-winning 
Christian rock band Third Day. 
Advanced tickets are $18, and 
$20 on day of show. Must be 18 
or over unless accompanied by 
a parent or guardian. Anyone 
under the age of 21 must pay a 
$3 cover fee.
THURSDAY
10th Annual Gainesville Real 
Estate Forum
Where: Best Western Gateway 
Grand, located at 4200 NW 97th 
Blvd. 
When: 4:30-7 p.m.
What: The Beery Rainsberger 
Group and James Moore & 
Company present the 10th 
Annual Gainesville Real Estate 
Forum. The event will feature a 
panel-style discussion with real 
estate industry figures discuss-
ing topics like commercial real 
estate economic outlook from 
the Federal Reserve Bank, com-
mercial and residential property 
trends and issues, UF’s master 
plan of development and afford-
able housing, among other sub-
jects. The event is $25 to attend. 
David’s Bridal Grand Opening 
Event
Where: David’s Bridal, located 
at 3965 Plaza Blvd., Suite 20
When: 6 8 p.m.
What: David’s Bridal Gainesville 
has moved locations, and they’re 
celebrating the move in a free 
event. The celebration will in-
clude sweets, champagne, a 
photo booth, a DJ and give-
aways including the chance to 
win a $200 gift card to David’s 
Bridal. The first 100 guests at the 
event will receive a complimen-
tary tote bag of gifts and goodies. 
2020 ABE Night of Networking
Where: UF Frazier Rogers Hall 
Room 122, located at 1741 
Museum Road
When: 5:30 8 p.m.
What: UF/IFAS Agricultural and 
Biological Engineering holds its first ever Night of Networking. 
UF students will have the op-
portunity to network with com-
panies and organizations such 
as Aldi, PalletOne and BASF 
Corporation that represent fields 
such as biosystems engineering, 
land and water resources engi-
neering, packaging engineering, 
agricultural production engi-
neering, and agricultural opera-
tions management, and get the 
opportunity to seek internships 
and employment. Event is free 
to attend. 
FRIDAY
Speak Like a Pro Public 
Speaking Workshop
Where: 2153 SE Hawthorne 
Road
When: 1-5 p.m.
What: Host Jennifer Webb of-
fers a four-hour program de-
signed to teach attendees to 
speak with confidence, poise 
and a “Wow Factor” that will 
turn people into smart and ef-
fective public speakers. Snacks 
will be included. Tickets cost 
$99 to attend. Tickets are buy 
one, get one free if a coworker 
is brought to the workshop.
SATURDAY 
Florida Rights of Nature 
Conference (RONCon)
Where: UF Levin College of 
Law, located at 309 Village 
Drive 
When: 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
What: Civic leaders, activists 
and lawyers from around the 
state of Florida will get together 
for RONCon, a convention fo-
cusing on a growing national 
movement to recognize the 
rights of ecosystems and nature 
and how to legally enforce those 
rights. The event will include a 
yoga session at 7:30 a.m. and a 
coffee and pastries gathering at 
8:30 a.m. before the convention 
begins. Event is free to attend.
SUNDAY
UF Honors Tour
Where: Graham Residence Hall, 
located at 716 Gale Lemerand 
Drive
When: 1-3 p.m.
What: The UF Honors tour of-
fers participants to learn more 
about the UF Honors program. 
The tour will feature an info 
session with UF Honors faculty 
along with a tour of the Honors 
Residential College at Hume 
Hall. Cookies and drinks will be 
provided. The tour costs $5 to 
attend.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 54
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Emily LaneMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Lily StricklandEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoMONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3  FREE Relationship  Workshop s 
 
 
Come join our FREE, FUN relationship -strengthening 
workshop s where University of Florida train ed instructor s 
will share  effective and proven skills  to increase positive 
communication, manage stress, set financial goals, deal 
with differences, and maintain a happy and healthy 
friendship bond.  Workshops will be held once a week for 
5 weeks  on the following dates:   
 
Option 1 : Mon., Feb. 10, 17, 24, Mar. 2, 9 ; 6:00- 8:30 pm  
Option 2 : Tue., Feb. 11, 18, 25, Mar. 3, 10 ; 6:00- 8:30 pm  
Option 3: Wed ., Feb. 12, 19, 26, Mar. 4, 11 ; 6:15- 8:45 pm 
Option 4: Thur ., Feb 13, 20, 27, Mar. 5, 12 ; 6:00- 8:30 pm  
Option 5: Sat., Feb 15, 22, 29, Mar . 7, 14; 10 am-12:30 pm   
 
A FREE  light MEAL will be served at each class and y ou 
may a lso be eligible for GIFT CARDS.  PARKING is FREE.  
 
PRE-REGISTRATION is REQUIRED. TO REGISTER  go to 
https://smartcouples.ifas.ufl.edu/classes/alachua  or 
contact Christina at 352 -273-3507 or  ccollingwood@ufl.edu.  
 
Funding for this project is provided by the United States Department Health and Human 
Services, Administration for Children and Families, Grant: #90 FM0079 . These services are 
available to all eligible Persons, regardless of race, gender, age, disability or religion.   
 FREE Relationship  Workshop s 
 
 
Come join our FREE, FUN relationship -strengthening 
workshop s where University of Florida train ed instructor s 
will teach effective and proven skills  to increase positive 
communication, manage stress, set financial goals, deal 
with differences, and maintain a happy and healthy 
friendship bond.  Workshops will be held once a week for 
5 weeks  on the following dates:   
 
Option 1 : Mon., Feb. 10, 17, 24, Mar. 2, 9 ; 6:00-8:30 pm  
Option 2 : Tue., Feb. 11, 18, 25, Mar. 3, 10 ; 6:00-8:30 pm  
Option 3: Wed ., Feb. 12, 19, 26, Mar. 4, 11 ; 6:15 -8:45  pm 
Option 4: Thur ., Feb 13, 20, 27, Mar. 5, 12 ; 6:00-8:30 pm  
Option 5: Sat., Feb 15, 22, 29, Mar . 7, 14; 10 am -12:30 pm   
 
A FREE  light MEAL will be served at each class and y ou 
may a lso be eligible for GIFT CARDS.  PARKING is FREE.  
 
PRE-REGISTRATION is REQUIRED. TO REGISTER  go to 
https://smartcouples.ifas.ufl.edu/classes/alachua  or 
contact Christina at 352 -273-3507 or  ccollingwood@ufl.edu.  
 
Funding for this project is provided by the United States Department Health and Human 
Services, Administration for Children and Families, Grant: #90 FM0079 . These services are 
available to all eligible Persons, regardless of race, gender, age, disability or religion.   
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
That’s the kind of person she 
was, Gainey said. 
Griffiths was intelligent and 
purposeful from the beginning, her 
grandmother said. When she was 
3 years old, Griffiths told Gainey 
she was going to go to college. She 
would drag a big book with her 
wherever she went and run her fin-
ger along the pages as though she 
were reading, Gainey said.  
Words were important to 
Griffiths, said her best friend Jas-
mine Rivera, a 21-year-old political 
science and women’s studies se-
nior. Griffiths said what she meant 
and expected the same from others, 
Rivera said.
She was a big advocate for treat-
ing people the way they should 
be treated, Rivera said, even if 
it meant going out of her way or 
making herself vulnerable.
She recalled the time Griffiths 
stopped a group of teenagers from 
harassing a stranger on a bus, and 
the time she intervened when she 
saw a man intimidating a woman 
downtown. 
“She always stood up for what 
she believed in,” Rivera said. 
Over the course of her four years 
at UF, Griffiths was a resident’s as-
sistant, membership co-chair of 
SISTUHS, assistant director of Ga-
torship, president of the Jamaican 
American Student Association and 
a member of the UF Black Student 
Union.
Ashlee Perkins, assistant di-
rector of Gatorship, said Griffiths 
would greet people with a loud, 
“Hey, friend!” whenever she 
walked into a room. As involved 
as she was, Griffiths made time to 
catch up with friends. 
“She wanted you to know that 
you were valued in her life,” Per-
kins said. A vigil for Griffiths will be held 
in the courtyard between La Ca-
sita and the Institute of Black Cul-
ture until Wednesday, Feb. 12. A 
memorial service will take place 
Wednesday from 5-7 p.m. in the 
Rion Ballroom of the Reitz Union. 
Griffiths’ funeral will be held  
Friday at 11 a.m. at Passage Fam-
ily Church, 2020 NE 15th St., 
Gainesville.
Proceeds from a GoFundMe 
page will help to pay for Griffiths’ 
hospital bills and funeral expenses, 
according to the page’s description. 
As of Sunday morning, the organiz-
er raised $21,102 of a $15,000 goal. Brittany Bridges, a 21-year-old 
Gatorship director and UF psy-
chology and anthropology senior, 
said the outpouring of support for 
Griffiths and her loved ones is a 
testament to the love she shared 
and lives she touched. 
“Even though she’s not with us 
physically anymore, her love is still 
very palpable and it’s still here,” 
Bridges said. “It’s going to continue 
to be here for a very long time.” 
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgGRIFFITHS,  from pg. 1
The World Health Organiza-
tion declared the virus a Public 
Health Emergency of International 
Concern Thursday. The virus has 
infected more than 9,800 people 
globally, with six being in the 
United States. The United States is-
sued a Level 4 travel advisory for 
China on Friday, telling people not 
to travel to the country. 
But in the U.S., the flu caused 
an estimated 35,520,883 illnesses 
from 2018 to 2019, according to 
the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention. It also caused an esti-
mated 34,157 deaths. The World 
Health Organization estimates that 
each year there are 1 billion cases 
of the flu worldwide, of which 3 
million to 5 million are severe.
UF has been monitoring four 
people who traveled to China, 
but the threat level is relatively 
low. None of the people traveled 
to Wuhan, China. There are no 
confirmed cases of coronavirus 
in Florida.
Kaureen Randhawa, a 21-year-
old UF finance junior, planned to visit Shanghai, China, in the first 
week of May. The trip was for the 
master in international business 
program.
“I understand they have to pro-
tect students,” Randhawa said. “I 
think they’re doing their job.”
Ana Portocarrero, director of 
the master of international busi-
ness program, sent an email last 
week to Randhawa and others 
saying their trip would be moved 
to somewhere in Europe instead, 
Randhawa said. She said plans to 
go to Europe are tentative. She es-
timated that 50 to 60 people were 
registered for the trip. 
Randhawa said the email stated 
that if a student could not go to Eu-
rope, they would be reimbursed. 
But she hopes to travel to China 
in the future.
“Me and my friends were really 
interested in Asia because we had 
never been,” Randhawa said. “I’ve 
never been to Asia. That was on 
my bucket list.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org CHINA,  from pg. 1There are more than 35 
million flu cases in the U.S.
Student Resources for Illness:
General Medical Care: 
Student Health Care Center, Infirmary Building  
by Student Recreation & Fitness Center   
Urgent Care: 
UF Health Shands Emergency Room   
CareSpot  
Pharmacy:  
Student Health Care Center, Infirmary Building  Courtesy to The Alligator
Denise Griffiths, a UF English language and literature senior, died 
Wednesday after succumbing to brain and spinal injuries. She was 
21. Griffiths was a spoken word poet and aspiring rapper.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020STUDENTS LIVING ON 
CAMPUS CAN APPL Y TO 
RECEIVE $30 TO SPEND 
ON LAUNDRY
By Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government an-
nounced the renewal of the Stay 
Fresh Laundry Grant that aims to 
help students pay for their laun-
dry, detergent not included. 
The Student Body Treasurer’s 
Office allocated $6,000 to give 200 
eligible students living on cam-
pus in Spring and Summer 2020 
a $30 laundry card to use campus 
laundry facilities throughout the 
semesters, said Kevin Trejos, as-
sistant treasurer.
Students must answer a 200-
word essay question to apply, 
Trejos said. SG officials will pro-
vide cards to students in need 
based on their answering of the 
essay question while cards last. 
The Treasurer’s Office has 
been working on the project since 
the beginning of Fall, and Trejos 
said in previous years when the 
grant was active, around 60 cards were not claimed due to a lack of 
applicants. He said they are re-
ceiving good responses from ap-
plications this time and that he 
hopes more students will apply. 
“If this helps one person, two 
people, 200 people, then I know 
that we’re doing the right thing,” 
he said. 
In UF laundry rooms, it costs 
$1.50 to wash clothes and $1.25 
to dry them. 
Eva Domas, a 19-year-old UF 
environmental science sopho-
more who lives in Murphree Hall 
said she typically spends about 
$8 a month to do her laundry, but 
sometimes when she pays to use 
a machine, it doesn’t work. 
“Sometimes the washer will 
flood,” she said. “And you have 
to dry all your clothes on medium 
to get them to dry all the way, or 
else you have to pay for another 
load.” 
She said she thinks the grant 
will be helpful for students at UF 
and plans to apply for it herself. 
“That’s at least one semester 
of laundry,” she said. 
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.orgStudent government renews 
Stay Fresh Laundry Grant
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was arrested after report-
edly sneaking into a UF residence 
hall, pulling a fire alarm and enter-
ing the room of a female resident 
assistant, according to a University 
Police arrest report.
At approximately 3:15 a.m. Sat-
urday, police responded to a fire 
alarm at Broward Hall and found 
Israel Pina, 25, hiding in the room 
of a female resident assistant. Ac-
cording to the report, Pina is ac-
cused of following a person into 
the dorm hall, which is secured by 
a key card, in order to gain access.
Authorities found the resident 
assistant’s door open and the room 
“in a state of disarray with objects 
thrown about and flipped over,” ac-
cording to the report. The resident 
assistant said Pina didn’t have per-
mission to be in her room.
Pina, who is not affiliated with 
UF, couldn’t explain to authorities 
why he was in the room, the report 
read.
According to the arrest report, 
Pina admitted to pulling the fire 
alarm after being read his Miranda rights. Police arrested him at 3:22 
a.m. and took him to the Alachua 
County Jail.
Haley Wadsworth, a 19-year-old 
UF business administration fresh-
man, said Pina approached her in 
the Broward garage at approximate-
ly 2:30 a.m. before he entered the 
residence hall.
Wadsworth said she had just 
gotten out of her car and was walk-
ing to the stairwell when he ap-
proached her.
“The man approached me and 
said, ‘Hey, can I talk to you,’” Wad-
sworth said.
Wadsworth told Pina she could 
not speak to him and began to walk 
quickly to the back stairwell. At this 
point, she said she noticed him fol-
lowing behind her. 
They were the only two people 
in the garage at the time, she said.
“He was walking really quickly 
to the stairwell, trying to catch up 
with me to try to get into the stair-
well,” Wadsworth said. “I didn’t 
know what he was trying to do. I 
was scared that he was gonna at-
tack me, try to hit me with some-
thing.”
Once she was inside the resi-
dence hall, she said she made sure to close the stairwell door and send 
a message to her floormates about 
what happened.
 Wadsworth evacuated the 
building once the fire alarm went 
off and found police already on the 
scene and Pina in handcuffs with 
two officers. At approximately 4 
a.m., she spoke with police in the 
lobby and identified Pina to Univer-
sity Police, she said.
She said she’s still shaken from 
the incident and the “what if’s” of 
the situation.
“Overall everybody’s just a lit-
tle more cautious and keeping the 
doors locked and making sure that 
no one follows them into the build-
ing,” Wadsworth said. 
In a Facebook message to The 
Alligator Sunday evening, Pina said 
the reports are false, and he was in 
a kitchen, not a girl’s room.
He called the incident “the 
worse nightmare ever” and wrote 
that “further details will come to 
light” when he goes to trial.
Pina faces charges of burglary, 
resisting arrest without violence 
and false fire alarm. 
@SLagmis
slagmis@alligator.org Man accused of sneaking into UF 
residence hall, pulling fire alarm
Police say he entered a female resident assistant’s room
The party’s platform, a set of goals if 
its candidates win office, was posted on its 
Facebook page. Some of the 10 campaign 
points included establishing training  for 
university health care professionals on 
LGBTQ+ issues and adding more unisex 
bathrooms on campus. 
Tuesday, Jan. 28 
An anonymous email attached a 38-min-
ute audio recording of a conversation be-
tween Ortiz and Nikolas Bindi, Progres-
sive’s vice presidential candidate at that 
time. 
Near the end of the recording, Ortiz and 
Bindi discussed the idea of transgender 
identity. 
“Transgender is the white way of saying 
gender dysphoria,” Ortiz said. “And you 
can argue gender dysphoria is a psycholog-
ical illness, and therefore it is bad.” Bindi 
questioned Ortiz’s statements. 
The recording was leaked to The Alliga-
tor, nine of UF’s largest student organiza-
tions including the Pride Student Union, 
the Women’s Student Association and 
other multicultural organizations such as 
the Asian American Student Union. Politi-
cal organizations such as Gators for Bernie 
were also copied in the email. 
Two Facebook posts from then-Progres-
sive Party treasurer Mark Merwitzer about 
President Donald Trump’s border wall and 
Mexico were also attached in the email.
In an hour-long phone interview with 
The Alligator that afternoon, Ortiz said the 
recording was taken out of context and 
part of a game of “devil’s advocate,” and 
the comments in the audio did not repre-
sent his beliefs. He said the comments in the audio were part of a hypothetical con-
versation. 
Ortiz told The Alligator gender dys-
phoria carries a negative connotation and 
societal implication, so he uses the term 
transgender in his day-to-day life. But he 
said the terms are synonyms by definition, 
citing comparisons between being black 
and Puerto Rican with racial slurs to imply 
they had “a very, very negative connota-
tion, and therefore should not be used.”
According to the American Academy of 
Pediatrics, being a transgender person and 
having gender dysphoria are not the same 
thing. Transgender individuals may experi-
ence gender dysphoria, but the terms are 
distinct.
Ortiz stopped the phone interview to 
finish his lunch and requested the inter-
view be continued in person. When the re-
porter met him, Ortiz aggressively stopped 
interviews for Senate candidates and led 
the reporter into a private room in the Re-
itz Union with Bindi, Merwitzer and then-
Progressive member William Zelin.
In this interview, Bindi and Ortiz said 
they did not remember the details of the 
conversation in the recording, but did say 
it was a philosophical conversation, and 
that it was recorded illegally. 
Merwitzer left to seek legal counsel 
from UF Student Legal Services and said 
writing about the audio recording was il-
legal. He said the group was planning to go 
to the police after the interview.
While Bindi, Ortiz and Zelin met with 
the reporter, other members of Progressive 
met in the Reitz Union food court and de-
cided to unionize, Reis said. 
Wednesday, Jan. 29
Progressive announced their executive 
ticket at 5:56 p.m. on Facebook with Ortiz as candidate for Student Body president, 
Bindi as candidate for Student Body vice 
president and UF Brazillian Student Asso-
ciation treasurer Chiara Spina as candidate 
for Student Body treasurer.
Thursday, Jan. 30
Young Democratic Socialists of America 
at UF posted the leaked audio at 11:55 a.m. 
on its Facebook page. They started the 
post with, “Trigger Warning: Transpho-
bic remarks made beginning at time stamp 
35:46.”
About two hours after the post, Zelin, 
Bindi, Spina, Merwitzer and other candi-
dates announced via Facebook posts and 
text messages to an Alligator reporter that 
they would no longer be affiliated with 
Progressive or running with the party. By 8 
p.m., most of the Senate candidates for  the 
party dropped out of the race, Reis said.
Spina said she didn’t know about the re-
cordings and barely knew Ortiz before Jan. 
22, when she said he asked her to run on 
Progressive’s executive ticket.
“The fact that this conversation exists 
made me feel like I was mislead, made me 
feel like I wasn’t told the whole truth,” 
Spina said
Merwitzer said his posts did not factor 
into his decision to withdraw.”If you want 
a comment on my Facebook posts, it was a 
joke I made three years ago. I have always 
supported immigration rights regardless of 
my brash humor,” he wrote in a text to The 
Alligator Thursday night.
In an interview with The Alligator that 
evening, Bindi’s account of the audio and 
his relationship with Ortiz wavered from 
barely knowing Ortiz before December to 
having had multiple long, philosophical 
conversations with him. 
“I made a mistake. I should have remem-bered it,” Bindi said. “I was glamoured by 
the allure of running with a new political 
party in which we could try and change 
the conversation and do some good things. 
And I made a mistake. And when I realized 
that mistake earlier today, I dropped out of 
the race. And that’s the truth. That is the 
most truthful statement that I’ve said on 
this call.”
Bindi also apologized for “being a little 
too aggressive” in the interview with an Al-
ligator reporter Tuesday.
Thursday evening, an Alligator reporter 
spoke with Reis. He said members asked 
Ortiz to step down earlier that day. Sixteen 
members attended an election at about 
6:30 p.m. and formed a new board to dis-
solve the party with Reis as the de facto 
president of the party’s dissolution board. 
Later that night, Ortiz said to The Al-
ligator that he had agreed to a “peaceful 
transition of power” after an election, but 
he had not known about or attended the 
election earlier that evening. In an email 
sent to The Alligator’s editor Friday eve-
ning, Ortiz said he is still the party’s presi-
dent.  
“I recognize that even though I was 
only assuming the role of devil’s advocate, 
I could have been a lot more sensitive with 
the way that I approached the situation,” 
Ortiz said.
Saturday, Feb. 1
In a post on the Progressive Facebook 
page, Ortiz apologized.
“Even then, I apologize to every person 
that could have felt offended upon hear-
ing the result of the manipulation of the 
audio,” Ortiz wrote.
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgSG,  from pg. 1Student Government codes might disqualify Progressive PartyMONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
THE GRADE CAME FROM 
THE AMERICAN LUNG 
ASSOCIATION.
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
The state of Florida is being pushed 
to reconsider its habits after receiv-
ing an F rating for funding for state 
tobacco prevention programs from the 
American Lung Association.
According to a ‘State of Tobacco 
Control’ report, Florida failed to enact 
sufficient preventative policies for to-
bacco use, the nation’s leading cause 
of preventative death and disease in 
2019. It called for officials to take ac-
tion to increase tobacco control and 
prevention funding in 2020.
The report read that despite Florida 
receiving $1.53 billion from tobacco 
settlement payments and tobacco tax-
es last year, the state funded control 
efforts at only 38.4 percent of the level 
recommended by the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention.Florida also received a D for its ac-
cess to services that help people quit 
tobacco, which surprised Jacquelyn 
Moreau, an education and training 
specialist at UF’s Area Health Educa-
tion Center. 
She said Alachua County has some 
of the best tobacco cessation servic-
es in the country, as they more than 
double a person’s chance of quitting 
through counseling, nicotine replace-
ment therapy and free classes held by 
tobacco treatment specialists.
Moreau said the Florida Depart-
ment of Health Bureau of Tobacco 
Free Florida is responsible for the 
state’s tobacco prevention program 
funding. 
Alachua County’s programs are 
offered by UF Health and Suwannee 
River Area Health Education Center, 
which cover UF and the rest of the 
county respectively, Moreau said. 
They include online, phone and in-
person services, a variety she said 
most states do not provide. 
The report gave Florida failing 
grades for its level of state tobacco taxes and the raising of its minimum 
age of sale for tobacco products to 21. 
Lauren Pierson manages Suwannee 
River Area Health Education Center’s 
tobacco program and said Alachua 
County was ahead of the curve in the 
latter category, being the first county 
in Florida to raise the age back in Oc-
tober.
Pierson said the rating was not un-
precedented.
“It is similar to previous years,” 
she said. “We’re always working as 
hard as we can to improve that rating 
and really follow best practices.”
Ashley Lyerly, director of advo-
cacy for the American Lung Associa-
tion, said even though there has been 
progress in counties like Alachua, the 
report only highlights the state legis-
lature.
“We haven’t seen that level of in-
terest and action at the state level,” 
she said. “It still has a long way to go.”Florida given F rating for state tobacco prevention funding
THE PLAN, WHICH TOOK THREE 
YEARS TO DRAFT, ENSURES 
ISRAELI CONTROL OVER 
JERUSALEM AND PROMISES.
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
While President Trump believes he has a 
solution for peace in the Middle East, UF stu-
dents are more divided on the issue.
Trump’s awaited Middle East peace plan, 
Peace to Prosperity, was unveiled Tuesday, as 
reported by The New York Times. The plan, 
which took three years to draft, ensures Israeli 
control over Jerusalem and promises $50 bil-
lion over 10 years to invest in Palestine on a 
list of conditions. 
The conditions range from seceding from 
areas in the occupied West Bank to demilitar-
ization. Palestinian Authority President Mah-
moud Abbas has already rejected the plan.
The plan differs from previous ones be-
cause it has an end goal, said Matthew Jacobs, 
a UF history professor. But while it is an effort 
to resolve the conflict, it did not include any Palestinian voices in the drafting process. 
“To be fair, Palestinians did boycott the 
process, but there wasn’t a whole lot of space 
for them to engage,” Jacobs said. 
The future of a Palestinian state depends 
on conditions, he said, adding that nothing is 
asked on the Israeli side. In the plan, the clos-
est point to a concession is Israel losing control 
of the entire West Bank, and Israeli Prime Min-
ister Benjamin Netanyahu has not announced 
an end to expansion in Palestinian areas. 
Jacobs believes developing resources is 
a beneficial long-term goal for Palestinians. 
However, he is skeptical of the $50 billion in-
vestment because they are mainly loans. 
While Oman, Bahrain and the United Arab 
Emirates were supportive of the plan, they’re 
not committed to paying the $50 billion, he 
said. Some Arab countries have endorsed it 
because of the challenges Iran has presented 
in the region. 
“It is an effort to rethink and re-evaluate 
based on the changing dynamics of the re-
gion,” he said.
Gators for Israel and UF Hillel couldn’t be 
reached for comment as of Sunday night. The 
Alligator attempted to reach out to various board members from Gators for Israel through 
Facebook message and phone since Wednes-
day, and UF Hillel through Facebook message 
since Thursday. 
Laila Fakhoury, president of Students 
for Justice in Palestine, felt devastated and 
outraged by the plan and its conditions on 
Palestine.
“Palestinians receive no control, no sov-
ereignty, no power over themselves,” the 
22-year-old philosophy and family, youth and 
community sciences senior said.
The plan continues an illegal occupation of 
Palestinians and maintains a severe power dis-
parity, Fakhoury said. It also limits freedom of 
movement and right of return.
To Fakhoury, it is clear the plan favors one 
side: Israel’s.
“It’s going to encourage and elevate Pales-
tinians to fight for their freedom,” Fakhoury 
said, adding it will likely encourage more boy-
cott, divestment and sanctions campaigns and 
other non-violent resistance movements. 
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgUF students react to Donald Trump’s Middle East peace plan
By Tim Reynolds 
AP Sports Writer
Dena Lowell typically employs 
about 12 full-time people to work 
in her restaurant and catering 
company.
That is, until Super Bowl week. 
She’s needed a lot more help over 
the last few days.
Lowell owns one of 188 com-
panies in the South Florida area 
that were picked to help with 
various details of the Super Bowl. 
The NFL calls the program Busi-
ness Connect, through which 
companies with certified minor-ity, woman, veteran, lesbian, 
gay, bisexual or transgender own-
ership are encouraged to apply 
and see how they can be involved 
with football’s biggest week.
From catering to cleanup, flow-
ers to staffing, the NFL and local 
organizers sifted through tons 
of applications to find the right 
people and companies that could 
handle Super Bowl business.
“For my company, the impact 
is huge,” said Lowell, whose 
restaurant called The Cook and 
The Cork received two contracts 
— tasked with providing about 12,000 pieces of food in all for two 
separate tasting events, including 
one of the primary tailgates Sun-
day at Hard Rock Stadium. 
Business Connect, which the 
NFL has used for past Super 
Bowls, is designed in part to en-
sure that much of the money gen-
erated by events surrounding the 
game remains in South Florida af-
ter the teams and celebrity guests 
leave.
Competition was fierce for the 
contracts, and many applicants 
didn’t get picked. For this Super 
Bowl, the NFL required that any company that applied had to have 
an office in Miami-Dade, Broward 
or Palm Beach counties; be at 
least 51 percent owned by a wom-
an, minority, veteran or LGBTQ+ 
individual; have various certifica-
tions and have been in existence 
since at least 2016.
Contracts went to compa-
nies that could provide bartend-
ers, janitors, photographers and 
painters. Others were asked to 
provide generators, linens, hard-
ware and golf carts. On the appli-
cation, businesses were warned 
that it would be daunting: “Come ready to work hard. We have one 
shot,” it said.
“The process wasn’t that easy 
and the NFL is very discerning in 
selecting companies,” said Chris-
tine Cooper, who owns a com-
pany called Hxecute — which the 
NFL said provided 700 people to 
help with hospitality staffing con-
tracts as well as being a payroll 
provider. “They were looking to 
identify certain businesses and 
uphold certain standards of busi-
ness. It’s actually a very involved 
process.”South Florida businesses feeling benefit of Super BowlFacts about tobacco use
T obacco use kills about 480,000 people a 
year in the United States. 
High school student e-cigarette use 
has increased more than 135 percent
 in the past two years.
 
More than 3 million people under 18 
started vaping in the last two years.
About 24.1 percent of Florida 
residents use tobacco 
Congress approved of raising the national 
age to purchase tobacco products to 21 in 
December. 
*Information courtesy of the American Lung Association 
and The New York Times
Conditions for investment 
to statehood:  
Establish a constitutional 
government with freedom of the 
press, elections, religion
Create independent and credit-
worthy financial institutions
End all programs that 
promote division or hatred
Demilitarize and control 
all its territory
Comply with all terms in 
the agreement
*Information courtesy of whitehouse.gov*6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020
By Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
On their commutes to work or school, Gainesville residents 
might come across a 10 feet tall by 13 feet long vehicle driving 
itself along Southwest Second Avenue.
The autonomous shuttle, funded by a $2.5 million grant 
from the Florida Department of Transportation, is currently 
in a testing phase until June. But depending on the success of 
the trial run, the National Highway and Traffic Safety Admin -
istration will allow the shuttle to stay in Gainesville long-term, 
said Shelby Taylor, spokesperson for the city of Gainesville.
For now, passengers can ride the shuttle free of charge, 
Taylor said. The city may choose to assign a fee once the test -
ing is finished. 
The shuttle, which has six seats and standing room for 
six more passengers, will operate from 8 a.m. to noon and 3 
p.m. to 7 p.m on a daily route between the Downtown Parking 
Garage on Southwest Second Street and the Innovation Hub, 
Taylor said.
Taylor said the shuttle will be able to navigate the streets 
of Gainesville and transport riders without assistance from a 
driver.
“The vehicles are automated to identify if there are any 
obstacles whether it be pedestrians or other vehicles,” Taylor 
said. “It senses those things to slow down or stop.”
The shuttle is operated by Transdev, a French-based inter -national private public transport operator, under contract with 
the city of Gainesville’s Regional Transit System, said Taylor.
Although the shuttle is able to operate at speeds up to 25 
mph, it will only be going 15 mph during the testing period, 
with an operator riding along in the event they need to over -ride the automated controls. 
“We are putting all precautions in place to ensure that we 
make this testing phase as safe as possible,” Taylor said.
On Monday morning, representatives from the city of 
Gainesville, Florida Department of Transportation and UF will 
gather in Lot 10, located at 100 SW First Ave., for a ribbon-
cutting ceremony and inaugural ride in the driverless shuttle, 
Taylor said.
The driverless shuttle has been in the works for about three 
years.
In September 2017, the city of Gainesville expected the au -
tonomous vehicles to be on the roads by fall 2018. But two 
years later, the city was still waiting for approval from the 
Federal Highway Administration to move forward with the 
project.
Hannah Williams, a 22-year-old UF computer engineering 
major, said she’s seen the shuttle near Downtown Parking Ga -
rage on Southwest Second Avenue where she parks her car. 
Williams said she’s skeptical about how efficient the shut -
tle will be, given that its slow speed could potentially back up 
traffic. She’s also concerned it will be a safety hazard. 
“If I saw it, I wouldn’t want to get on it,” Williams said. “I’d 
rather wait for a bus that actually goes the speed limit.” 
 
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgAutonomous shuttles to be available for public use
STUDENTS GARNER SUPPORT 
FOR THEIR FAVORITE 
CANDIDATES.
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
UF student organizations are backing 
their favorite candidates as they hit the cam-
paign trail for the 2020 presidential elections.
As voters prepare for key milestone 
events in the U.S. presidential election sea-
son, UF students have organized groups to 
endorse specific presidential candidates and 
convince their fellow peers to do the same.
The groups support presidential hopefuls 
like Pete Buttigieg, Elizabeth Warren and 
Andrew Yang. UF Students for Bernie Sand-
ers, which supports the Democratic senator 
from Vermont, is the only active student or-
ganization campaigning for a specific 2020 
presidential campaign. 
Lance Fischer, vice president of UF Stu-
dents for Bernie Sanders, believes Sanders’ 
campaign is a movement dedicated to help-ing the multiracial working class.
“I think specifically for college students 
on this campus, no other campaign in history 
has put so much investment into the college-
age demographic,” said the 19-year-old UF 
chemical engineering freshman.
Using BERN, the official app for the 2020 
Bernie Sanders campaign, UF Students for 
Bernie have been able to text and call their 
social circles to discuss Sanders’ policies. 
The students have also organized phone 
banks and hosted democratic debate watch 
parties.
Although UF Students for Bernie Sand-
ers is the only active student organization 
campaigning for a particular candidate, more 
groups, such as UF Students for Pete Butti-
gieg, Gators for Warren and Gators for Yang, 
have unofficially emerged.
UF Students for Pete Buttigieg has also or-
ganized phone banks to talk to voters about 
the former South Bend, Indiana, mayor. The 
students involved with the group have strate-
gically reached out to people in early voting 
states like Iowa and New Hampshire, said 
Brianna Barden, president of UF Students for Pete Buttigieg.
“His volunteers are so energetic, and 
they’re so great at reaching out to people,” 
Barden said.
The 20-year-old senior said she hopes to 
pass out flyers and table on campus in Feb-
ruary, once the organization officially regis-
ters with UF.
Gators for Warren decided to forego club 
registration to avoid wasting time when 
working toward a time-sensitive campaign, 
said Gators for Warren director Noah Fine-
berg. 
The student organization has reached out 
to large progressive student clubs such as 
March For Our Lives to urge their members 
to vote for Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth 
Warren, the 19-year-old UF telecommunica-
tion freshman said.
Fineberg said he loves how Warren seems 
to have a plan to combat issues like corrup-
tion, income inequality, environmental is-
sues and gun policy.
“We’re not leaving any stone unturned 
to try to reach as many people as possible 
because we think a lot of this message can really be powerful now,” Fineberg said.
The student campaign organization for 
Andrew Yang, Gators for Yang, is part of the 
larger Gainesville group, Yang Gang 352. 
Gators for Yang students meet with oth-
er Yang Gang 352 members at Cypress & 
Grove Brewery each week for Monday night 
“MATH camp,” where members can learn 
how to best help with the campaign, said 
Yang Gang primary contact Baron Morris in 
an email to The Alligator. 
MATH stands for “Make America Think 
Harder,” and is one of Yang’s campaign slo-
gans.
Morris said in addition to campaigning on 
campus, Yang supporters painted the 34th 
Street Wall Saturday with a reference to the 
Freedom Dividend, which is Andrew Yang’s 
plan for a basic universal income.
The Iowa Democratic caucuses will be 
held Monday. Florida’s closed primary elec-
tions will be March 17, and the 2020 presi-
dential election day will be Nov. 3.
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgUF student groups campaign for 2020 presidential candidates
THE CASE WILL DECIDE 
WHETHER PEOPLE CAN 
BE FIRED FOR BEING 
LGBTQ+. 
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF master’s student has co-
founded a Twitter-trending LG-
BTQ+ campaign in response to a 
Supreme Court case.
Sander Jennings, a 21-year-old 
digital strategy master’s student, 
started the movement “We Are 
Here” with LGBTQ+ activist and 
Broadway actress Miss Peppermint. 
The campaign, which trended on 
Twitter for more than an hour when it launched on Twitter Jan. 26, in-
cludes videos and social media mes-
sages raising awareness for three on-
going Supreme Court cases deciding 
whether someone can be fired for 
being LGBTQ+. 
“We don’t need hate in this world 
anymore,” Jennings said. “(The) LG-
BTQ community and all allies are not 
going anywhere.”
Jennings said this issue is ex-
tremely close to him because his 
sister Jazz is a transgender woman, 
and he can’t imagine a world where 
she could be fired just because of the 
way she identifies. 
Jazz stars on a TLC show called 
“I Am Jazz,” which follows her life 
as a transgender teen. She and her 
family often travel to give speeches and win awards related to the show, 
Jennings said. 
“She’s my hero. I’m just so proud 
of her for everything she does,” Jen-
nings said. “Just trying to share her 
story to kind of show that it’s okay to 
be who you are, to be your authentic 
selves and that being transgender is 
okay.” 
Jennings said everything started 
moving when Miss Peppermint, 
one of Jazz’s friends, told him 
about the Supreme Court cases 
in late November. The two have 
rounded up a group of people to 
start raising awareness, including 
“Orange is the New Black” actress 
Laverne Cox, “Hooked” director 
Max Emerson, transgender model 
Laith Ashley and many more.“For me, the movement is really 
an effort to gain and spread aware-
ness about not only the LGBTQ 
movement and equality, but also 
having a better awareness of how 
our government works and some of 
the things that are being said in the 
place that many of us are unaware 
of,” Miss Peppermint said. 
Miss Peppermint said she had 
been in close contact with American 
Civil Liberties Union lawyer Chase 
Strangio who fights for LGBTQ+ 
rights in different states. Miss Pep-
permint attended a Supreme Court 
hearing with the ACLU lawyer to 
show support, and she became in-
spired to do something about it. 
“I think it’s so destructive and 
something that we won’t stand for,” she said. “‘We Are Here’ is 
behind the initiative to, if not stop, 
at least spread awareness about 
what’s happening.” 
Both Jennings and Miss Pepper-
mint want people to know that no 
matter what happens at the Supreme 
Court level, raising awareness about 
what is happening is extremely im-
portant.
“It’s just it’s pretty clear that this 
is just discriminatory and an overall 
effort from the administration and/
or anyone with the plan in advance 
to systematically make it more diffi-
cult for us,” Miss Peppermint said.
@Anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgUF student launches pro-LGBTQ+ campaign after court cases Christina Morales // Alligator Staff
The autonomous bus is in a testing phase until June.
After being in the works for two years, the shuttle is undergoing a testing period.FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
Lily Strickland // Alligator Staff
Dana Smith, 50, yells in excitement for the Kansas City Chiefs, who won the 2020 Super 
Bowl Sunday. “Enjoying the heck out of it, and hopefully they will pull it off, ” she said.
Lily Strickland // Alligator Staff
Erika Herrera, a 21-year-old host at Miller’s Ale House, located at 2881 Bass Pro Shops Blvd., and Brian Micheau, a 25-year-old server, welcome customers as dozens 
of people stream in to watch the 2020 Super Bowl game Sunday evening with the Kansas City Chiefs and the San Francisco 49ers.
Lily Strickland  // Alligator Staff
Rachel Bonesteel, a 29-year-old bartender at Miller’s Ale House, serves and in-
teracts with the customers as they crowd the bar to watch the 2020 Super Bowl 
game Sunday evening.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and in-
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
Tutor-needed to help perform high energy cal-
culations for the universe. Energy of Inflation, 
Energy of Big Bang, black hole energy with a 
caveat. Grad or Dr. student with open mind. 
Contact Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-5-
20-7-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 60 y.o. MALE
Spinal Cord Injury with Quadriplegia 
Safe Central Gainesville Location 
6 AM to 10:30 AM - 12 to 16 hours weekly 
$17 to $20 hour - CNA or Equivalent
Details Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net    
2-3-20-5-14
Small country church near Gainesville is 
seeking part time worship/song leader 
for Sunday morning services. Contact D. 
Cousino 352-389-4081; email:
 dcousino1987@gmail.com.        2-3-20-5-141For Rent
furnished8 Electronics 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2bd/2bth fully furnished townhouse, SW 
Gainesville, stone's throw from Haile Town 
Center, front garden, back porch face woods, 
high ceiling, utilities & wifi included, $350/
wk. No pets. Email: vchow331@yahoo.com    
2-10-20-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
NEED A COUPLE OF ROOMMATES  
willing to be semi-honest & clean & reliable. 
5BR house w/ pool, near UF. Call 386-362-
6067 for interview. Speak to Robert.    2-14-6-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and 
much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach 
thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa ac-
cepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.
alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in 
the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By David Poole
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/03/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/03/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 3, 2020
ACROSS
1 Actor Beatty
4 Spirited horse
8 Cold-weather 
omen on 
Groundhog Day
14 Prefix with Pen
15 Leisurely pace
16 Dwell
17 Getaway car 
driver
19 Flowery van 
Gogh painting
20 Superficially 
highbrow
21 Play segments
23 Cheese go-with
24 Injured in the 
bullring
26 Golfer’s dream
30 Put inside
32 German “east”
33 Dead __ Scrolls
34 Bank acct. 
addition
35 Little trickster
36 One of 50 on the 
U.S. flag
37 You can’t go 
back after 
passing it
42 Went up
43 35-Down relative
44 Land in the 
Seine
45 Lennon’s love 
Yoko
46 Chinese 
chairman
47 Everlasting
51 Kit and caboodle
54 Hundred Acre 
Wood creator
55 Help
56 Lab safety org.?
58 Clinton and 
Obama, 
astrologically
59 Escape
62 Tops of sewing 
fasteners ... and 
what the starts of 
17-, 26-, 37- and 
51-Across can 
have
64 In a fair way
65 Ivan or Nicholas
66 Observe
67 Common people, 
with “the”
68 “Family 
Guy” creator 
MacFarlane
69 “Cats” 
monogramDOWN
1 Genre for Enya
2 Screenwriter Nora
3 Low-calorie cola, 
familiarly
4 100 percent
5 Most populous 
città in Italia
6 Geronimo’s tribe
7 Japanese box 
lunch
8 __ Lanka
9 Hardly a social 
butterfly
10 From China, say
11 “The Simpsons” 
character named 
for a dance era
12 Keats’ “__ on a 
Grecian Urn”
13 Director Craven
18 Face sketcher’s 
horizontal 
reference
22 NFL replay 
review aid
25 “Please stop!”
27 __ de corps: 
camaraderie
28 Not at all far
29 Pull down, as a 
salary
31 Minn. college 
named for a 
Norwegian king35 Business name 
abbr.
36 Squeaky clean, 
as an operating 
room
37 “No __!”: “Easy!”
38 Charlie Chaplin’s 
actress 
granddaughter
39 Quarantines
40 Runs smoothly
41 K thru 6
46 The “M” in LEM
47 Type of tax48 Phillies’ div.
49 Voltaic cell 
terminals
50 Tenant
52 Detroit NFL  
team
53 Dr. visits
57 Med. school 
subject
59 Diamond, for one
60 Sister of Zsa Zsa
61 TV’s Burrell and 
Pennington
63 Princely title: Abbr.
By Brian E. Paquin
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/01/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/01/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, February 1, 2020
ACROSS
1 “I Love a Rainy 
Night” singer 
Eddie
8 Rattletrap
14 TV screen-bottom 
banner, perhaps
16 Bond girl Andress
17 Clapping game
18 Vitamin B3
19 Reliable omen
21 “Krazy” comics 
feline
22 Modify
25 Murky milieus
26 Handle 
carelessly, with 
“with”
27 Jamaica’s  
Ocho __
28 Rocky peaks
29 Coordinate-
based calc.
30 French wine term
31 They can’t be 
prevented
34 What human 
flight was once 
thought to be
37 Secondary 
matters
38 Possess
39 “Yes, __!”
40 Not wing it
41 “__ giorno!”
42 Ship’s post that 
secures cables
44 Largest Italian 
automaker
45 Big name in 
health care
46 Big name in 
home security
47 Most curious
49 Best Actress 
winner for “The 
Queen”
51 Longtime Arctic 
transportation 
methods
55 Crossed the lake, 
say
56 Threatens with 
bared teeth
57 Drives
58 Emulated Gene 
Kelly performing 
“Singin’ in the 
Rain”DOWN
1 Copy, as a CD
2 Santa __
3 Diner order
4 Statistical 
distortions
5 Bring on
6 Natural eye 
cleaner
7 Test-drive
8 Keg stoppers
9 St. Patrick’s 
home
10 Quiet-mouse 
connector
11 Exhausted
12 __ Sports 
Bureau, statistics 
giant
13 Diatribes
15 Stereotypical 
shipwreck sites
20 They’re usually 
not helpful hints
22 Foot part
23 Turkish coins
24 Magnet for 
rubbernecking
26 Skirt length
28 She was Lois on 
“Lois & Clark”
29 Clothing31 Talking trucker
32 Many a “Buffy” 
character
33 Attach, as a 
patch
35 Tighten, in a way
36 “X-Men” actress 
Paquin
41 Addictive Asian 
nuts
42 Tale of a whitetail
43 Down in the 
dumps, say44 Sponsors
45 2019 World 
Series  
runner-up
47 Intuit
48 Alike, in  
Avignon
50 Itinerary abbr.
52 Tough, elastic 
wood
53 West of the 
movies
54 Reg.
01/31/20
answers on page 9MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Watch TV, Share It, Get Paid.  Easy
Check Out This New Streaming TV Service
www.freedomtimemoney.com
2-3-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Looking for students to help advocate Axe 
Payments Zero Fee Credit Card Processing 
Program
$250 per Approved Merchant
• Go to businesses of your choice, at your 
convenience
• Training provided
• Talk to business owners about our program
• Paid weekly
• Unlimited earning $$$
Sign up today to guarantee your spot at our 
upcoming orientation
Register at - www.getaxepay.com/getstarted
February 6th / Holiday Inn ballroom / 1250 
West University Avenue       2-10-20-5-14
HIRING
Housekeepers & Front Desk
for La Quinta. $10.00/hr must be reliable. 
Please call 352-204-4960    2-10-20-5-14
Leasing Agent/Office help - Looking for
enthusiastic person who can follow
directions Hours 1:30-6 pm M-F
Some Saturdays starting in March 11-3 by 
appointment $13-15 /hr Call 954-931-0549 
Between the hours of 1-3 ONLY or
send resume to
countryvillageofgainesville@gmail.com
2-10-20-4-14
Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per 
day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)19 Connections 14 Help Wanted
1.  Be faster than
1.  Item, matter5.  Lemon ____
2.  Barb, thorn6.  Bite, savor
3.  Eating ____7.  Vendor
4.  ProfessionNTROUU
BOCJTECEUJI
TSEAT
LHTSETI
ITUNLSEELSLRE
EARECRANSWERS: 1A-Outrun  5A-Juice  6A-Taste  7A-Seller
1D-Object  2D-Thistle  3D-Utensil  4D-Career  B-Justice2-3-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The U.S. Department of 
____ was formed in 1870.
BONUS
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
ScrabbleGrams  solutionPeople who bite the hand 
that feeds them usually lick 
the boot that kicks them.
--Eric HofferCryptoQuote solution1. When was the last time the Pittsburgh Pirates 
won 100 or more games in a season?
2. The 1933 New York Yankees had nine future 
Hall of Famers on their roster. Name four of 
them.
3. Which two college football teams hold the re -
cord for most points (70) scored in a bowl game?
4. Who is the Portland Trail Blazers' all-time 
leader in career blocked shots?5. Goalie Jordan Binnington set a St. Louis Blues 
franchise rookie record with 24 victories in the 
2018-19 season. Who had held the mark?
6. When Germany was split into two countries 
that competed separately in the Olympics (1968-
88), which one captured the most medals?
7 . Name the last Australian female golfer before 
Hannah Green in 2019 (Women's PGA Champi -
onship) to win an LPGA major.
  answers below© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
1. Who was the last Oakland A’s 
player before Khris Davis in 2018 to 
lead the American League in home 
runs for a season?
2. How many times has a Tampa Bay 
Rays pitcher won 20-plus games in a 
season?
3. Who scored the first rushing 
touchdown in Super Bowl history?
4. Name the last Division II men’s 
college basketball player to be select-
ed in the NBA Draft.
5. Which player won the most Stan-
ley Cups without ever playing for the 
Montreal Canadiens?
6. In 2019, the U.S. women’s nation-
al soccer team set a record for biggest 
margin of victory in a World Cup 
game (13 goals). Which country had 
held the mark?
7. Of WBC heavyweight boxing 
champion Deontay Wilder’s 43 pro 
bouts, how many have ended with 
Wilder recording a knockout?
Answers
1. Mark McGwire hit 52 homers to 
lead the A.L. in 1996. 
2. Twice — David Price won 20 in 
2012, and Blake Snell won 21 in 2018. 
3. Green Bay’s Jim Taylor, in the 
second quarter of Super Bowl I in 
1967.
4. Robert Whaley of Walsh Univer -
sity was selected with the 51st pick in 
2005.
5. Red Kelly won eight Stanley 
Cups, four with Detroit and four with 
Toronto, between 1950 and 1967. 
6. Germany won a World Cup match 
by 11 goals in 2007.
7. Wilder has recorded 41 knockouts 
on his way to a 42-0-1 record.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
  solution below
• It was American humorist Evan Esar 
who came up the following definition: 
"Statistics: The only science that en -
ables different experts using the same 
figures to draw different conclusions."
• The only chemical element that is not a solid at a temperature of absolute 
zero is helium; it remains a liquid.
• For reasons unknown, a law in New Jersey forbids the sale of cabbage 
on Sunday.
• You won't be surprised to learn that the most dangerous device that is 
common in the modern world is the automobile. You might be surprised 
to learn, though, that the second most dangerous is the stair step.
• The Emperor Charlemagne, who conquered much of Western and Central 
Europe during the first century, had an unusual relationship with his 
daughters. He refused to allow them to get married, but he evidently 
had no objections to their forming, shall we say, less formal relation -
ships. He doted on his illegitimate grandchildren and even gave money 
and gifts to their fathers.
• • •
Thought for the Day: "One glance at a book and you hear the voice of an -
other person, perhaps someone dead for 1,000 years. To read is to voy -
age through time." 
-- Carl Sagan
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.• It was famed cultural anthropolo-
gist Margaret Mead who made the fol-
lowing sage observation: “One of the 
oldest human needs is having someone 
to wonder where you are when you 
don’t come home at night.”
• It’s been estimated that a million 
pigeons live in New York City.
• When pop star Christina Aguilera is 
on tour, she insists on having a police 
escort. She hates to be stuck in traffic. 
• Next time you’re heading to Illinois, 
you can stop off in Metropolis and visit 
the self-declared birthplace of Super -
man. In honor of their hometown super -
hero, the citizens erected a 15-foot 
bronze statue of him on Main Street.
• It was Abraham Lincoln who signed 
into law the legislation that created the 
Secret Service. That very night, he was 
assassinated. 
• Those who study such things 
say that on the 13th of every month, 
triskaidekaphobia causes a loss of $83 
million to American business due to 
absenteeism from work and other dis-
ruptions.
• In the United States, more babies 
are born on Oct. 5 than on any other 
day of the year. If you do the math, 
you’ll find that New Year’s Eve is 9 
months and 5 days before that. 
***
Thought for the Day: “Show me a 
hero, and I will write you a tragedy.” 
— F. Scott Fitzgerald
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
By Samantha WeaverKing Features Weekly Service
January 27, 20201. It was 1909, when they went 110-42.
2. Earle Combs, Bill Dickey, Lou Gehrig, 
Lefty Gomez, Tony Lazzeri, Herb Pen -
nock, Red Ruffing, Babe Ruth and Joe 
Sewell.
3. Army (2018) and West Virginia 
(2012).
4. Mychal Thompson, with 768 blocked 
shots (1978-86).
5. Jake Allen had 22 wins as a rookie in 
the 2014-15 season.
6. East Germany won 519 total medals; 
West Germany 243.
7. Karrie Webb, in 2006.Sports Quiz  answers
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators tight end coach Larry Scott 
will become the next head coach 
at Howard, according to multiple 
reports. Scott has been with the 
program for two seasons.Gators well-represented on football's biggest stage  
Former Florida football players Marcell Harris and Demarcus Robinson faced 
off in Sunday's Super Bowl. Harris, a defensive back for the 49ers, and Robin-
son, a wide receiver for the Chiefs, played together at UF from 2013-2015.WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
One half was not like the other. 
In Florida’s game against the No. 
13 Wildcats on Sunday in Lexington, 
Kentucky, the Gators started slowly. 
They were down 10 at halftime and 
trailed by as many as 14. But a com-
manding third quarter, followed 
by an even more dominant fourth, 
earned UF its first top-25 win since 
2016 by a score of 70-62. 
“After the last five games against 
such tough opponents and another 
one tonight, I learned a lot about our 
group,” coach Cam Newbauer said 
in a release.
It was clear that Kentucky missed 
its star player, guard Rhyne Howard. 
She fractured her finger in UK’s last 
contest against Auburn, and as a re-
sult was inactive against the Gators. 
The most apparent reason for 
Florida’s struggles early was fresh-
man guard Lavender Briggs. The star 
from Provo, Utah, seemed to be struggling might-
ily against the Wildcats for the second time in a 
row. In the first meeting between these teams, 
she had just two points, despite averaging over 
13 points a game. On Sunday, Briggs had zero 
points in the first half. 
But the second half was entirely different for 
the team’s leading scorer. She finished with 18 
points, all coming in the latter 20 minutes of ac-tion. That included a three-pointer in the fourth 
that gave the Gators their first lead since the first 
quarter. 
Point guard Kiara Smith was another player 
who struggled early, but thrived late. Typically 
the architect of Florida’s offense, the senior guard 
got into early foul trouble, with two in the first 
quarter and then another in the second. 
But a foul-free second half allowed her to 
influence the game late. Her eight points, but more importantly her five assists, 
helped spark the late surge that 
put UF ahead. 
Another bright spot for the 
Gators was freshman guard 
Brylee Bartram. She played a 
more significant role than usual 
due to Smith’s foul trouble and 
Newbauer’s desire for more 
shooting on the floor. She was 3 
of 7 from beyond the arc for nine 
points. 
Her contribution, along with 
Briggs finding her groove in the 
second half, kept the Gators close 
as the game wore on. The Wild-
cats led by as many as 14, but a 
24-17 third quarter in favor of the 
orange and blue shrunk the lead 
to just one point on two separate 
occasions. 
And in the fourth, everything 
came together for Florida. It 
seemed that Briggs’ resurgence 
jolted everyone as well, as the 
Gators won the fourth quarter by 
eleven to snag the biggest program win in New-
bauer’s time as head coach. 
“I thought we did a great job of handling 
their pressure with poise and strength,” New-
bauer said.  “That was a lot of fun, I’m so 
proud of our kids.”
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgUF beats UK on the road, gets first top-25 win in 4 years
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Freshman guard Lavender Briggs continued her scoring tear with a 
team-high 18 points in the upset win over Kentucky.
For us on the outside, the 
transfer portal seems like 
this ubiquitous Sorting Hat 
out of Harry Potter. You 
throw your name in, and it 
spits out where you should go. 
However, here in Gainesville, 
one might believe the transfer 
portal has strings tied to each of 
its limbs. And behind the curtain 
is Dan Mullen, who continues to 
make one of the NCAA’s biggest 
tools his puppet. 
As of late, Mullen and his staff 
have seemingly hand-picked two 
talents for their depleted offense 
that saw four senior receivers and 
one bell-cow running back gradu-
ate from the program. 
Early in January, former Miami 
Hurricane, Lorenzo Lingard, joined 
Florida’s roster to help fill the void 
at running back. 
Lingard, a five-star commit out 
of the 2018 recruiting class, was 
plagued with injuries (and an in-
competent staff that lost to FIU 
and the Louisiana Lafayette Ra-
gin’ Cajuns) in his first two years 
of eligibility. 
And while Lingard will likely 
have to sit out his first year in 
Gainesville, per subjective NCAA 
rules, no one has criticized Mul-
len’s preparedness.
The most recent addition to Mul-
len’s program is slated to be one of 
the most vital. Justin Shorter, who 
is leaving behind snow and scan-
dal at Penn State, made his way to 
Gainesville in the last week.
Shorter, another former five-
star from the 2018 class is too 
talented for the limited role coach 
James Franklin and the Nittany 
Lions had him in. In two seasons, 
Shorter collected just 15 recep-
tions for 157 yards.Dan Mullen: 
football 
coach or 
puppeteer?Lee's Company
Ainslie Lee
@ainsliestwobits 
alee@alligator.org
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12We’re now a whole 
month into the spring 
semester, so now is as 
good a time as any to 
introduce the wonder-
ful team of writers who have been 
-- and will continue -- giving you 
your coverage of Gators sports.
On the men’s basketball beat, 
covering a seesaw season for the 
preseason No. 6 Gators and endur-
ing the backlash that inevitably comes with 
live Tweeting a Mike White press conference, 
are Assistant Sports Editor Evan Lepak, Online 
Sports Editor Brendan Farrell and Joseph Sal-
vador.
Covering the women’s basketball team and 
its bounce-back from last year’s eight-win cam-
paign are staff writers Bryan Matamoros and 
Graham Marsh. Follow Bryan and Graham to 
stay up to date on Lavender Briggs’ scorching 
freshman year.
This season is the baseball team’s final 
year playing in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium. 
Florida is widely expected to rebound from last 
year’s blip on an otherwise historical resume 
for coach Kevin O’Sullivan. Dylan O’Shea will 
be joined by Bryan and Joseph covering the Gators on the baseball diamond. 
Follow their coverage when the 
season begins on Valentine’s Day 
in a few weeks.
UF softball begins the post-Kel-
ly Barnhill era Friday in Tampa, 
and Payton Titus and Graham are 
on the beat. Despite the turnover 
the team saw in the offseason, the 
Gators were pegged a top-10 team 
by three of the four major ranking 
services. Payton and Graham will keep you 
posted on all things Florida softball through 
the summer.
Noah Ram is your guy for Florida gymnas-
tics and its pursuit of an elusive national title. 
The Gators are off to an undefeated start, are 
the No. 2 team in the nation and have an im-
pressive slate of wins already.
The No. 13 UF lacrosse team was picked to 
finish first in the American Athletic Conference 
following last season’s NCAA Championships 
appearance. Christian Ortega is on the lacrosse 
beat, and the season begins Saturday at home 
for the Gators.
Ainslie Lee is your go-to for all things Flor-
ida swimming and diving for both the men’s 
and women’s teams. The regular season con-cluded this past weekend, and the Gators have 
the SEC Championships to look forward to 
later in the month.
Your resident Florida men’s tennis beat 
writer is Zachary Huber. He will be covering 
the No. 2 Gators, who are already off to a 7-1 
start.
Also giving you updates from the Alfred A. 
Ring Tennis Complex is Myles Herbert, who 
is covering the No. 21 women’s team. Follow 
Myles for coverage of the Gators’ pursuits on 
the court.
The men’s golf team begins spring play 
today in Jacksonville, and the women’s team 
gets going this weekend in California. Christian 
Berry will be covering both teams on the green.
Declan Walsh is on the track and field beat, 
providing you with coverage of the men’s and 
women’s teams for both the indoor and out-
door seasons.
And finally, former alligatorSports Editor 
Tyler Nettuno and I will be filling in with fea-
tures and some men’s basketball, baseball and 
spring football coverage.
That does it for our staff introductions. 
Make sure to follow all of our writers on Twit-
ter, follow us on Twitter @alligatorSports, and 
read up on the latest Gators news in print every 
Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgIntroducing the spring alligatorSports staffKyle's Files
 Kyle Wood
twitter: @KkylewoodMONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11
MEN’S TENNIS
By Zachary Huber 
Sports Writer
The Gators conquered FSU to 
extend their winning streak over 
the Seminoles to three games on 
Saturday night.
No. 2 Florida stretched its win-
ning streak to five on the young 
season at the United States Tennis 
Association campus when it beat 
the No. 21 Noles 4-1.  
“I’m just happy for our guys 
that they were able to come out 
and compete the way they did to-
night,” coach Bryan Shelton said in 
a release. “I’m just happy for our 
guys that they were able to come 
out and compete the way they did 
tonight. It’s always a testy match 
and a fun match against the Semi-
noles. Hats off to their team be-
cause they came out and competed 
really well tonight.”
Florida (7-1) cruised through 
doubles for the eighth straight time 
this season to take the 1-0 lead in 
front of a sold-out crowd of 1,000 
fans.
Juniors Duarte Vale and Josh 
Goodger won first on Court 3 when 
they defeated Richard Thongoana and Marcus Walters. Then, senior 
Johannes Ingildsen and freshman 
Will Grant secured the doubles 
point when they beat Loris Pourroy 
and Juan Martin Jalif 6-4 on Court 
2.
Vale and Goodger continued 
their strong start this season by 
remaining undefeated and pushing 
their overall record to 4-0.
During the fall season, Shelton 
said he made doubles a priority. 
When his team grabs a 1-0 lead, 
it sets the table for the rest of the 
match.
Florida’s success in doubles 
carried over into singles play, tak-
ing the first set on four out of six 
courts.
Sophomore No. 4 Sam Riffice 
won 6-3 in the first but ran into 
trouble when Jalif won the second 
set to force a third set tiebreaker. 
Still, his match went unfinished 
because the Gators clinched the 
match.
On Court 6, Ingildsen defeat-
ed No. 92 Rana Roop Bhullar in 
straight sets (6-2, 6-4) to put UF up 
2-0.
No. 17 Vale finished second in 
singles after he topped Walters 6-4, 6-3 on Court 3.
The Seminoles (6-2) put an end 
to the shutout by seizing their first 
point in the contest when Pourroy 
knocked off Goodger in straight 
sets on Court 5 (6-3, 7-6 (7-3)). 
Finally, junior No. 72 Andy An-
drade got swarmed by his team-
mates for the second-straight week-
end after he finished off Sebastian 
Arcila 6-1, 6-4, to capture the 4-1 
win for Florida.
“This is the second year in a row 
for me to do it so, for me, it feels 
amazing,” Andrade said. “Looking 
at all these guys come on my court 
and see all their smiles, it for sure 
puts a smile on my face. I think we 
played pretty good. We’re pretty 
confident right now at the moment 
and this big ‘W’ for sure is going to 
lead us to more confidence.”
Florida heads to Big Ten coun-
try to take on Illinois on Friday and 
Purdue on Sunday to prepare for 
the Intercollegiate Tennis Associa-
tion National Team Indoor Cham-
pionships that start on Feb. 14.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgUF dominates No. 21 FSU, wins fifth-straight match
SWIMMING
By Ainslie Lee
Sports Writer
Florida’s swimming and diving teams 
entered a hostile environment on Saturday 
morning for their regular season finale. In 
front of a Senior Day crowd in Knoxville, 
Tennessee, the Volunteers swept the Gators 
in the final dual meet of the season.
For Florida’s No. 9-ranked men’s squad 
(7-2, 2-2 SEC), a three-spot advantage to the 
No. 12-ranked Vols wasn’t enough to keep 
the Gators’ heads above the water as Flor-
ida dropped its second meet of the season 
156-144. The women’s team also struggled 
as it dropped its first loss of the season 
170.5-129.5.
Despite the loss, Florida sophomore Ki-eran Smith, who won the SEC’s Male Swim-
mer of the Week earlier this week, managed 
to have quite the meet for himself, hauling 
in three gold medals for the second consec-
utive meet.
Early in the meet, Smith picked up back-
to-back gold medals in the 1000 free with 
a personal-best time of 9:01.86 and  the 
200 free with a time of 1:35.97. Later, the 
sophomore also nabbed gold and another 
personal best in the 500 free with a time of 
4:18.13. 
Florida’s men also performed well in 
the 400 individual medley and took the top 
three spots. 
Senior Grant Sanders (3:51.61), fresh-
man Kevin Vargas (3:54.01) and sophomore 
Miguel Cancel (3:54.23) touched the wall consecutively to take all the hardware in 
the 400 IM. 
For Florida’s No. 8-ranked women’s 
team, coming into Tennessee, it knew it 
would have its hands full in squaring off 
against the No. 4-ranked Volunteers. 
Florida’s women (11-1, 4-1 SEC) started 
the meet off strong, winning the 200 medley 
relay. 
Senior Emma Ball, sophomore Vanessa 
Pearl, senior Sherridon Dressel and se-
nior Bella Garofalo combined for a time of 
1:38.54, securing their first gold medal of 
the day. 
Dressel and Pearl each picked up ad-
ditional wins on the day in the 100 back 
(52.02) and in the 200 breast (2:10.51), re-
spectively.Florida’s women’s diving team produced 
an impressive showing on Saturday as ju-
nior Ashley McCool picked up a gold medal 
in the 3-meter dive (348.08) and a silver in 
the 1-meter dive (293.18). Senior Brooke 
Madden also grabbed a piece of gold on the 
1-meter board (297.98), while sophomore 
Elizabeth Perez picked up a silver on the 
3-meter board (316.58) and a bronze on the 
1-meter board (282.60). 
Both of Florida’s squads return to action 
next week in the Auburn Last Chance In-
vitational. The three-day invitational begins 
on Friday and will wrap up on Sunday. 
@AinsliesTwoBits
alee@alligator.orgFlorida sinks at Tennessee in final regular season meet
TRACK & FIELD
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
Eight Florida athletes earned 
personal record-breaking marks 
this past weekend in Fayetteville, 
Arkansas, as the Gators contin-
ued their strong start to the in-
door season. 
The most notable performance 
of the weekend came from UF Ni-
gerian international sprinter Ray-
mond Ekevwo, who just became 
the NCAA leader for the 60-me-
ter dash this past weekend with 
a 6.53 second time. The senior 
also rose to third on the all-time rankings among Florida sprinters 
in the 60m.
Taylor Manson provided a 
similarly impressive effort in the 
400m, as her 52.59 time elevated 
her to third on the NCAA rank-
ings along with shattering her 
personal record. Unfortunately 
for the junior, her performance 
was only good enough for second 
place, as Texas’ Kennedy Simon 
bested her by .4 seconds. 
The Gators also impressed in 
the women’s and men’s 4x400, 
coming in first and second, re-
spectively. Juniors Denzel Villa-
man and Cory Poole, along with freshmen Joseph Fahnbulleh and 
Jacob Miley, posted the fifth-best 
time in Division I despite a sec-
ond-place finish. On the women’s 
side, Manson shined again, along 
with junior Nikki Stephens and 
freshmen Semira Killibrew and 
Doneisha Anderson. The relay 
team earned a second-place na-
tional ranking along with a first-
place finish.
To round out the sprinters, 
Cameron Miller continued the 
trend of nationally ranked times, 
as the freshman is now sitting 
sixth nationally in the 200 meter 
dash. Miller drew  a very difficult heat, however, as his 20.79 sec-
ond time was only good enough 
for bronze.
The Gators shattered fewer 
records in middle and long-dis-
tance, but senior Justin Pacifico 
stood out with a 1:49.76 time and 
a second-place finish in the 800 
meter. Sophomore Nick Deal also 
put in a strong performance in the 
3000m with a personal record-
breaking 8:30.47.
Florida throwers continued to 
excel after a strong performance 
last week at the Hokie Invitation-
al. Freshman Thea Jensen had a 
season-best performance, break-ing her personal record with a 
15.75 meter in the women’s shot 
put and coming up just short in a 
second-place finish. Senior Ama-
ra Wiggan also broke her person-
al record in the women’s weight 
throw with a 20.09m throw. 
The Gators will compete again 
in two weeks time as they will 
return to Clemson to take part in 
the Tiger Paw Invitational.
@dawalsh_UF
dwalsh@alligator.orgGators post record-breaking weekend at Razorback InvitationalEmily Felts // Alligator Staff
Juniors Duarte Vale (pictured) and Josh Goodger are on a four-match 
win streak and notched a 6-3 win against FSU over the weekend.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020
And considering the recent 
hazing and sexual misconduct al-
legations at Penn State, the NCAA 
might grant Shorter immediate eli-
gibility — much like the treatment 
ex-Gator Chris Steele received after 
the Jalon Jones incident last year.
But what is really interesting 
about the addition of Shorter is 
that, if history is any indication, 
he could find himself as one of the 
biggest components to Mullen’s of-
fense. And Shorter knows that. 
Look at Trevon Grimes. The 
former Ohio State wideout left the 
Buckeye State for the Sunshine 
State after amassing just three re-
ceptions for an average of 6.67 
yards during his freshman year. 
And after two years with Mullen, 
Grimes’ number of receptions has 
grown to an average of 29.5 a sea-
son for an average of 14.44 yards 
per catch. Considering Grimes opt-
ed to forgo the 2020 NFL Draft and 
stick around for his senior year, 
that number could grow in the 
2020-21 campaign. 
While Mullen might be an of-
fensive-minded guy, there hasn’t 
been a shortage of defensive ad-
ditions from the transfer portal to 
Gainesville. 
Though Jonathan Greenard and 
Adam Shuler have both played 
their last games in the orange and 
blue, transfers and recruits alike 
see the seasons that they had and 
can’t help but picture themselves 
in their shoes. 
While Shuler was an underrated 
pickup from the transfer portal, 
Greenard is a name that no one in 
Gainesville, or even the SEC, will 
be forgetting anytime soon. 
Greenard spent three years 
at Louisville before making the 
move to Gainesville. And his se-
nior-year-destination didn’t come 
as a huge surprise considering 
Florida’s defensive coordinator, 
Todd Grantham, was the one who 
recruited him to Louisville in the 
first place. 
In his lone season at UF, Green-
ard tallied 52 tackles, an SEC-best 
9.5 sacks and three forced fumbles 
in the nine games he saw action.
And though he is draft-bound, 
the Gators’ defense is primed to 
slide someone right into his spot. 
And he comes by no other means 
than the transfer portal. 
Brenton Cox, who came from 
Georgia, has been preparing with 
Florida since before last season 
even started. And while Cox has 
yet to see the field in Gainesville 
because he wasn’t granted imme-
diate eligibility, the defensive end 
is sure to see playing time in 2020. 
Undoubtedly, the transfer por-
tal acts as a double-edged sword. 
You win some, you lose some. And 
Florida is no exception. 
The loss of guys like Feleipe 
Franks, who left for Arkansas as 
a grad-transfer, hurt. But the addi-
tion of guys like Lingard, Shorter 
and Cox takes away the sting in-
stantly. 
And though some criticize Mul-
len for his inability to recruit five-
stars out of high school (though 
he has one in this incoming class), 
there's no denying Mullen is the 
transfer portal puppeteer.COLUMN,  from pg. 10MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s basketball team’s sea-
son has been difficult to describe with the 
team reaching a high of beating a top-five 
team to the lows of several double-digit loss-
es. All of this from a team that was ranked 
sixth in the country in the preseason AP poll. 
But for once, Florida met expectations on 
Saturday. 
Granted, those expectations were “Beat 
the worst team in the SEC that also hasn’t 
won a conference game since 2018,” but UF 
held up its end of the deal. 
It was ugly, and the Gators didn’t cover 
the 12.5-point spread, but Florida did man-
age to pick up its second road win of the sea-
son. Nothing more, nothing less. 
Nobody is going to point to the Gators’ 
61-55 win over a Vanderbilt team, that is 
about as strong as a wet piece of paper, as 
the beginning of a turnaround. However, it 
successfully avoided a trap game against the 
Commodores, and that’s what matters at this 
point. 
That will be important moving forward 
because Florida has a Charmin-soft schedule 
over the next four games. None of the teams 
the Gators will face are in the top half of the 
SEC standings, and only Georgia, which fac-
es Florida in Gainesville on Wednesday, is in 
KenPom’s top 100 teams (No. 96). 
Concluding that the Gators’ defense is 
back after a mostly strong outing against the 
Commodores’ pathetic offense is foolish, but 
it at least came out of hibernation the night 
before Groundhog Day. Florida had allowed 
at least 70 points in its last three games and 
five of its previous eight. But on Saturday 
night, UF limited Vanderbilt to just 55 points 
and just .887 points per possession. 
Florida’s offense and defense have alter-
nated between being good and bad on what 
has felt like a nightly basis. The Gators have 
scored at least 70 points 13 times this season 
and given up fewer than 65 points 10 times. 
But they have only done both in the same 
game five times this season. 
Already 21 games into the season, Florida 
is still lacking consistency at both ends of 
the court. 
But forward Keyontae Johnson has 
emerged as one of the few players on UF’s 
roster that can show up offensively and de-fensively on any given day. The sophomore 
is second on the team with 13.3 points per 
game, and he has scored at least 10 in five of 
his last six games. Johnson scored 20 points 
for the second time in three games on Sat-
urday. 
The sophomore has also been a threat on 
the glass, averaging 6.5 rebounds in his last 
four games after picking up seven against Vanderbilt. 
“This game was important,” Johnson said 
in a release. “Again, we tried mainly to focus 
on our defense. We did good in the first half, 
slacked off a little bit in the second, but we were 
still able to get some big stops near the end.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgUF ends losing streak in Nashville
Alligator File Photo
UF sophomore forward Keyontae Johnson scored a game-high 20 points and grabbed 
seven rebounds in Florida's 61-55 road win at Vanderbilt on Saturday. It was the fourth 
time this season he eclipsed the 20-point mark.
MEN'S GOLF
By Christian Berry
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s golf team 
is hoping to play up to its po-
tential this spring, following a 
fall season filled with ups and 
downs. 
It opens the new season to-
day at the Sea Best Invitational 
in Jacksonville, a tournament 
where the team has found suc-
cess in the past. 
Over the past five seasons, 
UF has won two team titles 
and two individual titles un-
der coach J.C. Deacon in four appearances. Recently, 
the Gators finished third last 
spring but doing so again this 
year will be tough considering 
the competition. 
The Gators are currently on 
the outside looking in, ranking 
38th.
To succeed, the team is go-
ing to need its relatively young 
roster, which includes eight 
underclassmen, to take a big 
step forward.
Golfers like junior John 
Axelsen, who was at the top 
of the starting lineup, had an 
impressive fall campaign who saw a scoring average of 70.92 
and had three top-15 finishes.
Freshman Ricky Castillo is 
another highly-touted fresh-
man who needs to live up to 
the hype of being the No. 8 
amateur in the world. He had 
a solid fall season with finish-
es within the top-25 of every 
tournament he participated in, 
but the expectations are still 
higher. 
Redshirt senior Blake Dyer’s 
return will also be critical be-
cause of the experience he can 
bring to this extremely young 
roster. The senior is coming back to the lineup for the first 
time since the 2018 NCAA Re-
gionals and is playing some of 
his best golf, having finished 
in the top five in two tourna-
ments over the winter break. 
This Monday, those three, 
along with junior Chris Nido 
and redshirt freshman Fred 
Biondi, will get their first op-
portunity to make a statement 
against some of the best teams 
in the country.
@Berry052199
cberry@alligator.orgFlorida begins spring season in Jacksonville today