We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperUF graduartion postponed because of 
COVID-19 concerns
UF is also moving online for the rest of the semester, dorms 
will be open, some refunds are being considered and more, 
Pg. 3Remainder of SEC play canceled
The conference announced it was canceling all 
regular season conference and non-conference 
competitions for the 2019-20 athletic year, 
including SEC championship events, due the 
COVID-19 developmentss, Pg. 8
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 70
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
POLLING WITH PRECAUTION
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
A polling worker wipes down the door of the Blount Center at Sante Fe College located at 401 NW Sixth St. for a voter 
Tuesday evening.Grethel Aguila
Staff Writer
While the world 
faces COVID-19-related 
uncertainties, the future 
of Gainesville is now in the 
hands of the three elected 
city commissioners.
District 2 Commissioner 
Harvey Ward, District 
3 Commissioner David 
Arreola and newly elected  
At-Large Commissioner 
Reina Saco will now be 
part of that future.
Districts 2 and 3, 
representing the north 
and southwest parts of 
the city respectively, 
were two-person races, 
with incumbents Ward 
and Arreola re-elected. 
The city had 184,103 
eligible voters. About 
49,000 ballots were cast, 
with about 27 percent 
of the electorate turning 
out to vote. In 2016, 
when there was another 
presidential primary, 
the city had 143,278 
eligible voters and about 
a 44 percent turnout 
rate, almost a 20 percent 
difference from this year. 
David Walle, a 
member of the county’s 
Economic Development 
Advisory Committee, 
challenged Ward and 
Jennifer Reid, a former 
mayoral candidate, ran against Arreola. 
Reina Saco, a lawyer 
and newcomer to public 
ofﬁ  ce, was elected to the 
At-Large seat previously 
held by term-limited 
Helen Warren. 
Three other candidates 
were vying to represent 
the city in the At-
Large seat: Former City 
Commissioner Scherwin 
Henry, retired bridal shop 
owner Paul Rhodenizer 
and Butterﬂ  y Education 
Project coordinator Gabe 
Kaimowitz.
Twenty ﬁ  ve years 
ago, Saco and her family 
came to the U.S from 
Cuba. Now, she is one 
of Gainesville’s At-Large 
Commissioners.
Saco, who prioritizes 
community safety and has 
previously worked with 
the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition on housing-for-
all initiatives, said she 
looks forward to serving 
the next few years and 
“paying back everyone 
who got me here.”
“That gives a lot of 
hope and it shows that 
we have a lot to give this 
community and country.”
Re-elected incumbent 
Ward watched the 
election from the Alachua 
County Supervisor of 
BIDEN RECEIVED 62 PERCENT OF 
THE VOTES
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Staff Writer
Former Vice President Joe Biden 
prevailed over Vermont Sen. Bernie 
Sanders to receive the Democratic 
presidential nod from Florida on Tuesday. Biden was predicted to win the majority 
of Florida’s votes because of his support 
among older black voters and moderate 
Democrats, according to a CNN analysis. 
He received almost 62 percent of the votes 
and Sanders received nearly 23 percent. 0.5 
percent of the votes went to Tulsi Gabbard, 
and the rest went to candidates no longer 
in the race.
Abigail Ladwig-Conway traveled home to Tallahassee on Tuesday to cast her ballot 
for Sanders. She said she agreed with his 
plan for Medicare For All, especially during 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
“I do think on some level that health 
care needs to be made more available for 
the majority of the country,” the 20-year-old 
UF history junior said. “And I think that he’s 
the only candidate right now who really is 
focusing on that.”However, she did predict that Biden 
would win the primary because of a higher 
turnout among older voters, who are more 
likely to vote for him.
Even in the midst of COVID-19, the two 
main Democratic candidates took to the 
Internet to continue rallying.
Biden’s ﬁ  rst digital rally was on Friday, 
but it experienced multiple technical SIX IN ALACHUA COUNTY 
ARE POSITIVE
By Stephany Matat
Digital news editor
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis announced 
Tuesday afternoon that four UF students 
tested positive for COVD-19. 
After that announcement, UF’s 
online COVID-19 update showed two of 
the students traveled domestically and 
returned to Gainesville, one returned 
from international travel and one was 
in contact with an infected student. 
The three students who traveled were 
tested and quarantined, according to the 
website. The fourth student was in close 
contact with someone who was infected. 
Details about the last student’s condition 
were not provided.The Gainesville Sun reported that 
a UF College of Dentistry student who 
tested positive for COVID-19 had treated 
patients in the school’s clinic and traveled 
to Portugal over spring break.
The Alligator asked UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando several times if UF had 
cases of COVID-19 when the 24-year-
old positive case in Alachua County was 
announced. Despite UF providing details 
on all the positive cases Tuesday, days 
ago, Orlando said UF wouldn’t make any 
announcements, the health department 
would.
In addition, there are six cases of the 
virus in the county. It’s unclear if this 
includes these students. 
The two newest cases were a 21-year-
old female Florida resident and 22-year-
old male Florida resident, as of Tuesday 
evening. Florida also has 216 cases of the 
virus as of Tuesday.The Florida Department of Health and 
the Alachua County Health Department 
have both had inconsistencies in their 
reporting. 
The second case was originally 
reported by the state as a 24-year-old 
female and was later on conﬁ  rmed by 
the county as a male. The Florida health 
department’s website also incorrectly 
stated that this case was a 20-year-old 
male. 
Later on, Paul Myers, administrator 
of the county’s health department, 
conﬁ  rmed it to be a 24-year-old male. 
 The fourth case a few days ago was a 
65-year-old New York female, but the Ala-
chua County Health Department later said 
the case was not actually in the county.
@StephanyMatat
smatat@alligator.orgTwo incumbents, one 
newcomer elected to 
city commission 
Joe Biden wins Florida Democratic presidential primaryFour UF students test positive for COVID-19
SEE CITY COMMISSION , PAGE 4
SEE PRIMARIES,  PAGE 4Voter turnout was down 
about 20 percent from 2016T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  62°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.TUESDAY’S TOP AP HEADLINES
Trump’s economic aid could ap-
proach $1 trillion, senators say
President Donald Trump is ask-
ing Congress to approve a pack-
age of emergency economic aid 
that would include direct checks 
to Americans. The plan could 
come close to costing $1 trillion, 
and Senate Majority Leader Mitch 
McConnell said that the Senate 
would not adjourn until the aid 
package is passed. “A lot of our 
members believe we need to be 
bold and big,” said Sen. John 
Thune of South Dakota.
China to expel American report-
ers after U.S. curbs its media
China announced Tuesday it 
would revoke the media creden-
tials of all American journalists 
at The New York Times, The 
Wall Street Journal and The 
Washington Post. The move came 
after President Donald Trump 
designated five Chinese media 
outlets as foreign missions and 
restricted the number of Chinese 
people who could work for them. 
American journalists with these publications will also be prohib-
ited from working in Hong Kong 
and Macao.
Hospitals fear a shortage of 
ventilators for virus patients 
COVID-19 patients with pneumo-
nia or other breathing difficulties 
could face a shortage of mechani-
cal ventilators and the workers 
who know how to operate them. 
A projection from the Society of 
Critical Care Medicine states that 
about 960,000 coronavirus pa-
tients in the U.S. could require 
ventilators during the outbreak. 
The organization estimated that 
there are only enough respiratory 
therapists, specialist nurses and 
doctors in the U.S. who know 
how to use the quipment for 
about 135,000 patients at a time.
Coronavirus complicates primary 
election process as three states 
vote
Florida, Illinois and Arizona 
held primaries Tuesday while 
Ohio postponed them amid 
the COVID-19 outbreak. The 
Democratic National Committee 
was not thrilled at Ohio’s deci-sion to call the primaries off, with 
Chairman Tom Perez saying that 
the move only caused more “cha-
os and confusion.” Numerous 
polling places in the three states 
holding primaries were relocated, 
with about 50 polling places in 
Chicago being moved alone. 
Ex-California Rep. Duncan Hunter 
gets 11 months in prison
Former California Republican 
Rep. Duncan Hunter was sen-
tenced to 11 months in prison 
Tuesday after he pled guilty to 
stealing campaign funds and us-
ing them to fund recreational 
activities such as outings with 
his friends and birthday parties. 
Hunter and his wife Margaret, 
who was his campaign manager, 
were accused in a 60-count in-
dictment of stealing more than 
$250,000 in campaign funds and 
trying to hide it on financial dis-
closure records, listing some per-
sonal expenses as contributions to 
wounded warriors.
Cinemas close nationwide, Disney 
postpones “Black Widow”
AMC said the latest guidelines by 
the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention that recommends 
people not gather in groups of 50 
or more made movie theater op-
erations “essentially impossible.” 
A majority of the nation’s 40,000-
plus movie theaters are not in 
operation due to the coronavirus 
outbreak, and Disney had cleared 
its May releases — including 
Marvel’s “Black Widow” — from 
its schedule. Most of Europe’s 
cinemas have already shut down, 
as have those in China, India and 
elsewhere.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 70
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorCopy Desk Chiefs
Katelynn Joyner, kjoyner@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, Annie Hassan, 
Manny ReaEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
CORONAVIRUS
Staff Report
Four UF students tested positive for 
COVID-19 as of Tuesday morning.
Gov. Ron DeSantis confirmed these cases, 
and after, he recommended going fully 
online for the Spring semester, UF President 
Kent Fuchs sent an email affirming the 
recommendation for UF. 
UF Spokesperson Steve Orlando confirmed 
to The Alligator Tuesday afternoon that 
Summer semester will also be online at least 
for Summer A and Summer C.
Here’s the latest with The Alligator’s 
coronavirus coverage:
UF cancels summer 
study abroad programs
UF announced Tuesday that all study 
abroad trips scheduled for this Summer 
are canceled. An email was sent to UF 
study abroad program directors from the 
International Center Monday afternoon.
The email read all Summer fees paid by 
students will be refunded. UF will also be 
working with providers to “recover as many 
expended costs as possible.” 
On March 6, Orlando confirmed that all 
summer trips to China, South Korea, Italy and 
Iran would be canceled. 
Earlier this month, 41 students and two 
faculty studying abroad in Italy were sent 
back to Florida after the COVID-19 outbreak 
began to spread throughout the country. The 
students and faculty were self-quarantined 
for 14 days upon arrival back in the United 
States.
State cancels Spring graduation
UF’s graduation ceremonies will no longer 
happen at the end of April and beginning of 
May.
The Florida State University System 
announced Tuesday that on-campus 
commencement ceremonies will not be held 
this Spring and asked universities to offer 
an alternate schedule or delivery method. 
This announcement came despite UF stating 
earlier in the day that no decision was made 
on commencement yet.
UF has not yet released its plan for 
commencement yet but did send an email 
about students receiving their ordered regalia 
by mail or getting a refund. 
Accent postpones Spring speakers
Accent Speakers Bureau announced 
that all future shows have been postponed 
indefinitely to prevent the spread of 
COVID-19. This includes speakers like former 
presidential primary candidate Andrew Yang 
and YouTuber and comedian Cody Ko. 
“We hope to get back to providing 
programming to enrich, educate, and engage 
the student experience as soon as we are all 
safe to do so,” the post read. 
Actor and comedian Rob Riggle, Barstool 
Sports founder Dave Portnoy and YouTuber 
Noel Miller were also scheduled to speak 
in the Spring Speakers Series, and their 
appearances have been postponed to a later 
date, the post read.
Henry Fair, Accent chairman, could not be 
reached for comment. 
The decision to postpone the events 
complies with the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention guidelines to cancel or 
postpone events with 10 or more people.
UF keeps residence halls open
Students who live on campus shouldn’t 
worry about their living arrangements for 
now.
Orlando said students are not required to move out of residence halls and that no 
residence halls are closing as of Tuesday 
afternoon.
It is unknown if students will get a refund 
for their meal plans.
Fuchs is encouraging students to go home, 
per his email to students and faculty Tuesday 
morning.
Petition starts to make classes 
pass-or-fail circulates
A petition to give students the option to 
make their classes pass-or-fail this semester 
has reached more than 13,000 signatures of 
its 15,000 signature goal as of Tuesday night.
The petition was first shared to Change.org 
Tuesday earlier in the day. It lists change of 
time zones, stress and student health as some 
of the reasons why UF administration should 
give students the option to choose how their 
classes will be graded.
Orlando said there was no plan to make 
courses pass-or-fail for the semester. 
Full tuition refund if UF cancels 
classes
Students should receive a full tuition and 
registration fee refund if UF cancels classes, 
according to UF regulation 3.0371. 
Orlando said that refunds are currently 
being discussed for “a variety of things,” 
but no decisions have been announced yet. 
Orlando said classes would not be canceled.
Because students are considered to have 
received 100 percent of their federal aid if 
they complete more than 60 percent of the 
semester, they will not be required to repay 
any federal funding if classes are canceled 
after 60 percent of the semester is complete, 
according to the UF Registrar.
It is unclear what the university considers 
to be the 60 percent mark, as it may or may 
not account for weekends, holidays, breaks 
and reading days. 
If classes are canceled before 60 percent 
is complete, students may be required to 
repay a portion of their federal financial aid, 
according to the registrar. 
Alachua County residents help 
the elderly and sick
Melissa Kendall may not be rich, but she 
has enough to lend a helping hand.
The 41-year-old is one of several Alachua 
County residents who have offered to provide 
supplies or services to older adults and those 
with chronic medical conditions. 
Those with serious chronic medical 
conditions are more likely to become gravely 
ill if they contract COVID-19, according to the 
CDC.
“Communities like Gainesville rely very 
heavily on the kind of community conscience 
and its willingness to help out others and less 
fortunate people,” Kendall said.
Although she isn’t too worried about the 
health of her 12-year-old son, she does have 
elderly parents, including her mother who 
works in the healthcare industry.
A local law firm is offering to protect small 
businesses who may lose revenue during the 
coronavirus outbreak.
Childers Law is seeking to make it easier 
for any business that needs short-term 
protection from their creditors to quickly file 
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. This filing asks for 
bankruptcy protection on a business’ behalf, 
so all business creditors could not collect 
money or sue until cleared by the court, said 
Jeff Childers, the firm’s lead partner.
Childers said the firm could easily provide 
an “ordinary small business” with less than 
500 employees with up to a year of protection. 
No businesses have filed for reorganization 
with them yet, but Childers said those interested should call 352-335-0400.
“The sooner they do it, the better,” he 
said. “The longer they wait, the less options 
that we have and the more expensive it is.”
Newk’s Eatery closed
Gainesville’s Newk’s Eatery is temporarily 
closed after a worker showed symptoms 
related to COVID-19, a spokesperson said. 
But while the initial release said there was a 
“reported case” of COVID-19, a spokesperson 
confirmed in an email that the worker has not 
been tested for COVID-19. 
The spokesperson wrote that the 
restaurant, located at 4041 Plaza Blvd., will 
likely remain closed for the next 13 days. In 
addition to its standard cleaning procedures, 
Newk’s has also increased its required glove 
changing, deep cleaning and sanitization of 
high-touch areas. 
All employees who were working with the 
individual will self-quarantine for 14 days, 
according to the email. 
City and county takes 
measures against virus
City and county officials are taking 
measures to curb the spread of COVID-19.
County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson 
declared a local state of emergency in Alachua 
County on Monday afternoon, according to a 
press release. 
This announcement came just as the 
Gainesville City Commission began its 
emergency meeting at 3:30 p.m. in City Hall 
Auditorium to discuss public safety measures.
The city announced it will close several 
parks, playgrounds, gymnasiums, pools 
and recreation facilities indefinitely, a city 
press release read. All previously scheduled 
programs, events and recreational activities 
are suspended. 
Community gardens and Tot Lots, small 
parks for children, will remain open, in 
addition to 19 open-air parks, fields and trails, 
the release read.
Gainesville also limited the occupancy of 
restaurants, places of worship, bars and other 
businesses to 50 people. The restrictions do 
not apply to hospitals, pharmacies or grocery 
stores. 
Mayor Lauren Poe announced Monday 
business hours will be from 6 a.m. until 9 p.m. 
starting noon Tuesday. All businesses that 
fail to operate under the regulations will be 
charged with a second-degree misdemeanor, 
said Dan Hoffmann, the assistant city 
manager. 
In DeSantis’ press conference, the governor 
announced that starting at 5 p.m. Tuesday, all 
bars and nightclubs will be closed for the next 
30 days. He added that restaurants should only 
hold 50 percent of their capacity and separate 
customers with six feet of distance.
The city also announced that RTS buses 
will be running at only 50 percent capacity. 
The county’s health department opened 
a call center to answer the community’s 
questions regarding COVID-19, according to 
a press release.
The phone number is 352-334-8810. 
Sheriff’s office closes courts, 
limits contact
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
announced the temporary suspension of 
several operations to support social distancing 
in a press release Monday. 
While patrols won’t be interrupted, 
guidelines for citizen contact have been 
changed, according to the release. 
Fingerprinting will be suspended, 
along with interviews, crime prevention 
presentations and polygraphs conducted by 
humans, the release read.
In the courts, only limited activity will 
occur until March 27. Until then, jury 
proceedings are suspended, according to 
another county press release. 
All criminal court events are also 
suspended, except for first appearances, bond 
reduction hearings, and in custody Change 
of Plea where release from incarceration is 
expected.
All hearings in the family, juvenile 
delinquency, juvenile dependency, county 
civil, circuit civil, probate, guardianship, 
mental health and civil traffic divisions will be 
conducted electronically. Exceptions include 
juvenile detention hearings and domestic 
violence injunction hearings.
Florida public schools close until 
at least April 15
Gov. Ron DeSantis announced at a press 
release Tuesday evening that all Florida 
public schools would remain closed until at 
least April 15. 
Additionally, all testing for voluntary 
prekindergarten through 12th grade will be 
canceled for the 2019-2020 school year. 
Public schools will not be assigned grades 
for the 2019-2020 school year, and parents 
will be given the option to have their child 
repeat their current grade for the 2020-2021 
school year. 
Stephany Matat, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, AJ Bafer, Samantha Chery, 
Alex De Luca, Grethel Aguila, Samia Lagmis 
and Christian Ortega contributed to this 
report.Gainesville and UF both respond to coronavirus concerns
Zachariah Chou // Alligator Contributor
Reporters record Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe and city commissioners at a press 
conference outside City Hall on Monday. The city declared a state of emergency in 
light of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Four students tested positive for the virus4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, 
espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer, and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or 
outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street.
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri 
& for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.
   welcometocivilization.comCivilizationworld
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm.
Serving Vietnamese cuisine, 
Pho noodle soup and more. 
11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. UNIVERSITY AVE.  Bagels &
Noodles breakfast
& coffee
Electric 
Ramenramen
Japanese Street Ramen.
Weekly Specials.
Homemade Egg Rolls, Gyoza, & Mochi.
Vegan and Gluten Free Ramen too! 
Happy Hour daily. 3-5 pm.
401 NE 23RD AVE
breakfast
advertising@alligator.org   |   (352)376-4482advertising@alligator.org   |   (352)376-4482To see your restaurant featured here for just
$10 a week, contact alligator advertising:Elections ofﬁ  ce with his family 
and campaign manager. 
During his previous term, he 
worked on expanding the Wild 
Spaces, Public Places program, 
which he hopes to continue after 
his reelection.
He said he looks forward to 
“working for the working families 
of Gainesville,” and thanked 
the voters and his family for 
supporting his campaign.
Arreola, the District 3 
commissioner since 2017 and 
youngest person to be elected 
to the commission, said he was 
“humbled and grateful” for the 
opportunity to serve his district 
again, especially amid the public 
health crisis of COVID-19 in 
Gainesville.
“I know right now, people 
are frightened, and I feel that 
responsibility to help our 
community,” Arreola said. 
He also watched the results 
alongside his campaign team at 
the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections ofﬁ  ce, and said 
he viewed his reelection as 
a “mandate from the voters” 
to continue his work on the 
commission. 
He said his victory is “not about 
celebration, but appreciation.”
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgdifﬁ  culties with a late start and audio failures. 
On the other hand, Sanders held a successful 
live stream on Twitch during the primaries, in 
which he addressed concerns from COVID-19.
After his win, Biden also made a public 
statement about the coronavirus.
“This pandemic has impacted every aspect 
of our lives, and every aspect of this campaign,” 
he stated. “It’s going to require leadership and 
cooperation from every level of government.”
Many Floridians were concerned that the 
COVID-19 pandemic would cause lower voter 
turnout on election day. However, Florida 
Secretary of State Laurel Lee said voting would 
occur as normal. Back in 2016, the voter 
turnout for Alachua County was 44 percent. 
For the 2020 primary, it was about 27 percent.
As a result, several social organizations 
and individuals, including UF student Acacia 
Williams, jointly sued Florida, stating that 
voters were disenfranchised because the state 
didn’t extend the deadline for vote-by-mail 
during the public health crisis.
Looking ahead, although Biden won the 
primary, Florida has historically been a swing 
state, which means Florida’s electoral votes 
have been won by Democratic or Republican 
presidential nominees throughout the years.
To win the presidency, Biden will need to 
appease Florida’s registered voters. 
About 35 percent of the state’s voters are 
registered Republicans and 37 percent are 
registered Democrats, according to the Florida 
Division of Elections. 
While 62 percent of Florida voters are 
white, Hispanics are the largest minority voting 
group with about 17 percent. Black Floridians 
make up 13 percent of voters, Asians make up 2 percent and 6 percent are multiracial, of 
another race or didn’t have their race listed.
Overall in Florida, many of Biden’s most 
supportive voters were over the age of 65, 
moderate Democrats and black voters, 
according to a primary poll conducted by CNN.
Daniel Gallup, the co-founder of UF 
Students for Biden, originally supported Pete 
Buttigieg for president until the former South 
Bend, Indiana, mayor’s exit from the race.
Now the 19-year-old UF political science freshman has rallied behind the candidate who 
he believes has fostered the same message of 
togetherness that Buttigieg did.
“We realize there’s a necessity that we 
do all we can to make sure that we unify 
as a Democratic party behind whoever the 
candidate is,” he said. “And we do recognize 
that there are other people our age who feel 
the same way.”
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgCITY COMMISSION , from pg. 1
PRIMARIES,  from pg. 1County turnout was 27 percent
Associated Press
In this June 27, 2019, photo, Democratic presidential candidates, former Vice President 
Joe Biden and Sen. Bernie Sanders, speak during a Democratic primary debate hosted by 
NBC News at the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts in Miami.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Heartwood Soundstage to livestream local 
artist Friday at 6 p.m.
The virtual event is “pay what you want” and 
features six artists.THERE’S MORE TO GAINESVILLE 
THAN YOUR AVERAGE 
INDIE-POP BAND
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
From brass funk to identical twin quar-
tets, UF is far from lacking in student tal-
ent.
Known for its diverse music community, 
Gainesville is home to plenty of groups and 
individuals making names for themselves 
as artists — especially college students. 
Some are inspired to pursue a new creative 
outlet with their friends, while others are 
looking to build a foundation for profes-
sional careers.
One example is Sooza Brass Band, com-
posed entirely of current and former UF 
students that are classically trained in their 
instruments. A six-piece brass band made 
up of ﬁ  ve horns and one drum kit, the ver-
sion of the group seen today has evolved 
from multiple iterations of the same con-
cept, receiving its current name almost 
three years ago. The band consists of sousaphone player 
and veteran member Bianca Maesa, trum-
pet players Adrienne Widener and Ben El-
gan, saxophone player Ryan Gamberino, 
trombone player Brian Burwell and drum-
mer Austin DiVito.
Sooza recently released their debut al-
bum “Bananaland” in December. The band 
says that the music on the album, a mostly 
instrumental genre they innovatively refer 
to as“ADM” (acoustic dance music), is spe-
cial because it was made over a span of 
three years by multiple members.
“We pulled it together all into one co-
hesive idea, but it’s from a bunch of differ-
ent places, and so for that reason, I think 
there’s at least one song on there that ev-
erybody can enjoy,” said Gamberino, a 
20-year-old UF chemistry and music stu-
dent. 
While the band’s upcoming perfor-
mances have been postponed due to the 
COVID-19 outbreak, they hope to put out 
more music in the next few months and 
have some collaborations with other artists 
such as rapper Chizzy Beats.
On the other end of the music spectrum, 
one quartet challenges the notion of being one of a kind.
Singing Double, an all-female barber-
shop quartet, consists of two sets of iden-
tical twins: UF students Kelly and Krystal 
Majid, who sing tenor and baritone, and 
Santa Fe College students Hannah and 
Emma Paschal, who sing lead and bass 
parts. 
The group started in Tampa as four 
friends in their high school chorus who 
went on to embrace their love for barber-
shop harmony as a quartet. The quartet 
has participated and placed in multiple 
barbershop competitions. Singing Double 
were the ﬁ  rst women to place ﬁ  rst in the 
Next Generation Barbershop Junior Quar-
tet Contest and placed ﬁ  fth in the Sweet 
Adelines International Rising Star Quartet 
competition in 2019. The group also per-
formed at the swearing-in event for Tampa 
mayor Jane Castor in May 2019.
While the makeup of the group makes 
Singing Double unusual, the quartet be-
lieves their distinctiveness comes from 
more than just sisterhood.
“There’s a big novelty factor that we 
have as twins, but I think the hard work 
we put in and the natural chemistry we have as best friends come together to cre-
ate an incredible quartet sound that I feel 
so lucky to be a part of,” Kelly Majid, a 
19-year-old UF art freshman, said.
Singing Double is currently learning 
new music and preparing to perform with 
barbershop choruses in the state.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.org
We’ll be back
Sports editor Kyle Wood speaks on the coronavirus’ affect on 
sports, the Alligator staff, Pg. 8Tired of singing Happy Birthday? 
Here are some other songs you 
can wash up to.
SPOTIFY
THE SEQUEL WAS SET TO OPEN 
IN THEATERS FRIDAY
Cassandra Perez
Avenue Editor
“A Quiet Place: Part II” still plans to take audiences beyond 
the beaten sand path — just not right now. 
Director John Krasinski took to Twitter Thursday to an-
nounce that the sequel, originally set to open in theaters Fri-
day, will be postponed indeﬁ  nitely due to the COVID-19 out-
break in the U.S. “One of the things I’m most proud of is that people have 
said our movie is one you have to see all together” he wrote. 
“Well due to the ever-changing circumstances of what’s going 
on in the world around us, now is clearly not the right time to 
do that,” he wrote. 
The ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm followed the Abbott family as they live in 
silence to avoid the attention of dangerous creatures who hunt 
by sound. Following the death of the father Lee, played by 
Krasinski, the sequel sees the remaining members of the fam-
ily venture beyond their demolished farm and into the outside 
world.
Despite the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm’s critical and ﬁ  nancial success, Kra-
sinski — notable for playing Jim Halpert in the hit NBC sitcom 
“The Ofﬁ  ce” — was originally opposed to the idea of making a 
sequel. In a Skype call with The Alligator and 11 other college 
publications nationwide, he said he wasn’t sure that he’d be 
able to continue the story in a way that felt “organic.”
“I really wanted to make a movie that was respectful of all 
the respect and kindness that I got on the ﬁ  rst movie and then 
try to deliver a movie that (audiences) those people deserve,” 
Krasinski said.
One way Krasinski was able to do this was by having Lee 
and Evelyn’s congenitally deaf daughter, Regan, take the 
helm. The role is reprised by actress Millicent Simmons. 
“I had this small idea which was to have Millie be the lead 
of our movie, and the idea there started branching into all the 
things I loved about the ﬁ  rst movie,” he said. “And so I real-
ized that I can make this a continuation, and actually a further 
expansion, of the metaphor that I was going for in the ﬁ  rst 
one, which was parenthood.”
Simmons is joined again by Emily Blunt, Krasinski’s wife, 
who plays mother Evelyn as well as Noah Jupe, who plays 
the family’s youngest living son. Cillian Murphy, known for his starring role in Netﬂ  ix show “Peaky Blinders,” rounds out 
the cast in the role of Emmett, another survivalist the family 
encounters on their journey. 
With the scope of the ﬁ  lm widening considerably, Krasins-
ki said it was important to maintain the same level of intimacy 
as the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm.
“I could see that the audience connected to the family in 
a really personal and very connected way,” Krasinski said. 
”It’s the sort of a universal thing, right? I mean, a family who 
would do anything for each other is what we all aspire to be.” 
Sarah Ruderman, a 19-year-old UF English sophomore, 
said she doesn’t think that the ﬁ  lm’s postponement will deter 
her from seeing it. 
“I think I’ll still be excited when it comes out,” Ruderman 
said. “It sucks that it’s being postponed, but so is everything 
so I’m really not surprised. That’s not really putting a damper 
on my mood. Once it’s ready to come out again and I see pre-
views, I’ll get re-excited.”
For Krasinski, “A Quiet Place: Part II” is about the prom-
ise parents make to their kids that they will keep them safe, 
which is inevitably broken as they grow up. Krasinski said he 
“cried every day writing the script.”
“So that if the ﬁ  rst movie was a love letter to my kids about 
what I see sort of parenting being encapsulated as, I would 
say the second movie is a letter that I wrote to them about 
all my hopes and dreams and what they could be,” he said. 
“I hope they’re as brave and courageous in these dark, dark 
times, that they would be the brave ones to light a candle in 
the middle of all that darkness.”
@cassandraperez
cperez@alligator.orgThese student musicians challenge the norm
A Quiet Place Part II: A Conversation with John Krasinski
MUSIC
MOVIES
Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures
Director John Krasinski on the set of “A Quiet 
Place: Part II” .
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
HAVING A PARTY?
● ● I have Marde Gras / Party Beads ● ●
$25 / case -   ~ 300 per case
Various Sizes & Colors     Call 352-278-4663           
3-18-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-22-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors Hiring
Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-18-20-10-141For Rent
furnished8 Electronics 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
LAW SCHOOL/ GOLF COURSE ADJACENT
5BR/3BA
Available August 1st. Rent $2100/mo
Call 904-862-1009    3-30-20-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.
Please recycle this newspaper.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Paul Coulter
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/18/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/18/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, March 18, 2020
ACROSS
1 __ d’art
6 It’s sold in bars
10 Axlike tool
14 Move furtively
15 “In memoriam” bio
16 Cow conversation
17 Rite of Christian 
ordination
19 Hip ’60s Brits
20 Rodeo ropes
21 Honeybunch
23 Montréal mate
25 Fights (for)
27 “Cold Mountain” 
hero played by 
Jude Law
28 Bolster
31 Enhance, as an 
expense report
33 Whiz
34 Sticking points
35 Carries out
37 ER personnel
38 Fabric ponytail 
holder
41 Chinese menu 
surname
43 Foldable beds
44 Pet store 
enclosures
48 Dismissive 
syllable
49 Hasty escape
50 Computer key
51 Bounded
53 Quite
56 Leaves in the 
afternoon?
57 Irritate by rubbing
59 Supermarket 
walkways
62 Mall directories
63 1850s Eurasian 
conflict
67 “Ick!”
68 Spanish cat
69 Salty expanse
70 Director Kazan
71 With the circled 
word in the grid’s 
center, what each 
circled word is?
72 Celestial red giant
DOWN
1 __Kosh B’gosh
2 Rain-__ bubble 
gum
3 Word whose 
meaning wouldn’t 
change if it began 
with “z”4 One-named 
singer
5 Boxing decisions
6 “Me too”
7 Corpulent
8 Ultrathin 
MacBook
9 War affliction, for 
short
10 Jordan’s capital
11 Entry-level job?
12 Astrology 
diagrams
13 Ancient ascetic
18 Invite letters
22 __ al-Fitr: end-of-
Ramadan feast
23 Fitting
24 Hosp. scan
26 MS format 
details
29 Mexican money
30 L.A. school
32 Tray filler
35 Milano cathedral
36 Prov. bordering 
four Great  
Lakes
37 Authentic
39 Early TV maker
40 Freezer cubes
41 Game for little 
hitters42 Wrinkly dog
45 Jumps in the lake
46 Summer in la 
ville
47 Vast quantity
48 Served like 
cherries jubilee
49 British co. letters
50 A teaspoon, say
52 Ottoman title
54 French-speaking 
Caribbean 
country55 Colorful memory 
game
58 Heart tests, 
briefly
60 Golden Triangle 
country
61 SASEs, e.g.
64 Missy Elliott 
music genre
65 Battery  
for small 
electronics
66 GI’s furlough
By Winston Emmons
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/17/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/17/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, March 17, 2020
ACROSS
1 *Ready to set 
sail, say
8 Diplomatic rep.
11 Machines with 
Windows, briefly
14 More tired
15 Foe of Chiang
16 Swing, jazz or 
rock ’n’ roll
17 *1950s sitcom 
co-star
19 Early internet 
company
20 Investor’s 
purchase: Abbr.
21 Amazement
22 German 
cameras
24 Bashful
26 *Hester Prynne’s 
mark of shame
28 No-no
31 Continental coins
32 “Inside the NBA” 
analyst Shaq
33 Returning GI’s 
diagnosis
34 Capitol Hill 
helper
38 Musically 
monotonous
40 Collection of 
sacred songs
42 Geeky type
43 19-Across et al.
45 Lazy __: 
revolving tray
46 December mall 
figure
48 Foolish
49 *“Which side of 
the debate will 
you argue?”
52 June honoree
53 Really bothers
54 Fair-hiring inits.
56 Wood for bats
59 Home security 
co.
60 *Culpable one
64 Fairway position
65 Bruins legend
66 Answered
67 Title for Elton
68 Once called
69 Chess match 
climax, and what 
the last word of 
each answer to a 
starred clue can 
haveDOWN
1 Hooting birds
2 Not masc. or fem.
3 Begin to parallel 
park, with “in”
4 “... __ quit!”
5 Feel crummy
6 Race with batons
7 Sketched
8 Org. with a 
Health Care 
Advocacy web 
page
9 Ducks whose 
males have 
green heads
10 Slow-tempo 
Spanish dance
11 Quiet partner
12 Zagreb native
13 Taco topper
18 Harass
23 “Casablanca” 
heroine
24 Stinkers
25 Prefix with gram
27 Zodiac borders
28 Bugs Bunny or 
Bullwinkle
29 Lestat creator 
Rice
30 Bar pint contents
33 Sauce with basil35 “__ miracle!”
36 College faculty 
head
37 Shore bird
39 __ of iodine: 
antiseptic
41 China’s continent
44 Group of jurors
47 Ferdinand II’s 
realm
49 Rings, as a bell
50 Bike spokes, 
geometrically51 Furry aquatic 
mammal
52 Elder  
statesman
55 To be, in Tours
56 Puccini piece
57 Pipe part
58 Stevenson’s 
villainous Mr.
61 Wrath
62 Scoreboard abbr. 
for a rainout
63 High school subj.
03/16/20WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring Summer Camp, After-School, 
Gymnastics, Dance, Ninja Zone and more. 
Join our team. Apply now:
suncountrysports.com/jobs      3-20-20-9-14
Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
5-12-20-14
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Environment
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training provided
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501         3-20-
20-5-14
Calling Artists, Engineering, Construction, 
Education & Community Majors! Maker 
Summer Day Camp Now Hiring! Do you like 
making crazy things, Getting dirty, Playing 
with kids, with Lots of Laughs along the way? 
Come work with us this summer! F/T $12/hr 
More info at www.masterbuildercamp.com      
5-14-20-20-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low 
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person 
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-30-20-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Is the COVID-19 quarantine giving you 
cabin fever? Read the Alligator instead!Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
LEARN HOW
one guy went from $0 to $11,506/day in 
Affiliate marketing? Watch this free webinar 
https://www.clkmg.com/highnooner/1gcafs     
3-20-20-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an 
ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange -
ments or show off your bus and shuttle 
service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.19 Connections 14 Help Wanted
1. COMICS: In which comic-book series was the char -
acter of Wendy the Good Little Witch introduced?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Which is the flattest U.S. state?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president installed the 
first telephone in the White House?
4. LITERATURE: Which attorney was introduced in 
the novel "The Case of the Velvet Claws"?
5. HISTORY: Who opened the first birth control clinic 
in the United States in 1916?6. SCIENCE: Which element is graphite made en -
tirely of?
7. MOVIES: Which movie featured the famous line, 
"I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse"?
8. MUSIC: Which two country stars released a 1978 
song called "You're the Reason Our Kids Are Ugly"?
9. TELEVISION: What was the name of the inn on the 
"Newhart" comedy series?
10. MEASUREMENTS: Ten inches of snow generally 
equal how many inches of rain?
answers below
answers below
answers below
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
Even Exchange  answers Sudoku solution1. "Casper the Friendly Ghost"
2. Florida
3. Rutherford B. Hayes
4. Perry Mason
5. Margaret Sanger
6. Carbon
7. "The Godfather," Vito Corleone
8. Loretta Lynn and Conway Twitty
9. The Stratford Inn
10. 1 inchTrivia Test  answers1.     Ramble, Rumble
2.     Shout, Spout
3.     Corner, Cornet
4.     Metal, Medal
5.     Arbor, Ardor6.     Sailor, Tailor
7.     Porter, Potter
8.     Media, Medic
9.     Chose, Close
10.   Bushed, Bushel
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSUF senior Kendyl Lindaman 
was named SEC Co-Player of 
the Week for the second time in 
her career. Junior Natalie Lugo 
was also named SEC Pitcher of 
the Week.Brady to sign with the Buccaneers
Future Hall of Fame quarterback T om Brady announced he was 
leaving New England Tuesday morning. By the end of the day, 
ESPN’s Adam Schefter reported the six-time Super Bowl winner 
is heading to T ampa Bay after 20 years with the Patriots.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
1728 West University AvenueAfter careful thought and consideration, the difficult decision to close The Social 
at MidTown for an undetermined amount of time has been made. We know many 
of you planned on spending your St. Patrick’s Day with us. However the safety of 
our guests and employees must always come first. 
This decision was made based on the recommendations of city, state and federal 
government. We’ll continue to monitor the situation and will update you ASAP here. 
We look forward to seeing you all again, until then thanks for your support and 
stay safe everyone.
CLOSEDuntil APRIL 15
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
At the guidance of the Governor of the State 
of Florida, to prevent the spread of the coro -
navirus, the Grog House Bar & Grill will be
STAY SAFE, AND WE HOPE TO 
SEE YOU AGAIN SOON!
At the guidance of the Governor of the State 
CORONAVIRUS
THERE WILL BE NO SEC 
SPORTS PLAYED UNTIL 
THE FALL, 
AT THE VERY LEAST.
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The SEC  announced it was 
canceling all regular season 
conference and non-conference 
competitions for the remainder of 
the 2019-20 athletic year, including 
SEC championship events, due 
to “developments related to the 
coronavirus.”
“This is a difﬁ  cult day for all of 
us, and I am especially disappointed 
for our student-athletes,” SEC 
commissioner Greg Sankey said 
in a statement. “The health and 
well-being of our entire conference 
community is an ongoing priority for 
the SEC as we continue to monitor 
developments and information 
about the COVID-19 virus.”
The ACC was the ﬁ  rst Power 5 
conference to announce outright 
cancellation of events for the 
remainder of the academic year, 
doing so three hours before the SEC.
Cancellation of remaining 
athletic events extends to spring games. Florida athletic director Scott 
Stricklin said at a press conference 
on Friday, “Obviously, we’re not 
going to go through normal spring 
ball as we had scheduled and we’re 
probably not going to have a spring 
game on April 18.”
That decision has now been made 
for him and the Gators. Team and 
individual practices, and meetings 
are still suspended through April 15.
Tuesday morning, UF President 
Kent Fuchs sent an email to all 
students and faculty saying, 
“Students who have not gone home 
yet must do so if possible.”
Stricklin encouraged student-
athletes to return home in his 
statement on Friday, which was 
consistent with what administration 
was advising students to do at the 
time.
The impact of completely 
canceled play at Florida alone 
is immense. When play was 
originally canceled through March 
30, there were 42 events impacted. 
Cancellations through June at just 
one of the 14 member institutions 
in the SEC will impact hundreds of 
planned events across several sports.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgSEC play shut down entirely
It’s not supposed to happen this way.
In the sports department at The Al-
ligator, print nights mean food, sports 
debate and, of course, editing. It’s very 
much a social experience, and you get 
to know your staff well after a few runs to 
La Tienda, and Chipotle, and Dick Mon-
dell’s, well, you get the idea -- we eat a lot.
And we talk about sports a lot. Is Philip 
Rivers a Hall of Famer? Can Florida go to an SEC Cham-
pionship game with Kyle Trask at quarterback? What 
do we make of Jameis Winston? Where is the #Fire-
MikeWhite hive tonight? These questions and more can 
be answered at the wooden table that I’ve congregated 
around for three semesters on Sunday, Tuesday and 
Thursday nights.
Despite moving over to the sports editor’s desk this 
semester, I am still very much an active participant in 
those arguments and food runs.
I say it’s not supposed to happen this way because 
we haven’t edited as a group in ﬁ  ve days (it’s been a 
week for me, because I’ve been on self quarantine after 
someone at a journalism conference I attended tested 
positive for coronavirus last week. Someone else from 
the conference tested positive on Monday). Our raucous 
sports debate has been replaced with strained commu-
nication over Google Hangouts as we adjust to social 
distancing in the wake that the coronavirus has left.
I write this to you as a sports editor with no sports 
left to edit.
Virtually everything has been suspended, canceled 
or postponed. (I’m sure Texans fans wish that applied 
to the start of the league year after Monday’s transac-
tions). Just last week, we were gearing up to send two 
of our writers to Nashville, Tennessee, to cover the SEC 
Tournament. Now, March Madness has been canceled, 
as have all NCAA spring and summer championships and regular-season games, and profession-
al sports leagues are on standby.
Sports bring people together in times of 
crisis, but the problem with coronavirus is 
that people physically coming together is 
the issue.
We’re in a kind of limbo, but every-
thing is moving fast. There’s confusion 
which leads to indecision which leads to 
panic.
The Alligator is doing its part to sort 
out that confusion in our coronavirus cov-
erage. The sports staff has transitioned to 
assist in covering the spread of the coronavirus and 
the response at UF and in Gainesville, Alachua County 
and Florida as a whole. We’re following the lead of our 
incredibly talented news staff to keep you updated on 
what you need to know.
That doesn’t mean our sports coverage is done en-
tirely. There are still features to be published, and if 
and when news comes out of the sports world, we’ll be 
there. But the sports coverage that we know is on hiatus 
along with the leagues we cover.
I hate that the coronavirus took away the opportu-
nity for our writers to cover a once in a lifetime event. 
I feel for the senior student-athletes whose last chances 
at glory were stripped from them in terms of their re-
spective postseasons. I empathize with the members of 
our staff and students at my university who will not 
have a traditional graduation after years of hard work.
But I recognize, in the grand scheme of things, that 
these are small sacriﬁ  ces to make for the greater good. 
There are people much smarter than I am telling me to 
stay inside, minimize social contact and wash my damn 
hands. Who am I to question them?
Thank you for following The Alligator’s coverage of 
Gators sports teams. I encourage you to follow our coro-
navirus coverage. And I assure you that when it’s safe 
enough for athletes to return to courts and ﬁ  elds and for 
fans to pile into seats by the thousands, we’ll be back in 
the press box covering the teams you know and love.We’ll be backKyle's Files
By Kyle Wood
Twitter: Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org