T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  92° LOW 74°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 13, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Sunday’s Top AP Headlines
As US grapples with virus, Florida hits 
record case increase
With the United States grappling 
with the worst coronavirus 
outbreak in the world, Florida 
hit a grim milestone Sunday, 
shattering the national record 
for a state’s largest single-day 
increase in positive cases. Florida 
exceeded 15,000 cases on Sunday. 
California previously had held the 
record for single-day increases 
with more than 11,000 reported 
cases in one day. The numbers 
come at the end of a grim, record-
breaking week as Florida reported 
514 fatalities — an average of 
73 per day. Three weeks ago, the 
state was averaging 30 deaths per 
day. Researchers expect deaths 
to rise in the U.S. for at least 
some weeks, but some think the 
count probably will not go up 
as dramatically as it did in the 
spring because of several factors, 
including increased testing.
It’s Trump’s call on what the GOP 
convention will look like
After months of insisting that the 
Republican National Convention 
go off as scheduled despite the 
pandemic, President Donald 
Trump is slowly coming to accept 
that the late August event will 
not be the four-night infomercial 
for his reelection that he had 
anticipated. The venue for the 
event has already changed 
twice, the first in Charlotte, North 
Carolina to Jacksonville, Florida. 
The event has been drastically 
reduced in scope. For technical 
reasons, the convention will 
be unable to formally adopt 
a new party platform. And 
what is normally a highlight 
of the convention — the roll 
call of the states to renominate 
the president — is set to be 
conducted through proxy votes in 
the original host city. Still, Trump 
and his aides had pinned their 
hopes on creating the pageantry of a formal acceptance speech in 
Jacksonville, envisioning an arena 
packed with supporters, without 
face masks. Outwardly, the White 
House and the RNC have said 
they’re full-steam ahead with the 
revised plan.
Trump wears mask in public for first 
time during pandemic
U.S. President Donald Trump was 
seen wearing a mask for the first 
time on Saturday. He was on a visit 
to a military hospital. Although 
this is the first time that Trump 
has been seen wearing a mask, 
the Centers for Disease Control 
recommends masks to prevent 
the spread of COVID-19. Trump 
flew by helicopter to Walter Reed 
National Military Medical Center 
in suburban Washington to meet 
wounded service members and 
health care providers caring for 
COVID-19 patients. As he left the 
White House, he told reporters: 
“When you’re in a hospital, 
especially...I think it’s a great 
thing to wear a mask. ” Trump was 
wearing a mask in Walter Reed’s 
hallway as he began his visit. He 
was not wearing one when he 
stepped off the helicopter at the 
facility.
Puerto Rico questions Spain’s legacy 
as statues tumble in US
Dozens of activists marched 
through the historic part of 
Puerto Rico’s capital on Saturday, 
some wearing traditional Taino 
clothing as they banged on 
drums and blew on conch shells 
to demand that the U.S. territory’s 
government start removing 
statues including those of 
explorer Christopher Columbus. 
In 1493 Columbus, accompanied 
by Spaniard Ponce de León — 
who later became the island’s 
first governor — landed in Puerto 
Rico. They quelled an uprising by 
the native Tainos, a subgroup of 
the Arawak Indians. Historians 
and anthropologists believe 
that up to 60,000 Tainos lived in Puerto Rico at the time, but they 
were soon forced into labor and 
succumbed to infectious disease 
outbreaks. Centuries later, local 
government officials honored 
both explorers by erecting statues 
and naming streets and plazas 
after them across Puerto Rico. 
The Columbus Plaza is located 
at the entrance of Old San Juan 
and bears a statue of Columbus 
unveiled in 1893 to celebrate the 
400th anniversary of his arrival. 
Meanwhile, a nearby statue of 
Ponce de León stands facing 
south with his left hand on his hip 
and right finger pointed toward 
the first settlement he founded. 
The ruins still mark the spot of the 
island’s first Spanish capital and a 
U.S. National Historic Landmark. 
Activists demand that the statues 
be taken down. Activists recently 
contacted the office of San 
Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz 
and said an assistant told them 
officials would evaluate the cost 
of taking down the statues. A 
Cruz spokesman did not return a 
message for comment.
Amazon says email to employees 
banning TikT ok was a mistake
About five hours after an internal 
email told Amazon employees 
to delete TikTok off of their 
phones, the company said Friday 
that the ban was a mistake. The 
initial internal email, which was 
disseminated widely online, told 
employees to delete TikTok, a 
video app increasingly popular 
with young people but also the 
focus of intensifying national-
security and geopolitical concerns 
because of its Chinese ownership. 
The email cited the app’s “security 
risks. ” An Amazon employee who 
confirmed receipt of the initial 
email but was not authorized to 
speak publicly had not seen a 
retraction at the time of Amazon’s 
backtrack. Amazon is the second-
largest U.S. private employer after 
Walmart. Moving against TikTok 
could have escalated pressure on 
the app in a big way, particularly 
if other companies did the same. 
The U.S. military already bans 
TikTok on employee phones 
and the company is subject to 
a national-security review of its 
merger history. U.S. Secretary 
of State Mike Pompeo said this 
week that the government was 
“certainly looking” at banning 
the app, setting off confused and 
irritated posts as well as jokes by 
TikTok users.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 85
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk Chief
Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgMarianna Colon, mcolon@alligator.orgNora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.orgKate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgBrendan Farell, bfarell@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.org
Noah Ram,  nram@alligator.org
Christian Ortega, Alyssa Feliciano, 
Hannah Phillips, Ellen BausbackChasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgHannah Phillips, digital@alligator.orgAlyssa Feliciano, engagement@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, editor@alligator.org
Emma Bautista, ebautista@alligator.orgMONDAY, JULY 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
TWO UF ALUMNAE 
WORK ON AN 
INSTAGRAM PAGE 
THAT DETAILS UF’S 
COLLABORATION WITH 
THE JOHNS COMMITTEE 
By Valentina Botero
Avenue Staff Writer
Bienvenido Torres III proudly 
sports the notorious orange and blue 
during football games. He even came 
back to teach at UF after graduating 
with a bachelor’s degree in advertis -
ing in 2007.
But learning about UF’s homo -
phobic past doesn’t sit well with him, 
he said. 
In an attempt to increase queer 
representation on campus, which he 
believes there is not enough of, Tor -
res, a 35-year-old adjunct professor 
at UF, created the course Drag Race 
& LGBTQ Communications to explore 
the relations between the LGBTQ+ 
community branding with advertis -
ing. He also wanted to normalize 
the idea of LGBTQ+ representation 
covering different subjects, allowing 
students to learn about the LGBTQ+ 
community beyond courses that are 
often taught only through women’s 
studies, he said. 
Through his class, Grace Ubben, a 
22-year-old UF advertising alumna, and Ingrid Wu, a 22-year-old UF ad -
vertising alumna, created the Purple 
Pamflet, an Instagram account dedi -
cated to raising awareness about 
who J. Wayne Reitz was and the Johns 
Committee. They named it after the 
original Purple Pamphlet, a booklet 
created by the Johns Committee to 
spread anti-LGBTQ+ propaganda.  
Both the history of the Johns 
Committee, a committee led by Sen. 
Charley Johns in 1958 that targeted 
queer students and faculty members 
in Florida public schools and uni -
versities, and former UF President, 
J. Wayne Reitz, who is infamous for 
spewing hate speech towards LG -
BTQ+ and Black individuals at UF is 
taught in Torres’ class to tie together 
UF and LGBTQ+ history.
In the past, UF has made national 
headlines that celebrate its success in 
becoming a top 10 public university, 
but behind its triumphant facade, its 
racist and homophobic history are 
revealed. 
UF’s history was unbeknown to 
Ubben and Wu before taking the 
class, and they wanted to help spread 
this information to UF students and 
faculty to show how past students 
and staff were negatively affected by 
Reitz and the Johns Committee.  Ac -
cording to “Behind Closed Doors: The 
Dark Legacy of the Johns Committee, ” 
a documentary on the Johns Com -
mittee, hundreds of students and 
professors were expelled because of their sexual preferences. 
Ubben and Wu chose Instagram 
because they felt it was the most 
engaging social media platform to 
showcase their infographics.
They also encourage current stu -
dents to sign a petition that aims to 
change the name of the Reitz Union 
to Virgil Hawkins Union in honor 
of Virgil Hawkins, a Black UF appli -
cant who was denied admittance 
to UF College of Law because of his 
race. Hawkins ended up withdraw -
ing his application in exchange for 
a Supreme Court order desegregat -
ing UF’s graduate and professional 
schools, according to the Change.org 
petition. 
“There’s a quote from Reitz saying, 
‘As a matter of fact, I’ll be the first to 
admit that anyone who was a homo -
sexual was a complete aberration, ’ 
and I think that just goes to show, 
that it for me, it just gave me a whole 
new meaning to the Reitz Union, ” Ub -
ben said. 
 As an LGBTQ+ ally, Ubben’s goal 
was to increase community con -
sciousness on the concept that UF 
currently still has a building named 
after someone involved in an LGBTQ+ 
witch hunt. She added that in no way 
was the Instagram page created to at -
tack or hurt UF, but rather to encour -
age UF to recognize and apologize to 
the LGBTQ+ community for its collab -
oration with the Johns Committee. 
Wu is the mind behind Purple Pamflet’s graphics. Through the pow -
er of visual storytelling combined 
with Wu’s background in graphic de -
sign illustration, she and Ubben were 
able to amplify the stories and infor -
mation through their Instagram page 
that has amassed over 500 followers 
in less than three months, Wu said. 
Despite no longer attending UF, 
Wu and Ubben hope to expand their 
account with information that in -cludes other Florida universities like 
FSU and USF in the future. Ultimately, 
they are hopeful that not only will UF 
issue an apology but that the state of 
Florida will also issue a bill that ad -
dresses and apologizes for the injus -
tices caused by the committee. 
“UF should really push forward, 
and not just be silent, because their 
silence is the problem, ” Wu said. 
Training from home
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, UF athletes have had to get 
creative with their offseason workouts from home, pg. 8
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Courtesy of Purple Pamflet
Purple Pamflet got its name from a booklet created by 
the Johns Committee, designed to spread anti-LGBTQ+ 
propaganda.
Revealing UF’s past through social media advocacy  
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE
TOEING THE LINE BETWEEN 
MUSIC’S INCLUSIVITY AND AN 
ARTIST’S BELIEFS
Lonnie Numa
Avenue Staff Writer
From the moment Jason Hedges first heard 
the down-home, heartland melodies of Tom Petty 
and the Heartbreakers at the O’Connell Center, he 
was hooked. Now, each year, he draws thousands 
of people to Gainesville as the frontman of cover 
band Heavy Petty celebrating the life of the artist 
himself. 
“All the odds were against him, and he made 
something of himself—became this rock and roll 
legend, ” Hedges said.
Hedges has never wanted his efforts to up -
hold Petty’s legacy to seem insincere, which is 
why the Tom Petty Birthday Bash and Heavy 
Petty’s performances remain local to Gainesville, 
he said. Through the free festival founded by 
Hedges in 2017, people from all over have come to 
Gainesville, he said. The beauty of Petty’s music is through its lyrics 
and the musicianship of five people performing on 
stage together, Hedges said. That’s what resonates 
with a lot of people regardless of whether they 
stand for the same ideals, he said. 
“People perceive art differently, but especially 
music because music is so immediate, ” he said. 
“You could hear a song and I could feel one way 
about it and then you could feel the exact oppo -
site, or even think the song is about something 
completely different. ”  
The universality of music is an important factor 
to consider when taking into account the recent 
conflict between the Petty family and the Trump 
campaign, Hedges said. 
On June 20, the Petty family issued an official 
cease and desist warning to the Trump campaign 
regarding the usage of the song “I Won’t Back 
Down” at an Oklahoma rally. This raises the ques -
tion of whether music and politics are mutually ex -
clusive, but to Hedges, the issue here is mainly one 
of copyright infringement, he said. 
As the lead singer of a Tom Petty cover band, 
Hedges stays within respectful boundaries of ap -
preciating Petty’s work by maintaining commu -
nication with the family, he said. It’s just common courtesy to check with an artist, or in this case, the 
estate on their feelings regarding the usage of their 
loved one’s material rather than assuming entitle -
ment, he said. 
“People are taking other people’s art, and using 
it to promote themselves or their business, ” Hedges 
said. “That is something that, definitely the Petty’s 
don’t agree with, I don’t agree with and I think most 
artists don’t agree with it either. ” 
The music scene has changed a lot in 
Gainesville since Pat Lavery became the facility 
and events manager of the High Dive, he said. And 
though there aren’t many newer artists sounding 
like Petty, people are still inspired by the spirit of his 
music, he said. 
Anybody can take a song like “I Won’t Back 
Down” and turn it into an anthem for their move -
ment, Lavery said. The beauty of Petty’s music is 
that it can be interpreted in many ways, but the 
family had to stand by their own principles, he said. 
“It was more about their particular beliefs, 
wanting to say unequivocally, wanting to say 
publicly, ‘We don’t back this person, ’” Lavery said. 
“They’re saying, ‘We don’t want anybody to think 
that because our song is playing, we agree with 
anything the president says. ’” The digitization of the media has led to art be -
coming a public domain, Lavery said. Most people 
aren’t doing this with malicious intent, they use the 
media as a badge of honor — which is why there 
are still laws protecting the work of artists, there 
has to be some balance, he said. 
“People love a movie, they love a song — they 
identify with it, ” Lavery said. “It doesn’t matter what 
the original purpose or message was, people iden -
tify with it, and they do so in their own way. ” 
Tom Petty had a gift for writing songs that 
could appeal to a lot of people, Lavery said. But just 
because people form emotional bonds with cer -
tain artists, doesn’t mean they can take their work 
and do whatever they want with it, Lavery said. 
“The most positive music is going to leave 
things open-ended for people to interpret the way 
that they want to, ” Lavery said. “But then there’s the 
other side where some people can twist things and 
turn them into something for their cause. ”
@lonaald 
lnuma@alligator.orgTom Petty and the politics of a musical legacy
MUSICMUSICMONDAY, JUNE 15, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
University of Florida Student at Large
(unpaid member of the board of directors)
The applications for these positions are available by 
emailing soconnor@alligator.org   from now until Friday, July 
17th. Further written information is available at the time an 
application is received. No phone calls or visits to our physical 
location, please. The application must be returned to The 
Alligator  by Friday, July 17th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE 
DEADLINE . Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors 
will be held via conference call. Applicants must be present 
at that meeting to be considered. Student Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students.The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position:
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerTHE UNITED FACULTY OF FLORIDA 
HAS BEEN NEGOTIATING A NEW 
LEAVE PLAN FOR THE PAST 15 
MONTHS
By Nicole Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Being a parent isn’t easy.
Melissa Jerome said she has learned that from 
her two kids. The UF Project Coordinator for the 
U.S. Caribbean & Ethnic Florida Digital Newspaper 
Project said that amid the difficulties that come 
with raising a child, it is important to have support 
along the way.
Jerome has worked as a full-time staff mem -
ber at UF since 2013. When she gave birth to both 
of her children, she said she lacked support, and 
expanding her family was made to feel like a bur -
den on her employer. She had to pay the univer -
sity back for the time she took off for maternity 
leave, using the sick and vacation days she accu -
mulated over time.
But on June 25, the UF faculty union secured 
an agreement that will grant faculty and staff the 
financial protection that Jerome lacked. When 
staying home with a sick family member or bond -
ing with a newborn child, faculty and staff will 
now have eight weeks of paid parental leave, and eight weeks of paid medical leave. 
The United Faculty of Florida’s bargaining 
team negotiated with the UF Board of Trustees for 
15 months to develop the plan, said Hélène Huet, 
the union’s co-chief negotiator. It will go into ef -
fect in January. The benefits do not extend to 
temporary employment staff (OPS) and graduate 
students, she added. 
“This is really going to change people’s lives, ” 
the UF European studies librarian said. 
Currently, faculty and staff receive six weeks 
of parental leave, but it is not paid, Huet said. In -
stead, it is borrowed, meaning employees must 
forfeit vacation and sick days to pay the university 
back within six years of their parental leave, she 
said. 
The bargaining team originally proposed 19.5 
weeks of paid parental leave, Huet said, but the 
union negotiated and settled on eight weeks of 
paid parental leave and an additional eight weeks 
of borrowed leave for union members who are 
within their first year of employment.
This will provide newer faculty and staff, who 
are typically younger and more likely to have 
newborn children, the chance to have more time 
off work to care for children or sick relatives, Huet 
said.
UFF-UF advocates for wages, hours and terms 
of employment for about 2,000 members, Huet 
said, but the new benefit will apply to all UF 
employees. Huet and UF psychology professor 
Lisa Scott have led the union’s efforts in negoti -ating Article 21 of the union’s collective bargain -
ing agreement, a document revised every three 
years, with the UF Board of Trustees since March 
2019. 
Article 21 covers parental leave policies, which 
allow men and women to take time off work to 
care for newborns or recently adopted children, 
and medical and family leave, which give faculty 
and staff time off when they or a family member 
gets sick. 
While Jerome said she does not plan to have 
another child soon, she said the new policy will 
give other faculty and staff some peace of mind 
as they become new parents.
“I know that this will definitely be of great use 
to people moving forward, ” Jerome said. “Just 
because the idea that you have to deplete your 
own time for something like this, it’s just not okay. 
Thinking as a parent, and having experienced 
what the UF current policy is, I’m just super ex -
cited. ”
Bill Connellan, the Board of Trustees’ chief bar -
gainer, said the article took more than a year to 
pass because it will be expensive to implement. 
The expense depends on how many employees 
take advantage of the new policy, but Connellan 
said he does not know how much the overall cost 
will be.
Parts of the agreement focused on how the 
university will handle financial impacts from 
these changes, which are typically covered last in 
the collective bargaining agreement, and figur -ing this out caused delays, he said. 
While both bargaining teams have agreed on 
the article, the trustees must now ratify the agree -
ment to implement the new policy in January, the 
earliest time the university could begin to imple -
ment it, he said. 
Once they complete reviewing one other ma -
jor article in the collective bargaining agreement, 
Connellan and his team will present the docu -
ment to UF President Kent Fuchs and UF Provost 
Joe Glover for final approval, he said. The Board 
of Trustees will then meet to vote for it to go into 
effect, he said. 
The date the document will be approved has 
not been determined, he added.
“This is a major win for everyone on campus, 
faculty and staff, ” Connellan said. 
Huet said the bargaining team will keep fight -
ing to expand the paid parental and medical 
leave policies, as they aim to negotiate 16 weeks 
for all employees. But the decision was a good 
first step toward attaining better employment 
standards for university faculty and staff, she said. 
But they’re not finished, according to Huet. Their 
next goal: pushing forward to provide more af -
fordable childcare for employees.
@_nrodriguez99
nrodriguez@alligator.orgUF faculty succeed in fight for paid parental and medical leaveEleanore Brown / / Alligator Staff
Eli of Gainesville Socialist Alternative, who declined to give a last name, speaks to 
the crowd about defunding GPD. He called for GPD’s $36 million budget to be cut 
in half, though he says it will still be “$18 million more than they deserve.”Eleanore Brown / / Alligator Staff
Tori Meadows, Kelsey Malles and Blaise Jones hold signs showing their support for the 
movement to defund GPD. Meadows, a Sante Fe student, said “GPD gets too much of 
the general funds budget” and wants the money to go to other areas. GPD makes up 27 
percent of Gainesville’s general funds budget.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
7-13-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  7-13-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
7-13-20-43-14
 Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
7-27-20-14
Looking for individuals to join our 
summer carpet cleaning team!
This is a temporary position great for college 
students. Must have good drivers license, 
and clean criminal background. Will be re-
quired to drive. Must be in good physical 
condition. This is a physically demanding 
job. Must be able to work long or variable 
hours and weekends. Starting pay $12 an 
hour. brad@professionalcarpetsystemsfl.
com   352-494-3464                 8-3-20-14-14Construction Bids Advertisement
LOCAL CONTRACTORS SOUGHT TO
HELP BUILD THE NEW COMMUNITY
CENTER AND PARK
One Day Came, Inc. - a small, minority-
owned construction company - is partner-
ing with the City of Gainesville as the gen-
eral contractor on this transformative $1.7 
million project.
The contractor is beginning the process of 
soliciting bids from local sub-contractors and 
vendors. Those interested in joining the City 
of Gainesville and One Day Came, Inc. to 
help reshape the Duval Community should 
contact the contractor as soon as possible 
but no later than July 23, 2020 at 2pm.
David C. Delancy
One Day Came, Inc.
ddelancy@onedaycame.com
For questions about the project, please con-
tact Pete McNiece, Project Manager, Wild 
Spaces & Public Placees at 352-393-8544 or 
mcniecepr@cityofgainesville.org
July 7, 2020
#A000969928                                 7-13-20-1-14
Interested in earning in extra money while 
still being involved in the sports you enjoy? 
Big Eight Sports Officials Association in 
Gainesville is looking for volleyball and soft -
ball officials to work games throughout the 
area. Training is provided, no experience 
necessary. Please contact Barry Adams at 
904-796-7373 for more information.    
8-3-20-4-14 
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
7-13-20-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
7-13-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Great house in great location.  4BR/3BA, 
Available Mid-August.  1/2 block N of 
O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big, nice, modern 
home w/many amenities. K&M Properties 
352-372-1509                                7-20-20-4-2
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       7-13-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
5 Real Estate
Land Auction August 8, 2020 1:00 PM 16 
One - three acre lots. Gated communities 
Haywood County, North Carolina, 151 
acre mountain trac springs, lake sites. 3/2 
home. ERA Sunburst Realty www.sun -
burstauctions.net NCALCo# 10376 Randy 
Flanigan NCAL6421NCRE274318 Phone: 
706-207-2436                               7-13-1-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
7-14-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
7-13-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     7-13-43-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
7-13-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
7-13-20-24-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Paul Coulter
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/13/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/13/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, July 13, 2020
ACROSS
1 Come or go, e.g.
5 Port in Yemen
9 Cheese with 
holes
14 Side squared, for 
a square
15 Jackson 5 
brother
16 Foolish one
17 *Rock group 
since the 
’80s with the 
worldwide hit 
“Creep”
19 Like Keebler’s 
animated bakers
20 2020 amt. so far, 
on paychecks
21 Exams
22 Upper crust
23 Turns loose
24 “East of Eden” 
son named for 
Moses’ older 
brother
25 *0-0, in tennis
28 *Improving trend
31 Fed. power dept.
32 Most draftable
33 Only Canadian 
MLB city
34 Author Beattie
35 Itemized concert 
songs in playing 
order ... and what 
all the words 
in answers to 
starred clues 
comprise
38 Here, in France
39 Stew holder
40 Had too much, 
briefly
41 Elliptical
42 *The two-engine 
F-15 Eagle, e.g.
44 *Greeting card for 
an ailing friend
47 Bird on Canada’s 
dollar coin
48 Poet Elinor or 
author Philip
49 Longtime 
SeaWorld 
attraction
51 Rip to pieces
52 Enjoy Aspen
55 Peter, 
pumpkinwise
56 *Lack of subtlety
58 Online finance 
firm
59 One-named Deco 
artist60 Adored singer, 
say
61 Harbor towns
62 Caught in the act
63 Wet with morning 
moisture
DOWN
1 Fluctuate
2 The “E” in Q.E.D.
3 Foxx of “Sanford 
and Son”
4 Ling of “The 
Crow”
5 Like an obedient 
dog on a walk
6 Semi fuel
7 French states
8 Agreeing 
gestures
9 Shows contempt 
for
10 “Weeping” tree
11 It’s split in 
Captain Kirk’s  
“to boldly go”
12 Agitated state
13 “Auld Lang __”
18 Other, to Ortiz
23 Votin’ yes on
24 Copies
25 Jumped
26 Currently airing
27 Device providing 
fresh air28 Prefix with form 
or brow
29 Lite to the max
30 Cook over  
coals
32 “__ King Cole”
35 Temporary  
stays
36 Barbara of 
“I Dream of 
Jeannie”
37 Hanoi holiday
41 Be indebted to
43 Vegetarian credo44 Whirl on the 
dance floor
45 High dice roll
46 Neat
48 Word of location
49 Ooze
50 Angel’s topper
51 Cows and sows
52 Marquis de __
53 Don’t have to  
ask
54 In a shiftless way
57 Ducked out of 
sight
By Evan Kalish
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/07/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/07/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, July 7, 2020
ACROSS
1 Baroque 
composer of 
many fugues
5 “__ did you say?”
9 Pageant 
adornment
13 Workout reminder
14 Team instructor
15 Stage in an 
insect’s life cycle
16 Stiletto __: shoe 
part
17 Waze suggestion
18 Chief Norse deity
19 Outdoor security 
illumination
22 Tennis toppers
24 Shucked shellfish
25 German cry
26 Tummy muscles
28 Election night 
graphic
29 Sloppy room 
metaphor
30 Teeth
34 Caesar’s last 
gasp
35 Gut punch 
reaction
36 __ na tigela: 
Brazilian berry 
dish in a bowl
40 First ten U.S. 
constitutional 
amendments
45 “Fill ’er up” fluid
48 Michelle Obama 
__ Robinson
49 Turn on the 
waterworks
50 Charged particle
51 Defeat cunningly
53 Flat renter
55 Where horse 
races begin ... 
and where the 
beginning of 
19-, 30- and 
40-Across might 
be seen
59 State with a 
greeting in its 
name
60 Apple pie-making 
tool
61 Hoops officials
64 Lady’s man
65 Egg producer
66 Bridal accessory
67 Approximately
68 Word after user 
or stage
69 Provocative, as 
humorDOWN
1 Scroogean scoff
2 Versatile 
blackjack card
3 Culinary topper
4 Word of greeting
5 Stove fuel
6 In it for the  
long __
7 Play opening
8 One blamed for 
losing a game
9 Unchangeable 
leopard 
markings, in 
Jeremiah
10 IRS-conducted 
ordeals
11 Small piano
12 Irritably needing 
food
14 Bing who 
teamed with 
Hope in “Road to 
...” films
20 Like much lore
21 Pre-release buzz
22 Enjoy an e-cig
23 Very cool 
rapper?
27 Extremely 
muscular, in 
modern parlance
28 Annoys
31 Massage32 Owl’s sound
33 Mattress 
problem
37 Smoothie 
additive also 
used to sprout 
“hair” on 
terracotta “pets”
38 Lots and lots
39 “__ it obvious?”
41 Playing an extra 
NBA period
42 Dictionary
43 Traffic circle44 “Su-u-ure”
45 Split with the 
band, maybe
46 Novelist, e.g.
47 Alternative to a 
crowded elevator
52 Hobbit on a quest
54 Optic __
56 Starburst?
57 Ma’s ma
58 Roberts’ “Pretty 
Woman” co-star
62 Newton fruit
63 Sneaky
07/06/2020
answer on page 7
13 WantedWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.20 Events/NoticesMONDAY, JULY 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7 
11..    PPeennnnyy  ________
11..    SSuuddddeenn55..    IInnddiiaann  ccuurrrreennccyy
22..    AAbbuunnddaanntt  66..    BBeeggiinnnniinngg
33..    ________  ddrraawweerrss77..    FFiisshh  hhaawwkk
44..    DDiirrttyyAADDEEAACCRR
PPTTAARRBBUUEEUURREEPP
EETTOOSSNN
IIOOCCOOUUSSPP
EERREESSDDSSRRRREEOOPPYYSS
HHFFIIYYTTLLAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AArrccaaddee    55AA--RRuuppeeee    66AA--OOnnsseett    77AA--OOsspprreeyy
11DD--AAbbrruupptt    22DD--CCooppiioouuss    33DD--DDrreesssseerr    44DD--FFiilltthhyy    BB--PPoorrccuuppiinnee77--1133--2200
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002200  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThheerree  aarree  5588  ssppeecciieess  ooff  tthhiiss  rrooddeenntt..
BONUS
solution below answers below
1. TELEVISION: In which 1980s-90s sitcom did 
a waitress named Carla Tortelli appear?
2. LITERATURE: What are the tree-like beings 
called in "The Lord of the Rings"?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the rally -
ing cry for the shape-changing Transformers?
4. U.S. STATES: Which state would a Jay -
hawker hail from?
5. MOVIES: Which movie featured the line, 
"Life is a banquet, and most poor suckers are 
starving to death!"?
6. ANATOMY: Which part of the human body is 
affected by surgery called rhinoplasty?
7. MUSIC: Which rock group's debut album 
was titled "Bleach"?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president was 
known as the "hero of San Juan Hill"?
9. MEASUREMENTS: What does a joule 
measure?
10. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the Grand Teton 
National Park?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  answerTrivia Test  answers1. "Cheers"
2. Ents
3. "Till all are one"
4. Kansas
5. "Auntie Mame"6. The nose
7. Nirvana
8. Theodore Roosevelt
9. Energy
10. Wyoming, United Stateswww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
alligatoralligator
classifiedsclassifieds
Visit Visit alligatoralligator .org/classifieds.org/classifieds   
and submit your ad to one of and submit your ad to one of 
the following categories today!the following categories today!
1:   For Rent (furnished)1:   For Rent (furnished)
2:   For Rent (unfurnished)2:   For Rent (unfurnished)
3:   Sublease3:   Sublease
4:   Roommates4:   Roommates
5:   Real Estate5:   Real Estate
6:   Furnishings6:   Furnishings
7:   Computers7:   Computers
8:   Electronics8:   Electronics
9:   Bicycles9:   Bicycles
10: For Sale10: For Sale
11: Motorcycles/Mopeds11: Motorcycles/Mopeds
12: Autos12: Autos
13: Wanted13: Wanted
14: Help Wanted14: Help Wanted
15: Services15: Services
16: Health Services16: Health Services
17: Typing17: Typing
18: Personals18: Personals
19: Connections19: Connections
20: Events/Notices20: Events/Notices
21: Entertainment21: Entertainment
22: Tickets22: Tickets
23: Rides23: Rides
24: Pets24: Pets
25: Lost & Found25: Lost & Found
Gators guard Tre Mann decided 
to withdraw from the NBA 
Draft and return to UF for next 
season. Mann had 5.3 points 
and 1.9 rebounds per game as 
a freshman last season.How UF athletes train during a pandemic: Soccer
Read how Gators soccer player Carina Baltrip-Reyes has maintained her 
offseason training program during the pandemic at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JULY 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
VOLLEYBALL
WOMEN'S BASKETBALLBy Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
People think athletes from every 
sport have an offseason when they can 
rest. At a young age, though, athletes 
quickly learn that isn’t quite true.
Instead, they know they need to 
train all year if they want to be the best 
in their respective sport.
But, how are these athletes sup -
posed to do so in the midst of a pan -
demic that has claimed over 500,000 
lives globally?
Thayer Hall is a rising junior on the 
UF volleyball team and plays outside 
hitter, while Holly Carlton is a rising 
redshirt senior and plays opposite at -
tacker for the team.
Hall said past offseasons haven’t 
been relaxing for the team because it is 
still practicing and lifting weights.
During a normal spring, Hall starts 
her day with weight training before 
grabbing a snack for breakfast on her 
way to class. After class, she gets lunch 
and then receives treatment from the 
training staff before practice.
Hall said the team likes to start 
practice with breakout groups divided 
by position and focusing on honing 
certain skills. After that, they will come 
together to practice as a team. Fol -
lowing practice, players receive more 
treatment and then go home for the 
night.
However, this offseason has been 
different due to the COVID-19 pan -demic. Carlton said the team found out 
that it was going home on March 13.
Since then, she said the team has 
been using Zoom and other forms of 
communication to keep in touch with 
each other.
When the collegiate sports world 
was put on hold, the NCAA allowed 
volleyball teams to have eight hours 
a week to communicate via Zoom. 
Hall said that isn’t typical because the 
team usually isn’t allowed to have con -
tact with the coaching staff during the 
summer. 
She added that the strength coach 
has given the team voluntary work -
outs.
“We can do them or we don't have 
to, ” Hall said. “But, I think I can speak on 
behalf of everybody on the team that 
we're using this time to make the best 
of it as far as remaining physically and 
mentally in shape. ”
Carlton said these workouts have 
been challenging because the team 
has had to improvise to make them 
happen.
“It's definitely been different work -
ing out on our own and without team -
mates, ” Carlton said. “But, it's been a 
good challenge to build discipline and 
see what we can make happen with -
out all the luxurious equipment that 
we normally have. ”
She said despite not having access 
to a volleyball court and net, she has 
found ways to improve the physical 
aspect of her game.
“I've personally just been trying to get a really good touch on the ball, ball 
control and ball handling skills, ” Carlton 
said. 
In addition, Hall said she is using 
this time to improve the mental aspect 
of her game. 
“I’ve definitely been using all this 
time to focus on just my mental game, ” 
she said. “Basically, from spring to 
hopefully when we start the season, 
we will have been six months out of 
the gym, and that's a long time.
“I mean, the physical touch is obvi -
ously going to be an obstacle, but the 
mental aspects of just having not had 
any adversity to fight through on the 
court. I don't know what that's gonna 
look like, but that has been a major fac -
tor in my quarantine, just working on 
staying positive, self-talk, motivation 
and trying to still stay in a routine as if I 
were on campus. ”
Due to the pandemic, some ath -
letes have more free time. Carlton said 
she has made good use of it, learning 
new things and mastering other hob -
bies like playing guitar.
She said she taught herself to play 
guitar during her sophomore year.
“It's been really fun, ” Carlton said. 
“I love just having a hobby that’s not 
competitive. Nobody cares if I'm good 
or bad, so it's been really fun just to be 
able to teach myself a few new chords 
and learn some new songs. ”
Hall said the same hasn’t held true 
for her.
Instead of having more free time 
during the pandemic, she has had less.“It's funny because I feel like outsid -
ers think that collegiate athletes are us -
ing this time to figure out what normal 
life feels like, but it's actually the com -
plete opposite, ” she said.
For most sports teams, building 
chemistry with teammates is a criti -
cal part of the offseason. Hall said that 
she’s been able to through Zoom and 
FaceTime calls. 
She said she has developed a great -
er appreciation for her teammates, 
even though she used to get tired of 
them after spending time with them constantly.
Now, teammates FaceTime and text 
to check in with each other.
“My favorite part of the week is get -
ting to see everybody's faces, even if 
it is on a computer screen, ” Hall said. 
“I think that all of us just have a much 
greater appreciation for when we can 
get back, and that is going to be the 
driving factor of what separates us 
from other programs this season. ”
zhuber@alligator.org
@zacharyahuber
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Great post players like Shaquille O’Neal, Tamika Catchings and 
Brittney Griner all share one trait: strength.
Faith Dut, a forward for the Gators women’s basketball team, has 
spent her time during the COVID-19 pandemic becoming stronger 
so that she is more of a force near the basket.
The rising sophomore said strength was a factor for her lack of 
time on the court.
“A lot of it is my strength, like coming from high school to col -
lege, ” she said. “That's the biggest difference between forwards at 
this level. That was probably 80 percent of what I needed to get on 
the court. ”
Even after dedicating her first season to gaining weight and 
building muscle, Dut still thinks she has room for improvement.
Dut was only a freshman last year, so she didn’t have the oppor -
tunity to go through a normal offseason. And because of the CO -
VID-19 pandemic, she’ll now have to wait until 2021 to experience 
an offseason in Gainesville.
However, like fall sports, Dut said most of the training the team 
goes through are positional workouts and weight lifting.
But, this offseason is different due to the pandemic.
Dut elected to return home to Vancouver, British Columbia, 
when UF classes went online and spring seasons were canceled.Because she lives in an apartment north of the border and 
doesn’t have anywhere to play basketball, she usually goes out run -
ning. Besides that, she practices her ball handling and completes 
workouts the team’s strength coach sends.
To stay in touch with each other, the team hosts a Zoom confer -
ence call.
“We do a lot of Zoom calls and film sessions, ” Dut said. “We talk 
about what everybody is going through. ”
Occasionally, she added that the team will use FaceTime and do 
yoga together.
Dut shared coach Cameron Newbauer’s message to the team 
during the pandemic. 
“He’s very realistic, but he also has a lot of faith, ” she said. “He al -
ways tells us, ‘Listen, we don't know what's going on, we don't know 
what's gonna happen, we don't know how it's gonna be. It might 
not happen for another couple months, but you still need to take 
care of business and make sure you guys are still training. ’”
He has also emphasized for the team to stay in contact with each 
other because team chemistry is critical to success in any sport.
When she isn’t training, Dut likes to play video games and watch 
Netflix.
“I recently got my PS4, so I’ve been playing a lot of video games, ” 
Dut said. “I play Fortnite, Call of Duty and (NBA) 2K. ”
After a three-month hiatus, sports are beginning to return. How -
ever, most of these events have been played without fans. With the women's basketball season starting in October, there is a good pos -
sibility that there will be no spectators.
Dut said it would be a nightmare come true if the team played 
without fans because they provide extra motivation when on the 
court.
“It's (playing without fans) gonna be weird, but at the end of the 
day, if it's going to be safer for everybody, it'll be fine and feel like 
a huge pickup game, ” Dut said. “I think if it's safer for people, it's a 
good idea. But it's obviously going to be weird and uncomfortable 
to not play without Gators Nation. ”
With the women’s college basketball season several months 
away, she wonders how it’ll be possible to play her sport.
“I want to get back on the court, and I’m excited to start play -
ing with people, but (basketball) is a very contact sport, ” Dut said. 
“That's why I'm so confused as to how they're going to go about 
this because COVID-19 is a very infectious disease and super easy 
to contract, so I don't know how it's gonna happen. Of course, I'm 
a little bit nervous, but at the end of the day, I have to do what I got 
to do. 
“As long as I’m keeping myself safe and doing what I need to do 
to not spread it. If everyone has that mindset, we’ll be ok. ”
zhuber@alligator.org
@zacharyahuberHow UF athletes train during pandemic: Volleyball
How UF athletes train during pandemic: Women’s BasketballSamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Gators outside hitter Thayer Hall jumps for a kill against LSU last 
season. Hall led the Gators in kills in 2019 with 415 in 30 matches.
