We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGot a secret? Can you keep it?
UF has group of student secret shoppers , pg.5 
Ballin’ with the boys in blue
Local law enforcement celebrated the new basketball court 
they helped fund for a charter school, pg.4Gators fall to Team USA in their exhibition 
game
UF welcomed back several alumni Tuesday night 
to Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium, pg.10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 58
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
Lily Strickland // Alligator Staff
Jackie Morone, 30, a certiﬁ  ed yoga teacher, leads yoga at Bo Diddley Plaza Tuesday evening. It is free and is open to the public 
every Tuesday and Thursday at the same location.THE PARTIES DISCUSSED 
ISSUES WITH IMPEACHMENT 
AND ILLEGAL RECORDINGS
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Body executive candidates 
from Gator and Inspire Party got together 
Tuesday night to debate on topics such as 
diversity, sexual assault and personal po-
litical beliefs. 
Inspire Party’s candidate for Student 
Body President, Matthew Diaz, was absent 
from the debate because he was sick. Mat-
thew Barocas, candidate for Student Body 
Treasurer, and Emily Hyden, candidate for 
Student Body Vice President, represented 
Inspire Party.
Trevor Pope, candidate for Student 
Body President, Lauredan Ofﬁ  cial, candi-
date for Student Body Vice President, and 
Jessica Jesurajan, candidate for Student 
Body Treasurer, represented Gator Party.
In Inspire’s opening statement, Baro-
cas talked about racial and gender equity, 
sexual assault on campus and funding for 
student organizations. 
“Diversity shouldn’t just be for show,”  
Barocas said. “Funding for student organi-
zations needs to be taken seriously.”
In Gator’s opening statement, Pope dis-
cussed his involvement on campus and 
said that UF needs to be more inclusive 
and accessible for students. He also said 
that Student Government needs better 
leadership.
“At the end of this debate, I hope we 
can come together and remember that we 
all want to make this university a better 
place,” Pope said.
Pope said Gator plans to improve repre-
sentation by actively seeking out underrep-
resented groups, such as non-traditional 
students in PaCE and Innovation Academy. 
He also said they want to work with trans-
fer, international and graduate students.
Hyden said Gator Party makes SG cabi-By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell is 
making her ﬁ  fth run as the county sheriff.   
The Gainesville native has served in 
local law enforcement for 42 years and 
has been sheriff for more than a decade. 
Darnell, 67, was ﬁ  rst elected to the position 
in 2006 and currently serves as the only 
female sheriff in Florida. 
Darnell said she has increased training for 911 call takers and created a dog 
training program in the county jail.
“What our primary duty as law 
enforcement ofﬁ  cers or deputies is to serve 
crime victims,” Darnell said.
To start her campaign, her campaign 
manager, Scott Austin, 26, set up a website 
for campaign donors with her motto 
“Proven Leadership” which represents her 
decades of experience, she said. Her total 
campaign contributions have reached more 
than $7,000 as of Tuesday.  Darnell, a Democrat, will be running 
against Republicans Steven Gordon and 
John Long and Democrat Clovis Watson 
for the Alachua primary election Aug. 18. 
According to the Gainesville Sun, 
Watson, 60, is a fourth-term house 
representative and has experience as 
former deputy chief of police for Alachua 
County and city manager. Gordon, 52, is 
a retired Broward County sheriff’s deputy 
IT CLAIMED GRAVITATIONAL 
FORCES ON MONDAY COULD 
MAKE BROOMS STAND.
By Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite an array of social media posts 
on Monday claiming otherwise, UF physics professors say your broom can stand on its 
own any day of the year.
The #BroomChallenge trend stemmed 
from a viral tweet that claimed NASA 
said Monday was the only day a broom 
could stand on its own due to Earth’s 
gravitational pull. Since Monday, curious 
people have shared photos and videos of 
their upright brooms or attempts at the 
challenge. On Tuesday, NASA clariﬁ  ed in a tweet, 
“There’s no special gravity that affects 
brooms, but the moon’s gravity creates 
tides on Earth.”
Imre Bartos, an assistant physics 
professor at UF, credits the reason people 
can balance their brooms to a concept 
called “center of mass.” He said brooms 
can stand by themselves because their 
center of mass is located at the bottom, toward its bristles.
However, Bartos said the day of the year 
will not change how easy it is for a broom 
to stand on its own. Gravitational forces 
“do not change on any level that would be 
relevant to brooms,” he said. 
Danielle Sleight, a 20-year-old UF 
nutritional sciences junior, ﬁ  rst saw SG parties 
debate  
Sheriff Sadie Darnell running for reelection  
UF physics professors debunk broom social media trendSEE DEBATE,  PAGE 3SEE SHERIFF,  PAGE 3
SEE BROOMS,  PAGE 3
NAMASTE
She’s Florida’s only female sherifT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  65°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.BLACK HISTORY MONTH
LGBTQ+ Affairs Celebrates Black 
History Month
Where: LGBTQ+ Affairs at the 
University of Florida, located at 
the Reitz Union Room 2210 
When: Twice a week throughout 
February at 1 p.m.
What: LGBTQ+ Affairs will 
showcase films that depict black 
queerness such as “I Am Not Your 
Negro,” “Moonlight,” “Brother 
Outsider” and “Paris is Burning.” 
Trigger and content warnings will 
be placed throughout the viewing 
area. Event run times may vary.
Anne Moody and Voting Rights - 
Leigh Ann Wheeler
Where: UF Smathers Library, lo-
cated at 1591 W. University Ave.
When: Feb. 13 from 4-5:30 p.m.
What: Leigh Ann Wheeler, a pro-
fessor at Binghamton University 
in New York, will lead a discus-
sion on civil rights leader Anne 
Moody and her contribution to 
the civil rights movement and 
her memoir, “Coming of Age 
in Mississippi." Wheeler will 
discuss how Moody’s thoughts 
on the civil rights movement 
evolved and how voting rights 
in her hometown in Mississippi 
changed due to the civil rights 
movement. Event is free to at-
tend.
Chef Empowerment’s Black 
History Month Pop-Up 
Restaurant
Where: Working Food, located at 
219 N.W. 10th Ave.
When: Feb. 28 from 5:30-8:30 
p.m.
What: Chef Empowerment’s 
Underground Kitchen partners 
with Working Food to host an 
all-you-can-eat Southern buffet 
in collaboration with local black-
owned businesses. Tickets are 
$20. VALENTINE’S DAY 
Valentine’s Eve at the Museum
Where: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History, located at 3215 
Hull Road
When: Feb. 13 from 7-10 p.m.
What: The day before Valentine’s 
Day at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History will feature three 
trivia games and admission into 
the museum’s currently running 
Amazing Pollinators exhibit. 
The winners of the trivia games 
will get prizes provided by the 
Collectors Shop and the Florida 
Museum. Deserts and alcohol 
will be available for purchase. 
Tickets are $30 and pre-registra-
tion is required. Only those aged 
18 and over can attend the event.
Stop Light Valentine’s Day Party
Where: Big Top Brewing 
Company, located at 201 S.E. 
Second Ave.
When: Feb. 14 from 7-11 p.m.
What: At Big Top Brewing 
Company’s Stop Light Party, 
wear red if you are taken, yellow 
if you’re unofficial and green if 
you are single. Drink specials for 
the event to be announced soon. 
Event is free to attend.
My Bloody Valentine II
Where: The Midnight, located at 
223 S. Main St.
When: Feb. 14 from 8 p.m.-12 
a.m.
What: The Midnight hosts its 
second “My Bloody Valentine” 
event, which will have you solv-
ing a murder mystery. Get your 
friends or significant other to put 
together a team, drink and collect 
clues to solve the case. Prizes will 
be given out. The event is free to 
attend.
Sally B’s Dashing Holiday Revue 
Featuring Live Music from 
Swing Theory
Where: High Dive, located at 210 
S.W. Second Ave.
When: Feb. 14 from 9 p.m.-12 
a.m.What: Sally B’s Dashing Holiday 
Revue is a burlesque show featur-
ing jazz music performed by local 
swing band Swing Theory and 
burlesque performances by local 
and touring performers. Fancy 
attire is encouraged. Tickets are 
$18 in advance and $25 on day of 
show. Show is 18 or over unless 
accompanied by a parent or legal 
guardian and there is a $3 cover 
charge for those under 21. 
Valentine’s Day Party and Singles 
Mingle
Where: Silver Q Billiards and 
Sports Bar, located at 225 W. 
University Ave.
When: Feb. 14 from 8-11 p.m.
What: Silver Q will offer $3 
champagne on Valentine’s Day. 
Singles can come with friends or 
talk to others on the mezzanine. 
People 18 years of age and older 
are welcome and there is no cov-
er charge. 
Love and Laughter
Where: World of Beer, located at 
3265 S.W. 34th St.
When: Feb. 14 from 8-9:30 p.m.
What: World of Beer’s “Love and 
Laughter” is a standup comedy 
show headlined by Harry Snover 
and featuring comedians Houston 
Wells, Zachary Weidner, Emma 
Porter, Weng Peng and more. 
Presented by Keg of Laughs. 
Show is free to attend.
Valentine’s “Couple Up” 
Dancehall Class
Where: 708 N.W. 23rd Ave.
When: Feb. 15 from 6-7 p.m.
What: A beginner-friendly dance 
class focusing on Jamaican dance. 
It is recommended to dress com-
fortably and bring water. There 
will be a complimentary toast. 
Admission is $15. 
Folk & Fire
Where: Karuna Cottage, located 
at 3215 N.W. 17th St.
When: Feb. 15 from 6-8:30 p.m.
What: Penn Johnson and 
1FireGirl will perform at Karuna 
Cottage for its “Folk & Fire” event 
on Valentine’s Weekend. The 
event is a celebration of love 
and will feature folk music and 
fire dancing. A potluck will take 
place at 6 p.m with performers 
beginning at 7 p.m. Tickets are 
$15 in advance and $25 at the 
door, though anyone who brings 
their own dish will receive a $5 
discount for a door ticket. Bring 
your own chair and blanket.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 58
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Chloe GreenbergMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Annie Hassan, Manny Rea and Ellen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
and former private investigator. 
Darnell is also involved in a legal dispute 
against a former Alachua sheriff candidate 
Zach Zedalis. The court date is set for July 7 and 
was made because of employee discrimination 
following his campaign for sheriff, according 
to WCJB.
Alachua County Sheriff’s spokesperson Art Forgey said 
Darnell has brought a level of professionalism and excellence to 
the job as sheriff and was successful in reactivating the cold case 
unit, works on unsolved homicides and missing persons cases.
“She is by far the hardest working sheriff that I’ve ever 
worked for,” Forgey said. 
Her goals for the next term include improving in the areas of 
mental health, victim services and making the county jail a safe 
place for individuals to be incarcerated.
“The agency is in a constant state of improvement,” Darnell 
said. “We’re always looking to do better.”
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.org
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - close“PITCH”er Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
with Karaoke!posts about standing brooms on 
Snapchat Monday evening.
Sleight attempted the challenge 
after midnight when she saw the 
trend again on Twitter. She said 
she wasn’t surprised to discover it 
still worked. 
“It’s interesting because 
everyone just automatically 
believed it,” Sleight said.Darin Acosta, another UF 
physics professor, said that while 
the moon’s gravitational inﬂ  uence 
does affect ocean tides, the tidal 
forces are too weak to inﬂ  uence 
something like a broom standing 
on its own.
Acosta said the concept of 
center of mass can be displayed by 
tipping a glass full of water on a 
table. 
“If you tip it just a little bit, it usually will fall back to settle on 
the table,” he said. “If you tip it 
too far, it’s going to fall all the way 
over.”
Similarly, as long as the broom’s 
center of mass is low, it shouldn’t 
fall over, Acosta said. 
“This is a really nice topic for 
my physics 1 class,” Acosta said. 
“We are going to cover center of 
mass next week, so that’s great 
timing.” 
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgBROOMS,  from pg. 1NASA debunked the hoax
Darnell
nets, committees of people 
focused on speciﬁ  c issues, 
for underrepresented stu-
dents. Hyden argued it’s 
not effective because cabi-
nets, such as LGBTQ+ af-
fairs, remain empty.
“This isn’t representa-
tion if there are no people 
actually in the categories 
representing you,” Hyden 
said.Jesurajan said if she gets 
elected, she will ensure all 
student organizations have 
access to some funding. 
She also said she wants to 
raise awareness and repre-
sentation for graduate and 
professional students. 
Barocas said Gator Party 
did not address funding is-
sues for student organiza-
tions after a lawsuit from 
the UF Young Americans 
for Freedom. He said In-
spire Party will even the playing ﬁ  eld for all student 
organizations.
Both parties agreed that 
online voting would be 
beneﬁ  cial. Hyden said on-
line voting would end the 
“I Voted” sticker process 
in Greek houses, which she 
said excludes students. She 
also said it would increase 
voter turnout and allow 
students studying abroad 
or off-campus to vote.
Gator Party addressed 
the impeachment process 
for Student Body President 
Michael Murphy. Pope said 
personal political and ideo-
logical beliefs do not belong 
in SG. He said speakers and 
performers should appeal 
to the masses.
Barocas argued that 
Gator Party denied the 
right of the impeachment 
inquiry to be heard by the 
UF Senate. He agreed that 
there should not be person-
al political opinions in SG.
Pope accused Inspire 
Party of recording Progres-
sive Party’s transphobic 
remarks and said that they 
weaponized LGBTQ+ is-
sues for political gain.
“If that’s something you 
can stand behind, then you should probably rethink 
your party afﬁ  liation,” 
Pope said.
Hyden said the most im-
portant issue impacting UF 
students is safety. She said 
she wants to extend SNAP 
and Uber Safe Rides hours 
and work with Green Dot 
and GatorWell.
Pope said the biggest 
issue facing UF students 
is opportunity. He said he 
wants to support and fund 
the “Bridges” minority 
outreach program to ex-
tend opportunities to high 
school students.
During closing remarks, 
both parties criticized each 
other. Hyden said Gator 
Party only sees diversity to 
be skin deep and said that 
they didn’t ﬁ  x funding is-
sues. Jesurajan said that In-
spire Party does not follow 
through on its three pillars 
of inclusivity, transparency 
and accountability.
“The University of Flori-
da deserves better,” Hyden 
said. “You deserve better.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org DEBATE,  from pg. 1SHERIFF,  from pg. 1Her ifth reelection campaign
Most discussed issues
• Representation and Diversity
* Representation for minority groups 
(LGBTQ+) and non-traditional groups (PaCE)
• Funding
* Fix the funding plan for student 
organizations, ensure all student organizations 
have some funding
• Professional and Graduate Student 
Representation
* Support and represent grad-students as well 
as improving their housing and decreasing 
their fees
• Sexual assault
* Reduce campus sexual assault and support 
survivors Meghan McGlone // Alligator Staff
Inspire (left) and Gator Party (right) executive candidates argued 
in their ﬁ  rst Student Government debate. 
4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020
EIGHT STUDENTS REPRESENTED 
THE DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES
By Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A mix of suits and campaign T-shirts found 
their seats onstage at Pugh Hall. Armed with notes, 
the students in attendance were ready to act as 
surrogates for the Democratic presidential candi-
dates and answer questions about their platforms. 
The UF College Democrats and the Bob Graham 
Center for Public Service Student Fellows hosted 
an educational forum in the Pugh Hall Ocora Mon-
day night to discuss the platforms of Pete Buttigieg, 
Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Joe Biden, Amy 
Klobuchar, Andrew Yang (who has since dropped 
out of the race as of Tuesday night), Tom Steyer 
and Michael Bloomberg. About 40 people came.
The student representatives gave one-minute 
prepared statements about their candidates’ poli-
cies on climate change, healthcare, gender equality 
and gun control. Afterward, the ﬂ  oor was opened 
to audience questions, and the student representa-
tives had one minute to answer policy questions 
posed by the audience but could pass if they didn’t 
know their candidate’s views on a speciﬁ  c issue. 
The audience brought up questions about foreign 
policy strategies, protections of LGBTQ+ Ameri-
cans and how the war on drugs impacts low-in-
come communities.
The organizations looked for passionate stu-
dents to represent the candidates’ platforms on 
stage, said Hannah Townley, a 20-year-old UF po-
litical science sophomore and a main organizer of 
the event. 
Townley said that both organizations wanted to 
hold the forum before the voter registration dead-
line on Feb. 18, and especially before the primary 
election on March 17. Students were able to reg-
ister to vote and received information about early 
voting and polling locations at the event.
Claudia Tio, a 21-year-old UF political science 
and history senior, said that the forum helped her 
decide which candidate she plans to vote for.
“Before I was vacillating between Pete and Joe 
Biden; however, seeing the presentations, I think 
I’m more solid on Pete now,” she said. “Just hear-ing how passionate [the student representative] 
was and how thoroughly he explained the differ-
ent plans.”
Harrison Riumbau, a 19-year-old UF political 
science and economics sophomore, said that even 
after the forum he still prefers Joe Biden but ap-
preciated hearing smaller campaign details at the 
forum. 
“It’s easy to skip through all the news head-
lines,” he said. “This was a good way to open up 
on some of the smaller details.”
Tom Wells, 69, who is running for U.S. House 
of Representatives in Florida Congressional District 
3, came to the forum after ﬁ  nding out about it on 
Facebook and said he thought it was impressive. 
“This is beautiful,” Wells said. “I’m particu-
larly impressed by the tremendous change in the 
conversation, both here on campus and in small 
cities.” 
Townley said she hopes to hold another educa-
tional forum between the Democratic and Repub-
lican candidates for president closer to the general 
election in November. She also plans to expand 
the model to local elections. 
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.orgMANY FUNDRAISERS WERE 
PUT TOGETHER TO
 GET THE COURT
By Lauren Reho
Alligator Contributing Writer
The students of the Healthy Learning 
Academy always pictured law enforce-
ment ofﬁ  cers solving crimes and catching 
the bad guys — until they played basket-
ball with them. 
Parents of the charter school, located 
at 13505 W. Newberry Road, raised more 
than $10,000 to put in a concrete basket-
ball court through a GoFundMe page, 
hosting a silent auction and selling butter 
braids. Additionally, a UF health intern 
donated $1,000 and one of the parents of 
a student, who is a contractor, gave the 
school a discount for the concrete pad. 
The Basketball Cop Foundation donated 
and installed a new basketball hoop to 
accompany it.
To celebrate this new gift, between 12 
and 15 deputies from the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce came out to the school to 
play basketball and cook with the stu-
dents. Some played kickball or cooked 
lunch with them by the playground, but 
each grade level had an equal amount of 
time to play with the ofﬁ  cers on the new 
court.
The Basketball Cop Foundation was 
created by Gainesville police ofﬁ  cer Rob-
ert “Basketball Cop” White to help gener-
ate resources and funds for community 
police efforts across the United States 
in 2016. White earned his nickname af-
ter responding to a noise complaint for 
a kids’ basketball game and deciding to 
play with the noisemakers.
One of its main goals is to encourage 
interaction between law enforcement 
and citizens to build trust and positive 
relationships within the community, ac-
cording to the Basketball Cop Foundation 
website. 
It is the ﬁ  rst time the foundation 
worked with the Healthy Learning Acad-
emy, said Suzanne Borganelli, principal of the charter school.
“The children had a wonderful time, 
especially because the cops brought them 
hot dogs,” she said. 
White said he was happy to donate 
the basketball hoop to the kids and to 
have fellow ofﬁ  cers interacting with the 
youth. 
“Anytime that we have an opportu-
nity to do something like this, that gives 
us a platform to bring law enforcement 
out to interact with the kids,” White said. 
“We jump all over it.”
The ofﬁ  cers stayed for about two and 
a half hours, and they gave three red, 
white and blue basketballs to the chil-
dren. They were very generous with their 
time and gifts, Borganelli said.
“The kids absolutely loved it,” Bor-
ganelli said. “We’re just really thrilled 
about how everything turned out.”
Borganelli said one student thanked 
an ofﬁ  cer at the end for teaching her how 
to play basketball. This is the ﬁ  rst court 
installed at the school, so this experience 
not only gave students the ability to de-
velop relationships with the ofﬁ  cers but 
also learn how to dribble, she said.
“It was really nice that these students 
had this opportunity and felt safe,” Bor-
ganelli said. “It’s all about safety in our 
schools now.”Students represent democratic 
primary presidential candidates Charter school receives new court
Key Points Discussed from 
Candidate Platforms
• Pete Buttigieg’s net-zero emissions by 
2050 climate change plan
• Bernie Sanders’ single-payer national 
health insurance program
• Elizabath Warren’s stance against the 
ﬁ  libuster and structural change plans
• Joe Biden’s plans to protect and build 
on the Affordable Care Act
• Amy Klobuchar’s focus on the middle 
class
• Andrew Yang’s basic income proposal of 
$1,000 each month
• Tom Steyer’s focus on taking power 
back from corporations
• Michael Bloomberg’s successes as 
mayor of New York CityHow did the basketball court 
come to be?
Parents raised $10,000 through 
three fundraisers in six weeks, 
consisting of the following 
activities:
A GoFundMe page
A silent auction
Selling butter braids
A grant of $1,000 given by a UF 
Health intern
Donation from a parentWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE PROGRAM FOCUSES 
ON BUSINESSES SUCH AS 
GATOR DINING AND  
UF BOOKSTORES
By Charlene Medders
Alligator Contributing Writer
Maryanne Long has been se-
cretly evaluating businesses on 
campus for four semesters, but 
she isn’t just looking for mer-
chandise. 
The 32-year-old UF doctoral 
student is one of more than 100 
students who have volunteered 
to be part of UF Business Servic-
es’ secret shopper program.
UF Business Services hosts 
the program to ensure operations 
on campus are giving customers 
positive experiences, said Jenn 
Moyer, a UF Business Service 
spokesperson.
Moyer said the program con-
sists of the four main operations 
that are under Business Services: 
Gator Dining, UF Bookstores, 
vending and Gator 1 Central. 
Shoppers evaluate each opera-
tion based on customer service, 
speed of service, cleanliness and 
overall satisfaction.
The program, which lasts one 
semester, has a different time 
commitment for each operation. 
Gator Dining is the longest, and 
it includes four phases and 12 
meals. 
Shoppers complete a survey 
after each meal at Gator Corner 
Dining Center, Fresh Food Com-
pany and a retail location. Each time shoppers complete one 
survey from each of the three 
locations, a phase is complete. 
Shoppers then repeat the process 
three more times throughout the 
semester, Moyer said.
The UF Bookstore’s survey 
has two phases, Moyer said. One 
survey asks questions about the 
students’ shopping experience. 
The second survey asks about 
employee knowledge of the text-
book or apparel section.
Moyer said the vending and 
Gator 1 Central surveys are much 
shorter than the others. The 
vending survey asks students 
about the purchasing experi-
ence, cleanliness of the area and 
quality of the product that was 
bought.
The Gator 1 Central survey 
has shoppers request a new 
Gator 1 Card and describe their 
experience getting a new card 
and describe the customer ser-
vice they received.
The reward for being a shop-
per at Gator Dining includes 12 
free meals. Four of these meals 
can be obtained at the Fresh 
Food Company, another four at 
the Gator Corner and the last 
four may be used at retail loca-
tions across campus, Moyer said.
If students choose to be a 
secret shopper at the UF Book-
stores, they receive a $20 gift 
card to be used there. Students 
participating in the Gator 1 Cen-
tral survey receive a new Gator 
1 Card for free and a free meal 
of their choice at the Fresh Food 
Company or Gator Corner. For 
the vending survey, shoppers re-ceive $40 to use in the campus 
vending machines.
During her time as a secret 
shopper, Long said she com-
mented on the fact that some of 
her food at Gator Corner was not 
hot, and staff told her they would 
make changes to the equipment.
“My favorite part about the 
dining program was the post-din-
ing meetings that were held by 
the UF Dining Business Services 
staff,” Long said. “The reason 
for this is because I sincerely felt 
that I was heard about my con-
cerns as a diner. It was also an 
opportunity to share what went 
well and hear from other secret 
diners.”
Gator Dining marketing man-
ager Jill Rodriguez said Gator 
Dining has been a part of the se-
cret shoppers program from the 
start. She said the program helps 
all operations have the opportu-
nity to continue to improve for 
customers.
“The program has been, and 
continues to be, very helpful,” 
Rodriguez said. “Secret shoppers 
provide insightful feedback that 
enables us to make changes.”
Wilcley Lima, an associate 
director for Business Services, 
who oversees ID card services 
and assists with contract man-
agement like the UF Bookstores, 
Gator Dining and vending, said 
this program is one of the best 
ways the division can get feed-
back from students.
“With this program, we can 
get specific feedback on very de-
tailed questions that we ask peo-
ple to look at for us,” Lima said.
IT’S OPEN UNTIL SEPT. 7 
By Bryanna Basilio
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new exhibit at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History sends guests on an immersive roleplay ad-
venture. 
“Amazing Pollinators” is an interactive exhibit, 
available in both English and Spanish languages, 
where guests can navigate through a playable maze 
to learn about different pollinator groups. The ex-
hibit opened Jan. 25 and will close Sept. 7.
It covers eight different pollinator groups such as 
bats, birds, bees, and butterflies.
“It was actually pretty neat,” said Simone Shamas, 
a 20-year-old UF psychology junior. “I didn’t expect 
the exhibit to be as big as it was.”
Guests can navigate through a maze with 48 mis-
sions depicting different pollinators, meet and learn 
about the pollinator groups and play themed parlor 
games such as shuffleboard and mancala.
“It was more collaborative than our temporary 
exhibits,” said Jonnie Dietz, museum exhibit devel-
oper. “Most of our traveling exhibits we find and 
book, and have them brought here, but with this 
exhibit, we actually took part in the content.”
Minotaur Mazes, a company that creates travel-
ing exhibits, approached the museum with the idea 
of pollinators and asked the museum’s content de-
velopers to help. The content directors fact-checked 
to help the company put together a story. Dietz, 
who has been an exhibit developer for five years, 
has worked to create many of the exhibits at the 
museum.  
Amazing Pollinators is more interactive than 
other exhibits, as guests can play it as a game, De-
itz said. Guests take on the role as a pollinator us-ing mission boards and solve puzzles and rack up 
points. There are two versions of the game: one in-
tended for ages 9 and older and one for those young-
er than 9. 
The version for older participants has different 
board games and guests still have to go into the dif-
ferent mission rooms and collect points. The ver-
sion for younger ones is a more simplified matching 
game where the children must find the flowers in 
the maze. 
For children younger than 6, there is a play area 
where children can dress up as pollinators, put on 
puppet shows and play matching games.
Admission to Amazing Pollinators is $8 for 
adults; $7 for Florida residents, seniors and college 
students; $5.50 for ages 3-17 and free to museum 
members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. UF secret shoppers evaluate businesses
Exhibit opens at UF natural history museumTHIS WILL BE THE SECOND CLINIC IN A 
YEAR-LONG SERIES OF FOUR
By Katelynn Joyner
Alligator Staff Writer
Honey bees are responsible for one in every three bites of food, 
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Gainesville resi-
dents will now get the chance to interact with these food producers 
Feb. 29 during an Alachua County beekeeping class. 
The class, which is the second of four, is sponsored by the Ala-
chua County extension of the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences. The February class, which is open to anyone in Alachua 
County interested in beekeeping, focuses on how to manage a bee 
colony and how to split the hive to create two colonies. 
The classes are capped at 35 to 40 people, said Tatiana Sanchez, 
a commercial horticulture agent for the county’s IFAS extension. 
Twenty-five people were registered as of Feb. 3. 
This series is designed to assist those in their first year of bee-
keeping and strategically planned to coincide with each season, ac-
cording to the IFAS website.
“For backyard beekeepers, honey bees are personally important, 
as they not only enjoy this as a hobby but bees can also provide 
them with wax and honey,” she said. “Honey bees, along with 
many other pollinators, have a crucial role in the productivity of 
many agricultural commodities and natural areas as they fertilize 
many different species of plants.” 
A decrease in bees can be dangerous for our economy, environ-
ment and domestic crops, according to the Associated Press. The 
AP reported that a rapid decrease in bees can signal poor health of 
the planet. 
Honey bees increase crop values nationwide by more than $15 
billion each year, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Ava Morgan, an 18-year-old UF psychology junior, said she has 
been interested in beekeeping since she arrived at UF.
“There was a lot of attention around five years ago around the 
Save the Bees movement, and I guess I really got into it from that,” 
she said. “I just took it a step or two further than most people.”
She said she decided to continue working with bees her fresh-
man year when she found out about UF’s Honey Bee Club. Since 
then, she has worked with bees more and has become the club’s 
vice president. 
Morgan said the biggest thing she wants people to know about 
honey bees is they are not as scary as they appear.
She said a lot of people tend to demonize bees for being aggres-
sive, but most of the time they will not mess with someone unless 
they are provoked. 
“Just yesterday, I had my window open and a bee flew in and 
she was buzzing around,” she said. “I was like, ‘Oh, hello,’ and 
then she just flew right back out.” 
@katelynn_joyner
kjoyner@alligator.orgBuzz to a beekeeping class
Exhibits currently open at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History:
Limited time exhibits:
• Amazing Pollinators
• Edible Insects: It’s What’s for Dinner
• Gorillas in the Mist: Dian Fossey’s Legacy
• The Lost Bird Project 
Permanent exhibits:
• Butterfly Rainforest 
• Indoor Butterfly Exhibits
• Discovery Zone
• Exploring Our World
• Florida Fossils: Evolution of Life and Land
• Northwest Florida: Waterways and Wildlife 
• Our Energy Future
• South Florida People and EnvironmentsBeekeeping Classes offered in 2020:
Feb. 29: Swarms and Colony Management 
May 9: Honey Extraction and Hive Management 
July 11: Hive Pest and Queen LossRewards for volunteering to be a secret shopper:
Gator Dining: 12 free meals
Four meals at Gator Dining, four meals at Fresh Food Corner and four 
meals at retail locations.
UF Bookstore
$20 gift card to be used at the bookstore.
Gator 1 Central
New Gator 1 Card for free and a free meal at Fresh Food Corner or 
Gator Dining.
Vending services
$40 gift card to use in the vending machinesWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Gainesville VegFest to be held at Bo Did-
dley Plaza Saturday
The event will take place from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.Gators Baseball to open season against Marshall
The three-game series starts Friday. pg, 11By Marlena Carrillo
Alligator Staff Writer
They’ve gone from house 
shows to festival stages — now, 
ﬂ  ipturn is returning to Gaines-
ville’s High Dive before they 
embark on one of their biggest 
adventures: their very ﬁ  rst cross-
country tour.The band, formerly located 
in Gainesville, started their year 
with a bang. On Friday, ﬂ  ipturn 
released their new EP “Some-
thing You Needed,” a ﬁ  ve-track 
compilation of brand new songs 
that will be performed on their 
tour of the same name.
Following the release of sin-
gles “Eleanor” and “Darling” late last year, the band is eager to ﬁ  -
nally introduce a new EP — their 
ﬁ  rst since “Citrona” in 2018.
“Something You Needed,” 
which comprises the title track, 
“Savannah,” “Poppies,” “Glisten-
ing” and “Did I Love You (Like 
I Promised To),” signiﬁ  es a new 
era for the band. ﬂ  ipturn an-
nounced via their Twitter in De-
cember that keyboardist Taylor 
Allen would be parting ways after 
four years in the band. 
The band said they will miss 
Allen, who is leaving to focus on 
school.
“We just have so many great 
memories with her playing with 
us,” Madeline Jarman, ﬂ  ipturn 
bassist, said, “She’s doing what’s 
best for her and it’s making her 
really happy and everything, but 
she loved her time with us in the 
band, and we just miss her so 
much.”
This year’s upcoming “Some-
thing You Needed” tour is ﬂ  ip-
turn’s biggest feat yet, as it is 
the ﬁ  rst time they will be hitting 
the road nationwide. The band, 
which has yet to travel west of 
Memphis, Tennessee, will be 
touring across the country, hit-
ting long-awaited California and 
several other destinations across 
the U.S.Amid all these big changes, 
Jarman said the band has no in-
tention on drifting from the ado-
ration of current ﬂ  ipturn fans.
“Things may be a little bit dif-
ferent, but, like, not different at 
all,” Jarman said. “Things are 
changing, but in good ways, and 
we’re excited to keep moving for-
ward and see what the future has 
for us.”
This landmark for the band is 
especially signiﬁ  cant as they re-
turn to Gainesville to kick off the 
tour, the city where it essentially 
all started.
“We deﬁ  nitely did it on pur-
pose,” Dillon Basse, ﬂ  ipturn’s 
lead vocalist, said. “We want to 
make sure that Gainesville feels 
special, as in we’re showing you 
guys this ﬁ  rst. They get to be the 
ﬁ  rst ones to hear these songs 
live.”
Looking back on the past 
few years for the band, it would 
be easy to see how Gainesville 
could get swept away after ﬂ  ip-
turn’s move back to Fernandina 
Beach. For the members, though, 
Gainesville still holds some of 
their most unforgettable memo-
ries.
Basse said his favorite show 
was an unusual one. “We played 
this house show at the [Gainesville Dojo] for the surf club,” he said. 
“It was this really just like sweaty 
house show and everybody was 
really packed in together, but it’s 
cool to just see how some of those 
same people that were at one of 
those house shows still come out 
to shows, still support.”
According to Jarman, the tour 
opener at High Dive will be a sig-
niﬁ  cant moment for the band.
“Our ﬁ  rst ever show as a band, 
as in not playing at like fundrais-
ers and stuff in our hometown, 
was in Gainesville. It was the 
High Dive,” Jarman said. “So it’s 
always been a very special place 
in our hearts, before we even 
started college.”
The show Saturday, which 
is sold out, will feature opening 
acts Driveaway and Saint Simon 
and begins at 9:30 p.m. A second 
show at High Dive takes place 
Sunday with the band Driptones. 
Tickets for this show are $15 in 
advance and can be bought on 
the High Dive website.
“Something You Needed” is 
streaming on Spotify and tickets 
for the tour can be purchased on 
ﬂ  ipturn’s website now.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.org 
DOES WATCHING ‘HER’ 
AND CRYING COUNT AS 
DOING SOMETHING FOR 
VALENTINE’S DAY?
By Alyssa Archard
Avenue Staff Writer
February 14th. Every year, the 
day is met with disdain, joy, regret 
and, of course, that four-letter word. 
A holiday all about love can feel like 
a real sucker punch for those who 
are single, but for those who are spo-
ken for, how do you celebrate? 
For Orlando Calas, a 21-year-old 
UF aerospace engineering senior, 
his plans certainly aren’t lacking the 
cute factor. 
“I wanted to surprise my girl-
friend with this small picnic at Depot 
Park,” he said. “I think any small, ro-
mantic gesture, as long as it’s mean-
ingful, is really the point.”For Sasha Wuscovi, a 23-year-old 
UF animal sciences senior, her plans 
are a little bit different. Galentine’s 
Day is much more important.
“I actually got Valentine’s Day 
off, but I have a lab from three to 
six.”
That’s always rough, but her 
plans after seem like they’re going to 
make up for that.
“I’m actually going to go out 
with my best friend, and it’s one of 
my other friend’s 21st, so we’ll see 
where the night goes,” she said. 
I also caught up with Leo Berg-
miller, a 18-year-old UF mathemat-
ics freshman, to ask him what he’s 
doing for the holiday. As an actor 
who recently starred as the romantic 
interest in a short ﬁ  lm, I ﬁ  gured he 
would have plenty to say about his 
plans this Friday. 
“Nothing,” he told me with a 
chuckle.
As a fellow cinephile, I wasn’t surprised when he said, “Watch a 
movie or something. I don’t know.”
At the same time, Bergmiller does 
not knock those who go all out for 
this one day a year.
“If that’s what one of the partners 
values, then I think there can be im-
portance there. If you don’t want to, 
both people in the couple shouldn’t 
feel pressure to do that.”
Insightful, and he’s single, folks.
To me, the whole Valentine’s Day 
thing feels sort of hokey. Whether 
you have plans or not, I think it’s im-
portant to love everyone in your life. 
Between your partner, your friends 
and your family, make it more about 
your relationships than about roses 
and conversation hearts. This Fri-
day, try to make time to love your-
self as well. While it is so important, 
it’s easy to forget sometimes.
@Alyssa_Archard
alyssaarchard@uﬂ  .eduﬂ  ipturn to kick oﬀ   nationwide tour at High Dive Saturday
Things to do other than your boo
MUSIC
ORANGE & BOO
 OSCARSCourtesy of Madison Steadman
ﬂ  ipturn’s new EP , “Something You Needed, ” dropped Feb. 7. 
This is the band’s ﬁ  rst new EP since 2018. 
The band will tour their new 
EP “Something You Needed”
The 92nd Academy Awards was one for the books. 
How did your predictions stack up against the results? 
Best Picture: 
Your Pick: "Parasite"
The Winner: "Parasite"
Actor in a Leading Role: 
Your Pick: Joaquin Phoenix, "Joker"
The Winner: Joaquin Phoenix, "Joker"
Actress in a Leading Role: 
Your Pick: Saoirse Ronan, "Little Woman" 
The Winner: Renee Zellweger, "Judy"
Actor in a Supporting Role:
Your Pick: Brad Pitt, "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood"
The Winner: Brad Pitt, "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood"
Actress in a Supporting Role:
Your Pick: Florence Pugh, "Little Women"
The Winner: Laura Dern, "Marriage Story"
Director: 
Your Pick: Bong Joon-ho, "Parasite" 
The Winner: Bong Joon-ho, "Parasite"WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 6 – 9 PM
BEYOND
THE MASK
FREE FOOD + ADMISSION
Made possible by UF Student Government and the Office of the 
Provost. Additional support from the UF Center for African Studies.harn.ufl.edu/museumnights
Love is in the air. Here are the 
Avenue staff’s favorite love 
songs. 
SCOTT SANDERS CAME 
BACK TO GAINESVILLE TO 
SHARE HIS STORY
By Julia Collins
Avenue Staff Writer
Oprah Winfrey, Lin-Manuel Mi-
randa, Whoopi Goldberg, Steven 
Spielberg, Gloria Steinem and Diana 
Ross are among the celebrities Scott 
Sanders calls his peers and friends.
He also, at one point, called UF his 
home.
Sanders is a UF College of Journal-
ism and Communications alumnus. 
As part of the “Great Storytellers” se-
ries hosted by the college, he was in-
vited back to Gainesville Thursday to 
give a talk to UF students in the Reitz Union Chamber. 
In his talk, Sanders emphasized 
how important it was for him to ﬁ  nd 
“pockets of community” within his 
college experience. For him, those 
included the WRUF radio station, 
friends at The Alligator and his frater-
nity brothers.
“When you go to a university of 
this size, you have to ﬁ  nd your tribe 
in whatever ways or shapes that 
comes in,” he said.
Though Sanders has fond memo-
ries of his time in college, he transi-
tioned successfully into his career and 
is now producing many highly antici-
pated projects.
One of his newest projects is the 
movie adaptation of “In The Heights,” 
based on the original musical written 
by Lin-Manuel Miranda. Sanders said that in 2012 he produced the movie, 
“The Odd Life of Timothy Green,” 
which Miranda had a small part in. 
Miranda approached Sanders on set, 
telling him about his musical and how 
he wanted to adapt it into a movie. 
Sanders and Miranda brought the 
“In The Heights” movie pitch to 11 
studios, including Disney, and they 
all turned it down. After Miranda cre-
ated the hit Broadway show “Hamil-
ton,” Sanders and Miranda were able 
to successfully re-pitch the “In The 
Heights” movie. It’s now set to be re-
leased June 26.
Before “In The Heights” and other 
successes, Sanders co-produced the 
musical version of “The Color Purple” 
with Oprah Winfrey. In the talk, Sand-
ers described how he had the idea of 
producing the book, written by Alice Walker, into a musical for decades. 
“I tend to gravitate towards stories 
of triumph over adversity,” he said. 
Sanders continued to explain that 
famous stories from Shakespeare and 
the Bible would never have a conver-
sation about race surrounding them. 
But when he pitched “The Color Pur-
ple” and “In The Heights,” executives 
said the projects wouldn’t be success-
ful because of the racial elements. 
The original Broadway adaptation 
of “The Color Purple” got 11 Tony 
nominations in 2006, and the 2016 re-
vival got four nominations.
At the end of the event, audience 
members had the opportunity to ask 
Sanders questions. One of those au-
dience members was Maria Valdivia, 
a 21-year-old UF advertising senior. 
Valdivia asked Sanders about the role producers have in the #MeToo move-
ment. 
Sanders responded by telling 
Valdiva she was his “favorite person 
in this entire room” and explained 
how he always believes the victim 
and that people who do terrible things 
should be held accountable.
When talking about how a UF 
alumnus can become that accom-
plished, Valdivia said, “It does feel 
reassuring to know that there’s some-
one successful in the business that 
was an advertising major.”
@JuliaAnnCollins
juliacollins@uﬂ  .edu
LEE MIRABAI HARRINGTON WILL 
LEAD CALL-AND-RESPONSE 
MANTRAS AND MEDITATION
By Katie Delk
Avenue Staff Writer
Sitting on the ﬂ  oor, everyone breathes deeply 
as they sing rich, warm Tibetan-inspired man-
tras. On the ground with everyone else, Lee Mi-
rabai Harrington, a 50-year-old from New York, 
leads the group. As she gazes around the room, 
she directs the healing mantras toward each per-
son in hopes that they truly heal the individual. 
Harrington has been attending kirtans since 
2000. At kirtans, participants sing sacred call-
and-response style chants that allow them to 
reach a meditative state. 
“These kirtans that I do are really a way to teach how to reconnect with your essence and 
refuel so that we can continue to have stamina 
as the world gets really crazy,” Harrington said.
On Friday, Harrington is holding her heart-
healing kirtan at The Thomas Center for $35. 
It will beneﬁ  t the Gainesville Karma Thegsum 
Chöling-KTC, a meditation, dharma and healing 
center.
Laurie Reisman, a 51-year-old clinical social 
worker and therapist in Gainesville, will play 
music on her healing bowls. She says her crystal 
alchemy bowls balance the chakras (focal points 
of spiritual energy along the spine) and provide 
relaxation and create a meditative state.
“My vision for the event on Friday is to... 
help people have a really healing experience,” 
Reisman said. “To receive whatever it is that 
they need, to heal their heart, mind, body and 
soul.”
Harrington will lead the kirtan chants, which 
will focus on protection and compassion. She says she intends to help balance the mental and 
physical states of participants and remove ob-
stacles that prevent them from being their au-
thentic selves.
Following the kirtan, Gyro Plus, Leonardo’s 
706 and Taste of Saigon will provide vegan and 
vegetarian food options, included in the $35 
ticket. Harrington says they should eat after the 
event to ground themselves.
Harrington says that often, participants don’t 
want the kirtan to end. 
“At the end, I can see visible differences: 
brighter eyes, just a lot of joy, a lot of unencum-
bered hugging and a lot of honest conversation, 
people will just blurt out happy things and a lot 
of laughter,” she said. “You get kind of punch-
drunk, it’s kind of an intoxicant.”
@katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.orgTony, Emmy and Grammy award-winning UF alumnus gives campus talk
Heart-opening kirtan to be held on Valentine’s Day
MOVIES
SPOTIFY
 MUSICBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
3-13-20-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-141For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      3-13-
20-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Kurt Krauss
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/12/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/12/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, February 12, 2020
ACROSS
1 Home on the 
range
6 Hardly wimpy
11 Film watcher’s 
channel
14 Take the honey 
and run
15 “Encore!”
16 Évian water
17 *Power outage 
standbys
19 Digital readout, 
for short
20 Up the creek
21 “I, Claudius” star 
Jacobi
23 RSVP part
24 *“I don’t care if 
you made plans, 
cancel them”
28 Airplane 
assignment
31 Escape
32 Man-to-man 
defense 
alternative
33 Treat like a dog?
35 Place for a “ped” 
to cross
38 Bobbsey girl
39 *Morally upright 
person
43 __-fi
44 Big rig
45 Bandleader 
Lombardo
46 Beanery sign
48 Ticker tape 
letters?
50 Award adjective
53 *Stretch between 
two Bushes
57 “Huh!?”
59 __ squash
60 Language 
spoken by Jesus
63 Bygone airline
64 Ballpark 
brushback, 
perhaps ... and a 
hint to each set of 
circled letters
67 Rock’s  
Fleetwood __
68 Code name
69 Driving 
instructor’s urgent 
reminder
70 “Hometown 
Proud” 
supermarket 
chain
71 Weapon with 
a hilt
72 Fills completelyDOWN
1 TV host Philbin
2 “Jagged 
Little Pill” 
co-songwriter 
Morissette
3 Old register key
4 They report to 
sgts.
5 Pile
6 Barbie’s 
company
7 Get on in years
8 Aries or Taurus
9 Like many yoga 
practitioners
10 Beginning
11 Ringer in la  
casa
12 Wool coat  
that is often  
plaid
13 Something to 
chew
18 Holiday quaff
22 Cartoonist  
Chast
25 Source of 
increased 
government 
revenue
26 Overlook
27 Common base
29 Auto financing 
abbr.30 Afternoon affairs
34 Even score
36 Pester
37 Pub __: casual 
fare
39 Rascal
40 Bolivian border 
lake
41 Fed. agents
42 Deli choice
43 Brief time
47 __-Caps: candy
49 Marked for the 
class51 Go after, as a fly
52 “The Masked 
Singer” judge 
Robin
54 Cuts back
55 Currently airing
56 “All bets __ off”
58 Flu symptoms
61 LAPD alerts
62 Actress Sorvino
63 Texter’s “No 
more details!”
65 Sellout letters
66 Leb. neighbor
By Robin Stears
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/11/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/11/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2020
ACROSS
1 Catch sight of
5 Nudged with 
one’s snout
10 Come clean, with 
“up”
14 Escape
15 Greek 
marketplace
16 Ski resort near 
Salt Lake City
17 *Expensive flying 
option
19 Greenish-blue
20 Egg: Pref.
21 Warning word 
often preceded 
by a color
22 Scarlett of Tara
23 Chemical reaction 
named for its two 
processes
25 Rhoda’s sister
26 __ of Capricorn
28 *Space for home 
projects, e.g.
30 Old fast jets
31 Augusta National 
signature shrub
33 __ Titanic: ill-
fated ship
34 Of the seventh 
planet
35 Snake’s sound
38 Red wine choice
39 Atomizer output
43 *Collaborative 
activity
45 1920s-’30s 
“Blonde 
Bombshell” Jean
47 Let out, as fishing 
line
48 Vodka brand, 
familiarly
49 Group of musical 
notes
50 Lauder of makeup
54 Auto title ID
55 Word after King 
or Hong
56 *Payment method 
being replaced by 
mobile banking
58 Impulse
59 Prepare, as 
Parmesan
60 Et __: and others
61 Bridge “no bid”
62 After, in French
63 Aussie pal, or 
what can follow 
each word in 
the answers to 
starred cluesDOWN
1 Serious attempts
2 Thin fragments
3 August 
birthstone
4 Cry of success
5 Table salt, to a 
chemist
6 Look at rudely
7 Skyrocket
8 Once, once upon 
a time
9 Some govt. 
lawyers
10 Priest’s title
11 __ Roosevelt, 
first lady for 12 
years
12 Celebrity status
13 Respectful bows
18 Curbside cry
22 Like Mindy’s 
alien husband
24 Covert missions
25 Inhalation
27 “The Office” star 
Steve
28 Without vigor
29 Miscellany
32 Swedish singer 
Larsson with 
the Top 20 hit 
“Never Forget 
You”34 Called balls and 
strikes
35 Snobby
36 Portuguese lady
37 South Seas 
wrapped 
garments
39 “The A-Team” 
actor
40 Randy Newman 
song played at 
Dodger Stadium
41 Formally request42 Hostess sponge 
cake
44 Joins the flow of 
traffic
46 “Just gimme __!”
50 Wild West Wyatt
51 Practice boxing
52 A beret covers it
53 “__ Tu”: 1974  
hit
56 Tiger Woods’ 
org.
57 Sandwich meat
02/10/20WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
SADIE'S FOOD CART
Needs part time help. Weekends. Need reli-
able, non-smoker. Perfect for students and 
single moms. Call Dave @ 352-470-4821    
2-14-20-4-14
Tired of electronic devices collecting your 
personal data? Read The Alligator  instead!
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
"Our liberty depends on the freedom of the 
press, and that cannot be limited without be-
ing lost." –Thomas Jefferson
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"19 Connections 14 Help Wanted
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which is the least-populated 
continent?
2. GEOLOGY: What metal is produced by 
reﬁ  ning the ore bauxite?
3. EXPLORERS: Where was explorer Marco 
Polo born?
4. ART: Which popular American artist referred 
to himself as "Painter of Light"?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the pH 
value of pure water?6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a group of 
leopards called?
7. LITERATURE: What was the birth name of 
author Toni Morrison (a pseudonym)?
8. MOVIES: In which James Bond movie is the 
character of Jaws introduced?
9. HISTORY: Which country was home to the 
Contras guerilla force in the 1980s?
10. LANGUAGE: What is a truel?
answers below
answers below
answers below
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
Even Exchange answers Sudoku solution1. Antarctica
2. Aluminum 
3. Venice, Italy
4. Thomas Kinkade
5. 7
6. A leap
7. Chloe Ardelia Wofford
8. "The Spy Who Loved Me"
9. Nicaragua
10. A fight between three peopleTrivia Test answers1.     Shelf, Shell
2.     Indent, Invent
3.     Brake, Broke
4.     Leave, Lease
5.     Cannon, Cannot6.     Harps, Harpo
7.     Dodger, Lodger
8.     Stare, Share
9.     Handy, Hardy
10.   Meager, Meaner
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSBy Payton Titus
Sports Writer
Three former Gators 
made the trip back to 
Gainesville last night in a 
different uniform.
Aubree Munro, 
Kelsey Stewart and Mi-
chelle Moultrie stepped 
out onto the diamond to 
greet their former head 
coach Tim Walton. 
Clad in red, white 
and a different shade of 
blue, the Florida alumni still received a warm 
welcome home. Dur-
ing team introductions, 
Munro, Stewart and 
Moultrie were greeted 
with a standing ovation. 
Fans of all ages erupted 
each time their names 
were said over the PA 
system. Spectators who 
sat in the old Katie Sea-
shole Pressly Stadium 
to watch them play and 
little girls who wore dia-
pers the last time they 
took the ﬁ  eld at UF and now repped their own 
youth softball team jer-
seys were in attendance.
“To be able to hug 
them at home plate 
when they brought out 
the lineup card was re-
ally cool,” Walton said. 
“That was a different 
feeling, to be able to see 
players that you’ve seen 
grow up a lot, so that 
was a really special feel-
ing.”
In an emotional exhi-
bition game, Team USA 
defeated Florida, 5-3.
Senior Katie Chronis-
ter started in the circle for 
the Gators (4-1 regular 
season)but was relieved 
by junior Natalie Lugo 
after facing just four bat-
ters. Chronister allowed 
no hits and forced two 
ground outs in the ﬁ  rst 
inning. Together, she 
and Lugo became the 
second pitching staff to 
hold the Women’s Na-
tional Team (7-0 in its 
Stand Beside Her Tour) 
runless for the ﬁ  rst two 
innings in their Stand 
Beside Her campaign. 
The Gators went 
through ﬁ  ve pitchers in seven innings: Chro-
nister, Lugo, freshman 
Rylee Trlicek, and soph-
omores Danni Farley and 
Elizabeth Hightower. 
Coming off of the 
fourth freshman no-
hitter game in program 
history, Trlicek allowed 
only one run in the 
fourth and ﬁ  fth innings 
combined against Team 
USA. Farley’s second 
game of the 2020 sea-
son fared better than her 
ﬁ  rst against then-No. 17 
Michigan, as she and 
Hightower shut out the 
WNT in the sixth inning.
At the top of the 
third, however, the 
WNT started to make 
up for lost time, scoring 
four runs with two-RBI 
singles from Ali Aguilar 
and Hannah Flippen off 
Lugo. An RBI double by 
Aguilar allowed Janie 
Reed to score and ex-
tend the WNT’s lead to 
5-0 over the Gators.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/sports
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.org
For the third time in a row, Trinity 
Thomas is SEC Gymnast of the 
Week. She scored a 10 in the tri-
meet against Denver and Iowa State 
Friday night. This is the seventh time 
Thomas has claimed the award.Gators bolster their 2021 class with Rucker commitment
Vanguard High wide receiver Trevonte Rucker announced his commitment 
to UF on Twitter Tuesday. He is a four-star prospect and UF's 11th commit in 
the class. Florida now has the top ranked 2021 class in the SEC.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Will Turner // Bulls 247 // Courtesy to The Alligator
Junior Natalie Lugo allowed four earned runs 
in two innings Tuesday night to T eam USA.
WOMEN'S GOLF
By Christian Berry
Sports Writer
No one expected the No. 7 
Florida to struggle this much 
in Palos Verdes, California, but 
winning the Northrop Grumman 
Regional Challenge this weekend 
was always going to be difﬁ  cult.
The Gators ﬁ  nished 11th out 
of 16 teams, a staggering step 
back from never ﬁ  nishing outside 
the top ﬁ  ve of any tournament 
during the fall.
Most of the blame can’t be 
placed on poor golﬁ  ng, though. 
The tournament was loaded with 
13 ranked teams including the 
four best teams in the country.
The competition was tough, 
but shooting 22 over par and 
ending the day tied for 14th place 
was completely out of character 
for the Gators.
The lone bright spot for UF at the end of the ﬁ  rst round was the 
solid play of senior Marta Perez, 
who ﬁ  nished the day three-over 
par.
Day 2 was much closer to the 
Gators level, as the team collec-
tively shot two-under par and 
jumped from 14th to 11th.
Emily Glazer’s group also saw 
much better performances on 
Monday out of junior Addie Bag-
garly, freshman Marina Escobar 
and sophomore Clara Manzalini.
In fact, Baggarly led Florida in 
Round 2 and tied her career best, 
shooting four-under par. The 
best of her performance came 
in the last nine holes, where she 
nailed ﬁ  ve birdies and had a per-
fect back nine.
Florida’s Day 3 performance 
saw some regression back to 
what it witnessed on Day 1, as 
it collectively shot 11 over par 
and ﬁ  nished in the same spot it started the day. 
It was a particularly rough 
day for Perez, who shot ﬁ  ve-over 
par on her worst day of the tour-
nament by far. Those struggles 
saw her fall from 21st to 36th on 
the individual leaderboard. 
The Gators’ best ﬁ  nishers 
were Baggarly and Manzalini, 
who ﬁ  nished tied for 29th place. 
Ultimately, No. 10 Duke dom-
inated the tournament, beating 
second-place Southern California 
by a commanding seven strokes 
and the 11th-place Gators by 36 
strokes. 
Florida will have to turn 
things around quickly as the All-
state Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate 
Golf Championship starts this 
Sunday in New Orleans. 
@Berry05219
cberry@alligator.orgGators struggle on the West CoastDamian Lillard has 
never been one to 
shy away from the 
spotlight. 
Last postsea-
son, he sunk a shot from 
the logo to sink the hearts 
of Oklahoma City fans. In 
2014, his second season in 
the Association, he made a 
three off an inbound pass 
with less than a second on 
the clock to clinch the series 
over the Rockets. 
So on Friday, when he drove to the 
rim with 14 seconds left in the game 
against the Utah Jazz to tie the game, it 
appeared as though it would be another 
instance where he would potentially 
seal a win for the Blazers, possibly tying 
their record with the eighth-seed Mem-
phis Grizzlies. 
Until Rudy Gobert blocked the layup.
“That absolutely looked like it should 
have been a goaltend,” said ESPN play-
by-play announcer Ryan Ruocco. 
Replay conﬁ  rmed Ruocco’s exclama-
tion. The subsequent two-minute report 
veriﬁ  ed it, but to the ofﬁ  ciating crew on 
the court, the play stood. Lillard and the 
Blazers lost the game, 117-114. 
“Cost us a f---ing game, man,” Lillard 
said after the game. “There ain’t no way 
to take the sting out of it. We can’t have 
the game back.”
In a surprising move, league ofﬁ  cials 
did not ﬁ  ne the Portland guard for his 
comments. Instead, his team is pun-
ished as they sit two games behind the 
ﬁ  nal playoff spot in the Western Confer-
ence. 
Since no call was made on the ﬂ  oor, 
the league was unable to rightfully call 
the block a goaltend. Since the play 
stood, Trailblazers’ head coach Terry 
Stotts was unable to call a challenge. In 
an effort to make league ofﬁ  ciating more 
transparent, the NBA instead created a 
catch 22. 
On Thursday, Orlando Magic coach 
Steve Clifford was ﬁ  ned $25,000 for 
“verbally abusing ofﬁ  cials” after they 
missed repeated screams for a timeout. 
Those who were on the receiving end of 
the aforementioned abuse were not rep-
rimanded for ignoring the timeout calls. 
Rockets suffered a similar situation 
on Dec. 3 when they were robbed of 
a basket against the Spurs. With 7:50 
remaining in the game, Houston guard 
James Harden stole the ball and dunked 
it, which would have increased the lead 
to 15. 
They ruled the dunk a missed bas-
ket because it was “dunked with such 
force that, as it cleared the net, the ball 
was propelled around the basket and 
upward, creating an initial appearance 
that it was not a successful ﬁ  eld goal. 
Houston then called a timeout, and the 
ofﬁ  ciating crew conference to discuss 
the play.”
The Rockets would lose in double 
overtime, 135-133. Although they at-tempted to protest the call, 
saying the referees “misap-
plied the playing rules by 
failing to grant a Coach’s 
Challenge in connec-
tion with James Harden’s 
fourth-quarter dunk, and 
that this error had a clear 
impact on the outcome of 
the game by depriving the 
team of two points.”
The league determined 
the protest was unwarrant-
ed but said the ofﬁ  cials were disciplined 
for misapplying the Coach’s Challenge 
rule. The details of how the ofﬁ  cials 
were reprimanded were not released. 
Regardless of the sport, regardless 
of the league, time after time games are 
marred by ofﬁ  ciating controversies. And 
time after time, those very referees are 
not held accountable for mistakes. Mis-
takes that put playoff odds at risk, and 
in the case of the New Orleans Saints, 
resulting in an embarrassing playoff 
exit.
Frustration is a common emotion. 
After games, players and coaches, rife 
with frustration are forced to face the 
media and recount the moments that 
spoiled the game. Yet, if they dare fall 
out of line and speak against the refer-
ees, they face a ﬁ  ne. 
But those who made the mistakes are 
not held accountable.
The NBA Players’ Union goes out of 
its way in an effort to increase transpar-
ency by posting its current collective 
bargaining agreement on its website. 
The NBA Referees Association does not. 
In an effort to increase transparency 
and “build a greater awareness and un-
derstanding of the rules and processes 
that govern our game,” the NBA began 
issuing last two-minute reports in 2015. 
What has ensued has not led to 
greater awareness or understanding of 
basketball, but rather greater confusion 
as to why the Association opts to let fans 
know a game was lost over poor calls 
yet makes no effort to hold ofﬁ  cials ac-
countable. 
It’s correct to point out that those 
missed calls would not have guaran-
teed wins. Lillard’s shot was only to tie 
the game, still leaving nine seconds for 
the Jazz to answer back and potentially 
overtime. Clifford’s timeout may not 
have led to a scoring play. 
In fact, the Blazers had a wide-open 
three at the buzzer to win the game. 
But poor ofﬁ  ciating alters the course 
of games that could alter the course of 
athletes’ careers, and in turn, their lega-
cies. Leagues can’t improve ofﬁ  ciating 
until referees are publicly held account-
able. And it’s hypocritical to ﬁ  ne players 
and coaches for speaking out of line. 
Fans deserve better. Players and 
coaches deserve better. It’s time to be 
better. 
@unofﬁ  cialchris
cortega@alligator.orgIt’s time to call a ﬂ  agrant foul on refsEverybody Hates ChrisSOFTBALL
UF falls to USWNT, welcomes back alumni
By Christian Ortega
Twitter: unofﬁ  cialchris
cortega@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
It’s beginning to become a 
pattern.
A much-needed win followed 
by a head-scratching loss.
A step in the right direction 
accompanied by an ugly step back.
That’s been the split personality 
of this team over the past month.
The Gators are 5-5 in their last 
10 games.
Parity is in abundance, and if 
Florida is going to make the NCAA 
Tournament, that trend of play has to stop.
“You know, we’ve got a really 
good group of guys,” coach Mike 
White said at Monday’s media 
availability. “Good guys that 
will come in today with a great 
attitude, and they’ll be willing to 
work and ready to go.”
But, there’s a caveat.
“The immaturities have to 
decrease,” he said. “The amount 
of emotional moments have to 
decrease. Our level of consistency 
and stability, mental toughness, 
have to dramatically increase for 
this team to max out.”Florida’s last six games of the 
remaining eight on its schedule 
provide a daunting task.
Four of those six are against 
teams currently ranked inside the 
KenPom top 35.
That’s why it’s essential for the 
Gators to mature, play up to their 
potential and dismiss the inferior 
teams that await on their schedule 
over the next three days.
Tonight, UF travels to College 
Station to face Texas A&M (11-11, 
5-5 SEC).
The Aggies won’t be an easy 
out at home, where they’ve won 
eight of 12 games.
It doesn’t help that Florida is 
2-5 in true road games away from 
the O’Connell Center.
Defensively, the Aggies will 
be disruptive, only giving up 63.1 
points per game -- good for 33rd in 
the NCAA.
“I think this A&M program, 
right now at least, extends more, 
pressures more,” White said. 
“They are very athletic. They play 
really hard...I think their ability to 
turn you over and block shots on 
the interior, being more disruptive.
“I think that’s the biggest 
change from how these teams 
were playing from last year to this 
year.”
UF’s defense has improved, but scoring on the road has been a 
challenge recently.
Against Vanderbilt and Ole 
Miss, the Gators combined to 
average 56 PPG and shot an 
abysmal 37 percent (40 of 108) 
from the ﬁ  eld in those two games.
A low-scoring affair looks to 
be on tap either way, similar to 
Florida’s 61-55 victory against 
Vanderbilt on Feb. 1. That’s 
because the Aggies only average 
60.6 PPG, which is 342nd in the 
NCAA.
If the Gators can score into 
the 60s, they should secure a win 
on the road. Something that has 
slipped through their grasp more 
often than not this season.
“It’s pretty good,” forward 
Kerry Blackshear Jr. said, referring 
to A&M’s defense. “They’re 
holding teams to like 50 or 
60 points a game...They stay connected. It’s pretty unorthodox 
the way they play, and I think that 
gives some teams trouble.” 
Additionally, spacing and 
movement of the basketball may 
be an issue for the Gators if guard 
Andrew Nembhard can’t play. He 
injured his ankle against Ole Miss 
and has been limited in practice 
the past couple of days.
“Didn’t go yesterday, he’s 
sore,” White said. “We’ll just 
evaluate it today. I think he’s going 
to try to get some reps today. I’m 
not sure if he’ll be able to or not.”
Without Nembhard, Florida 
would have to rely on freshmen 
guards Ques Glover and Tre 
Mann to give the team some extra 
minutes.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgUF in danger zone with must-win game against Texas A&M next
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Sports 
Andrew Nembhard’s status is in doubt for Wednesday night’s game.
Alligator File Photo
Jordan Butler appeared in 20 games on the mound last season, 
throwing 25 innings and logging a 1-1 record.
BASEBALL
By Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
It’s Friday Night Lights, but on the diamond.
The Gators baseball team will open its season 
against Marshall in a three-game series starting Fri-
day.
UF is coming off of a disappointing 2019 season 
in which the squad failed to make it past Regionals. 
The Gators had made the College World Series four-
straight years prior to 2019, winning it all in 2017.
Junior pitcher and ﬁ  rst baseman Jordan Butler 
is looking to get back to Omaha, and he said it all 
starts with Florida’s opener against Marshall.
He spoke on Tuesday about the heavily antici-
pated season opener on Friday, along with the ben-
eﬁ  t it will have to some of the younger players on 
the team.
“Everything is a lot different when the lights go 
on and it’s spring,” Butler said. “I’m excited to see 
how the freshmen react to the big stage.”
Butler also said it’s important for all of the fresh-
men to get thrown into the action early this year.
Youth and inexperience, especially on the 
mound, was one of the main reasons UF failed to 
book a ﬂ  ight to Omaha last season. Florida’s offense 
was stout, posting a cumulative .284 batting aver-
age. However, its pitchers sputtered in big-time mo-
ments, registering a 5.37 ERA, the second-worst in 
the SEC.
Senior pitcher Trey Van Der Weide has the op-
portunity to provide leadership to the pitching staff.
The redshirt-senior transfer from the University 
of South Carolina Upstate has three years of Divi-
sion I pitching experience. He said he transferred to 
Florida to get a chance to go to the College World 
Series, and he’s felt that energy from the team since the ﬁ  rst day of practice.
“The ﬁ  rst or second practice we broke it down 
like, ‘yeah, on Omaha, one, two, three,’” he said. 
“And I was like, dang, we got a shot.”
Van Der Weide’s goal to get to Nebraska doesn’t 
alter his approach to pitching.To him, it’s still a 
kid’s game.
“I don’t really care about starting, relieving, clos-
ing, any of that stuff,” he said. “Just going out there 
and playing baseball just like when I was a little 
kid.”
Coach O’Sullivan, 51, takes a more adult ap-
proach as head coach of the team. He said he’s anx-
ious to get the season started.
O’Sullivan, entering his 13th season as Gators 
coach, said he’s not superstitious. He also said he 
makes himself drive by the Gators’ new stadium site 
every day, so that statement is up for discussion.
What he’s certain about, however, is his ap-
proach to opening weekend. He said it’s about gaug-
ing the talent on the roster and evaluating the start-
ing lineup and rotation.
 “Bottom line is, the lineup is not going to be the 
same at the end of the year as in the beginning,” he 
said. “I’m just trying to put the pieces of the puzzle 
together to give us the best opportunity to be suc-
cessful this weekend.”
Whether you want to compare making lineups 
and rotations to puzzles or chess, O’Sullivan made 
it clear both are a work in progress.
“I do like our roster,” he said. “But the fact of 
the matter is, we got to go out there and we got to 
build.”
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgGators excited for the lights to finally turn back on*Adjusted stats from KenPom*Points Per Game
Adjusted Offensive Efﬁ  ciency
Adjusted Defensive Efﬁ  ciency
Adjusted Tempo72.0
110.3 (44th)
96.5 (69th)
65.7 (298th)60.6
97.1 (275th)
96.5 (70th)
64.4 (330th)Florida
GatorsTexas A&M 
Aggies
Wednesday night’s matchup by the numbers: 12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2020
REGISTERTOVOTE!REGISTERTOVOTE!
ELECTION ALERT!   
Check y our r egistration s tatus and r egister to 
vote in t he primar y at: http://nxt gn.us/v oteFLYou MUS T be a r egistered Democr at by 
Februar y 18t hto vote in t he 2020 Florida 
Democr atic President ial Primar y on March 17t h. 
Don’t mi ss out. Y our v ote is y our v oice.
TEXT2020 T O82623
to receive periodic updat es from Ne xtGen, 
check y our r egistration s tatus, and r e-register.*  
SCANTHE QR CODE
FOR MORE  INFOREGISTERTOVOTE!REGISTERTOVOTE!
*By texting 2 020 to 82623 you consent t o receive periodic updat es from Ne xtGen Americ a. Text HELP f or help , STOP t o end. Ms g 
& Dat a rates may apply . https://ne xtgenameric a.org/priv acy-policy/