We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperBob the gator goes to the vet
Bob, a 660 -pound middle-aged alligator, visited the UF Veterinary 
College of Medicine on Thursday for treatment and went viral , pg. 4
Felipe’s — gone too soon
The Mexican taqueria will close Nov. 1. The early exit was not 
brought on by COVID-19,  pg. 5Dorm resident with COVID-19 speaks out
The second known person to test positive 
for COVID-19 in Hume Hall speaks on their 
experience, calls for more testing, pg. 5
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 2
Kate McNamara & Thomas Weber / / Alligator Staff
FIVE STUDENTS, NINE 
STAFF MEMBERS AND ONE 
DISTRICT EMPLOYEE HAVE 
TESTED POSITIVE FOR 
COVID-19
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
After weeks of revised plans and 
pushed back start dates, Alachua 
County Public Schools made it 
through the first week of school. 
The week ended with 15 active 
COVID-19 cases as students, 
teachers and parents adjust to 
new learning environments. By 
the end of Aug. 31, the first day of 
school, a classroom was already in 
quarantine. 
ACPS reported a student 
COVID-19 case at Fort Clarke and 
Oakview Middle Schools. Howard 
W. Bishop Middle School has a 
staff case. There are active cases at Idylwild Elementary School, 
according to ACPS’ COVID-19 
tracker. 
The district office also had a 
reported case of the virus, and at 
least nine ACPS staff members have 
also tested positive for COVID-19. 
As of the second day of school, 
about 1,600 students switched 
over to brick-and-mortar learning 
from online platforms. Parents were 
encouraged to keep their students 
in place for at least nine weeks, 
said Jennifer Wise, the ACPS K-12 
curriculum executive director, at a 
Sept. 1 school board meeting. 
The Alachua County Education 
Association is also still fighting 
against in-person learning. It 
joined the state lawsuit against 
Gov. Ron DeSantis and the Florida 
Department of Education.
“All we want is that the local 
authorities have the power to 
act appropriately if we have an outbreak, ” ACEA president Carmen 
Ward said.
The different instruction 
modules have impacted about 
4,000 students with disabilities. The 
students encounter inequities as 
support systems evolved or were 
lost entirely in a virtual classroom.
“Being in the classroom with 
the teacher is what he really needs 
to be able to be a better student, ”  
said Vanessa Henry, mother about 
12-year-old Jeremiah, a student 
with disabilities attending Fort 
Clarke Middle School.
All children, including those in 
Alachua eSchool, can now get free 
meals. Previously, these students 
weren’t eligible for the National 
School Lunch Program. Now, nine 
more food distribution sites have 
been added in Alachua County. 
@feinberg_sophie
sfeinberg@alligator.orgISSUES INCLUDE NO 
WI-FI, POWER OUTAGES, 
NO CELLULAR SERVICE AND 
UNRESPONSIVE MANAGEMENT
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
Rooms containing exposed 
piping, bedrooms without windows 
and faulty Wi-Fi awaited Jamie 
Schemmel when he moved in to 
Hub Third Ave.
He signed a lease that advertised 
“furnished apartments that glisten 
with designer-quality finishes. ” 
That’s not what he encountered in 
his first-floor, five-bedroom-by-five-
bathroom unit.
These issues come at a time when 
UF students are starting a mostly 
online semester and are relying 
on apartments for Wi-Fi and safe 
study environments amid the rising positive COVID-19 cases on and off  
campus. Residents pay between 
$660 and $1,535 monthly, according 
to the apartment’s website, for 
rooms that many have said were 
quickly built at the last minute. 
Schemmel, a 21-year-old UF 
economics and finance senior, 
decided to sign a lease at the newly 
built Hub Third Ave after seeing that 
it could fit him and six friends in one 
unit. Once there, he said he was 
met with uncured concrete ceilings, 
extremely low ceiling fans and no 
cellular service.
“We walked in and were like, 
‘What the hell? This isn’t finished at 
all, ’” Schemmel said.
Rachel Wolfrey, a 19-year-old UF 
political science and public relations 
sophomore, said she’s been unable 
to attend most of her live Zoom What to know about ACPS’ first week of classes Students met with poor conditions 
upon move in at Hub Third Ave
SEE HUB,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW 71°2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Monday's Top AP Headlines
The summer of COVID-19 ends 
with health officials worried
The Lost Summer of 2020 drew 
to a close Monday with many 
big Labor Day gatherings 
canceled across the U.S. and 
health authorities pleading with 
people to keep their distance 
from others so as not to cause 
another COVID-19 surge like 
the one that followed Memorial 
Day. Downtown Atlanta was 
quiet as the 85,000 or so 
people who come dressed as 
their favorite superheroes or 
sci-fi characters for the annual 
Dragon Con convention met 
online instead. Huge football 
stadiums at places like Ohio 
State and the University of Texas 
sat empty. Many Labor Day 
parades marking the unofficial 
end of summer were called 
off, and masks were usually 
required at the few that went 
on. "Please, please do not make 
the same mistakes we all made 
on Memorial Day weekend. Wear 
your masks, watch your distance 
and wash your hands, ” said Dr. 
Raul Pino, state health director 
in Orange County, Florida, which 
includes the Orlando area.
In battlegrounds, absentee 
ballot rejections could triple
Thousands of absentee ballots 
get rejected in every presidential 
election. This year, that problem 
could be much worse and 
potentially pivotal in hotly 
contested battleground states.
With the COVID-19 creating a 
surge in mail-in balloting and 
postal delays reported across 
the country, the number of 
rejected ballots in November 
is projected to be significantly 
higher than previous elections. 
If ballots are rejected at the 
same rate as during this year's 
primaries, up to three times 
as many voters in November 
could be disenfranchised 
in key battleground states 
when compared to the last 
presidential election, according 
to an Associated Press analysis 
of rejected ballots. It could be even more pronounced in some 
urban areas where Democratic 
votes are concentrated and 
ballot rejection rates trended 
higher during this year’s 
primaries. “It is the number one 
thing that keeps me up at night 
— the idea that voters will do 
everything they can to ensure 
their ballot is returned on time 
and the system will still fail 
them, ” said Michigan Secretary 
of State Jocelyn Benson. Ballot 
rejections occur even under the 
best of circumstances. They go 
uncounted because they arrived 
too late in the mail, voters forgot 
to sign them or signatures didn't 
match the one on file at local 
election offices.
Florida activists released after 
rally over police shootings
More than a dozen 
demonstrators were released 
from jail in Florida's capital city, 
hours after being arrested during 
a protest over the exoneration 
of police by a grand jury in the 
deaths of three Black suspects 
in separate incidents earlier this 
year. Saturday's protest drew 
an unusually high number of 
law enforcement officers clad 
in riot gear, despite months of 
mostly peaceful demonstrations 
by groups bringing attention 
to the use of deadly force by 
police, particularly against Black 
people.
“It was like stormtroopers 
rushing across the street. I was 
in disbelief of what I was seeing, ” 
said Trish Brown, a founder of 
the Tallahassee Community 
Action Committee and among 
the first to be arrested Saturday. 
Police said protest organizers 
did not have permits for a 
Saturday afternoon march that 
drew dozens and that turned 
raucous after police began 
arresting demonstrators near 
the state Capitol. Police said they 
arrested 15 people, although 
organizers said it was actually 
14. Leon County jail records 
showed most were taken into 
custody for resisting officers and 
assembling unlawfully. Nearly 
all were released from custody 
after posting bond. “This is our first time having this type of 
aggression, ” Brown said. “Why 
did they need all of those police 
geared for riots. They were ready 
and set. They came with this 
kind of force for people with 
tennis shoes and shorts and 
T-shirts and just their bodies. 
We didn’t have any weapons. We 
didn’t have any sticks. We didn’t 
have any stones. It was just our 
bodies. ”
Refugee families face unique 
struggles with online school
Samuel Lavi knew he'd have 
to find unique ways to stay 
connected to refugee families 
when the coronavirus pandemic 
shut down Valencia Newcomer 
School. Parents and students 
speak more than a dozen 
languages, and they'd need 
help navigating the technology 
around remote learning. So the 
gregarious teaching assistant, 
himself a Congolese refugee, 
created group chats on the 
WhatsApp messaging app in 
Swahili and some of the other six 
languages he knows. To ensure 
parents who can't read or write 
could participate, Lavi taught 
them to record and share small 
audio clips. With remote classes 
now underway at the K-8 school 
for refugee children in Phoenix, 
Lavi helps students connect 
from home with loaned iPads 
so they can learn English before 
transferring to mainstream 
schools. “If a student has a 
problem, I will drive to their 
home and help them log in, ” said 
Lavi, 27, who began working at 
the school shortly after being 
resettled in Phoenix four years 
ago. “I can't sit if our kids are 
suffering. ”
Two tropical storms, Paulette 
and Rene, form in the Atlantic
Two tropical storms formed 
Monday in the Atlantic Ocean, 
including Rene, which took 
shape off the coast of West 
Africa.
The U.S. National Hurricane 
Center issued a tropical storm 
warning for the Cabo Verde 
Islands due to the threat of Rene.
On Monday evening, Rene was 
located about 115 miles (180 
kilometers) east of the islands 
and moving west-northwest at 
12 mph (19 kph). Its maximum 
sustained winds were 40 mph 
(65 kph). Rene is the Atlantic’s 
earliest 17th named storm on 
record, breaking the previous 
record of Rita, which formed 
Sept. 18, 2005. Tropical Storm 
Paulette formed earlier in the 
day in the central Atlantic. It is 
not currently a threat to land.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 2
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
El Caimán Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Digital Avenue EditorMetro EditorNews Managing Editor
Copy EditorsCopy Desk ChiefOpinion Editor
Abigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.org
J.P. Oprison, joprison@alligator.orgRenee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgZachariah Chou, zchou@alligator.orgChloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.org
Valentina Botero, vbotero@alligator.orgEmily Felts, efelts@alligator.orgRiver Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Christian Ortega,  cortega@alligator.org
Payton Titus,  ptitus@alligator.org
Guamay Martell,  gmartell@alligator.org
Zachariah Chou, Kyle Wood, April Rubin, 
Rosmery Izaguirre, Dana CassidyAriana Aspuru, aaspuru@alligator.orgGrethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.orgDana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.orgRosmery Izaguirre, digital@alligator.orgApril Rubin, engagement@alligator.orgKyle Wood, editor@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Production Staff Kate McNamara, kmcnamara@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3 
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
DESPITE STUNTED 
ECONOMIC GROWTH, EAST 
GAINESVILLE TEEMS WITH 
OPPORTUNITY
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Staff Writer 
Scherwin Henry couldn’t have 
chosen a better place to raise his 
family. 
The former District 1 Gainesville 
City Commissioner swells with pride 
reminiscing about his childhood in 
East Gainesville. Henry, 67, remembers 
how he played the drums in Lincoln 
High School’s marching band and 
attended Springhill Missionary Baptist 
Church service with his family on the 
weekends.  
Henry’s home brimmed with social 
activity as neighbors and friends 
visited to enjoy his father’s barbecue 
cookouts. Though he doesn’t live in 
his childhood home anymore, Henry 
enjoys maintaining a relationship with his neighbors. He chats with them 
from across the fence between their 
homes. 
“East Gainesville is a community 
that has a lot of beauty and character, ” 
Henry said. “It is the original Gainesville. ”  
The region is known for 
encompassing clusters of historically 
Black neighborhoods, such as the 
Porters Quarters, Pleasant Street, Fifth 
Avenue and Springhill, Henry said. 
However, the east side of the city 
has lagged behind because of the 
west side’s development and vision 
of becoming a student-centered 
community. 
Peggy Macdonald, a public 
historian and former director of the 
Matheson History Museum, said the 
past is key to understanding East 
Gainesville today.
What’s referred to as East Gainesville 
was really where Gainesville started 
out more than 150 years ago, when 
UF was about 17 years old, Macdonald 
said. Buildings with early 1800s-style 
architecture remain, such as the Historic Matheson House. 
“The historic value of East 
Gainesville can’t be overstated, ” she 
said. “It tells the story of our community 
and that there is something unique 
here. ” 
Macdonald said more white 
residents used to live in east side 
neighborhoods. As Gainesville began 
to integrate schools, white flight, or 
when white people moved out from 
areas that were becoming ethnically 
diverse, happened, and white residents 
moved to the west side, closer to the 
university. 
The closing of historically Black 
schools, most notably that of Lincoln 
High School in 1970, was a significant 
loss to the close-knit community 
culture of the east, she said. 
“There’s still raw feelings — a lot 
of pain — over how that process 
unfolded, ” Macdonald said. “The Black 
community lost a connection where 
teachers and administrators really 
knew the students’ families. ”  
Northwest Newberry, Alachua, Hawthorne and East Gainesville have 
the highest concentration of Black 
residents in Alachua County, according 
to a UF study on racial inequity in 
Alachua County. The cities’ populations 
include 600 to 3,000 Black residents. 
Jarell Daniels, a 25-year-old East 
Gainesville resident and local musician 
known as Sky Luca$, said he hopes 
people will realize what the area of the 
city has to offer — from the Matheson 
History Museum to the abundance of 
untouched nature like the Gainesville-
Hawthorne State Trail. 
Daniels moved to Gainesville from 
Alabama when he was 11. Last year, he 
relocated to Duckpond, east of North 
Main Street, and was shocked by 
how different his new neighborhood 
was from where he lived previously 
in Goldview. Prior to that, Daniels 
attended Buchholz High School with 
affluent peers, and he didn’t often 
encounter homelessness on the 
streets. 
“It was eye-opening, ” Daniels said. 
“It takes 30 minutes to drive from one side of Gainesville to the other. I was 
not aware of the community’s culture 
and its history. ”
To Henry, East Gainesville needs 
development, but developers are 
afraid to invest because of the area’s 
many low-income residents. 
The Black neighborhoods in the 
area have the lowest per capita income 
and highest exposure to poverty. Black 
residents’ incomes are more than a 
quarter lower than the average per 
capita income in Alachua County, 
according to the UF study.
However, when Henry thinks of 
East Gainesville, he sees potential, 
remembering his childhood. 
“My community shaped me, ” 
Henry said. “Even segregation didn’t 
stop me from having a dream. All I 
had to do was take advantage of the 
opportunities that were presented to 
m e.” 
@EdysmarDiazCruz
ediaz-cruz@alligator.org
UNDER FINANCIAL STRESS DUE TO 
COVID-19, UF SEES SALARY 
INCREASES AS UNLIKELY
By Corbin Bolies
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite years of salary increases, UF will not be 
implementing any this year.
That’s placed faculty in a bind. 
UF President Kent Fuchs said during his State 
of the University address on Aug. 25 that, due to 
budget cuts incurred by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the administration was forced to reconsider salary 
and wage increases for faculty and staff.
“Although we have worked hard to protect 
the jobs of our staff and faculty, it is unlikely we 
will be able to fund salary and wage increases this 
year, ” Fuchs said.
Paul Ortiz, the president of UF’s United Faculty 
of Florida chapter and a UF history professor, 
looked at the lack of increases as a necessary evil. 
However, he would like the administration to 
consider faculty’s efforts to transition to remote 
learning.“We’ve proven our commitment, ” Ortiz said. 
“We would like them to respect our work and 
commitment to the university. ” 
UFF plans to negotiate salaries and furloughs 
with the administration over the Fall semester 
for the next fiscal year, Ortiz said. Until then, he 
believes salary increases are needed to solidify 
UF’s public school ranking.
“A good faith assumption is that UF is trying 
to make it into the top five universities, ” Ortiz 
said. “To do that, your salary and compensation 
benefits for all staff has to be top five. ”
William Connellan, an assistant provost and 
UF’s chief bargainer, said faculty members are just 
performing their regular duties.
“We’re not asking them to do extra work, we’re 
asking them to do their jobs, ” he said. “And they’re 
doing it very well. ”
UF’s reasoning for the absence of wage 
increases for the upcoming fiscal year is due to 
the state withholding 6% of UF’s funding, Fuchs 
said during his address. With the state allocating 
$775.7 million to UF in the 2019-2020 fiscal year, 
that amounts to more than $46.5 million in losses. 
Fuchs also cited unexpected costs that came 
with the pandemic, including $15 million in personal protective equipment for students and 
faculty and $30 million in losses to UF enterprises 
like housing and performing arts.
To justify the lack of salary increases, William 
Keegan, UFF’s co-chief bargainer, sent a letter to 
Connellan on Aug. 21 inquiring about the current 
state of UF’s finances.
“We request supplementary documents to 
help us understand the university’s deliberative 
process and financial situation, ” Keegan wrote. 
However, the odds of a salary increase at all 
have been low.
Despite an April 2019 proposal to implement 
wage increases for the 2020-2021 academic year, 
UFF withdrew it last spring due to UF not being 
able to commit to a figure, citing financial stress 
due to COVID-19.
“By June it was becoming increasingly clear 
that the university was unlikely to be able to offer 
salary increases for the next fiscal year, ” Steve 
Orlando, UF’s spokesperson, wrote in an email.
The salary portion of the union contract was 
finalized last June, leaving the issue “TBD” for the 
coming fiscal year, according to the contract.
Furloughs have also been a point of 
contention.UF released a proposed memorandum 
on Aug. 28 to officially incorporate furloughs, 
though it hasn’t reached a final decision on the 
idea, Connellan said.
The issues add another wound to the battles 
between the two. UFF had been staunchly 
opposed to UF’s reopening plan, describing it in 
statements as “unacceptable and dangerous. ”
The absence of wage increases also runs 
against the university’s position from 2019, where 
Fuchs introduced a pay program. It offered a 
1% salary increase throughout the school and 
an additional 2% increase based on market and 
performance-based standards set by UF.
However, the union believes the lack of wage 
increases doesn’t reflect the added work faculty 
has had to do to shift their classes online.
“There should be a consideration to see how 
hard we’ve worked to reconfigure the way we 
teach, ” Ortiz said.
@CorbinBolies
cbolies@alligator.orgLooking east: high hopes for the progress of East Gainesville
Faculty wage increases unlikely this year, UF says4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020lectures since school started due to 
the issues.
“It’s unacceptable for the Wi-Fi to 
not be working, ” Wolfrey said.
Along with internet issues, she 
said there’s a broken elevator, no 
cellular service and an unfinished 
rooftop area, which includes the pool. 
She said there was also a widespread 
air conditioning and power outage 
last Sunday, and her washer and 
dryer are broken. 
Both of these residents said 
they reached out to the complex’s 
maintenance team with little to no 
response. Wolfrey said no relevent 
messaging has been sent out by the 
complex regarding the issues. In an email to The Alligator, 
Sherman Modeste, the regional vice 
president of property management 
of Core Spaces, the company that 
owns the Hub Third Ave, wrote the 
complex is addressing the issues. Hub 
Third Ave has upgraded the internet 
equipment, he wrote, and service has 
been restored. 
The power outage affected the 
entire neighborhood including the 
Publix on NW 13th St., Modeste 
wrote. 
“We know it has been a frustrating 
experience, and we are truly sorry our 
residents have had to endure these 
challenges, ” Modeste wrote.
Hub Third Ave showed signs 
it was struggling before students 
even arrived. Wolfrey said she was 
supposed to move in on Aug. 18 before Hub Third Ave pushed back 
everyone’s move-in date by one 
week. 
“I’ve been up here for about three 
months, and everyday I’ve driven 
past the building and nobody was 
doing construction on it, ” Wolfrey 
said. “It was very clear that it was not 
done being built. ” 
Wolfrey said Hub Third Ave 
offered prorated rent, gift cards and 
hotel accommodations for those who 
needed it, but she wasn’t anticipating 
her previous lease would end before 
she could move in. She asked the 
complex if she could be put in a hotel 
but was told she was too late. 
“I was homeless for a week, ” she 
said. “I had to stay with my boss. ”
Wolfrey said she doesn’t see 
herself signing another lease with 
Hub Third Ave.
@noroneill
noneill@alligator.orgCourtesy to The Alligator
Bob the alligator, 38, was treated by UF veterinarians last week 
for a bone infection.
Nora O’Neill / / Alligator Staff
Hub Third Ave greeted new residents with unfinished rooms and 
faulty Wi-Fi.
BOB VISITED UF’S LARGE 
ANIMAL HOSPITAL 
THURSDAY BECAUSE OF A 
PAINFUL BACK RIGHT LEG. BY 
SATURDAY HE WAS BACK TO 
SWAMPY BUSINESS 
AS USUAL.
By Asta Hemenway
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Bob the St. Augustine gator 
hears his name, he looks up with wide 
eyes and waddles over to zookeepers. 
However, the 660-pound middle-
aged alligator let veterinarians at the UF 
College of Veterinary Medicine know 
he wasn’t in the best mood Thursday 
while closing his eyes, exhaling and 
hissing. Preliminary findings found 
evidence of osteomyelitis, an infection 
in the bone.
During his visit to the Gator Nation, 
the 38-year-old alligator, whose feet 
and tail hang off the scale, visited the 
hospital for radiographs to evaluate his 
right hind leg. 
“He looks even bigger than he 
is, and he’s big, ” said Sarah Carey, UF 
Veterinary Hospitals spokesperson. “I 
mean, trust me, he’s huge. ”
It’s not the first time an alligator has visited the UF Veterinary Hospitals, but 
it is believed this is the first time staff  
has seen an alligator of such massive 
size, Carey said.
About three weeks ago, zookeepers 
at St. Augustine Alligator Farm 
Zoological Park, where Bob lives, 
noticed the 12-foot alligator wasn’t 
using his hind right leg when exiting 
his pond, said Gen Anderson, a park 
general curator. 
When the zookeepers noticed Bob’s 
leg, they prescribed him meloxicam, 
a pain reliever, Anderson said. Two 15 
milligram tablets were tucked into 
a frozen rat instead of injecting Bob 
with medicine. UF vets were due to 
go to the park that same week for his 
bimonthly checkup. During the visit 
they recommended Bob visit UF for 
radiographs. 
Bob became a local sensation, 
garnering more than 20,000 views on a 
video posted on Facebook.
“It’s kind of funny that this alligator 
stuff has gone viral because we do 
this regularly, ” Anderson said. “He was 
a large, difficult animal to take in, but 
everything seems to be ending up in a 
very positive manner. ” 
While alligators usually pout for a 
few weeks after a visit to the vet, Bob, 
despite his injury, continues slithering in the swamp with his fellow gators, 
Anderson said. 
Brought in before noon Thursday, 
Bob was mildly sedated with anesthesia 
and X-rayed at UF’s large animal 
hospital, she said. After his three-hour 
appointment, Bob began his two-hour 
ride back to his swampy home in the 
park. 
After arriving at the hospital, 
veterinarians ensured there weren’t 
other animals around.
“We just want everything to 
be safe for everybody and 
reduce the stress levels as 
much as possible for everyone 
– including the alligators, of 
course, ” 
Carey said. 
When she saw Bob wheeled into 
the hospital’s hallway, she said she 
admired the effort, concentration and 
focus it takes to manage a case like this.
“It made me proud to work there, 
yet again, ” Carey said. “Gators helping 
gators. ”
@astahemenway
ahemenway@alligator.org‘Gators helping gators’: 660-pound alligator visits UF Veterinary Hospital 
THE DYNAMICS OF ROOMMATE 
RELATIONSHIPS ARE BEING 
TRANSFORMED DUE TO ONLINE 
CLASSES AND COVID-19
By Rachel Slay
Alligator Staff Writer
Online classes and the ongoing COVID-19 
pandemic are keeping students in their 
rooms and at home more often than in 
previous semesters.
Despite having much more free time, 
students can’t — or shouldn’t — have 
large gatherings. There is also the looming, 
potentially awkward, confrontation with 
roommates about the spread of COVID-19. 
Sarah Duffy, an 18-year-old Santa Fe 
animal sciences freshman, signed a lease at 
Canopy Student Apartments and was placed with random roommates: one Santa Fe 
sophomore and two UF sophomores. 
Santa Fe’s largely online fall semester 
started a week before UF’s. Duffy spent the 
week in online class while her roommates 
enjoyed their last week of summer, having 
friends over and playing loud music.
“When I hear noise I get very easily 
distracted by it, ” Duffy said. 
Since the start of UF’s Fall semester on Aug. 
31, the group has taken steps to make sure 
everyone can do work without disruption. 
The students hung a whiteboard with their 
class schedules and got ‘Do Not Disturb’ signs 
to put on their doors, Duffy said. 
She worries not knowing if her household 
guests have been taking COVID-19 
seriously, she said. Because she doesn’t 
know her roommates very well, the idea of 
confrontation is nerve-wracking.“I would like to know so I don’t walk out 
in my pajamas. It’s also frustrating because I 
don’t know these people or where they have 
been during corona, ” Duffy said.
On UF’s campus, 21-year-old Manny 
Girona and his roommates in the Keys 
Residential Complex have benefited from the 
flexibility of online classes. He’s a member of 
the UF men’s golf team and lives with two of 
his teammates. 
This semester, due to COVID-19, the guys 
can’t do homework in Otis Hawkins Center, a 
UF academic building, like in previous years. 
Instead, Girona does work in his room, the UF 
food and resource economics senior said. 
“If I can do the same thing at home that 
I can in the library, I might as well limit the 
risk, ” he said. 
Girona’s cautious and calm attitude 
toward his circumstance is similar to that of Jack Ten Hulzen, a 20-year-old UF aerospace 
engineering junior.  
Ten Hulzen has a room to himself in the 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity house, where 
he lives with about 40 other brothers. At any 
given time, 20 people are home, but he hasn’t 
dealt with a lot of noise because the house is 
big, he said. 
Residents at the house must wear masks 
when they aren’t in their rooms, so he isn’t 
spending much time with others, Ten Hulzen 
said. 
“We definitely haven’t been hanging out 
as much but hopefully when all this is over 
we can get back to normal, ” he said.
@racheljslay 
rslay@alligator.orgStudents are spending more time at home this semester. Blessing or curse?
HUB,  from pg. 1‘This isn’t finished at all.’TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
I am the second person to test positive for COVID-19 at Hume Hall at UF. I was 
exposed to the virus by another resident of Hume. Both of us were wearing 
masks but were not socially distanced in the Hume Library. I may have contracted 
the virus because we were sitting very close to each other, talking or because 
of the cards we were passing around. One way or another, I acknowledge that 
socializing that day was my decision; I am not blaming any person in particular, and I 
take responsibility for contracting COVID-19. 
However, I do believe UF needs to take more serious measures regarding COVID-19 
tracking on campus. 
For example, students were not required to get tested before returning to campus. 
Implementing this requirement would have potentially prevented hordes of students 
from bringing COVID-19 to campus from their hometowns. 
I found out about the positive case in my dorm not from UF Housing or contact tracers but 
from a group chat. I was, and still am, asymptomatic. No one asked me to get tested but just in 
case, I reached out to UF to get tested. It took three days for my suitemates to be tested after my 
positive result. UF told the people I interacted with that they didn’t have to be tested unless they 
developed symptoms. This is tremendously dangerous because lab tests in Iceland suggest that 
up to 50% of coronavirus cases have no symptoms, and researchers in South Korea found that 
asymptomatic cases can carry just as much of the virus as symptomatic cases. 
We all know how deadly this virus is. If this trend continues, our beloved campus will inevitably become a fraught place, and deaths will skyrocket. 
As a result, this is what I propose: Test every UF student weekly. 
UF informed me that one reason they can not do this is that they do not have 
enough tests. Yet, administrators could  find ways to allocate money the right way. 
If UF genuinely prioritizes student health, it should test every student regularly or 
dismiss us off campus like the students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill were. Numerous private and public institutions alike administer tests every five to 
seven days. Even large state schools, like the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, 
are testing students twice a week. 
At the very least, UF should test a random sample of students every week as well 
as every student who comes into contact with known positives. Testing UF students 
will prevent the spread and detect the virus in students before it is too late. 
Obviously, everyone on campus understands the risk of contracting the virus. I also appreciate 
the immediate action taken to test me and contact trace my case. But currently, UF is endangering 
its students, staff, faculty and their families. If we want football season, the ability to leave our 
dorms without fear and to stay alive, UF Health and its Screen, Test, and Protect initiative has to 
do more. Test us weekly for the betterment of our community.
The author is a resident of Hume Hall who tested positive for COVID-19.
Know your enemy
Sports Editor River Wells sat down with the Daily Mississippian’s 
assistant sports editor James Minzesheimer to talk about UF’s 
season opener, pg. 8STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTORS 
HAVE FORMED A MORE LAID-
BACK ATTITUDE IN RESPONSE 
TO ONLINE CLASSES
By AJ Bafer
Avenue Staff Writer
Stuck in online classes, students 
and instructors are on the same 
page: They woke up like this.
With many of UF’s classes being 
held through Zoom this semester, 
Zoomers are not afforded the same 
luxury of in-person interaction and 
self-expression. To get around this, 
they are developing a culture of 
their own — one with an absence 
of makeup and an abundance of 
memes.
The online format has given 
students the opportunity to keep 
it casual. Instead of dressing up for 
classes, Gina Genova said she wears 
pajamas because of the lack of 
pressure to go out.
The 18-year-old UF psychology 
and criminology sophomore said 
the lack of traditional structure 
has also granted people a degree 
of anonymity, increasing their 
confidence and making them more 
likely to goof off by changing their 
backgrounds and sending messages.
“What I’ve noticed is just a lot of 
memes and a lot of people saying 
funny things that I don’t think they 
would have the guts to say in class, ” 
Genova said. “The vibe of a Zoom 
class is more laid back. ”
As a spectator, Genova said she 
usually can’t identify the people 
pulling jokes because they often do 
not have their cameras on. She said she enjoys the shenanigans as long 
as they are not too disruptive.
“When it’s your fourth class of the 
day and you’ve just been staring at 
a computer, it’s nice to see someone 
do something funny, ” she said. 
Zoom is treating students to more 
than just comedy. Isaac Grossman, a 
19-year-old UF telecommunications 
production sophomore, was 
surprised to find one of his classmates 
“shredding” on guitar while scrolling 
through the call participants. 
The guitarist was muted, but 
Grossman said he was impressed 
by the complicated technique 
his classmate used to strum the 
fretboard — he doesn’t think the 
professor or many other students 
noticed. 
Grossman stands out himself, 
treating his schoolwork as if it is a 
9-5 job by getting fully dressed and 
working out before logging on to 
stay focused, he said.
“One of the best parts of college 
for anyone is just making new friends 
and meeting new people all the 
time, ” Grossman said. “You can’t really 
do that through Zoom. ”
As for his professors, Grossman 
has been satisfied and understands 
those who are having trouble — 
his mother is a teacher adjusting 
to the online environment. He said 
instructors who do not own all 
the best technology might have 
difficulty adjusting.
“It’s really not anyone’s fault, ” he 
said.
Brandon Murakami, a 30-year-
old UF graduate student, teaches 
Introduction to Literature and taught 
Anime and Manga Adaptations of Western Literature last Spring. He 
said he thinks Zoom is terrible overall, 
but it has helped to see his students 
stay motivated.
When UF began its shift online, 
Murakami hosted Zoom sessions 
specifically for students to socialize 
and was met with a grateful response.
“It was a measure of still having 
that sense of community and 
connection, ”  he said.
Murakami has found creative 
ways to level with his students like 
joining them in an effort to find the 
silliest background or letting his 
cat, Jeremy, jump onto his desk for 
attention. He said these kinds of 
distractions are a positive way for 
students to stay engaged.
His relaxed attitude carries 
over into his teaching style as well. 
Murakami usually teaches on Zoom 
in a tank top to stay comfortable. He 
said many students do not realize 
how taxing having to be on Zoom at 
all times is for instructors.
“We may be ‘educators’ or 
‘teachers’ but on our side too, we’re 
still learning how to do things as 
good as we could have done in 
person, ” he said.
Professors and students realize 
how different Zoom classes are, and 
most are trying to accommodate 
students as much as possible, 
Murakami said. His advice for 
students is to use the resources they 
have access to, like office hours or the 
UF Counseling and Wellness Center. 
“Don’t be afraid to ask for help, ” he 
said.
@ajbafer
abafer@alligator.orgBy Samantha Chery
Avenue Staff Writer
Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria announced 
Wednesday via social media it will no 
longer serve its tacos, bowls, burritos 
and margaritas after it says “adios” to 
Gainesville on Nov. 1.
In its four years of operation in 
Gainesville, the Mexican restaurant 
strived to start a party for the 
neighborhood every day, with buy-
one-get-one-free margaritas on Fridays, 
Latin Nights with local DJ Elio, a booth 
in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium during 
football games and outreach to local 
high schools, said Pike Howard, Felipe’s 
director of development and finance.
“We made a connection with the 
University of Florida, and for that, we will 
be forever thankful, ” Howard said. “It will 
always be a special place for us in terms 
of success and failures at times, but also a 
step forward for us as a company. ”
Decreased sales during the COVID-19 
pandemic “wasn’t necessarily the straw 
that broke the camel’s back” as some 
might assume, Howard said.
The development director said 
the main reason for shutting down is 
because the landlord was considering 
selling the property, located on 1209 W. 
University Ave. Ultimately, Felipe’s had 
to decide if they wanted to stay under a 
different landlord.
Upon deliberation, Howard said 
Gainesville ended up not being the ideal 
area for the chain’s growth, as Felipe’s 
tends to do well in densely populated 
residential areas where people from 
different age groups regularly dine.
“When they’re not there and business is pretty slow, it becomes more 
challenging to be profitable in the off-
months, ” Howard said referring to the 
local students. “We thought we’d get an 
additional sort of older demographic, 
but that never really materialized. ”
Instead, Felipe’s hopes to add 
restaurants in southwest Florida to meet 
its market need, he said. A new location 
is currently being developed in North 
Naples to complement the sites already 
in Naples and Fort Myers Beach.
Olivia Williams, a 21-year-old UF 
health education and behavior senior, 
was one of many Gainesville students 
who was shocked by the announcement.
“After Swamp closed, it felt like one 
of the only places left in town that was 
outside, and you could really relax and 
hang out, ” she said.
Williams has been going to Felipe’s 
about once or twice a month since her 
freshman year in 2017. Without the 
presence of the two party-time staples, 
she said the only close-to-campus eatery 
with a similar atmosphere is The Social at 
Midtown.
The inexpensive build-your-own 
menu items at Felipe’s made eating 
vegetarian easy for Williams, who said 
she plans on visiting with her friends 
a few more times before the taqueria 
closes in November.
“I personally love Mexican food, so I’ll 
miss their food and their margaritas and 
having that atmosphere, ” she said. “It’s 
just sad. ”
@SammyChery4276
schery@alligator.orgThe casual culture of Zoom classesFelipe’s Mexican Taqueria announces 
closure after four years
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE
 FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINK
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
I caught COVID-19 at UF. Here’s why UF should test students weeklyOpinions Column
Anonymous
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-7-16-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-16-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
12-7-16-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-7-60-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-20-16-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
12-7-20-16-14
Landscape Technician
SkyFrog Landscape is seeking to fill posi-
tions in our Landscape Maintenance and 
Installation divisions. SkyFrog specializes in 
landscape maintenance, design, and installa-
tion. We are looking for valuable team mem-
bers that are self motivated and are looking 
to grow with our company. Landscape expe-
rience is preferred, but not necessary. 352-
316-3047 or nick@skyfroglandscape.com                           
9-8-20-1-14
Senior Display Research Engineer. FT. 
Design, simulation and fabrication of OLED 
devices and AMOLED prototype display pan-
els, including: Organic materials selection 
(HTL, ETL, HIL, emitters, dopants); OLED 
device fabrication and optimization through 
design of experiments; Optical simulation by 
ray-tracing and EM-wave techniques (FDTD 
or RCWA); Maintenance of high-vacuum 
deposition equipment; Development of op-
toelectronic testing equipment and software. 
Collaboration with materials suppliers to sim-
ulate and synthesize novel organic semicon-
ductors for use in OLED devices. Supervise a 
display architect and process engineer. Other 
duties as necessary.  Requirements: Master 
of Science or higher degree in Engineering. 
Foreign equivalent accepted. Three (3) years 
of engineering experience in OLED display 
technology.  To apply, mail resume and ref-
erences to: Mattrix Technologies, Inc., Attn: 
Maxime Lemaitre, 747 SW 2nd Ave, IMB #29, 
Gainesville, FL 32601.                          9-14-2-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 61 y.o. MALE
Spinal Cord Injury with Quadriplegia
Safe Central Gainesville Location
P/T 6 AM to 11:00 AM & 1 hour evening
$17 to $20 hour - CNA or Equivalent
Details Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net  
9-8-20-1-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
12-7-20-16-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
9-4-20-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees1For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-16-1
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2For Rent
unfurnished
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-7-20-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
*********** STUDENTS ***********
1 and 2 bedroom apartments and houses. 
All convenient to campus and downtown. 
Call or text 352-359-2304. tedcoprops@
yahoo.com.                              9-21-20-3-2
Great house in great location. 4BR/3BA,  
Available Mid-August.  1/2 block N of 
O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big, nice, modern 
home w/many amenities. K&M Properties 
352-372-1509                              9-8-20-4-2
GREAT LOCATION
2BR/1BA Apts. 1/2 block from UF. $700 to-
tal rent. Call K&M Properties 352-372-1509   
9-8-20-4-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. ABSOLUTELY 
HUGE! Gorgeous Wood Floors, central 
AC/HT, dishwasher, laundry room, fenced, 
pets OK $1,890 per month. 352-665-8166
10-26-20-8-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-31-20-48-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-10-101-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-20-16-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Jerome Gunderson
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/08/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/08/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 8, 2020
ACROSS
1 Former soldiers
5 Explosive 
compound, 
briefly
10 A lot
14 Quarreling
15 Still soft, as 
concrete
16 First-year law 
student
17 Housekeeper’s 
whisky request?
19 Gillette razor
20 Wire-bending 
hand tool
21 Place to adopt 
a dog
23 Really big cats
26 Mechanical 
learning routine
27 Itemizes
30 International 
shipping co.
32 Red wine grape 
known as Shiraz 
in Australia
35 Eight: Pref.
36 Grins
38 Be in debt
39 One of a bike’s 
two
40 “Li’l” comic strip 
character
41 Medical image for 
diagnosis
42 Bering or Black
43 First game of the 
season
44 Related by blood
45 Type style that 
sounds like a 
Disney mermaid
47 Gun, as an 
engine
48 Johnny Mathis 
classic that 
begins, “Look at 
me”
49 FBI agent
51 Fix a lawn
53 Hawaiian 
medicine men
56 Saudi __
60 Ships’ rears
61 Bachelor’s whisky 
request?
64 Loyal
65 Letter-shaped 
dress style
66 ExxonMobil 
brand
67 Clumsy one’s 
exclamation68 British race car 
maker
69 Half-moon tide
DOWN
1 Femme fatale
2 And others: Abbr.
3 Symbolic carving 
in Maori culture
4 Type of durable 
work boot
5 Insane, as a 
scheme
6 Lodging choice
7 “Cats” poet’s 
monogram
8 Harvest
9 Frolicking 
swimmer
10 Warm and cozy
11 Geologist’s 
whisky request?
12 Fiddling Roman 
emperor
13 Open-handed hit
18 Colored eye part
22 Throw softly
24 Phone __
25 Fishing lure
27 Much, casually
28 More slippery
29 Astronaut’s 
whisky request?
31 Magician’s hiding 
place33 Be in store for
34 Comic 
Youngman
36 Maple-syrup-
to-be
37 Make a mistake
41 Ended a prayer
43 “The Good Earth” 
heroine
46 Makes laugh
48 __ or less:  
about
50 Like a facial 
cavity52 Clearance events
53 Green Hornet’s 
sidekick
54 Jackson 5 hairdo
55 Storage building 
for crops
57 It may be stolen 
on a diamond
58 Ingrid’s 
“Casablanca” role
59 Upon
62 Petty gripe
63 Beast with a 
beard
By Catherine Cetta
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/01/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/01/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 1, 2020
ACROSS
1 Remove politely, 
as a hat
5 Muscle cramp
10 Hang onto
14 Assert as true
15 One with dreads
16 Out of the wind
17 Topper for a 
toreador
19 On cloud __
20 Fill with joy
21 Feature that 
results in extra 
legroom on a 
plane
23 On __: sans 
contract
26 Bro’s sib
27 Indy 500 letters
30 How sale items 
are priced
36 Brewed beverage
37 Pseudonymous 
punk rock 
surname
38 “This isn’t looking 
good”
39 Turn back to zero
41 Picnic pest
42 Step between 
landings
43 “__ girl!”
44 Stir up
46 Press into service
47 “I’m so 
disappointed!”
49 Corrosive 
solution
50 PBS “Science 
Kid”
51 Crossed (out)
53 Previews that 
sound like they 
belong after the 
film
58 Eye-popping 
colors
62 Little Boy Blue’s 
instrument
63 System 
administrator’s 
task ... and a hint 
to what can be 
found in 17-, 30- 
and 47-Across
66 “In memoriam” 
piece
67 Speak from a 
platform
68 River of Pisa
69 Change the 
decor of
70 Gall
71 Like the 10th 
frame in bowlingDOWN
1 Title for Maggie 
Smith
2 Speed-skating 
rink shape
3 Greek cheese
4 Houses with 
Greek letters
5 Full house  
letters
6 It may be two on 
a minigolf hole
7 US Open 
stadium 
namesake
8 Pringles rival
9 French painter 
Henri
10 Distributes
11 Hodgepodge
12 Carson’s 
successor
13 Bambi and Ena
18 Leave
22 Idiosyncratic 
twitch
24 Greek vowel
25 Sporty Chevy
27 Proverbial 
camel’s 
backbreaker
28 Canines, e.g.
29 Ziti or rigatoni
31 Brief beginning-
of-class activity32 On key
33 DIY mover
34 Loud
35 Stooge count
40 Erodes, as 
savings
42 Sister of Venus
44 Enlarged the 
house
45 Census 
checkbox
48 Feel sick
52 Window sticker
53 Thunder god54 Courtroom garb
55 Desertlike
56 Uncommon
57 Betelgeuse is  
one
59 Gumbo  
ingredient
60 Sisters
61 Lady Macbeth’s 
“damned” 
tormenter
64 Off-road transp.
65 Spelling  
contest
08/31/2020
answer on page 7
10 For Sale
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.answers below1. Which team won more head-to-head 
games in the Michigan vs. Ohio State "Ten 
Year War" football rivalry from 1969-78?
2. Retired boxer, kickboxer, wrestler and 
mixed martial arts star Eric Esch is better 
known by what nickname?
3. What was Colorado Rockies rookie short -
stop Clint Barmes carrying up the stairs of 
his apartment when he fell and broke his 
collarbone in 2005?
4. In 2017, what English footballer per -
formed his signature robotic dance to cel -
ebrate his 100th Premier League goal?
5. What was the name of the 1984 Los Ange -
les Summer Olympics' official mascot?
6. A computer worm created by Dutch student 
Jan de Wit in 2001 was named after what 
popular pro tennis player?
7. What actor played Pop Fisher, manager of 
the fictional New York Knights, in the 1984 
baseball drama film "The Natural"?
(c) 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
solution below
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
:PUZZLE SOLUTIONSsolution below
Stickelers  answerSports Quiz  answers1. Neither. The series tied at 5-5.
2. Butterbean.
3. A package of deer meat.
4. Peter Crouch.5. Sam the Olympic Eagle.
6. Anna Kournikova.
7. Wilford Brimley.
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
21 Entertainment
Former Gators wide receiver Antonio 
Callaway is getting another shot in the NFL 
after he was added to the Dolphins practice 
squad on Sunday. Callaway is currently 
under a seven-game suspension but can 
still attend team meetings.Gators receivers find NFL homes
All four UF receivers that declared for the NFL draft last year will stick 
on NFL rosters: Van Jefferson (Rams),  Josh  Hammond (Jaguars), Tyrie 
Cleveland (Broncos) and Freddie Swain (Seahawks).Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
SEC FOOTBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
In 18 days, Florida will kick off the 
2020 season in Oxford, Mississippi, 
against Ole Miss in the first game 
of an all-SEC schedule. Because 
COVID-19 has put most teams strictly 
within their conferences for this 
year’s college football season, The 
Alligator will talk with journalists 
from SEC student newspapers to 
preview each game.
For our first “Know Your Enemy” 
installment, we sat down with the 
Daily Mississippian’s assistant sports 
editor, James Minzesheimer, to talk 
about the Rebels’ storylines and 
expectations.
 
Let’s talk Lane Kiffin. What was the 
general reaction around campus at that 
move, and what do you think he brings 
to the team as its new head coach? From what I’ve seen, it’s been 
mainly a pretty positive perception 
— everyone kind of got on board 
with the idea of the “Lane Train. ” 
(Former Rebels coach) Matt Luke 
was part of the Ole Miss staff under 
Hugh Freeze. So to finally kind of get 
rid of that last piece of that good-
but-bad administration in some 
regards I think was — at least from 
my perspective — a good thing. And 
also, with the season we had last year, 
I think it was pretty clear we needed a 
coaching change.
  
There’s currently a quarterback 
battle between Matt Corral and John 
Rhys Plumlee, right? Are there any 
other names we should know about 
that might be in the mix?
We’ve got some younger guys. 
There’s a true freshman, Kade 
(Renfro). He’s pretty decent, but 
he’s obviously not in that starting position. There are some other 
younger guys, but I think it’s strictly 
between Corral and Plumlee, I would 
say.
 
Who do you think is going to end 
up on top?
 Oh, that’s such a hard question 
right now. I think that out of the 
two of them, Plumlee is definitely 
the more electrifying quarterback. 
I mean, the kid can flat out run, like 
he’s one of the fastest players on the 
team. Obviously, he had some pretty 
good performances on offense last 
year. The one that mainly comes to 
mind is the LSU game, where he 
rushed for over 200 yards and I think 
it was three or four touchdowns (212 
yards, 4 TDs). I’d love to see him, 
but at the same time, I know that 
he struggles with passing the ball 
and Corral is a much better game 
manager, passer at this point. And from everything that has been kind 
of told to us from the scrimmages, 
(Corral) has kind of been leading the 
charge. For Week 1, I wouldn’t be 
surprised if Corral winded up getting 
the start. I don’t even think Kiffin can 
give you an answer at this point.
 
Who do you think could be an X 
factor for Ole Miss to help win the 
game?
 It’s going to be the offensive side 
of the ball. They’re going to need to 
put up a lot of points to keep up with 
the strong Florida offense and our 
weak-ish defense, which is currently 
being crippled by COVID. For Week 
1, I would be interested to see how 
they split up the running back areas, 
because we have a couple of guys 
who really need carries. Obviously, 
(Jarrion) Ealy is coming off of a 
Freshman All-American season, 
and Snoop (Connor) is also, you 
know, really good as well. In terms 
of the X factor, I would just say to 
see if our secondary is even healthy, because right now there are a lot of 
injuries with the cornerbacks and 
safeties. We already have kind of a 
weak secondary, and with Florida’s 
receiving corps, I’m definitely 
worried about us getting torched in 
that respect.
 
And finally, what is your prediction 
for how the game will play out on the 
26th?
I think it’s gonna be a high-
scoring game: I think it’s probably 
going to break the 40s, if not the 
50s, at least for Florida. I’m pretty 
curious to see how this is going to 
work on the offensive side of the ball, 
because there is still a bit of shuffling 
going on there. I would say it’s going 
to be a bit of a shootout, and I think 
in the end Florida is probably going 
to win. Florida probably wins by a 
touchdown or two.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgKnow your enemy: The Ole Miss Rebels