We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGainesville celebrates Easter and Passover diﬀ  erently
Due to stay-at-home orders and concerns from COVID-19,
many rely on to-go meals and online services, pg. 5
Quarantine with a cutie
Gainesville pet adoptions have gone up as many stay at home to 
prevent the spread of COVID-19, pg.4Williams career at UF ended early 
Gators forward Zada Williams had her career cut 
short by COVID-19, but she had a long journey to her 
redshirt senior season, pg. 8
Williams career at UF ended early 
 FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 75
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
CLOSING SHOP
Lauren Witte // Alligator Staff
The owner of Mother’s Pub and Grill located at 1017 W. University Ave.  announced Friday that its location would close permanently. 
This comes after the Gainesville Police Department issued the restaurant a cease-and-desist order for violating multiple city and state 
ordinances meant to prevent the spread of COVID-19.THE OWNER SAID THE CITY 
HAS AN AGENDA AGAINST 
SMALL BUSINESSES
By Hannah Phillips
Staff Writer
The owner of Mother’s Pub and 
Grill sounded agitated on the phone. He 
said he’d heard rumors about speak-
easies in Gainesville, conspirator bar 
owners and corrupt city ofﬁ  cials who 
want nothing more than to see local 
businesses closed. 
His response? Close the bar for 
good. 
Mother’s owner, Patrick Schaller, 
made the announcement over 
Facebook Friday night. The city only 
cares about corporations, he wrote. He 
included the cell phone number of Lee 
Feldman, the Gainesville city manager, 
for patrons to call and complain. 
About 20 did, Feldman said. Some 
were drunk and screamed profanities. 
One called at 4 a.m. Feldman answered 
each to explain.
Mother’s wasn’t targeted for being 
a small business, he told them. It 
violated city ordinances, twice. 
The ﬁ  rst violation happened March 
25, when a ﬁ  re inspector watched 
Mother’s employees sell liquor to-go, 
Feldman said. The Gainesville Police 
Department issued a warning. 
After, employees taped blank white 
paper across Mother’s windows. The 
inspector returned April 5. 
“He came in, he snuck in,” Schaller 
said. “He didn’t announce that he 
was in there — he just started taking 
pictures.”
He photographed a customer 
and employee sipping drinks inside 
Mother’s, then called the Gainesville 
Police Department. Ofﬁ  cers ordered 
that the pub remain closed until 
Feldman authorized otherwise, 
Schaller said. 
Feldman never did, and despite 
that, Mother’s opened again the next 
Friday. 
“Keep in mind that I am running 
a city in the middle of a pandemic,” 
Feldman said. “Not hearing from me 
is not a reason to just take it upon 
themselves and re-open.”
The inspector visited once again. 
He was unfriendly, Schaller said. He 
never smiled, except to tell the staff 
they were being shut down. Mother’s Pub to 
close University 
Avenue location
WHILE DATA DOESN’T SHOW A 
SIGNIFICANT INCREASE, 
LAW ENFORCEMENT
 ANTICIPATES A SHIFT
Grethel Aguila
Staff Writer
Editor’s note: If you or someone who know 
is experiencing domestic violence, please call 
Peaceful Paths for the organization’s 24/7 
helpline at 352-377-8255 or its outreach 
center at 352-377-5690. You can also call the 
United Way Help Hotline at 211. To report 
child abuse, please call 1-800-962-2873. 
Cases can also be reported online at https://
reportabuse/dcf/state.ﬂ  .us/.
COVID-19 has the state and Alachua Coun-
ty urging people to stay home. But domestic 
violence victim advocates are worried this 
could leave many stuck at home with their 
abusers. 
At a telephone town hall March 26, 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe said there’s re-cently been an uptick in domestic violence and 
child abuse calls in Alachua County. Art For-
gey, a spokesperson for the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, told The Alligator that while 
data shows a small spike, he anticipates a sig-
niﬁ  cant increase in the coming weeks.
However, he said it’s too early to tell if the 
uptick is correlated to the county’s stay-at-
home order, which has been in place since late 
March. Last week, Gov. Ron DeSantis declared 
a statewide stay-at-home order.
The statewide order requires local orders 
to use the same guidelines for businesses as 
outlined in the state’s list of essential services. 
In Alachua County, only one person is allowed 
per every 1,000 square feet in these locations, 
including places of worship. Gatherings are re-
stricted to 10 people and under.  
There have been 474 reported domestic 
abuse cases in the county during the last three 
months –– an increase of 18 calls compared to 
the same time last year, Forgey said. He said 
he did not have access to the number of re-
ported child abuse cases.
Alachua County isn’t alone. Domestic 
abuse has risen around the world since the beginning of lockdowns because of COVID-19.
Florida has the third-highest estimated 
number of domestic violence victims in the 
U.S., following Texas and California, accord-
ing to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention.
“There are more opportunities with kids 
being home now for that abuse to happen,” 
Forgey said. He added that there’s usually a 
rise in reported violence and abuse when peo-
ple stay home, such as during the holidays.
Although the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce is limiting ar-
rests, it will continue to make arrests in crimes 
such as murder, rape and abuse, he said. Ofﬁ  -
cers are working with the Florida Department 
of Children and Families to investigate any re-
ports of child abuse. 
The department has not witnessed an in-
crease in domestic violence victims seeking as-
sistance recently, Aly Coleman, a department 
spokesperson, wrote in an email. 
“However, emergencies and disasters often 
increase the frequency of violence by abusive 
partners, including isolating victims from fam-Domestic violence and child abuse rates up
SEE VIOLENCE,  PAGE 3 SEE MOTHER’S,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  82° LOW  67°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.SUNDAY’S AP HEADLINES
Fears of ‘Wild West’ as COVID-19 
blood tests hit the market
More than 70 companies 
have signed up to sell so-
called antibody tests, typically 
demanding a finger-prick of 
blood, for the COVID-19 virus 
in recent weeks, according to 
U.S. regulators. However, public 
health officials are concerned 
that the incoming influx of “Wild 
West” unregulated testing could 
create confusion that could slow 
down the recovery process. 
Instead of the current nasal swab-
based tests being used to diagnose 
the virus, the new tests look for 
blood proteins called antibodies, 
which the body produces days or 
weeks after fighting an infection. 
Because of the relative simplicity 
of the technology, the U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration decided 
to waive the initial review of the 
tests as part of its emergency 
response to the COVID-19 
outbreak. However, it is difficult 
to tell whether the antibody tests 
being distributed are legitimate. 
Officials in Laredo, Texas, 
reported this month that some 
2,500 antibody tests set for use at 
a local drive-thru testing site were 
likely fraudulent. 
In divergent Easter celebrations, 
prayers for virus victims
Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Easter traditions that have 
previously endured wars were 
upended across the globe as 
people celebrated the Christian 
holiday through alternate means. 
Parishioners from churches across 
New York City sang “Christ the 
Lord is Risen Today” from their 
balconies and windows as part 
of an online initiative called 
“Easter2020.” Another popular 
method of celebration was a 
drive-in Catholic mass, with more 
than 400 people in the central 
German city of Hildesheim taking 
part in listening to a sermon over 
the radio with their car doors and 
windows closed. Meanwhile, in 
Seoul’s Yoido Full Gospel Church, 
one of the biggest churches in 
South Korea, a select amount 
of people attended a service in 
person that was being broadcast online. The attendees sat far 
away from each other during the 
service, and the choir covered 
their faces with masks while they 
sang hymns. In the Vatican, Pope 
Francis offered special prayers for 
the sick, the dead, the elderly, 
refugees and the poor. 
Nursing home deaths soar past 
2,700 in an alarming surge
More than 2,700 deaths 
nationwide have been linked to 
COVID-19 outbreaks in nursing 
homes and long-term care 
facilities. The Associated Press 
has been keeping its own totals 
due to the federal government not 
releasing statistics of its own, and 
the latest count of 2,755 deaths is 
up 450 from 10 days ago. The true 
death toll is estimated to be higher, 
however, as the numbers do not 
count deaths of those who were 
never tested for COVID-19. This 
past week, the federal Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services 
that regulate nursing homes 
issued recommendations urging 
nursing homes to use separate 
staffing teams for residents and to 
designate separate facilities within 
nursing homes to keep COVID-19 
positive residents away from 
those who have tested negative. 
Dr. Deborah Birx, who leads the 
White House COVID-19 response, 
suggested this past week that as 
more COVID-19 tests become 
available, nursing homes should 
be a top priority.
OPEC, oil nations agree to nearly 
10 million barrel cut amid 
virus
OPEC, Russia and other oil-
producing nations finalized an 
unprecedented production cut 
of nearly 10 million barrels, or a 
tenth of the global oil supply, in 
hopes of boosting crashing prices 
amid the COVID-19 pandemic 
and a price war Sunday, officials 
said. The group of nations 
agreed to cut down to 9.7 million 
barrels a day beginning on May 
1, according to Mexico’s energy 
minister. The agreement comes 
after OPEC+ failed in March to 
reach an agreement on production 
cuts, sending prices tumbling. 
According to Nigeria’s Petroleum 
Resources Ministry, further cuts, including 8 million barrels a day 
from July through the end of the 
year and a 6 million barrel cut for 
16 months starting in 2021, are 
also a part of the deal. President 
Vladimir Putin held a joint call 
with Trump and Saudi King 
Salman to express support of the 
deal, and the Russian president 
spoke separately with Trump in 
which they continued to discuss 
the oil market situation as well as 
other issues.
Netanyahu gains strength as 
coalition deadline nears
After Israeli President Reuven 
Rivlin rejected a request to extend 
coalition talks between Israel’s 
two most powerful political 
parties, the possibility of an 
unprecedented fourth consecutive 
election in just over a year for 
the country could be positive 
for Prime Minister Benjamin 
Netanyahu.  Blue and White party 
leader Benny Gantz was initially 
given permission by Rivlin to 
create a new government and 
began to work on legislation 
that would have prevented 
Netanyahu from serving as prime 
minister in the future, but in a 
sudden turnabout, he accepted 
an invitation from Netanyahu 
to form a “national emergency” 
government to confront what 
was then a burgeoning COVID-19 
outbreak. The move results in 
a significant hit for the support 
of Gantz’s party, leaving it at 
almost half its original numbers, 
and he also lost the support of a 
significant partner in the secular 
and middle-class Yesh Atid 
party. Netanyahu, meanwhile, 
has earned favor in his handling 
of the COVID-19 crisis, and his 
newfound popularity could give 
Netanyahu the upper hand in last-
minute negotiations with Gantz, 
or position him well for a possible 
future election.
Turkish minister offers 
resignation over weekend 
lockdowns
The Turkish Interior Minister 
Suleyman Soylu offered his 
resignation late Sunday after a 
sudden 48-hour curfew related 
to COVID-19 across 31 cities that 
took Turkish citizens by surprise. 
Soylu, one of the most senior 
figures in Turkish President Recep 
Tayyip Erdogan’s government, 
wrote on Twitter that the poor 
timing of the curfew, which was 
announced two hours before it 
began and resulted in thousands 
of people rushing to the streets, 
“belonged entirely to (him).” 
Despite this, the Communications 
Ministry later issued a statement 
saying Soylu’s resignation had 
not been accepted and he would 
continue to serve.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 75
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@uﬂ  .edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Donny CunninghamDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Copy EditorCopy Desk Chiefs
Katelynn Joyner, kjoyner@alligator.org
Chloe GreenbergEllen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex De Luca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Calvin Martin, MD
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
NOW OPEN WEEKENDS 9am - 2pm
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation and 
treatment for:
• Respiratory Illness, Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Mon-Fri 8:00am-5:00pm, Sat-Sun 9:00am - 2:00pm
SIMEDHealth.com
AS OF SUNDAY NIGHT, 
NOBODY IN ALACHUA 
COUNTY HAS DIED 
FROM COVID-19
Sarah Mandile
Staff Writer
Livestreaming is not only being 
used for classes, meetings and hang-
outs. For families who choose to use 
Duncan Brothers’ Funeral Home’s 
end-of-life services, livestreams al-
low long-distance loved ones to join 
funerals without risking the spread of 
COVID-19.
In response to recent U.S. Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention 
guidelines, local funeral homes and 
cemeteries such as Duncan Brothers’ 
Funeral Home, Prairie Creek Conser-
vation Cemetery and Signature Me-
morial Funeral and Cremation Ser-
vices are adjusting to allow for social 
distancing and to prevent the spread 
of COVID-19. 
Since Gov. Ron DeSantis issued a 
statewide stay-at-home order March 
27, Duncan Brothers Funeral Home 
has worked to reduce contact by 
making arrangements with families 
over the phone and allowing only 10 
people to be present at gatherings, 
said Desmon Duncan-Walker, an of-
ﬁ  ce assistant at the funeral home lo-
cated near downtown Gainesville. 
The funeral home has not yet 
held a burial of someone who had 
COVID-19, Duncan-Walker said, but in the case of one, Duncan Brothers’ 
Funeral Home plans to follow guide-
lines from the CDC to protect staff 
and loved ones. 
According to the National Fu-
neral Directors Association, these 
guidelines include wearing proper 
personal protective equipment such 
as a facemask, face shield and dis-
posable gown while embalming the 
body as well as sanitizing equipment 
frequently and storing the body in 
a negative pressure room where air 
cannot escape.
At Prairie Creek Conservation 
Cemetery, which is located about 
six miles away from Paynes Prairie, 
family members will not be allowed 
to attend burials of those who passed 
from COVID-19. The burials will be 
conducted by one staff member, said 
Freddie Johnson, the executive direc-
tor.
The cemetery announced Thurs-
day on Facebook that all gatherings, 
including burials and digs, will also 
be restricted to 10 people. These re-
strictions will stay in place until CDC 
guidelines change, Johnson said. 
Johnson said that Prairie Creek 
hasn’t handled a burial of someone 
who passed from COVID-19 yet. As 
of Sunday night, nobody has died of 
COVID-19 in Alachua County
“In that case, our policy is to have 
no one in the immediate area of buri-
al and really to do it on our own,” 
Johnson said. He added that they 
would also provide photos or videos 
of the burial to help family members ﬁ  nd peace. At a later date, they will 
offer the opportunity for families to 
have a ceremony at the cemetery.
There will also be additional sani-
tation of tools and equipment used 
for all burials, Johnson said.
Prairie Creeks plans to analyze 
each non-COVID-19 related burial on 
a case-by-case basis in order to have 
a limit of 10 people present, Johnson 
said. One possibility, he said, would 
be to have nine family members and 
friends and one staff member pres-
ent.
Tony Tanner, the owner of Signa-
ture Memorial Funeral and Cremation 
Services located in East Gainesville, 
said they have been replacing tradi-
tional church funeral services with 
graveside ones. Holding the service 
outdoors, he said, allows families to 
practice social distancing if they wish. 
“Any funeral service outside still 
gives the family the opportunity to 
gain closure and exercise tradition,” 
Tanner said. 
Duncan-Walker said that while 
this has been a hard time for funer-
al homes, she recognizes the even 
greater challenges faced by grieving 
families and loved ones who can’t be 
around each other due to social dis-
tancing. 
“It’s a challenge,” Duncan-Walker 
said. “We’re doing our best to bal-
ance compassion with adhering to 
the guidelines.”
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgFunerals accomodate to COVID-19
That evening, Feldman offered 
to help reopen the pub. By then, 
Schaller made up his mind.
“I’ve been trying to hold it 
together for my staff as much as 
I can,” he said. “But you know 
when you feel like you’re getting 
no support from the city you pay 
taxes to? It gets very frustrating.”
Corporate businesses aren’t 
being forced to close, he said. 
Meanwhile, he’d heard a 
rumor that struggling bars were 
ﬁ  ling complaints against their 
competitors to try and gain an 
upper hand. He even heard that speak-easies had opened around 
town. 
The stress made sleeping 
difﬁ  cult. 
He posted to Facebook late 
Friday night and announced 
Mother’s closing. He didn’t tell his 
employees beforehand. 
“Our sales numbers have 
dropped almost 80 percent,” he 
said. “You’re trying to keep the 
doors open, keep employees paid, 
and you’re getting pounded by the 
city. Finally, it becomes too much. 
It just explodes.”
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgMOTHER’S,  from pg. 1
ily, friends, and support systems,” Coleman wrote.
The number of child abuse reports in Florida decreased 
from 26,113 in February to 23,080 in March, Coleman wrote. 
She noted that reports are lower when children are on break 
from school because they don’t see their teachers, who are 
required to report child abuse.
For former victims of domestic abuse like Abigail-Ann 
Hartwick, increased time at home from COVID-19 is concern-
ing. 
Hartwick, 29, was pregnant in Minnesota when she was 
physically abused for the ﬁ  rst time, she said. She was driving 
when her abuser slammed the brakes of the car, smashing her into the dashboard.
The abuse, which became verbal after she gave birth to 
their ﬁ  rst child, eventually evolved into kicking, shoving and 
pushing. It continued for six years until Hartwick took a leap 
of faith, escaping her abuser and driving to Gainesville with 
her children to begin a new life.
“I can’t even explain why it took six and a half years to 
draw that line,” Hartwick said. 
The county sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce refers victims to services such 
as Peaceful Paths where they can seek help, Forgey said.
Theresa Beachy, the executive director of Peaceful Paths, 
a local domestic violence support network agency, said 
about 60 victims reaching out to the network for legal as-
sistance during March when COVID-19 began to reach the 
area. With this jump from the monthly average of 52 for legal 
assistance, she expects an average of 225 calls a month to the 
agency’s helpline to rise by about a quarter as well. 
On April 1, a woman was battered into a medically in-duced coma by her boyfriend, Elmer R. Cortes, according to 
a Gainesville Police arrest report. Cortes is accused of beating 
the victim after she told him she cheated, telling police he 
was concerned with being infected by COVID-19.
Beachy fears incidents like these will happen more often 
because the situation with COVID-19 can give abusers power 
and control over their victims. 
The North Central Florida-based domestic abuse agen-
cy offers crisis counseling, emergency sheltering, support 
groups and legal assistance, Beachy said. Given the recent 
increase in domestic violence incidents, the organization is 
fully staffed on a rotational basis to help victims with hous-
ing.
“We want to make sure that victims understand they are 
not alone during this crisis,” she said. 
 @GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgVIOLENCE,  from pg. 1474 domestic abuse casesLauren Witte // Alligator Staff
Employees covered the windows of Mother’s Pub and Grill with 
paper to block the inside from view. Later, inspectors found two 
people drinking inside, a violation of new city ordinances. 
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MusicGNV to host Safe At Home live virtual concert Friday
The event is free via their Facebook page and will feature 
local artists Matthew Fowler, Baer and the Lady and more.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Courtesty to the Alligator
Kathryn Davis and Abbey 
pose for a picture after being 
united by Faithful Friends Pet 
Rescue and Rehoming. Many 
Gainesville animal shelters have 
seen an increase in adoptions 
amid the COVID-19 crisis.
ANIMAL SHELTERS 
IN GAINESVILLE SEE 
AN INCREASE IN 
ADOPTIONS 
AMID COVID-19
Katie Delk
Avenue Staff Writer
When Kathryn Davis met Ab-
bey, a white and black English 
Pointer with three dotted circles 
along her back, she felt as though 
a string of fate had brought them 
together. 
Abbey was found wander-
ing the streets of the Panhandle, 
pregnant with 12 puppies out of 
which nine survived. Called “Pia” 
at the time of her adoption, Davis 
renamed Abbey after her favorite 
Beatles album, “Abbey Road.” 
Abbey and Davis were ﬁ  rst in-
troduced at Petsmart after Davis, 
a 58-year-old Gainesville resident, 
chose Abbey from Faithful Friends 
Pet Rescue and Rehoming a few 
weeks prior. 
The adoption came six weeks 
after Davis’ last English Pointer, 
Sophie, passed away. Davis said in the aftermath of her death, the 
silence was deafening.
“I decided that I was so devas-
tated after my last one passed that 
I wanted to take some time,” she 
said. “But it didn’t take that long 
before I was like, ‘I’m not thriv-
ing.’”
When they met, Abbey bound-
ed over to Davis and lept onto her 
shoulders.
“I felt like it was like a hug,” she 
said. “And it was immediate.” 
Just like Abbey, more pets from 
Haile’s Angels Pet Rescue and 
Faithful Friends Pet Rescue and 
Rehoming have found families in 
recent weeks. However, these in-
creased adoption rates have not 
come without substantial change.
Before COVID-19, the shelter 
held adoption events every Sat-
urday at Petsmart. Now, adop-
tions are processed one at a time 
with as few people as possible at 
a prearranged location. To prevent 
contact, all payments and medical 
records are handled online. 
Foster parents who house the 
animals until they ﬁ  nd a perma-
nent home receive supplies like 
food, a bed and cat litter to their homes so they don’t have to go 
out and pick them up. According 
to Lillian Richards, a 20-year-old 
Gainesville resident and secretary 
at Faithful Friends, more animals 
are being fostered.
“There has been a surge in 
foster applications because with 
people home because their school 
has moved online or they’re now 
working from home, they have the 
ability to now,” she said.
This week, two dogs and a 
handful of cats at Haile’s Angels 
Pet Rescue already have foster 
families ready to pick them up. 
“I feel that more people are 
stepping up to foster,” Jessica Mes-
tas, a 21-year-old adoption coun-
selor, said. “So we’ll have no ani-
mals in the rescue, which allows us 
to save and pull more animals into 
the rescue and just ﬁ  nd them foster 
homes.”
Currently, dog adoptions are up, 
but cat adoptions have decreased.
“Usually if you go looking for 
a cat, you kind of meet a couple 
and just ﬁ  nd one that you like,” 
Mestas said. “You don’t really fall 
in love with their picture. So I feel 
like adoptions are kind of taking a hit, but our dog adoptions are do-
ing wonderful.”
Despite the increase in adop-
tions, the animal shelter is strug-
gling ﬁ  nancially. Every April, 
Haile’s Angels participates in The 
Amazing Give, a platform that 
raises money for nonproﬁ  ts in 
North Central Florida. The event 
has been canceled and will result 
in an estimated loss of $20,000 for 
the shelter.
“Funds and fundraising are deﬁ  -
nitely taking a hit right now as well 
because there’s not a lot of people 
at work, so not a lot of people are 
able to donate money,” she said.
Despite losses, the pets are still 
managing to ﬁ  nd homes.
For Davis, who lives alone, her 
dogs, including Abbey, have been 
a source of warmth in these cold 
and lonely times.
“You see them when you come 
through the door, and you’re so 
happy to see them,” Davis said. 
They love you no matter what.” 
@katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.org
IT’S A TALE OF VIEW-MASTERS 
AND TOILET PAPER FEUDS
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
When University of Florida theatre pro-
fessor and actor Charlie Mitchell proposed to 
Hippodrome State Theatre current artistic di-
rector Stephanie Lynge, he had a View-Mas-
ter toy custom-made for her, like the ones 
they had when they were kids.
The ﬁ  lm reel displayed pictures of her 
when she looked inside. On the last slide, the 
text read, “And I have a question for you.”
Mitchell then proposed, hoping she would 
say yes.
“Is this for real?” Lynge responded. And 
then, she said yes.
The pair met when Lynge moved to 
Gainesville to obtain her master’s degree in 
acting from UF in 2011. Mitchell, though he 
doesn’t teach in the master’s program, met 
Lynge through the School of Theatre and 
Dance, where the two hit it off right off the 
bat.
The two, who were both in their 40s at 
the time, were friends for about a year be-
fore they started dating. While some couples 
might ﬁ  nd the transition jolting, the two said 
it was easy for them.“I said, ‘Hey, I’m gonna ask you out. 
Cool?’ He said yes.” Lynge said. “When you 
get to be this age, you just kind of put your 
cards on the table.”
Prior to getting engaged, the two dated for 
about seven years, seeing shows and work-
ing on them together.
Memorably, one of their ﬁ  rst dates con-
sisted of seeing a show that Mitchell said he 
knew would be terrible prior to asking Lynge 
to tag along.
“I think I spent the rest of our relationship 
apologizing,” Mitchell said.
“Yeah, he has.” Lynge said.
Sharing the same passion, theatre is es-
sential to the couple’s relationship and their 
lives. Lynge reads Mitchell’s scripts as he 
writes them, and he gives her input for her 
shows at the Hippodrome. 
“We have a policy of brutal honesty with 
each other when it comes to art,” Mitchell 
said.
Outside of seeing plays, the couple loves 
to travel and often gets the opportunity to go 
to different places thanks to their work. They 
enjoy going hiking in the places they travel; 
one particular favorite was visiting the Dolo-
mites mountain range in Northern Italy.
The couple married in March 2019 at 
the Haile Village Center Plantation Hall in 
Gainesville, surrounded by their friends and 
family. Since then, Mitchell doesn’t ﬁ  nd that their relationship has needed to change in 
any way.
“I think (our relationship) has always 
been strong,” Mitchell said. “I know some 
couples talk about how it deepens and de-
velops. I think it’s been strong since the be-
ginning.”
In fact, while Mitchell introduced the 
View-Master seven years into their rela-
tionship, he’d set his sights on proposing a 
couple years earlier in 2015 when he cast 
Lynge in a play he directed called “The Snow 
Queen,” which ends with a proposal.
“‘The Snow Queen’ was really sort of 
my way of proposing, but I didn’t have the 
nerve to do it,” said Mitchell. Lynge didn’t 
catch on until after their engagement.
Now almost a month after their one-year 
anniversary, Lynge and Mitchell said they 
get along well with each other, even in quar-
antine. The couple rarely argues, settling 
their disagreements with the philosophy 
“whoever cares most wins,” citing only one 
exception to their rule.
Should the toilet paper roll hang over or 
under?
“Obviously it’s under,” Mitchell said.
“It’s clearly over, and he’s wrong,” Lynge 
said.
For a couple whose joint passion revolves 
entirely around the theatrics, the pair’s re-
lationship is best characterized by featuring little to no spectacle at all.
“We keep our drama on the stage,” Mitch-
ell said.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgCats and dogs sniff out new homes 
Behind the curtain on a Gainesville acting couple
LIFESTYLE
THEATRE
Supporting local music is more 
important now than ever. Here 
are the Avenue’s favorite hits 
by Gainesville artists.
SPOTIFYSOME TURNED TO TECHNOLOGY 
TO SUBSTITUTE FOR TRADITION
Kaelyn Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
In 2019, parishioners at Saint Augustine 
Church sat in the dark the sunset before 
Easter for a vigil on Holy Saturday. Father 
David Ruchinski stood outside the church 
across from the University of Florida’s 
campus lighting a candle from an Easter 
ﬁ  re to bring into the church. 
Ruchinski started to say a prayer out-
side — the church overlooking UF’s foot-
ball hub, Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. That’s 
when country singer Garth Brooks took the 
stadium as his own and began singing to a 
crowd of 75,000 people. 
“Christ yesterday and today,” Ruchinski 
began to say to the church’s crowd, but he 
was interrupted by a roar from the audi-
ence down the street.
He thought he’d never have such an un-
usual Easter mass again. 
He laughed as he told an Alligator re-porter the story but also felt disappointed 
since this year’s Holy Saturday tradition 
was just as unusual. His sermon was deliv-
ered to an empty church and livestreamed 
as COVID-19 concerns caused the place of 
worship to close to the public until further 
notice. 
And due to a stay-at-home order is-
sued in Alachua County, only one person 
is allowed per every 1,000 square feet for 
businesses, including places of worship. 
Gatherings are restricted to 10 people and 
under. 
The service was livestreamed on Face-
book and Instagram in both English and 
Spanish. Ruchinski delivered his sermon 
on camera, and a few other people were in 
the room to help him with the video and to 
read texts from the Bible.
More than 1,000 people watched the 
church’s live stream as he spoke to an au-
dience whose faces he couldn’t see inside a 
church that is usually packed wall-to-wall.
“They could watch the pope do mass 
on video, they could watch a livestreamed 
mass from some celebrity priest some-
where, they could watch the livestreamed mass from their local parish or just skip it 
altogether,” he said. “But they didn’t be-
cause this parish is their house.”
During his livestreamed sermon, 
Ruchinski said the message of Easter is 
that “today ought to be different.” 
“Maybe this disruption in the normalcy 
of our lives puts us more into the frame of 
mind of those early Christians who went 
to the tomb that morning and found that 
something that they had never expected 
has happened,” he said.
Easter is always busy and full of family 
for Catholic UF student Makayla Denney. 
The 19-year-old nursing sophomore usually 
drives from Orlando, Florida to Sebastian, 
Florida in the morning to attend a church 
service with her grandparents. Afterward, 
she makes a cake in the shape of a bunny 
— coconut shavings, jelly beans and all 
— with her siblings and grandmother. At 
dinnertime, they usually sorted themselves 
to the kid’s table or with the adults to eat 
ham, potatoes, asparagus and turkey.
But this year was quiet. 
It was just her, her parents and her 
younger brother. They couldn’t go to her grandparent’s house. They couldn’t go to 
church. She couldn’t wear her Easter out-
ﬁ  t, a pastel-colored romper she planned 
weeks before the holiday.
But she tried. She made a bunny cake 
without her grandmother’s help, saw a 
church service online, and attended a fam-
ily Easter dinner over Zoom, a video con-
ference provider. 
“I feel like this time is supposed to be 
a happy time, especially for the people in 
my religion, and we’re supposed to be cel-
ebrating,” she said. “But it’s kind of hard 
to celebrate when you can’t do the things 
you’re used to or the things that make you 
really happy.”
Despite some of the disappointment, 
Denney said she sees some positives in 
staying at home.
“This quarantine, in general, has given 
me a lot of time to reﬂ  ect on my personal 
religion and been able to see where I can 
improve,” she said. “It’s given me the time 
and mindset to do that.”
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
Over the past few weeks, we’ve all made 
sacrifices for the health and safety 
of our families and our community. 
Few have sacrificed more than the 
many small business owners who have 
suspended operations to prevent the 
spread of COVID-19. 
Therefore, we would like to extend this 
special offer of 50% off  to all local 
businesses  who would like to open up a 
new print campaign with us.
We’re all in this together, and we’ll get 
through this together.
MEAL KITS, A VIRTUAL SEDER AND 
CARE PACKAGES WERE FUNDED WITH 
COMMUNITY SUPPORT
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 2,000 people in UF’s Jewish community at 
Chabad used to get together to eat kugel, brisket and mat-
zo to celebrate Passover. 
That’s all changed this year as COVID-19 forces the 
community to stay home. Due to a stay-at-home order is-
sued in Alachua County, only one person is allowed per 
every 1,000 square feet for businesses, including places of 
worship. Gatherings are restricted to 10 people and under. 
Passover, which is a celebration of the birth of the Jew-
ish nation and its freedom from slavery in Egypt, lasts 
from sundown on April 8 to the evening of April 16. To 
keep Passover’s tradition alive, UF’s Jewish community 
center took requests for Seder kits to-go for more than 
200 Jewish people in need. The Seder, a ritual feast, uses 
a plate of symbolic items to tell the holiday’s history, said 
Rabbi Berl Goldman, the director of the Lubavitch Chabad 
Jewish Center at UF.
The kits included a Seder plate, a printed guide that went through each step of the Seder and its food. The kits 
followed both Passover’s kosher requirements and health 
precautions from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention during assembly, Goldman said.
“We’re going to do this all in true Jewish, Gator Seder 
style,” he said.
Meals were given out on Tuesday between 4 and 6 p.m. 
in the center’s parking lot, located at 2021 NW Fifth Ave. 
Staff wore masks and gloves, and Goldman said people 
who could not pick up their kits had them delivered.
The center is paying for the kits with donations from 
a fundraiser page, which has a goal of $100,000 and has 
raised more than $48,000 as of Sunday evening. And the 
center will provide more meals to last until the end of 
Passover up to Tuesday. People can apply for these meals 
on the Jewish center’s website.
UF Chabad was not the only organization offering a 
“Gator Seder.” UF Hillel, located at 2020 W. University 
Ave., hosted a Seder over Zoom while also sending out 
do-it-yourself Passover Seder kits and care packages con-
taining a surprise. 
Rabbi Jonah Zinn, UF Hillel’s executive director, led 
the Seder Wednesday evening from 6-7 p.m. and said peo-
ple were able to sign up on UF Hillel’s website to prevent 
“Zoom bombing” or intentional hacking on the video con-
ferencing service.Hannah Lamberg signed up for the online Seder and 
received a DIY kit. The 22-year-old UF psychology and 
English senior said it gave her the opportunity to connect 
with other Jewish people and celebrate the holiday. 
During the Seder, Lamberg led a prayer in English when 
the stream’s participants were asked to help with the read-
ings. The kit was just as accommodating, directing her 
through the Seder and even having vegetarian substitutes 
at her request, she said. 
“It was deﬁ  nitely much more than I was expecting,” 
she said.
UF Hillel is still offering Passover care packages 
throughout the holiday on its website.
The funding is from Hillel itself, and Zinn said they 
beneﬁ  t from the generosity of alumni, parents and com-
munity members, but was unaware of the total cost. 
UF Hillel plans to continue to do things like this, he 
said, as long as students need it.
“Even though we’re all sort of separate right now, we 
want them to still feel that they’re part of a broader UF 
Jewish community,” Zinn said.
@ajbafer
abafer@alligator.orgGainesville Jewish community overcomes social distancing for Passover
Worshippers celebrate Easter diﬀ  erently in a time with COVID-19BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
Real-time Online Auction
Tuesday, April 21st, 2020 at 10AM
Vehicles (pick-up trucks, vans, SUV’s), trail-
ers, excavating equipment and construction 
equipment including 2015 Honda CR-V SUV, 
2012 Nissan NV3500 HD S Van and more! 
18% BP will apply. $100 ref. deposit. “As is, 
where is”. Live-stream auction event! Pick-
up/removal: Jacksonville, FL. 
Preview: by appt. Call for details (954) 
252-2887.
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditor 
Cases: Gutter Cap of Florida, Inc. 16-
2020-CA-001526-
XXXX-MA and Demay, Inc. 16-2020-CA-
001532-XXXX-MA
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin        4-13-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.
org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-22-20-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Tutor for High Energy Calcs for the universe. 
Need help for personal project to further un-
derstand how the universe works at large 
scales. Perhaps a Grad or Doctoral Student in 
Astrophysics, during weekends for 4 to 8 hours 
at your location, for $40 an hour and some free 
beer. call Bob Gaunt at 860-575-1177     2-11-
20-7-14
Nude Performers 24 / 7
Cafe Risque
352-466-3803
Auditions Ongoing
Sunday & Monday 11AM - Noon
18+ Bring Valid ID
5-12-20-14
Calling Artists, Engineering, Construction, 
Education & Community Majors! Maker 
Summer Day Camp Now Hiring! Do you like 
making crazy things, Getting dirty, Playing 
with kids, with Lots of Laughs along the way? 
Come work with us this summer! F/T $12/hr 
More info at www.masterbuildercamp.com      
5-14-20-20-141For Rent
furnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
LAW SCHOOL/ GOLF COURSE ADJACENT
5BR/3BA
Available August 1st. Rent $2100/mo
Call 904-862-1009    3-30-20-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of pos-
sible buyers!
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels? Want 
to sell? Try the Alligator Classifieds!BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Kurt Krauss
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/13/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/13/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 13, 2020
ACROSS
1 Time gone by
5 Wedding VIPs 
with playlists
8 Shot of liquor
14 Do recon at, as 
an enemy camp
16 Collection of 
beehives
17 Colorful Top 10 
Beatles hit
19 Apple mobile 
platform
20 “When is a door 
not a door?,” e.g.
21 Colorful Top 10 
Prince hit
26 GPS suggestions
27 Bad picnic omen
28 Treasure 
container
33 Vienna’s land: 
Abbr.
34 Delhi dress
36 Hamm’s “Mad 
Men” role
37 Colorful Top 10 
Lemon Pipers hit
40 Open, as a 
present
41 “Jeopardy!” first 
name
42 Moon lander, for 
short
43 English county on 
the North Sea
44 Absorbed, as a 
cost
45 A bit, in music
46 Colorful Top 10 
Rolling Stones hit
49 __ of Liberty
53 Granola kernel
54 Colorful Top 10 
Santana hit
60 Portable HP, say
61 All tangled up
62 Dwell constantly 
(on)
63 Home of MLB’s 
Cardinals
64 A few
DOWN
1 College maj. for a 
future therapist
2 Trick taker, 
usually
3 Note after fa
4 Dutch floral 
export
5 Search for water
6 Gravy, on menus7 Guy’s name 
spelled with 
an alphabet 
sequence
8 Pack very tightly
9 Apple tablet
10 Encircle with a 
belt
11 O’Grady of 
“NYPD Blue”
12 Sea eagle
13 Corned beef 
on __
15 Home Depot 
purchase
18 Petrol pumper
21 Czech Republic 
capital
22 About-faces
23 Adjusts, as a 
hem
24 __ avis
25 Lively, in music
28 Central idea
29 Kramden laugh 
syllable
30 Literary wrap-up
31 Five Nations 
tribe
32 Aftershock
34 Munchies, in 
adspeak
35 Novak Djokovic’s 
org.36 Anonymous John
38 Before, old-style
39 Huffed and 
puffed
44 Length times 
width, for a 
rectangle
45 Hoaxes
46 Dirt road 
irregularities
47 Diet-friendly
48 Carpentry tools
49 Concrete section50 Lights-out music
51 Part of un drame
52 Bout enders, 
briefly
54 Rain-__ gum
55 PX patrons
56 Bad result for 
a QB
57 Cultural 
Revolution 
chairman
58 Branch
59 Phillies’ div.
By Gary Larson
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/07/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/07/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 7, 2020
ACROSS
1 Unresponsive 
state
5 Loosen up, to a 
pitcher
10 Light bulb unit
14 Welcoming
15 African howler
16 “Sin City” actress 
Jessica
17 *New Jersey city 
on Raritan Bay
19 Thick slice
20 Semicircle, say
21 Green Gables girl
22 Kick back
23 Comic Smirnoff
25 *Leader of the 
pack
28 Wiener schnitzel 
meat
30 Red Sea country
31 Trembling trees
34 Terrier’s sound
35 Disney frame
38 *It prohibits 
unreasonable 
searches and 
seizures
42 Boy king
43 Mr. Rogers
44 Cleared from the 
board
45 Family car
48 Elvis’ middle 
name
49 *Light-bulb-over-
the-head instance
52 Sherpa’s land
56 Large pears
57 Actress Skye
59 The “E” in BCE
60 Boo-boo
61 Spam relatives ...  
and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
64 Tease mercilessly
65 Curved moldings
66 Frozen drink 
brand
67 Souvenir shop 
apparel
68 Lyrics
69 Rx items
DOWN
1 Insured’s 
contribution
2 Wagner work
3 Pharmaceutical 
giant4 Industrious 
crawler
5 Word in a 
comparison
6 Pew book
7 Buck the system
8 Beatle bride
9 “No __!”: “Uh-uh!”
10 Message on a 
dusty car
11 NATO and 
others
12 Pre-Little League 
game
13 Card-playing 
surface
18 Lack, briefly
22 Cell pic taker
24 Walkie-talkie 
word
26 Combustible pile
27 Playboy founder 
Hugh
29 Hindu retreat
31 Away from the 
bow
32 Trifling amount
33 Saves for later
34 __ Ray, one of 
folk rock’s Indigo 
Girls
36 Chicago-to-
Lansing dir.37 Inc., in England
39 Top of the line
40 Went on and on
41 Pride of lions?
46 Show hosts
47 One side of a 
two-column list of 
rules
48 Made up (for)
49 Scrub the launch
50 Mandel of 
“America’s Got 
Talent”51 San Fran  
gridder
53 Tranquility
54 Packing heat
55 Does high-tech 
eye surgery on
58 Legendary  
loch
61 Milk source
62 Previously
63 Pronoun that’s 
a homonym of a 
religious song
04/06/20
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020   ALLIGATOR   7
NOTICE OF VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a virtual public meeting via 
communications media technology to which all 
interested persons are invited.
DATE AND TIME: April 20, 2020 at 3:00 p.m.
PLACE: For Information To Access the Virtual 
Public Meeting Telephone 352.955.2200, ex-
tension 114 or Visit the Following Website
http://ncfrpc.org/mtpo/index.html
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning) or 
may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida one week prior to the 
meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a virtual meeting 
via communications media technology The 
meeting is a virtual public meeting, as permit-
ted by Florida Governor’s Executive Order No. 
2020-69. The public may submit comments 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area through email (escalante@ncfrpc.org) or 
by calling into the public comment message 
line when prompted to call during the meeting. 
Public comment will be taken by telephone for all 
non-ministerial items on which the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area votes. Once public 
comment is opened for an item under discus-
sion, please call the public comment telephone 
number and follow the instructions to leave 
your recorded message for the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area. Callers should 
leave their name and limit comments to 
two minutes. In addition, the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization will open 
telephone lines for one 30 minute public com-
ment session for the public to discuss items not 
on the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area 
agenda. Public comment during the public com-
ment session will be limited to two minutes per 
each caller. The public is encouraged to submit 
any written or photographic documents prior to 
the meeting to escalante@ncfrpc.org. Any ques-
tions regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area 
Office at 352.955.2200., extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommodations 
under the Americans with Disabilities Act or 
persons who require translation services (free 
of charge) should contact Michael Escalante at 
352.955.2200, extension 114, at least 48 hours 
prior to the public meeting.             4-13-20-1-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Cashiers & Gate Attendants
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy
working with the public. High energy and low 
drama is a must! Must have your own
transportation and availability to work nights, 
holidays and weekends. Apply in person 
ONLY @ GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. 
High Springs, Florida 32643
3-30-20-6-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-15
AVIATION Careers start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification in airframe and pow -
erplant. Financial aid if qualified. No experience 
required. Call AIM 888-242-2649.    4-13-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.14 Help Wanted 20 Events/Notices
1. ACRONYMS: What does the ZIP postal code 
stand for?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What is the longest river in the 
United States?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What was Walt Dis -
ney's middle name?
4. BUSINESS: Which company owns the Lamborghini 
line of sports cars and SUVs?
5. FOOD & DRINK: What is the primary ingredient 
in the snack hummus?6. MYTHOLOGY: Where was Achilles' vulnerable spot?
7. MOVIES: In the thriller "Die Hard," what was the 
name of the high-rise building where the action took 
place?
8. SCIENCE: Which part of the atom has no electri -
cal charge?
9. ENTERTAINERS: Which actress/singer's nickname 
was The Divine Miss M?
10. TELEVISION: Which 1970s comedy series 
spawned the spinoff series "Maude"?
answers below
answers below
answers below
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
Even Exchange  answers Sudoku solution1. Zone Improvement Plan
2. Missouri River
3. Elias
4. Volkswagen
5. Chickpeas
6. His heel
7. Nakatomi Plaza
8. The neutron
9. Bette Midler
10. "All in the Family"Trivia Test  answers1.     Onion, Orion
2.     Lament, Latent
3.     Silly, Sally
4.     Falter, Filter
5.     Wager, Water6.     Pillow, Willow
7.     Think, Thing
8.     Hangar, Hanger
9.     Patch, Pitch
10.   Bubble, Bumble
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSFormer Gators center Gorjok 
Gak announced he will end his 
career at Cal Baptist as a grad 
transfer. Gak’s time at UF was 
plagued by injuries, playing just 
46 games in four years.Dexter pegged as an impact freshman for 2020
Florida incoming freshman defensive lineman Gervon Dexter was one of 
20 newcomers labeled as a player to watch by CBS Sports. The five-star 
signee is the No. 1 player in Florida in the 2020 class, per 247Sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 13, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
1 728 WEST UNIVERSITY AVENUE
1 728 WEST UNIVERSITY AVENUE
1 728 WEST UNIVERSITY AVENUE
takeaw ay orders
available
F rom t he b a ck pat io
hours: 11 a m-8 pm
@TheSocialMidtown
www.thesocialgnv.com@TheSocialGNVWOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
It was the spring of 2017. Zada Williams had 
just left the University of Miami’s basketball 
program a few months prior when the season 
concluded. Now, with the intent to transfer, 
she was in the upstairs conference room at the 
University of Florida’s basketball complex to 
meet with Florida coach Cam Newbauer. 
During the meeting, there was an obvious 
player-coach connection that was more than 
the basketball. It was supposed to be about 
hoops, but that was just the surface of what 
the conversation meant. 
It meant a new start. But not just for Zada, 
for a program and a coach. And Newbauer, 
brand new to UF himself at the time, knew it. 
He knew it with less than a full half of bas-
ketball.
“We were that strongly convicted of seeing 
16 minutes of game ﬁ  lm from her sophomore 
year,” Newbauer said. “I told her ‘We are con-
vinced with what we’ve seen on ﬁ  lm, that you 
can be an impact player for our program.’”
Then? Tears. Tears and a commitment to a 
new school. 
After spending two seasons at Miami and 
only playing a combined 35 games for the Hur-
ricanes, she decided to leave Coral Gables after 
the 2016-17 season. She then joined Newbauer, 
who had just left Belmont University in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, for UF. Three years later, her 
redshirt senior season is complete. With a like-ly trip to the NIT taken from the Gators by the 
concerns surrounding COVID-19, Williams did 
not know the loss against No. 7 LSU in the SEC 
tournament would be her ﬁ  nal game. 
Still, the starting forward was instrumental 
in Florida’s resurgent team this past year. The 
2019-20 squad ﬁ  nished 15-15 (6-10 SEC). That 
is a seven-win improvement from the 2018-19 
team that went 8-23 (3-13 SEC).
What caused the turnaround? 
There’s a plethora of factors, but Williams 
was undoubtedly near the top of the list. Af-
ter sitting out in 2017-18 due to NCAA transfer 
rules and starting 13 games in 2018-19, she be-
came a centerpiece for this year’s team. 
Most notably, she is the ﬁ  fth-most efﬁ  cient 
scorer in program history, shooting the ball at 
a 54.7 percent rate. That efﬁ  ciency is thanks to 
her versatility. 
She has the physical presence and aggres-
sion of a forward with the shooting touch 
and footwork of a guard. Her father, Kindreek 
Williams, said playing multiple positions was 
nothing new to Zada. 
“When she got into basketball playing little 
league, we had her play all ﬁ  ve positions,” 
Kindreek said. “She was the point guard that 
pushed the ball up the ﬂ  oor. She was the wing 
that’d catch and shoot. She was the center 
that’d go down low.” 
Her skill set was on full display this season. 
Shooting 62 percent for the year, Zada aver-
aged just over 10 points per game while playing 
an average of 25 minutes per game. But at her ﬁ  rst college home, this was the 
very thing that caused her departure. Her sec-
ond season in Coral Gables was supposed to 
be the year she saw meaningful minutes in col-
lege. Unfortunately for Zada, Miami felt differ-
ently. 
“Sophomore year we had a couple people 
graduating,” Zada said. “So I was like ‘OK, if 
I bust my tail over the summer, I can work 
my way into position (to play).’ But the team 
didn’t feel as though that was right.”
Florida did. 
Newbauer’s philosophy on the court in-
cludes a ﬁ  nesse style for his post players. He 
prefers somebody that can skillfully be part of 
the offense rather than have to overpower op-
ponents. So a forward with a background in 
guard play was perfect for the Gators. 
“She’s got really good hands and feet, and 
I saw that in the ﬁ  lm,” Newbauer said. “With 
how she could catch the ball and how she 
could ﬁ  nish, I knew how we would utilize our 
forwards, especially an undersized forward like 
her.” 
So, after UM and Zada parted ways, she 
joined the Gators, and a new era began in her 
college hoops career. But this chapter started 
the same way the ﬁ  rst one did: without play-
ing. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org/sports
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgZada Williams calls it a career at Florida
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Contributor
Zada Williams averaged 10.2 
points and a team-best 7.2 
rebounds per game in her senior 
season.
