We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Thinking about speeding?
I-75 could have new speeding cameras, pg. 4
Can UF charge for health insurance? 
UF health insurance waiver due Friday, pg. 4SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGators softball No. 5 in 
Preseason Coaches’ Poll
Season begins Feb. 7 in T ampa vs. Illinois 
State, pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 48
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
1. Credit approval required and initial $50 opening deposit required. Offer is for new checking accounts only. Offer subject to change without notice. Member must elect to receive eDocuments within the first 90 days, deposit over $200 per month for the first 3 months, and use their debit card 
6 times within the first 3 months. If the requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT. 2. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. 
Member must elect to receive eDocuments. 3. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required. Federally insured by the NCUA.
ANTI-WAR PROTESTS
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Jamie Douglas, an 18-year-old UF telecommunication sophomore, chants in solidarity with Iranian 
and Iraqi people at an anti-war demonstration on Turlington Plaza Wednesday afternoon. 
EMERGENCY PARTY 
ELECTION TO BE HELD 
MONDAY
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
The Inspire Party Leader an-
nounced his resignation after 
Tuesday night’s Senate meeting.
An election to replace Ben Lima 
will be held at the weekly caucus 
meeting Monday night, Assistant 
Minority Leader Santiago Clavijo-
Gomez said. Clavijo-Gomez said 
he is serving as Acting Minority Leader until the election.
Senators must be nominated 
at the meeting to run for ofﬁ  ce, 
and senators can nominate them-
selves, Clavijo-Gomez said. 
He said he expects to be nomi-
nated and plans to run for minor-
ity party leader and that Legisla-
tive Director Claudia Paola Tio 
messaged him and other senators 
announcing that she is planning 
to run. 
Lima said he is stepping down 
to focus on his grades and exams. 
The 21-year-old UF political sci-
ence senior plans to attend law school and is in the process of 
preparing to take the LSAT, the 
law school aptitude test, in Feb-
ruary.
“This is a position that re-
quires 100 percent commitment 
and attention,” he said. “I’ve 
been in this for two-plus years, 
and I really just need to focus on 
academics right now.”
He is a member of Inspire and 
will ﬁ  nish his term as a senator 
for District D.
In addition to serving as a 
District D senator, Lima said he 
served as Inspire president from Fall 2017 to Spring 2018, a cam-
paign manager in Fall 2018 and 
2019 and minority leader from 
Fall 2019 until his resignation. 
Lima formally announced In-
spire’s creation and founding 
pillars as the party’s inaugural 
president during the Fall 2017 
election. He has been a consistent 
party leader and member since its 
inception.
Lima announced the resolu-
tion to impeach Student Body 
President Michael Murphy in Fall. 
Lima was one of two senators 
forced to resign their seat over the Summer after he was deemed 
“constructively absent” by then-
Senate President Libby Shaw, 
putting him over the absence lim-
it. He appealed his resignation, 
but it failed. 
Inspire won the majority of 
votes in Fall for the ﬁ  rst time. 
Lima was a campaign manager 
during the election, and he was 
elected a District D senator.
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgTWO DEANS DIDN’T 
REPORT MARK HART’S 
SITUATION FOR YEARS 
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
Assistant professor Mark Hart 
wanted a new ofﬁ  ce.
He shared a wall in with Sheena 
Pryce Fegumps, a co-worker in the 
UF College of Public Health and 
Health Professions who is accused 
of touching Hart and making sexu-
ally explicit comments at him for 
more than a year.
But it wasn’t just Pryce 
Fegumps, the college’s commu-
nity outreach coordinator for the 
public health masters program. 
Christy Ewing, the college’s for-
mer academic programs specialist 
for the social and behavioral sci-
ences doctoral program, is also ac-
cused of sexually harassing him — 
sometimes partnering with Pryce 
Fegumps to do it, Hart said. 
The Alligator reached out to 
Ewing and Pryce Fegumps but neither responded before publica-
tion after a reporter sent an email, 
visited their ofﬁ  ce and called their 
work phone numbers. 
When Hart asked the college’s 
administration to move his ofﬁ  ce 
location in November 2018, he 
said it didn’t happen. But he didn’t 
want anyone to get in trouble, so 
he said he held his tongue.
But in July 2019, he decided to 
speak up.  
Hart then opened two Title IX 
investigations for sexual harass-
ment against Pryce Fegumps and 
Ewing. Both investigations from 
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Title IX Compliance, 
which ran from July 8 to Dec. 11, 
contain 100 pages worth of allega-
tions, including those above. 
The investigations state that 
Pryce Fegumps and Ewing’s ac-
tions rose to the level of sexual 
harassment. It also said that two 
deans within the college, Amy 
Blue and Cindy Prins, didn’t report 
Hart’s case for at least a year when 
they were required to report it to 
Inspire Party leader steps down a month before electionMale professor harassed
SEE HART,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  68° LOW  55°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.FRIDAY
Concord Coffee Market
Where: Concord Coffee, 
located at 1038 W University 
Ave.
When: 1-5 p.m.
What: Concord Coffee rings 
in the new semester with a 
market. A variety of local 
artisans will sell individually 
curated selections of 
handmade and reworked goods 
and there will be coffee. The 
market will be outside on the 
patio overlooking University 
Avenue.
100.1 FM WGOT’s 12th Birthday 
Bash/Benefit
Where: 433 S Main St.
When: 9 p.m.-1:30 a.m.
What: A community radio 
station will celebrate its 12th 
anniversary, featuring bands 
Arrows in Action, In Bed by 
Ten, Articles and The Rick 
Randlett Band. Doors open at 
9 p.m. and the show begins at 
9:30 p.m.
SATURDAY
34th Annual Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire
Where: Alachua County 
Fairgrounds, located at 3100 
NE 39th Ave.
When: 10 a.m.-6 p.m.
What: Travel back in time at 
the 34th Annual Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire for three 
weekends: Jan. 18-19, Jan. 25-
26 and Jan. 31-Feb. 2. Nine 
stages of entertainment feature 
battling knights, dancing gypsies 
and magicians. The marketplace 
features hundreds of artisans 
selling their medieval-inspired 
wares. Other activities include 
jousting, a full-flight falconry 
show, battle chess andold-world 
games. Tickets are available 
at the gate, online at www.
hoggetownefaire.com or at any 
Gator Domino's location. Heartwood Presents: Rising 
Appalachia
Where: The Heartwood 
Soundstage, located at 619 S 
Main St.
When: 8-11 p.m.
What: Folk band Rising 
Appalachia, made up of sisters 
Leah and Chloe Smith, come to 
the Heartwood after the release 
of their new album “Leylines.” 
Doors open at 7 p.m., and the 
show begins at 8 p.m. There is 
limited seating so there will be 
standing room only. 
Gainesville Comedy Con
Where: The High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave.
When: 6 p.m.
What: Gainesville Comedy 
Con is a showcase of 
Gainesville stand-up comedy, 
sketch comedy and improv 
comedy presented by 
Gainesville Comedy Shows 
and featuring S/LAUGHTER 
HOUSE COMEDY, Gainesville 
Improv Guild, House Improv 
Theater, Generation Sketch 
Comedy and more. Tickets 
are $8 if purchased before the 
show and $10 at the door. The 
show is 18 and over unless 
accompanied by a parent or 
legal guardian. There is a $3 
fee at the door for those under 
21.
Wintr Ball 2020
Where: The Cade Museum, 
located at 811 S Main St.
When: 7-11 p.m.
What: Feathr will host its 
annual Wintr Ball, a night of 
music and dancing, to raise 
money for charity and to 
celebrate the new year. This 
year, the ball will take place at 
the Cade Museum with a   Classic 
Hollywood theme. This year’s 
Wintr Ball charity is the Cade 
Museum’s STEAM Curriculum 
Partnership Program with the 
YMCA. Tickets are $35.Doggy Meet and Greet
Where: One Love Cafe, located 
at 4989 NW 40th Place
When: 11 a.m-3 p.m.
What: Dogs are welcome for 
One Love Cafe’s Doggy Meet 
and Greet. Dine on One Love 
Cafe’s food and drink specials 
while you shop for some 
local puppy treats and care 
items. Lawn chairs, towels or 
blankets are encouraged.
Silent Storm Party
Where: Big Top Brewing 
Company, located at 201 SE 
Second Ave. 
When: 8-11 p.m.
What: People will dance to 
music on wireless headphones 
at Big Top's Silent Storm Party. 
One set of headphones is $8, 
two sets are $15 and three sets 
are $20.  
SUNDAY
Russ Liquid with special guests 
COFRESI and SIDE TRAKD
Where: Signal, located at 7 
SW First St. 
When: 8 p.m.-2 a.m.
What: The Brainquility Music 
Festival presents Russ Liquid 
and COFRESI’s return to 
Gainesville with support from 
SIDE TRAKD. Brainquility will 
be at the event raffling off two 
tickets to Branquility Music 
Festival 2020. Tickets are $15 
presale and $20 at the show.
CORRECTIONS
In an article titled “UF 
responds to faculty tied to 
foreign research meddling,”  
that ran in Wednesday's 
edition, two UF faculty 
members were named in the 
letter. The Alligator originally 
reported differently.  
In an article titled “UF Online 
ranked fourth in U.S. News 
2020 Best Online Programs” 
that ran in Wednesday's 
edition, most UF Online 
professors are on the tenure 
track. The Alligator originally 
reported differently due to 
misinformation given by a 
source. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 48
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Enterprise Editor
Sports EditorDigital Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Lonnie Numa, Katelynn JoynerMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Diane Hernandez,Ellen Bausback, ebausback@alligator.orgCassandra Perez, cperez@alligator.orgNushrat Nur, nnur@alligator.orgKyle Wood, kwood@alligator.orgStephany Matat, smatat@alligator.org
Evan Lepak, elepak@alligator.org
Brendan Farrell, bfarrell@alligator.org
Christina Morales, River Wells, Lina RuizAlyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgLina Ruiz, digital@alligator.orgRiver Wells, engagement@alligator.orgChristina Morales, editor@alligator.org
Hope Dean, hdean@alligator.org
Blake Trauschke, btrauschke@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoTHE PROTEST TOOK 
PLACE FROM 4 P .M. TO 
6 P .M. AND ENDED IN 
FRONT OF LIBRARY WEST
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
About 100 students huddled in a 
crowd, clapping and chanting “No 
war with Iran” while surrounding 
Naz Hussein. An Iraqi ﬂ  ag covered 
her back, slightly ﬂ  uttering in the 
wind.  
The 19-year-old UF telecommu-
nication and international studies 
junior said she organized the protest 
with friends to bring awareness to 
the negative impacts of war in the 
Middle East. She said that the protest 
was for the general population and 
had no political afﬁ  liations.
“Usually when wars are fought, 
they’re fought on foreign soil,” 
Hussein said. “American citizens 
are not really affected by [wars], so 
I want University of Florida students 
to really consider the repercussions 
of this.”
Tensions between the United 
States and Iran are high after a U.S. 
airstrike that killed Iranian Gen. Qas-
sem Soleimani Jan. 3. Iran’s supreme 
leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said that Iran would take revenge. 
On Jan. 7, Iran launched a mis-
sile attack against Ain al-Asad, a U.S. 
airbase in Iraq. Nobody was injured, 
according to The Associated Press.
The protest started on Turlington 
Plaza at 4 p.m. and ended in front 
of Library West at 6 p.m. Several 
students, Iranian and Iraqi, shared 
their stories and experiences with 
war. Other students held signs that 
read, “No blood for oil, no war with 
Iran” and “Money for schools, not 
bombs.”
Hussein is from Iraq and has al-
ready felt the effects of previous vio-
lence, including the invasion of Iraq 
in 2003, she said. She was 7 years 
old when she emigrated out of the 
country.
“The people who will end up 
getting hurt are innocent civilians, 
not the government or politicians,” 
she said. “They don’t care about us 
people.”
She urged UF students to take ac-
tion against the war through protest 
and raising awareness.
Hussein paid homage to the vic-
tims of the Ukrainian plane crash in 
Iran, which killed 176 people and 
affected at least two UF students as 
well. A memorial was held Tuesday 
evening on Turlington Plaza.Sara Zandy, a 20-year-old UF be-
havioral and cognitive neuroscience 
junior, helped Hussein organize 
the protest. Zandy said the goal of 
the protest was to educate students 
about the situation and to spread the 
idea of peace.
Zandy was born in the U.S., but 
her parents were refugees from Iraq. 
She said that she does not feel a real 
sense of community, and she misses 
speaking her native language.
“Now when I think of war, I 
think of some time and someplace 
distant, and this is our privilege liv-
ing in America,” Zandy said. “It’s 
easy for us to make jokes about so-
called World War III because we are 
the most detached from it.”
Zandy urged students to speak 
out against what she called the vi-
cious cycle of war in the Middle East.
Paul Ortiz, a UF history profes-
sor, spoke during the protest about 
his experience with war. Ortiz said 
he stands with Iranians and hopes to 
expand the anti-war movement. 
Ortiz served as a sergeant in the 
special forces and said he got in-
volved with the military because 
he went to a poor school. He also 
said that there should be options for 
poorer students in high school other 
than the military. “We never had one day where 
anyone came to my high school to 
say, ‘You could go to college,’ but 
we had military recruiters at my high 
school campus every day,” Ortiz 
said.
Jackie Betz, a UF alumna, attend-
ed the protest and handed out ﬂ  yers 
that outlined what was happening in 
Iran and why. She does not support 
the war because she said it would have detrimental environmental 
effects and would cost too much 
money.
“We don’t need any more bombs, 
we need books,” Betz said. “War is 
a theft to all working people and all 
our children because we’ll pay for 
this for generations.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   3
Calvin Martin, MD
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified 
Family Medicine
First Care Urgent  Care
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation 
and treatment for:
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• Abrasions & Lacerations
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Monday - Friday 7:00am - 6:00pm
SIMEDHealth.com
Kelly Suggs
for
Alachua County Property Appraiser
Na#onal	Alliance	on	Mental	Illness	
Support	Groups	
Training	Courses	
Advocacy	&	Support	
www.namigainesville.org
352	320-0457	
Download the FREE
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
Nushrat Nur // Alligator Staff
Naz Hussein, a 19-year-old UF telecommunication and 
international studies junior, leads protest chants at an anti-war 
demonstration on Turlington Plaza Wednesday afternoon.
THE CONNECTION 
BETWEEN THE INCIDENTS 
ARE UNKNOWN
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County deputies have 
launched an investigation after 
discovering a body four days af-
ter a Gainesville woman was re-
ported missing.
Gainesville resident Jane John-son, 61, was reported missing 
Saturday by her husband, former 
UF and NFL football player Steve 
Tannen, 71, a ACSO spokesper-
son Sgt. Frank Kinsey said.
Johnson was last seen at 10 
a.m. Saturday and was believed 
to have left home on her bike, 
which was also missing, Kinsey 
said. Tannen told deputies John-
son also left her phone and mon-
ey at home. 
A missing and endangered 
persons report was issued for Johnson, and the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s helicopter searched for 
her over Paynes Prairie Preserve 
State Park on Saturday night, Kin-
sey said. 
At around 3 p.m. Wednesday, 
Tannen found his wife’s bike in 
a wooded area on the 6400 block 
of Southwest 85th Ave., a ACSO 
spokesperson Art Forgey said. 
Deputies also found the bike 
and from there began a search 
of the wooded area where they 
eventually located a body, Forgey said. 
“There was quite a bit of evi-
dence that was collected that 
showed that she might not be in a 
right frame of mind, that she may 
be suffering from some stress and 
mental issues,” Forgey said.
Kinsey said Johnson had only 
been in Gainesville for about six 
weeks and had been traveling 
between Florida and California, 
where her daughter lives.
Johnson’s daughter, Lindsey 
McKeon, is a Hollywood-actress best known for her roles in Super-
natural and One Tree Hill, as ﬁ  rst 
reported by MyCBS4.  
Kinsey said that due to the na-
ture of the ongoing investigation, 
the body hasn’t been identiﬁ  ed 
yet, and it’s unknown if the two 
incidents are connected. 
ACSO is working with a medi-
cal examiner’s ofﬁ  ce to inves-
tigate the mode and manner of 
death. 
slagmis@alligator.org
About a hundred students protest war with Iran on Turlington
Deputies find body amid search for missing woman  4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020By Stephany Matat
Alligator Staff Writer
In a possible future, a sign flashing on the 
interstate might puzzle some. 
“Your speed is being reported to your in-
surance company,” it would read.
In this case, people would be inclined to 
slow down, said Alachua County Commis-
sioner Robert Hutchinson. However, student 
drivers might call it an invasion of privacy.
The county commission meeting discussed 
Tuesday adding security cameras to Interstate 75. However, it is illegal in Florida to issue 
tickets through traffic cameras, so these cam-
eras will notify insurance companies instead, 
Hutchinson said. If the car is given by an em-
ployer, then the employer would be notified.
Hutchinson said the Alachua County Sher-
iff Sadie Darnell proposed using $800,000 for 
a greater traffic enforcement unit in the in-
terstate, but Hutchinson said this idea could 
be enhanced through technology instead. He 
proposed cameras that use photographs not 
to give tickets, but to send the driver’s infor-
mation to the insurance company.“If you’re an insurance company and you 
have information that one of your clients is a 
chronic speeder or is driving 95 mph, what 
would you do as an insurance company?” 
Hutchinson said. “All we want is for people 
to slow down.”
I-75 is known to be one of the most dan-
gerous highways, Hutchinson said. The sher-
iff doesn’t have a traffic enforcement unit and 
the highway doesn’t have patrol, he said.
Twenty-year-old UF computer science 
sophomore Liam Kinnally, who uses the in-
terstate to go to Orlando, said he believes this 
idea is both bad and unnecessary. 
“Because speeding is an issue that hap-
pens on public roads and concerns public 
safety, I’m not sure if I believe that notifying insurance companies of the captured speed-
ing infractions would necessarily be an inva-
sion of privacy,” Kinnally said. “I do however 
see a privacy issue when it comes to the idea 
of directly notifying employers of these infrac-
tions.”
Hutchinson said this will help prevent fatal 
crashes on I-75, and it will be an incentive for 
drivers to go the speed limit. 
“If we only save one life, that’s worth it,” 
Hutchinson said. “The cost of these things is 
trivial by comparison to the cost of one life.”
@StephanyMatat
smatat@alligator.org
County commission may install cameras on I-75 to prevent speeding
STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE 
IS $2,500 ANNUALL Y
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
The United States doesn’t require its cit-
izens to have health insurance. However, 
UF requires their students to have health 
insurance, and with the additional cost of 
housing, food, tuition and other necessi-
ties, an increasing number of students are 
drowning in debt. 
For students who have family-provided 
health insurance, they can submit a waiver 
and bypass the fee to UF’s health insurance 
plan. However, for students like Adamu 
Pastor, a 23-year-old UF biochemistry se-
nior, this isn’t the case.
“I think [health insurance] should be 
optional,” Pastor said. “I’ve been paying 
this $860 dollars every semester and I have 
never, ever visited the infirmary.”
Pastor could not use his family’s health 
insurance plan because different members of his family are in different U.S. states, 
he said. He had been paying out-of-state 
tuition and fees for two years until he re-
cently got residency to pay in-state tuition. 
He said he believes that if students are be-
ing charged for health insurance, then it 
should be beneficial to them. 
The health insurance is $2,500 annual-
ly, according to the UF Health Compliance 
Website.
Delgui Perez, a 19-year-old political 
science and international studies sopho-
more, said she had to pay close to $300 
in the summer because her family’s health 
insurance had expired, and UF’s waiver 
deadline came before the health insurance 
problem was resolved.
She said she doesn’t think it’s fair that 
UF makes it a requirement because some 
students can’t afford it and that students 
should not be forced to pay for something 
they may not use.
When the Florida Department of Health 
was asked to comment on if UF was al-
lowed to require health insurance, media specialists said they were not authorized 
to answer.  
Even though some students may not be-
lieve health insurance should be required, 
it is legal in Florida for a university to 
charge health insurance, according to Flor-
ida statute 1004.29 (1).
Some schools in Florida do not require 
health insurance and some schools do. 
Florida State University charged $2,563 
for the 2019-2020 school year, and Flori-
da A&M University charged $1,853 in the 
2017-2018 school year. However, other 
universities, such as the University of Cen-
tral Florida, University of South Florida 
and New College of Florida do not require 
insurance.
Kat Lindsey, assistant director at the UF 
Student Health Care Center, said she un-
derstands it can be difficult for students 
and parents to have to pay for health in-
surance, but the cost is worth it to ensure 
medical attention.
“I do recognize that there may be a 
sense of ‘sticker shock’ when looking at the prices for health insurance,” Lindsey 
said. “However, when I think of the cost of 
a significant illness, injury or accident, this 
is not a lot of money. None of us can re-
ally anticipate if or when these things may 
happen.”
@anna_wilderr
@awilder@alligator.orgUF requires health insurance, but do students want that? 
Schools that do charge insurance:
• University of Florida: $2,500
• Florida State University: $2,563
• Florida A&M University: $1,853
• Florida Institute of T echnology: $1,430
Schools that do not charge insurance:
• University of Central Florida
• Florida International University
• University of South Florida
• New College of FloridaThis option may be an alternative to 
spending $800,000 on traffic enforcement unitsFRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   5
Faculty Member from the 
UF College of Journalism and Communications
(unpaid member of the board of directors)
The application for this position is available at the 
Alligator office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday 
through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until 
Tuesday, January 14th. Look for the Alligator sign located in 
the lobby. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Friday, January 17th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be 
held on Friday, January 24th at 1 p.m. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator . Applicants must be a faculty member from 
the UF College of Journalism and Communcations.The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position:
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
GREEN DOT GATORS 
TRAINS BYSTANDERS 
HOW TO INTERVENE
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Staff Writer
In 2019, a Title IX investigation 
found one professor guilty of inap-
propriately touching students and 
faculty. A resident assistant was 
charged with battery after a student 
accused him of trying to ﬁ  nger her. A 
student was raped on her way to the 
homecoming game. 
A study revealed that reports of 
sexual misconduct have increased 
on campus since 2015. In response, UF President Kent Fuchs has com-
mitted to eliminating sexual assault 
on campus. Green Dot Gators is 
one part of that effort, though some 
students and professors have never 
heard of it. 
Green Dot is an international ef-
fort to train bystanders on how and 
when to intervene in potentially 
dangerous situations like stalking or 
domestic violence, according to the 
program’s website. Green Dot Gators 
is the smaller, student-targeted ver-
sion spearheaded by GatorWell. 
It was developed to equip fac-
ulty and students with bystander 
intervention know-how. An online 
toolkit urges professors to trust their instincts and speak to students when 
they feel something may be wrong. 
They are encouraged to attach a 
statement to their email signature, 
such as “I’m a Green Dot Gator sup-
porter,” or “What’s your green dot?” 
In a press release, UF Associate 
Vice President for Student Affairs 
Heather White said she was hopeful 
that initiatives like Green Dot Gators 
would help prevent the rise of inter-
personal violence and sexual assault. 
One study found that a campus 
with Green Dot training reported 
fewer incidents of violence than two 
campuses without bystander inter-
vention training. The impact of the 
training on UF is less evident. Katrina Calkins, a 20-year-old UF 
health education sophomore, said 
she has never heard of Green Dot 
Gators. She doesn’t know what re-
sources UF offers to combat sexual 
violence, but she thinks there are 
probably enough. 
“I don’t really see any harass-
ment,” Calkins said. “I think it’s ﬁ  ne 
as it is.”
UF has implemented other pre-
ventative tactics in addition to Green 
Dot Gators. Upon being accepted to 
the university, students are required 
to complete online sexual assault 
prevention training. 
Adriana Alises, a 23-year-old UF 
international business graduate stu-dent, called the training irrelevant. 
“It’s the same old stuff that every-
one tells you,” she said. 
The training should focus on the 
repercussions of assaulting some-
one, Alises said. It should focus less 
on avoiding sexual assault.
Students aren’t the only ones 
unfamiliar with Green Dot Gators. 
Heather Gibson, a tourism, hospital-
ity and event management profes-
sor, has taught at the university for 
23 years. 
“I’ve never heard of Green Dot,” 
she said. 
@haphillips96
hphillips@alligator.orgStudents, professors unfamiliar with sexual assault prevention program
THE COMMISSION UNANIMOUSL Y 
VOTED TO POSTPONE THE DECISION
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Regional Utilities remains the 
talk of the town. It’s on the headlines, agen-
das and minds of community members. 
The City Commission’s Thursday meet-
ing focused mainly on the proposed 30-year 
transition plan between GRU and Florida 
Power & Light. The City Commission unani-
mously voted to move the item to the next 
meeting.
Edward Bielarski Jr., the general manag-
er of GRU, said the utility company has four 
options: It could maintain the status quo, 
replace its equipment, exit the business or 
create a hybrid solution.
The hybrid solution includes a partner-
ship with FPL, a power utility company that 
services over 10 million Floridians. It would 
begin in 2022 and save GRU up to $400 
million. It would also advance the commis-
sion’s goal of using 100 percent renewable 
energy by 2045, Bielarski said. 
Some residents believe the rates will 
remain the highest in the state. During the nearly four hour meeting, they expressed 
frustration with both GRU and Bielarski.
“Ed — I love you. I really do,” a resident at 
the meeting said. “But it’s time for you to go.”
The resident compared Bielarski to the 
CEO of Kmart because of ﬁ  nancial decisions 
GRU has made.
City Commissioners Adrian Hayes-Santos 
and Gail Johnson also questioned parts of the 
plan during the meeting. Hayes-Santos said 
the negatives and risks were not highlighted, 
while City Commissioner Helen Warren said 
she wants GRU to host a town hall meeting for 
residents with concerns.
Milvia Hidalgo, a 38-year-old engineer 
for GRU, has a different view of the plan. 
She said it would offer GRU access to cheap-
er power from FPL’s efﬁ  cient ﬂ  eet.
On the other hand, resident Nancy 
Deren, 68, said the focus of the GRU debate 
should shift from rates to sustainable, local 
energy sources. She also added that she be-
lieves Gainesville should protect locally pro-
duced energy.
“We’re killing ourselves to do cheap,” 
Deren said.
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgCity Commission tables GRU plan
THE SPECIALTY MEDICAL 
PRACTICES WILL INCLUDE 
EAR, NOSE, THROAT, 
ALLERGY AND 
HEARING SERVICES
By Sarah Mandile
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents will 
soon be able to check up on 
their health and fulﬁ  ll their re-
tail needs in just one trip. 
UF Health will open three 
specialty medical practices at 
The Oaks Mall starting Tues-
day. What was formerly a Sears 
department store will soon be 
home to ear, nose, throat, al-
lergy and hearing services. 
The grand opening for the 
new location will be held Jan. 
25. However, the eye care clinic 
will open for patients Tuesday, 
and the ENT and audiology 
clinics will open Feb. 3, said 
Rossana Passaniti, media rela-
tions coordinator for UF Health. 
With 87 exam rooms and 15 procedure rooms, Passaniti 
said this new location was built 
to accommodate more patients. 
She expects it will service be-
tween 1,500 and 2,000 patients 
per week. 
“We’re also going to have 
a few stores,” Passaniti said. 
“One where people can shop for 
eyeglasses and contact lenses 
and then the other store where 
they can shop for hearing aids.”
Marvin Dewar, senior asso-
ciate dean at the UF College of 
Medicine, said he spent about 
ﬁ  ve years searching for the right 
space for the medical center. It 
needed to have parking, a cen-
tral location and close proximity 
to UF’s main campus so doctors 
could travel back and forth.
“The Oaks Mall checked 
all of the boxes,” Dewar said. 
“That’s when the project really 
began in earnest.”
Dewar said the Oaks Mall lo-
cation is unique because other 
retail stores will still be present in the shopping center. With 
other retailers close by, patients 
will have the opportunity to 
browse shops in the mall if they 
have any wait time. 
“I think it will add to patient 
satisfaction and to the patient 
experience,” Dewar said.
Guests are invited to come 
out and tour the new space dur-
ing the center’s grand opening, 
Dewar said. Albert, Alberta and 
the UF Dazzlers will also be at 
the event from noon to 1 p.m. 
Although the new location 
may seem unconventional, 
Dewar said he thinks it will 
catch the attention of others in 
the country who have the same 
space available. 
“There are a few places 
in the country that have used 
malls this way,” Dewar said. 
“We are certainly early on that 
trend.”
@sarahmandile
smandile@alligator.orgUF Health to add Oaks Mall services6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020
Title IX immediately under UF guidelines.
Blue and Prins kept their positions, accord-
ing to the college’s website that was last up-
dated Wednesday. 
Both investigations were posted online Dec. 
23 by Andrew Cistola, 31, a second-year UF 
public health masters and first-year doctoral 
student. He created a website addressed to the 
public health college’s dean Michael Perri that 
calls for transparency concerning sexual ha-
rassment cases within the college. 
Sources close to the investigation confirmed 
to The Alligator that the records are real. When 
a reporter asked Perri for comment on Hart’s 
case, they forwarded The Alligator to UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando, who declined to 
comment. 
Hart’s case closed seven months after the 
case against Andrew Lotto, a former professor 
within the same college who was accused of 
sexually harassing multiple students and was 
allowed to resign instead of being fired. 
In a statement to The Alligator, Hart said his 
situation was different than many other sexual 
harassment cases because he did not fear that 
Ewing and Pryce Fegumps would jeopardize 
his safety. 
But he did share something else with other 
cases. 
“What I do think I have had in common, 
unfortunately, is resistance in reporting my 
story,” he wrote. “My only goal in all of this, 
and as this, unfortunately, spills out into a pub-
lic forum, is to do my part to create an environ-
ment at UF and my College where everyone 
feels safe.”
“I just wanted to feel you against me”: 
The case  
It started on Nov. 5, 2017 during an Ameri-
can Public Health Association conference in 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
Hart, Ewing and Pryce Fegumps, among others in their department, were eating dinner 
at a Greek restaurant when Ewing and Pryce 
Fegumps began to touch Hart’s upper thigh 
underneath the table, he told investigators. 
Ewing and Pryce Fegumps had allegedly been 
drinking and talking about how they wanted 
to hook up with men during the conference, 
according to the report. 
Later in the evening, Hart said Ewing and 
Pryce Fegumps suggested that the three of 
them go back to one of their rooms, accord-
ing to the investigation. Hart told them he was 
married and wasn’t interested. 
When interviewed by investigators, Ewing 
said she never touched him that night but that 
she could have “come up with scenarios in 
which she became super drunk and stumbled 
and maybe touched his leg.” 
But Elizabeth Wood, the director of the 
public health bachelors program, told investi-
gators she saw Ewing touch Hart’s leg during 
the dinner. Wood declined to comment. 
Ewing later said she wasn’t drinking that 
night, but then recalled an incident where she 
and Hart were drunk at the end of the evening. 
Hart allegedly grabbed her as she got out of an 
elevator, she told investigators. 
Hart told The Alligator this never happened. 
Pryce Fegumps told investigators she didn’t 
remember touching Hart’s leg during the con-
ference. The investigation points out that she 
could recall other details about the conference, 
such as trying to set Ewing up with a man at 
a bar. 
The incidents continued throughout 2017 
and 2018, Hart said. 
In another incident, Ewing allegedly offered 
Hart a hug and then told him, “I just wanted 
to feel you against me.” Pryce Fegumps is ac-
cused of saying they could use the condoms 
she had in her office as handouts for students 
and that she could relieve his stress by getting 
under his desk, Hart told investigators. 
Meredith Nappy, an academic assistant in 
the college who declined to comment to The 
Alligator, told investigators that Hart told her 
about some of the incidents. One included a 
situation where Pryce Fegumps told Hart, “Do 
you want me to lay down on the conference 
table so you can ravage me?” before a meeting. 
Ewing and Pryce Fegumps denied all ac-
cusations in the investigation files. Pryce 
Fegumps told investigators she believed Hart 
was retaliating against her due to rifts in the 
college.
A year passed by. The American Health 
Public Association’s 2018 conference took 
place in San Diego, and Hart took his wife with 
him this time, he told The Alligator and inves-
tigators. 
But that didn’t stop Ewing and Pryce 
Fegumps, he alleges. During another dinner on 
Nov. 11, Pryce Fegumps whispered in Hart’s 
ear that she wished his wife wasn’t there so 
they could have some fun and rubbed his low-
er back, Hart told investigators.
Then on Dec. 3, 2018, someone filed an 
anonymous complaint that Hart was undergo-
ing sexual harassment, according to the report. 
Wood, who allegedly saw Ewing touch 
Hart’s upper thigh during the 2017 conference, 
told investigators she was the one who filed 
the complaint. 
“Every time Dr. Hart has asked for this be-
havior to stop, he’s been met with people call-
ing it a joke, especially by the two women,” 
she said, according to UF’s Ethics and Compli-
ance Hotline incident description included in 
the report. “It is only because he is male that 
this behavior has continued and not been tak-
en seriously.” 
Hart wrote an email to Amy Blue, the col-
lege’s associate dean for educational affairs, 
about the situation on Dec. 11, 2018. He said 
he’d been having four to five panic attacks a 
day and that his blood pressure had skyrock-
eted over the past year. 
“I am just ready for the ‘end game’ on these 
issues. I am tired of the fight, I am tired of the 
friction,” he wrote. “I want to start 2019 with a clean slate.”
But 2019 did not start out the way he would 
have liked. 
Blue scheduled a Jan. 7 meeting between 
Hart and Perri about his concerns, but they 
never talked about Hart’s situation during the 
meeting, Hart told investigators. 
In February, Hart said Ewing and Fegumps 
had started to grow hostile toward him. A ru-
mor started going around that Hart was forcing 
Katherine Pizarro, one of his employees in the 
college, to babysit his children. Another said 
that he’d recently been having drinks with the 
students in his class, according to the investi-
gation. 
Wood told Hart that Ewing had started the 
babysitting rumor, and Ewing told investiga-
tors that she talked about it to some staff mem-
bers — but she insisted that it was true. 
Blue said she followed up on both rumors 
and found no evidence of either, according 
to the investigation. Pizzaro declined to com-
ment. 
Hart said the rumors are what did it. He 
emailed Title IX Director Russell Froman on 
July 8 to start the investigation against Ewing 
and Pryce Fegumps. Froman declined to com-
ment. 
“I continue to see a culture in our College of 
inaction, one where a lot of people who have 
administrative roles don’t want to do the right 
thing when faced with difficult situations,” 
Hart wrote. “I have decided that I am willing 
to see this through.” 
“That couldn’t have happened”: The in-
action 
The investigation records eight times that 
Hart reached out to people about his situation 
— including two deans in the college. 
After returning from the 2017 conference in 
Atlanta where the first incident occurred, Hart 
told investigators that he spoke with Cindy 
Prins, the public health college’s assistant dean 
for educational affairs, about what had hap-
pened.
Hart said Prins responded by saying “That 
couldn’t have happened,” and “What did you 
do to make her feel she could do that?” accord-
ing to investigation files. Hart added he felt like 
his concerns were being “pushed under the 
rug,” so he didn’t bring it up again until a year 
later.
After a year of continued sexual harass-
ment and Pryce Fegumps’ advance during the 
2018 conference in San Diego, Hart met with 
Prins and Blue to say he didn’t feel comfortable 
working closely with Ewing or Pryce Fegumps. 
“Why didn’t you stop this more?” they 
asked, along with “Maybe you didn’t tell her 
strongly enough no,” and “Was she just getting 
the wrong impression?” according to Hart. 
Blue and Prins forwarded The Alligator to 
Orlando, who declined to comment. 
Prins told investigators that this was the 
first time she’d heard of the events, despite 
Hart saying he told her in 2017. Blue said she 
spoke with Perri about it and that they decided 
to not act due to the upcoming winter break 
and Hart’s wish for the case to not go to Title 
IX. 
In January 2019, Blue contacted Lorie Mar-
tin, UF’s director of human resources, who told 
her she was obligated to report it to Title IX, 
according to the investigation. However, Blue 
held off until March when she, Prins and Hart 
met with Martin to “hypothetically” talk about 
Hart’s situation on March 8. 
Martin told the group she was a mandatory 
reporter and would need to bring any sexual 
harassment allegations to the Title IX office — 
and reminded the three that they all had the 
same obligation to report, she told investiga-
tors. Blue forwarded Hart’s Dec. 11 email to 
Martin three days later. 
It is unclear if Prins ever reported Hart’s al-
legations to Title IX. 
Hart was demoted from his positions as the 
college’s director of online learning and direc-
tor of doctoral and master’s programs in public 
health for the social behavioral sciences con-
centration on Oct. 29.  
The email from Perri did not explain why he was relieved of his duties, but Hart believes 
it could be because he cursed at Blue in frustra-
tion a few days earlier, he told The Alligator. 
Blue and Prins’ handling of Hart’s case goes 
against Title IX protocol, according to the in-
vestigation.
“Although Hart expressed that he did not 
want to officially report his sexual harassment 
allegations, it was the responsibility and duty 
of Prins and Blue to inform the Office of Title 
IX compliance,” the investigation reads. 
The UF employee handbook would agree. 
“Any employee with supervisory responsi-
bility, as well as faculty who have knowledge 
of sexual harassment, is required to promptly 
report the matter directly to the Title IX Coor-
dinator and may be disciplined for failing to do 
so,” it reads. 
“There are a lot of unresolved matters”: 
The aftermath
Hart is still in the same college but is now a 
clinical assistant professor in the department of 
epidemiology. Blue kept her position as associ-
ate dean and is now the college’s director of 
online learning, according to the college’s aca-
demic staff page that was updated on Wednes-
day — one of Hart’s former positions. Prins 
kept her position as the assistant dean as well. 
Ewing resigned from her position, Orlando 
told The Alligator. The college’s website still 
lists Pryce Fegumps as the public health master 
program’s community outreach coordinator. 
It is unclear whether Prins, Blue or Pryce 
Fegumps have been disciplined for the investi-
gation’s findings. 
“There are a lot of unresolved matters re-
garding those employees so I’m not at liberty 
to discuss them,” Orlando wrote in an email 
statement. 
Some students were upset about losing Hart 
as a mentor after he was removed from his po-
sitions. Alejandra Salemi, a 22-year-old second-
year master’s student in public health, said she 
collected more than 15 letters from students 
and staff in support of Hart in November that 
they then turned over to administration. 
“Dr. Hart deserves to be in this college, and 
I think the removal of him from his positions is 
harmful,” Salemi wrote in her own letter. “He 
is so gifted and talented and has impacted the 
students he has come across in the best ways.” 
On Wednesday, Perri sent an email to all 
students, staff and faculty in the college about 
the sexual misconduct cases. He announced 
two open forums with UF’s Title IX director on 
Friday — one with students from noon-1 p.m. 
and one with faculty and staff from 1-2:30 p.m. 
in the HPNP auditorium.
“I take very seriously the responsibility to 
provide a safe environment in which our stu-
dents, faculty and staff can work and learn,” 
Perri wrote. “Failure to report or retaliation for 
reporting such incidents will be subject to dis-
ciplinary actions as outlined in UF policies.” 
Cistola updated openlettertodeanperri.com 
on Thursday in response to Perri’s email. The 
website now contains Lotto’s 149-page case 
file, which he warns for people to read at their 
own discretion due to the sexual assault allega-
tions’ severity, he wrote in on the home page. 
Cistola listed on the home page five ques-
tions about Lotto’s case to be discussed at the 
open forum. Cistola also expects written an-
swers to the questions by Feb. 15. 
Emma Crowley, a 24-year-old UF master’s 
student in public health and sexual assault sur-
vivor that works with Cistola on the website, is 
also gathering questions from students that she 
will ask at the forum in case somebody doesn’t 
want to go or doesn’t feel safe attending. 
“There’s a lot of benefits to openly asking 
questions and openly providing answers that 
can be then added to the public record,” Cis-
tola told The Alligator. “Making sure everyone 
is able to speak and speak in a way where they 
feel safe is extremely important in the process.”
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgHART,  from pg. 1A Title IX forum will be held 
What is Title IX? 
Title IX is a federal law from 1972 
which states that nobody can be excluded 
from or subjected to discrimination under 
any education program that recieves 
federal financial assistance. 
This includes cases of sexual 
harassment. Most universities are 
required to comply to Title IX regulations, 
which can spur officals to look into sexual 
assault or harassment cases and conduct 
investigations if needed. 
UF Office of Victim Services
Address: 1515 Museum Road 
Phone: 352-392-5648 Monday-Friday 
from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. and 352-392-1111 
on weekends and non-business hours
Website: https://umatter.ufl.edu/
office/office-of-victim-services/
UF Counseling and Wellness Center
Address: 3190 Radio Road
Phone: 352-392-1575
Website: http://www.counseling.ufl.
edu/cwc/
Alachua County Victim Services 
and Rape Crisis Center
Address: 218 SE 24th Street
Phone: 352-264-6760
Website: http://www.alachuacounty.
us/Depts/CSS/VictimServices/Pages/
VictimServices.aspxFRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020
www.alligator.org/opinions
THE ACT WAS A 
COLLABORATION 
WITH WAGENINGEN 
UNIVERSITY & RESEARCH
By AJ Bafer
Alligator Contributing Writer
What began as a foggy morning 
on the south Reitz Union lawn be-
came the roots for a lasting partner-
ship. 
UF President Kent Fuchs and Wageningen University and Re-
search Executive Board President 
Louise O. Fresco planted a South-
ern live oak tree to celebrate Flor-
ida Arbor Day and commemorate 
both universities’ long collabora-
tion. The ceremony honored the 
centennial of Wageningen’s estab-
lishment, which was in 2018.
The act is part of the Universi-
TREE global initiative, which Fres-
co started and decribed as a global 
forest of trees in places where Wa-
geningen has strong ties. She said by the end of this year, it will have 
100 trees in 100 countries.
Fuchs said the tree was free of 
cost and it would sit on campus 
in accordance with Florida Arbor 
Day’s traditional celebration of fo-
liage.
“It’s quite special that this tree 
will be here like our other live oaks 
for 100 plus years,” Fuchs said in 
his speech. “Thousands of stu-
dents, faculty and staff will walk 
by this and appreciate it.”
Even though Wageningen is in the Netherlands, Fresco said it 
has worked with UF for soil sci-
ence and crop physiology. She said 
their relationship is so special that 
when she went to the United States 
for the ﬁ  rst time 30 years ago, 
Gainesville was her ﬁ  rst stop.
“Florida has always had a strong 
link with us as one of several uni-
versities in the United States,” she 
said. “We always look for partners 
who have the same sense of excel-
lence.”
Fresco said Wageningen is al-ready looking to broaden its part-
nerships with UF through student 
exchange, joint courses and addi-
tional staff exchange.
UF food and resource econom-
ics professor James L. Anderson 
opened the ceremony and touched 
on the signiﬁ  cance of the Universi-
TREE as a symbol of the relation-
ship between the universities.
“They [trees] represent 
strength, they represent longevity, 
they represent family,” he said in 
his speech.UF plants tree with world’s top agricultural university at Florida Arbor Day ceremonyNEWSCourtesy to The Alligator
UF President Kent Fuchs and Wageningen University and Research Executive 
Board President Louise Fresco planted a 9-foot live oak tree Thursday for Florida 
Arbor Day. This is part of an initiative to plant 100 “UniversiTREEs” across the world.
This week, I planted a live oak 
on the lawn of the Reitz Union 
near the Field and Fork Pan-
try.  The planting ceremony 
was with Louise Fresco, the 
president of Wageningen University, 
in celebration of the collaboration be-
tween our universities and in honor of 
Wageningen’s centennial anniversary. 
Wageningen, based in the Nether-
lands, is the world’s No. 1-ranked uni-
versity focusing on agriculture.
Today is Florida Arbor Day. I am reminded 
of how blessed UF is to be ﬁ  lled with incredible 
trees.  Some of those trees are the result of cere-
monial plantings, such as the live oaks on the Pla-
za of the Americas, planted as seedlings in 1931 
at the dedication for the Center for Latin Ameri-
can Studies. We have a gorgeous large sycamore, 
affectionately named the “moon tree” because it 
was grown from a seedling carried to the moon 
and back in 1971 aboard Apollo 14.  We even 
have an Ogeechee lime tree that was supposedly 
planted by Tom Petty when he worked on the UF 
grounds crew.
I have participated in several ceremonial plant-
ings of trees in celebration of something in the 
past, such as the dedication of a program or the 
founding of a university.  However, planting trees 
is primarily not about the past. The founder of Ar-bor Day, J. Sterling Morton, said “Arbor 
Day… is not like other holidays. Each of 
those reposes on the past, while Arbor 
Day proposes for the future.”  
On Monday, Bina Venkataraman 
gave a talk in the Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts based on her 
new book “The Optimist’s Telescope: 
Thinking Ahead in a Reckless Age.”  
She encouraged us in the audience to 
look beyond the near-term and instead 
focus on the future we want to inﬂ  uence.  
At UF, we are engaged in what author Simon 
Sinek describes in his new book as “The Inﬁ  nite 
Game.” Although the university has speciﬁ  c mea-
surable near-term goals, such as a top-ﬁ  ve ranking, 
an inﬁ  nite mindset is required when we think of 
the future of the university.  For example, as presi-
dent, even though there are urgent daily deadlines 
(and often hourly), I must continually ask myself: 
How will my actions affect UF centuries from now?
As Sinek points out, having an inﬁ  nite mind-
set means we are living our lives for something 
bigger than ourselves.  We are living for a cause 
and living a life ﬁ  lled with service.  I trust that 
this week’s tree planting will be a symbol of how 
we all live our lives, ﬁ  lled with service and for an 
inﬁ  nite cause.  
Kent Fuchs is the UF president.President Fuchs on Florida Arbor DayColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-22-43-6
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-22-20-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-22-43-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Raw Republic International, LLC. & other 
companies
1914 Corporate Drive
Boynton Beach, Florida 33426
Thursday, January 23, 2020 at 10 AM
Sale will consist of Food Service Equipment: 
s/s prep tables, refrigerated sandwich prep 
stations, ice cream freezers, small applianc -
es, food packing containers, s/s dishwasher, 
computers, Nissan Conversion Van, GMC 
Box Truck and more! 
15% - 18% BP will apply. $100 ref. cash de-
posit. “As is, where is”.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
No. 19-034361-CA-13
Preview: 1 hour prior to auction
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      1-17-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Another Friday night without a date? 
Read The Alligator!Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-22-43-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
2-7-20-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-22-43-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Voluteers Needed: Make Gainesville
Butterfly City Again
Contact: gabrielhillel@gmail.com       
1-17-20-3-131For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-43-1
2bd/2bth fully furnished townhouse, SW 
Gainesville, stone's throw from Haile Town 
Center, front garden, back porch face woods, 
high ceiling, utilities & wifi included, $350/
wk. No pets. Email: vchow331@yahoo.com    
2-10-20-10-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR Cottage $550/mo
Call:. 352-213-3901       4-22-20-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-10-20-111-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
AVAILABLE AUG 1, - very nice 5BR house. 
Remodeled kitchen, game room, large yard, 
W/D incl, fireplace. Call or text 352-339-2342 
to see. $1800/mo 1803 SW 43rd Ave. More 
info at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com      
1-22-20-5-2
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      1-24-
20-19-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-22-20-43-5BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By David Van Houten
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/17/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/17/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, January 17, 2020
ACROSS
1 “__ Is Betta Than 
Evvah!”: 1976 
R&B album
5 “Disgusting!”
8 “The Real 
Housewives” 
series airer
13 Sprat’s choice
14 Slice of pizza?
15 Consuming
17 What dogs do to 
set a tempo?
19 One making 
amends
20 __ dog
21 Uproars
23 Miler Sebastian
24 Bartender’s 
lager-serving 
skill?
28 “Just __”
32 Creepy glance
33 Word said with 
a sigh
34 School subj.
36 Self-service bar 
offering
40 Convenience for 
a fish traveling 
around the city?
44 Join
45 Excavation
46 Green subj.
47 Barflies
50 Works free
52 Annoyed answer 
to “How’s your 
jobless roommate 
working out?”?
56 Beer choice
57 Prefix with byte
58 Name on 
Re-Nutriv 
cosmetics
63 Sport played 
on a variety of 
surfaces
65 Malady that 
accounts for four 
Across puzzle 
answers
68 V-8, for example
69 1979 Hockey Hall 
of Fame inductee
70 Brest bestie
71 Mild oaths
72 Feed bit
73 Coffee __
DOWN
1 Italy’s Isola d’__
2 Blue-green shade3 Cover during a 
delay
4 Pharaoh’s 
symbol
5 Gun designer 
__ Gal
6 Beloved person
7 Follows
8 Babies leader?
9 Total mess
10 Words on the 
first of a set, 
perhaps
11 Leonardo’s 
birthplace
12 Situation after a 
leadoff double
16 One of the 
Bradys
18 House of Dana 
fragrance
22 Down (with)
25 Old map abbr.
26 Octa- plus two
27 Sour __
28 1995 Oscar-
nominated 
animatronics film
29 Pizazz
30 Credits heading
31 Rate
35 Like Brahms’ 
Symphony No. 237 Tie (up)
38 “... __ is given”: 
Isaiah
39 PC connections
41 Palomino pace
42 Missile site
43 Hunchbacked 
assistant
48 Dissertations
49 Preacher’s msg.
51 Binged (on)
52 Quick meal
53 Capsize54 Japanese comics
55 Large mackerel
59 Union member’s 
nemesis
60 Great work
61 Academy  
award-winning 
director Kazan
62 Fall site
64 Diarist Anaïs
66 History book 
chapter
67 Fine print, say
By Bruce Haight
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/16/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/16/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, January 16, 2020
ACROSS
1 Barbecue 
remnants
5 Personal 
identification?
10 Rolaids rival
14 Iris layer
15 Part of a “Star 
Wars” name
16 “__ it first!”
17 Tower of London 
guards
19 Local bond, briefly
20 PC key
21 Classic car
22 Frozen floaters
23 Celebratory 
smokes
25 2019 awards 
for Giannis 
Antetokounmpo
26 Elaborate style
29 Checks out
31 Artist Yoko
32 “Nashville” 
actress Judith
35 Currently
39 Vases with feet
41 With 45-Across, 
meat cut that 
suggests six aptly 
placed puzzle 
answers
43 Understand, in 
slang
44 Kremlin refusal
45 See 41-Across
46 “Me? Never!”
47 Original “Star 
Trek” studio
49 Princess from 
Alderaan
51 Links standard
52 Manilow song site
54 Giants’ div.
56 Mopes
59 __ bag
62 Sporty car 
features
63 To’s partner
64 Fitting tool
68 Lower-APR deal
69 Restaurant list 
not for everyone
71 Shiraz’s land
72 Giants and Titans
73 Physics matter
74 Nectarine centers
75 Donkeys
76 Filing tool
DOWN
1 “Squarely 
unconventional” 
Nissan2 Baker
3 Vegetable that 
may stain a 
cutting board
4 Seattle-based 
insurance giant
5 Mont. neighbor
6 Colorful fish
7 Range rover
8 Gloomy
9 Daybreak deity
10 One involved 
in multiple 
problems?
11 Take by force
12 Shabby
13 __ chocolate
18 “The Art of 
Loving” author 
Fromm
22 Honey bunch
24 Blunders
26 Tavern order
27 Deli specification
28 Traffic markers
30 Talking on and 
on
33 __-rock
34 Highlander
36 Overused theme
37 Bits
38 Slacks 
alternative
40 Map markers
42 Scottish rejection48 Result of a poor 
investment
50 Crème de la 
crème
53 Commercial 
charges
55 German city 
where the 
Bauhaus 
movement 
began
56 Vegas __
57 Where embryos 
grow58 Like much diet 
food
60 Black-and-white 
whales
61 Grammy winner 
Eydie
65 Letter that 
rhymes with three 
others
66 Nephew of Cain
67 Keister
69 Transit map 
abbr.
70 Snaky shape
01/15/201. LITERATURE: What is the mot -
to of "The Three Musketeers" in 
the 19th century novel?
2. MUSIC: What were the first 
names of the Allman brothers?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
New York City is divided into 
how many boroughs?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capital of Malaysia?
5. HISTORY: Which was the first U.S. state to be admitted to the union 
after the original 13 states were admitted?
6. MATH: What is the first number in which the letter "a" appears in 
its spelling?
7. GEOLOGY: What kind of rock likely would form at the bottom of 
a river?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president once worked as a fashion 
model?
9. MOVIES: How many people were killed in the 1996 movie 
"Scream"?
10. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which ancient Roman philosopher 
once said, "Every new beginning comes from other beginnings' end"?
answers on pg. 91. LITERATURE: What is the motto 
of “The Three Musketeers” in the 19th 
century novel?
2. MUSIC: What were the first 
names of the Allman brothers?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: New 
York City is divided into how many 
boroughs?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Malaysia?
5. HISTORY: Which was the first U.S. 
state to be admitted to the union after the 
original 13 states were admitted?
6. MATH: What is the first number 
in which the letter “a” appears in its 
spelling?
7. GEOLOGY: What kind of rock like-
ly would form at the bottom of a river?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which presi-
dent once worked as a fashion model?
9. MOVIES: How many people were 
killed in the 1996 movie “Scream”?
10. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: 
Which ancient Roman philosopher 
once said, “Every new beginning 
comes from other beginnings’ end”?
Answers
1. One for all, and all for one
2. Duane and Gregg
3. Five
4. Kuala Lumpur
5. Vermont
6. 1,000
7. Sedimentary
8. Gerald Ford 
9. Seven
10. Seneca
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 13, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceFRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   9 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-22-20-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-22-20-43-14
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. 
Interview process begins February 8th.
2-7-20-15-14
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business 
research, health care, and transportation.  
Pay ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + 
performance incentive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu       1-31-20-11-14AVIATION Careers start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification in airframe and 
powerplant. Financial aid if qualified. No ex-
perience required. Call AIM 888-242-2649.     
1-17-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-111-21
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!LEARN HOW to make an
extra $400 per week
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: collegecash.fun        1-22-20-4-14
After School Counselor
This is a part time afternoon position M-F 
working with girls ages 5-14. Required to 
pass level II background screening. Apply at 
www.girlsplace.net.      1-24-20-4-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist. BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info                                    
1-29-20-5-14
Compassionate Caregiver needed for young 
lady w/intellectual disability. Must be at 
least 18yo, have reliable trans, HS diploma 
or higher ed. Overnights & weekend shifts 
avail. If interested please contact Maryam 
Nikoonejad 352-246-6039 or Brooke Eason 
352-246-5129     2-17-20-13-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
20-43-1514 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 22 Tickets1. One for all, and all for one
2. Duane and Gregg
3. Five
4. Kuala Lumpur
5. Vermont
6. 1,000
7. Sedimentar y
8. Gerald Ford 
9. Seven
10. SenecaTrivia Test  answers
1.  Sent along a path
1.  Restfulness, calm5.  Walked back and forth
2.  Reveal, disclose6.  Stanza
3.  Withstood7.  Walk heavily
4.  SwindleTUDERO
ROESPECEPAD
EREVS
NERVCOU
UNEEDRDDGTURE
CEFELEANSWERS: 1A-Routed  5A-Paced  6A-Verse  7A-Trudge
1D-Repose  2D-Uncover  3D-Endured  4D-Fleece  B-Octopus1-17-20
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are about 300 species
of this sea creature.
BONUS
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020
www.alligator.org/sports
Gardner-Johnson and T aylor honored as rookies
Two former Gators players, defensive back Chauncey Gardner-Johnson and 
offensive tackle Jawaan T aylo,r were both named to the PFWA All-Rookie 
team.Former Gators receiver 
Antonio Callaway signed with 
the T ampa Bay Vipers of the 
XFL on Thursday.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLBy Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Ranked opponents have been kryp-
tonite for Florida’s women’s basketball 
team this season, with the Gators losing 
each of its four games against top-25 foes 
by an average margin of 25.3 points. 
Thursday night was a prime opportu-
nity for UF to make a statement against 
No. 24 Tennessee, but the Volunteers 
overpowered the Gators en route to a 78-
50 victory at the O’Connell Center.
“We want to win those games, and 
I think we’re getting better at learning 
how to,” coach Cam Newbauer said after 
the defeat. “I thought we did a good job 
of making adjustments and getting better 
as the game went on.”
Florida’s height, or lack thereof, 
doomed the team on both ends of the 
court.
Each player in Tennessee’s starting 
lineup was 6 foot or taller, while UF only 
had three.
The Volunteers (14-3, 4-1 SEC) used 
that to their advantage, especially in the 
paint, where they scored 40 points to Florida’s 22.
The height difference between both 
teams was also seen on defense, as Ten-
nessee denied the smaller UF players 
nine times. Florida, on the other hand, 
recorded zero blocks.
Florida (11-7, 2-3 SEC) had no answer 
for Volunteers forward Rennia Davis. 
She dropped a game-high 18 points 
on 8-of-14 shooting from the ﬁ  eld, which 
marks the 15th-consecutive game for Da-
vis in double ﬁ  gures.
Davis made her presence felt in the 
early stages of the game, accounting for 
eight points in Tennessee’s 13-3 run to 
close out the ﬁ  rst quarter. She added 
another basket in the opening minutes 
of the second quarter, too, as the Volun-
teers scored seven unanswered points to 
extend their lead to 24-9.
Turnovers and poor shot selection 
prevented the Gators from mounting a 
comeback.
Although the Gators (16) only had 
one more turnover than Tennessee (15), 
they rarely capitalized in transition. Flor-
ida had just nine points off turnovers, 
while the Volunteers had 27.UF’s 21-of-63 shooting from the ﬂ  oor, 
including a 4-of-16 effort from behind 
the arc, was not out of the ordinary for a 
team facing Tennessee. Coming into the 
game, the Volunteers ranked ﬁ  rst in the 
SEC in both scoring defense (54.7 points 
per game) and opponent ﬁ  eld goal per-
centage (30.6).
Guards Lavender Briggs and Brylee 
Bartram led the Gators with 11 points 
apiece, and forward Zada Williams 
chipped in with nine points to go with 
her four rebounds.
Coach Cam Newbauer singled out 
Bartram’s 11-point outing as a bright 
spot in a rather underwhelming night, 
considering the freshman had not scored 
in double ﬁ  gures since her second col-
legiate game in early November.
“Brylee (Bartram) did a good job 
keeping her eyes on the rim,” Newbau-
er said. “She got some good looks on 
some screens from teammates and just 
knocked them down when she had the 
opportunity to knock them down.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.org
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s basketball 
team suffered one of its most 
mortifying losses of the season 
after what seemed like a Missouri 
shootaround on Saturday night.
Mizzou defeated Florida 91-75 
after shooting an unprecedented 
63 percent from beyond the arc 
in Columbia, Missouri. Mizzou 
was shooting just 31 percent 
from three-point range on the 
season before facing Florida.
Just that afternoon at home, 
Auburn whipped the Georgia 
Bulldogs 82-60 to start their 
season 15-0. 
Both teams’ narratives shifted 
after a convincing win and a 
surprising loss in the days that 
followed.
Florida would go on to 
completely shut down Ole Miss 
(9-7) on Tuesday in a 71-55 
win in which the Rebels only 
shot 29 percent from the ﬁ  eld 
in the second half — a massive 
improvement from its defensive 
performance just three days 
earlier.Auburn was then upset 
by the Crimson Tide (9-7) in 
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, the next 
day in an astonishing 83-64 loss.
The Tigers (15-1, 3-1 SEC) 
now will come into Gainesville 
to face the Gators (11-5, 3-1 
SEC) on Saturday as both teams 
are coming off — for better or 
worse — signiﬁ  cant SEC games.
The Gators were able to beat 
Alabama 104-98 in a double 
overtime nail-biter on Jan. 4 and 
found success where Auburn 
struggled: at the guard position.
Florida’s Andrew Nembhard 
and Noah Locke combined for 
43 points in their win against 
Alabama while Auburn’s guard 
tandem of J’Von McCormick 
and Samir Doughty couldn’t get 
anything going for their team.
The two combined for just 11 
points on 4-of-19 shooting from 
the ﬁ  eld in Auburn’s crushing 
loss at Alabama.
Auburn coach Bruce Pearl 
was critical of his guards’ play 
on Wednesday.
“We were really sloppy 
offensively,” Pearl said in a Florida upended by 24th-ranked Tennessee
Guards will be key vs. AUSamantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Freshman Brylee Bartram's 11 points were tied for the 
most on the team in Tuesday's loss to T ennessee.
After the LSU Tigers defeated 
Clemson in the College Football 
Playoff National Championship 
game, video circulated of what 
appeared to be a tipsy Odell 
Beckham Jr. distributing fistfulls of  cash 
to wide receivers Jontre Kirklin and Jus-
tin Jefferson, the latter having declared 
for the NFL draft earlier this week. 
LSU officials were under the impres-
sion that Beckham Jr. was planning to 
hand out “novelty bills” Monday night, 
according to a statement issued by the school. How-
ever, between the video footage and quarterback 
Joe Burrow’s unabashed admission of the curren-
cy’s legitimacy on Barstool Sports' Pardon My Take 
podcast, the university decided that getting in touch 
with the NCAA and SEC to rectify the situation was 
in its best interest and promptly did so.
Now, this column is not an investigation into 
“Odell-cash gate,” as the interaction has been af-
fectionately dubbed. Nor do I aim to gauge how 
inebriated Beckham happened to be when the video 
was taken or when he slapped a Superdome secu-
rity guard’s backside (which resulted in the New 
Orleans police department issuing an arrest war-
rant for the NFL star receiver) — even though it 
looked like he had a grand ol’ time while back in 
the Bayou. But instead, if he did (or was as gone as 
he seemed to be), what’s the big deal?
Schools, conferences and television benefactors 
make millions of dollars off college students every 
year. The University of Florida’s Athletic Associa-tion reported a net position of $156 mil-
lion in 2018. Only $14.5 million were 
spent on scholarships for student-ath-
letes that year. 
According to the NCAA, fewer than 2 
percent of college athletes go on to play 
professional sports. For many, college 
is their four-year window to play the 
sport they love at an elite level. 
So while the NCAA argues that stu-
dent-athletes are “compensated” for 
their image, likeness and peak years of 
their lives with a free (or discounted) education, 
the disparity between the revenue these institutions 
make and this compensation is far too great. 
While I am aware of the fact that the nitty-gritty 
details of paying players are far beyond my com-
prehension and understanding, I still, nonetheless, 
want to propose a reasonable framework:
Upon signing, players should receive a trust from 
the university of their enrollment. Every year that 
they stay in school, more money gets put into that 
trust. In the event of a career-ending injury, all of 
the money that had been placed into the trust up to 
that point should be released to the athlete, so they 
can still pay to finish school should they lose their 
scholarship. If the athlete decides to forgo their eli-
gibility for professional opportunities, like the NFL 
and NBA Draft or a sponsorship deal, their trust 
will be forfeited and recycled by the university into 
other student-athlete funds. If the student-athlete is 
able to remain healthy for the entirety of their col-It is time to say “Ok, Boomer” to the NCAAClash of the Titus
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 12SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12
Payton Titus
Twitter: @petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020   ALLIGATOR   11  
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Trinity Thomas won four events in Florida’s season-
opening meet against Arkansas.
Samantha Harrison // Alligator Staff
Sophomore Lukas Greif lost his singles match to T exas’ Chih Chi 
Huang (7-5, 6-3) on Wednesday.
GYMNASTICS
MEN’S TENNIS
TRACKBy Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Over the course of the 
next two weeks, the Flor-
ida gymnastics team will 
face two Tigers.
The more-anticipated 
feline showdown will 
be next week when LSU 
comes to the O’Connell 
Center, but first, the Gators 
will have to fight with the 
Tigers of Missouri in their 
cage.
On Friday night, No. 
2 Florida will compete in 
their second meet of the 
2020 season when it sets 
out to Columbia to take 
on No. 19 Missouri. The 
meet will commence at 7 
p.m. and be televised on 
the SEC Network as part of 
their Friday Night Heights 
program.
UF (1-0, 1-0 SEC) is 
coming off its best season-
opening meet in recent memory, besting Arkansas 
197.35-194.40 last Friday 
evening. It was the largest 
margin of victory for Flori-
da in a meet since January 
2017 and the most points 
ever scored in an opener.
“It’s a great problem to 
have,” coach Jenny Row-
land said regarding her 
team’s depth. “We haven’t 
had that problem in sev-
eral years, so it really el-
evates the athletes.”
Sophomore Trinity 
Thomas was the star of the 
win over the Razorbacks, 
taking the title in bars 
(9.925), beam (9.975) and 
floor (9.975), her ninth 
and 10th career score of 
9.975. She also earned 
her seventh collegiate all-
around win with a score 
of 39.70, the third best 
score in the country so far 
this season. Following her 
performance, she won her 
fourth SEC Gymnast of the 
Week award.Sophomore Nya Reed 
stepped up as well, equal-
ing her career-best in vault 
(9.875) and floor (9.925).
“After having a great 
meet like that, the energy 
carries over into practice 
the next week,” sopho-
more Savannah Schoen-
herr said. “It just makes 
practice super fun and 
pushes (us) more to do 
better.”
This is already Mis-
souri’s (1-2, 0-1 SEC) 
fourth meet of the season. 
In its home triangular on 
Jan. 4, the Tigers finished 
in second place, losing to 
Illinois but beating South-
east Missouri. Their first 
SEC meet was last week, 
when they were defeated 
by No. 10 Kentucky in Lex-
ington, Kentucky, 196.525-
195.500. In the week 
following the tri-meet, 
Missouri senior Aspen 
Tucker won SEC Specialist 
of the Week and Helen Hu won SEC Freshman of the 
Week. Hu scored a 9.95 to 
win the beams title in the 
loss to the Wildcats for the 
second-straight week.
“A lot of my favorite 
memories these past four 
years have been from trav-
eling,” UF senior Amelia 
Hundley said. “But it real-
ly will be a test in a differ-
ent situation and different 
arena, so it will challenge 
us.”
Last season, the Gators 
defeated the Tigers 197.30-
196.45 in Gainesville to 
open the 2019 season.
“I told the team in the 
fall that they built a great 
foundation,” Rowland 
said. “I’m looking forward 
to relying on that strong 
foundation and just con-
tinuing to build upon that 
throughout the season.”
 
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.org
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Wednesday’s match 
was a huge opportunity 
for the Gators men’s ten-
nis team.
A chance to exact re-
venge on the team that 
ended its dream campaign 
last season, to get a win in 
front of one of the largest 
crowds in school history 
– over 700 fans attended 
–  and to stake their claim 
as truly the No. 1 team in 
the country.
They failed to seize that 
opportunity.
No. 1 Florida fell by a 
score of 5-2 to No. 2 Texas, 
collecting its first loss of 
the season on Wednesday 
evening at the Ring Tennis 
Complex, while UT won 
its first match of the dual 
season.
The excitement began 
early, in the doubles por-tion. After juniors Duarte 
Vale and Josh Goodger 
picked up an easy 6-3 win 
on court three, attention 
turned to courts one and 
two. Both saw tight match-
es that could have gone ei-
ther way, with a tiebreaker 
possible in each. But that 
wouldn’t be necessary, as 
senior Johannes Ingildsen 
and freshman Will Grant 
won 7-5 and clinched the 
doubles point for Florida.
UF continued that mo-
mentum into singles, win-
ning the first set on three 
of the six courts. However, 
Texas took the first set on 
courts two and three and 
won both matches with 
ease in straight sets, taking 
a 2-1 lead and defeating 
two of UF’s top players, 
No. 4 sophomore Sam Rif-
fice and No. 17 Vale.
The Longhorns were 
then on the brink of victo-
ry after No. 71 sophomore 
Lukas Greif fell in a tight two-set defeat, 7-5, 6-3.
The star of singles for 
the Gators was Blaise 
Bicknell. The freshman 
got the start on court six 
and seemed to be in for 
a rough going, falling be-
hind 5-0. Bicknell then 
stormed back and won 
seven games in a row to 
win the first set 7-5. He 
then won his match after a 
6-2 decision in the second 
set— This was Florida’s 
only singles win of the 
match.
“I just had to believe in 
myself and believe in my 
skills,” Bicknell said in a 
release. “I know I have all 
the talent. I know I have 
all the support.”
The enthusiasm from 
Bicknell’s win was short-
lived. UT clinched the 
match on court one when 
No. 2 Yuya Ito defeated 
No. 31 junior Oliver Craw-
ford in a hard-fought three-
set loss. The match con-cluded on court four when 
No. 72 Andy Andrade, a 
junior, lost in three sets, as 
well, and UF lost 5-2. 
Florida will look to 
bounce back from the loss 
when it plays its second 
doubleheader of the sea-
son on Sunday. It will play 
two in-state teams with ac-
tion against UCF at 1 p.m. 
and Stetson at 4:30 p.m. 
Both matches will be held 
at the Ring.
“We just talk about 
the things we need to talk 
about so that we make 
sure that we learn,” Coach 
Bryan Shelton said in a 
release. “The guys that 
played the matches that 
didn’t come through or 
didn’t have their play as 
where they wanted to be.”
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.org
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Florida is back in South Carolina this 
weekend for the second week in a row.
The Gators are competing in the 
Gamecock Invitational in Columbia, 
South Carolina, on Friday and Saturday. 
This comes a week after attending the 
Orange and Purple Elite meet in Clemson, 
South Carolina. The Gamecocks competed 
in that meet along with the Gators. That 
meet opened the indoor season for UF, but South Carolina had previously competed 
in the Clemson Invitational back in 
December.
Action for UF begins Friday at 10 a.m. 
with the men’s long jump and concludes 
Saturday at 4:30 p.m. with the women’s 
4x400 relay. Senior Raymond Ekevwo’s 
indoor season will start Friday at 4:30 
p.m. in the 60 meters. He only ran the 
60 meters once all last season and set a 
personal record of 6.66 seconds in the 
SEC Indoor Championships. Tyler Davis, 
Joseph Fahnbulleh, Cameron Miller and Clayton Brown all join Ekevwo in the 60 
meters.
Brown is also competing in the men’s 
high jump after his impressive showing 
last week in the triple jump.
Last week, the sprinters and jumpers 
carried Florida, and this week will be 
more of the same as there are only 12 
athletes competing in races longer than 
400 meters. Doneisha Anderson and 
Taylor Manson are both running in the 
women’s 400 meters after competing in 
the 300 meters last week.In all, 46 athletes are competing this 
weekend in the invitational for Florida 
in a field that includes several other 
programs from the Southeast region 
including Charleston Southern and 
Bethune Cookman.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFlorida travels to face Missouri
Texas beats UF in top-ranked match
Gators to compete in Gamecock Open in South CarolinaBy Payton Titus
Sports Writer
The Southeastern Conference an-
nounced the 2020 Preseason Coach-
es’ Poll, which surveys all 13 head 
coaches in the league, on Wednes-
day. Of those 13 teams, the defend-
ing SEC Tournament-champion 
Gators were ranked fifth.
The Crimson Tide tallied 11 of the 
available 13 first-place votes, secur-
ing the first-place slot in the poll. 
The Tide and the Gators are the only 
two SEC teams to win the Women’s 
College World Series.
Tennessee was behind Alabama 
with the remaining two first-place 
votes. Florida also trailed LSU (third) 
and Kentucky (fourth). 
Last year, the Gators finished 12-
12 in conference play but went on 
to best the Crimson Tide in the SEC tournament championship, securing 
the program’s fifth title. 
The Gators will open the season 
in Tampa at the USF-Rawlings Invi-
tational on Feb. 7.
On Feb. 11, Florida will play an 
exhibition game against Team USA 
Softball at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium. Former Gators Michelle 
Moultrie, Kelsey Stewart and Au-
bree Munro will take the field in red, 
white and blue instead of orange 
and blue.
The Gators will face their first 
SEC opponent in Auburn on March 
6, and the SEC tournament is set for 
May 6-9 in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 2020
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
NIGHT  9 pm-12 am
$2 Double Wells
$2 Rolling Rock Cans
$2 Pink Lemonade Shots
LIVE DJ
(DOWNSTAIRS)
FRIDAYS
on theROOFNEW!Alligator File Photo
Gators sophomore Andrew Nembhard is averaging 11.1 points per game, the third most 
on the team.
Alligator File Photo
Senior Kendyl Lindaman batted 
.330 in 2019.
release. “Pacing, timing, feel. A lot 
of that starts with our point guards. 
We don’t just shoot it well enough 
offensively to make up for what we 
don’t execute or space, and it caught 
up with us tonight. We’ll have another 
opportunity this week to shore that up.”
Florida coach Mike White isn’t taking 
Auburn’s guard duo lightly.
“Probably one of the more underrated 
backcourts in the country, elite speed 
and quickness,” White said in a 
postgame press conference on Tuesday.
Nembhard and Locke enter Saturday 
afternoon’s matchup at the O’Connell 
Center averaging 21 points per game combined while McCormick and 
Doughty are at 26.4 per contest.
Both backcourts will be depended 
on to carry the load for their respective 
teams. Whether it’s to rebound from a 
crushing loss or build off a dominating 
win.
“We’re going to need our conﬁ  dence 
high to make shots,” Nembhard said. 
“I think we’re moving in the right 
direction.”
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.org
legiate career and decides to 
stay in school to graduate, 
they will be awarded all of 
the money their fund has ac-
cumulated over the previous 
four years. 
As a college student, I 
know that I would make in-
ept financial decisions if I 
received the kind of salary 
collegiate athletes deserve. 
Between the innate imma-
turity that comes with being 
an 18- to 23-year-old and 
the struggles of finding your 
people — the right people 
— in college, it is likely that 
anyone would blow through 
all of their hard-earned 
money on trivial things or 
temporary friends. It is also likely that they would be 
overcome with regret if they 
were unable to land an NFL- 
or NBA-level contract and 
dig themselves out of that 
hole. 
So when I suggest that 
players be properly com-
pensated after the fact, it 
is meant to have been a 
thoughtful suggestion rather 
than a dismissive one.
Regardless, the system 
currently in place is not 
cutting it. Whether proper 
compensation looks like the 
trust plan I outlined or even 
a percentage of merchandise 
revenue as a stipend, some-
thing has to give. MEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 10
COLUMN,  from pg. 10AU sufered irst loss to 'Bama
Change the systemSOFTBALL
UF ranked 5th in Preseason Coaches' Poll