We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperBomb threats
Buchholz High School had four false alarms in the past month,  pg. 3
Mounting departures
Four city employees have resigned in the last four months,  pg. 5Florida’s quarterback questions continue
Richardson shines while Jones sputters against 
South Florida with Alabama on horizon. Find 
this story on pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 4
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
2,977 flags were placed in the Plaza of the Americas as part of UF Young Americans for Freedom’s Never Forget 
Project on Saturday, Sept. 11, 2021. Read more on page 6.
By Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
After five years of ascending through the rank -
ings, UF achieved its long-standing goal.
U.S. News and World Report announced on 
Sept. 13 UF is ranked No. 5 in the list of public 
universities in the United States.
The university first reached top ten status in 
2017, when it tied for the No. 9 spot with the Uni -
versity of California, Irvine, and the University of 
California, San Diego.
Since then, UF has ascended through the rank -
ings, where, before Monday, it was tied for sixth 
place with the University of California, Santa Bar -
bara.
The newest ranking makes UF the first univer -
sity in the state to ever be in the top five ranking 
of colleges.
The rankings are determined by nine factors: 
graduation and retention, graduation rate per -
formance, graduate indebtedness, social mobil -
ity, faculty resources, expert opinion, financial 
resources, student excellence and alumni giving.
One of the ways UF tries to boost its ranking 
is by hosting its annual Giving Day fundraiser to 
bolster its standing in the alumni giving category. 
This year it raised $25.3 million.
Danielle Hawk, an activist who announced 
her run for Congress in May, protested UF’s CO -
VID-19 protocols last Spring semester by setting 
up a boycott for UF’s Giving Day. 
UF has not acted like it’s a top-ranked univer -
sity in the way it’s handled the COVID-19 pan -
demic, she said in an earlier interview with The 
Alligator.
However, the boycott did not stop UF from 
topping its earlier record of $23 million in dona -
tions from 2020.
“By nearly every measure, UF is continuing to 
make gains, and I’m thankful to the elected lead -
ers, faculty, staff and supporters of the university 
who have made that possible,” UF President Kent 
Fuchs said in a statement.
When UF reached it’s No. 7 rank in 2019, Gov. 
Ron DeSantis announced the news at UF’s Emer -
son Alumni Hall.
“University of Florida is going to be knock -
ing on the top five soon,” DeSantis said. “I think 
when people know that, they’re like, ‘Man, we’re 
going to have a lot of talent down in Florida.’”
With the top five spot newly secured, it is un -
known what exactly the future of UF may be, but 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando hopes to hold onto 
No. 5.
Florida is the nation’s third most populous 
state, so it needs a top-five university, Orlando 
said in a prior statement.
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.orgUF breaks 
into top 5
BOTH PRESIDENTS MAINTAIN 
THEY DON’T HAVE THE 
AUTHORITY TO INSTITUTE 
INDOOR MASK MANDATES
By Omar Ateyah, Eve Thompson 
& Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writers
Despite pressure from the county, UF 
and Santa Fe College students and faculty 
will continue to have a choice in whether 
they wear a mask on campus. 
Ken Cornell, the chair of the Alachua 
County Commission, sent a letter to UF 
and Santa Fe leadership requesting they 
institute indoor masking requirements on 
campus because of the risks posed by the 
Delta variant of COVID-19. 
In his letter, Cornell wrote if the 
schools didn’t comply, the county could 
remove exemptions that exclude the col -
lege and the university from the county -
wide mandate. According to the letter, 
the commission states it has the power to 
include the college and university in its 
masking mandate.
Alachua County spokesperson Mark 
Sexton said that when the commission 
meets Sept. 14 Tuesday, it may vote to 
include UF and Santa Fe in the mandate 
unless they are both able to provide evi -dence that their hands are tied.
“If we don’t have the documentation 
that shows that [the college and univer -
sity] no longer have that authority [to 
mandate masks], the board could decide 
to move forward with requiring those 
entities to follow the emergency order,” 
Sexton said.
UF President Kent Fuchs and Santa Fe 
President Paul Broadie II responded to the 
commission Friday by email.
“Unfortunately, we do not read the 
State University system policymaking en -
vironment the way you describe in your 
letter,” Fuchs wrote in an email to the 
commission. “The university does not 
currently have the authority to take the 
actions you recommend.” 
Both Fuchs and Broadie wrote they 
will continue to strongly encourage fac -
ulty, staff and students to wear masks in -
doors on campus.
UF United Faculty of Florida President 
Paul Ortiz was dissatisfied with Fuchs’ re -
sponse.
“I’m very disappointed to hear that 
one of the top-ranked universities in the 
country is powerless,” Ortiz said. “I don’t 
accept that.”
As a UF history professor, he said 
many faculty, staff and students were 
hopeful as the county had essentially 
asked the university to join in the fight against COVID-19.
“What we’re going to be remembered 
for is how we responded to the greatest 
crisis this country has faced since World 
War II,” Ortiz said.
Bryn Taylor, UF Graduate Assistants 
United communications chair, also said 
it was encouraging to hear about the let -
ter, as it’s something GAU and UFF have 
demanded the university’s administration 
adopt.
“We were happy to see it because it’s 
nice to have the support of the commu -
nity behind you and your efforts to make 
UF a safe and healthy campus,” the UF 
rehabilitation science doctoral program 
student said.
Taylor said she’s disappointed by 
Fuchs’ response, considering many other 
universities across the U.S., like the Uni -
versity of California and the University of 
Michigan, have implemented mask man -
dates in defiance of their state govern -
ments. The universities are ranked first, 
second and third respectively in the U.S. 
News and World Report Public Universi -
ties ranking as of Sept. 12Sunday.
Taylor noted how the Alachua County 
School Board mandated masks within its 
school system, risking and losing fund -
ing equivalent to school board member UF, Santa Fe reject county’s mask request
SEE MASK MANDATE,  PAGE 4U.S. News and World Report 
places UF in fifth placeT oday’s Weather
THE INCIDENTS OCCURRED 
ABOUT THREE AND A HALF 
HOURS APART ON SEPT. 10
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman was raped at 
Gainesville Place Apartments, 
and another was kidnapped on 
the outskirts of UF’s campus Fri -
day morning. 
The Gainesville Police De -
partment has charged Antwine 
Johnson, a 32-year-old southwest 
Gainesville resident, with sexual 
battery and kidnapping based 
on physical and digital evidence 
found at the scene, as of Sept. 10. 
In 2016, Johnson was accused 
of following a woman home and 
threatening to shoot her — pros -
ecutors dropped his case because 
of “insufficient evidence.”
UF Public Safety sent out an 
email to students Sept. 10 after the 
GPD was notified of an attempted 
rape, assault, robbery and kid -
napping around 12:15 a.m. and 
a rape and robbery around 3:30 
a.m. Johnson is in custody at the 
Alachua County Jail as of Sept. 
10.
GPD spokesperson Graham 
Glover said both victims were re -
leased from the hospital and are 
recovering. Glover was unable to 
identify which hospital each vic -
tim was taken to.
Under the Clery Act, UF is re -
quired to send out “timely warn -
ing messages” about crimes 
deemed a serious or constant 
threat to the campus community. 
The federal law requires universi -
ties to notify students and faculty of campus threats, such as sexual 
assault and gun violence.  
The first victim was jogging 
down Southwest 23rd Street at 
about midnight Sept. 10 when 
she told police she was tackled 
and choked by a 6-foot-tall man 
on the sidewalk. The suspect stole 
her phone as she attempted to call 
911 and forced her into a dark-
colored sedan after threatening to 
rape and kill her, the email read.
She told police she escaped af -
ter jumping out of the moving car 
and sought help, Glover said. 
The victim described her as -
sailant to police as a 6-foot Black 
man with a thin but muscular 
build and curly hair. She told po -
lice he was wearing a dark-col -
ored T-shirt and khaki shorts, the 
email read.
The next victim was raped and 
robbed around 3:30 a.m. around 
2800 SW 35th Place, better known 
as Gainesville Place Apartments, 
just over two miles from the other 
crime scene.
As the victim was entering her 
apartment, she told police a man 
grabbed her and said he had a 
gun. She was pulled downstairs 
and taken into a wooded area 
where she was raped, the email 
read. The suspect then threw the 
victim’s phone over a nearby 
fence and left on foot.
The victim described the sus -
pect as a 6-foot Black man with a 
slim build and dreads.
At Gainesville Place Apart -
ments, there have been multiple 
reports of burglary, assault, bat -
tery, theft and more in the last 
two years. But Glover said two 
consecutive sex-related crimes this close together in city limits is 
out of the ordinary.
“We don't see sexual assaults 
like this happen regularly in 
Gainesville,” Glover said. “We 
certainly don't see two assaults 
happening in the same night 
roughly three hours apart.”
GPD’s Investigations Division 
is asking anyone who has infor -
mation to contact 352-393-7734. 
For anonymity, contact the Ala -
chua County Crime Stoppers at 
352-372-7867.  
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 4
 One woman raped, another kidnapped 
blocks away from UF’s campus  
More than 60,000 people come to Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. 
Tell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the 
Homecoming Souvenir Edition  which is passed out along the parade route.
SOUVENIR EDITION 2021
HOMECOMIN G
DEADLINE
9/29 10/4RUN DATE
352-376-4482  |  advertising@alligator.orgCONTACT YOUR ALLIGATOR AD REP TODAY!
KICKOFFKICKOFF
A SEASONA SEASON
OF GREATOF GREAT
BUSINESS!BUSINESS!Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Place Apartments, 
a student housing center, sits 
on Southwest 35th Place on 
Wednesday, July 14, 2021.
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!
NEW donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.
grifolsplasma.comNEW Plasma Donors 
EARN $500
for 5 donations!*
2315 NW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Bring Valid Student/Military ID to 
qualify for additional BONUSES!
*fees subject to change without notice004IA3
004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 9/2/21   5:27 PM9/2/21   5:27 PM
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
5001 NW 34th Blvd
352-505-6644   •   africanunique.comGrocery, Beauty, Fashion, Wellness
By Renee Hancock
Alligator Staff Writer
Cassandra Jones felt paralyzed 
as she watched chaos erupt at 
Buchholz High School Aug. 19. Her 
mind immediately jumped to the 
possibility of a school shooting.
“Everybody was running to 
their cars; people almost crashed 
into each other,” the 17-year-old 
junior said. “It was so bad … I was 
freaking out.” 
But with each threat, Cassandra 
said students have become more 
nonchalant. Despite this, she 
believes it’s necessary to treat each 
threat seriously. 
“It’s kind of like ‘boy cries 
wolf’ situation,” she said. “My 
classmates, they literally are just 
like, ‘Oh, OK. I leave and go home 
now.’”
On Aug. 19, Buchholz High 
School received its first false bomb 
threat of the school year. Nearly 
one month later, the school had its 
fourth. 
False bomb threats at Buchholz 
are not unique to this school year. 
In 2016, a 14-year-old Buchholz 
freshman was responsible for 
three false bomb threats. The 
threats required an extensive law 
enforcement response.
Buchholz is the largest public 
high school in Alachua County, 
with more than 2,200 students. 
The string of recent false bomb 
threats at the school has led to 
work disruption, missed class time 
and curriculum setbacks for the 
thousands of students, teachers and 
parents involved.  
After the first threat, two more 
were called into the school Sept. 1 
and 2. The fourth occurred Sept. 
7. Each sweep took over an hour 
and law enforcement deemed the 
campus clear for return after all four 
found no evidence of an explosive 
device present. 
While Cassandra believes the 
second and fourth threats were 
handled well, the first one was 
disorganized and during the third 
threat, students were forced to 
brave inclement weather. Cassandra was in her third class 
period during the third threat Sept. 
2. After being evacuated to the 
football field, students began to 
separate off into their friend groups, 
ignoring the request to stay with 
their classmates as the weather 
turned for worse. 
“It started to rain, and the 
teachers were blocking off the 
entrance and exit,” she said. “There 
were kids jumping the fences, and 
then we pushed through all of the 
teachers. Everybody just started 
running.” 
Alachua County Public Schools 
spokesperson Jackie Johnson said 
the school board is fully cooperating 
with local law enforcement in the 
ongoing investigation. As of Sept. 
12, however, no arrests have been 
made. 
“We want to put a stop to it,” 
Johnson said. “Whatever help we 
can provide to law enforcement to 
help get that done, we are doing.” 
Johnson said she understands 
parents’ anxiety and irritation, but 
officials can’t make information 
about the investigation public.
“We do not want to jeopardize 
any investigation because we want 
this person or persons caught,” 
Johnson said. “We need to let 
[law enforcement] do their job and 
support them as they do their job.” 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
spokesperson Capt. Kaley Behl also 
acknowledged the disturbance to 
the school day and community 
members’ frustration. She said the 
initial response to each threat from 
ACSO included a range of nine to 
21 officers in addition to the school 
board’s resources, bus drivers and 
UF’s bomb canines. 
There’s been a spread of recent 
rumors and questions about federal 
help in the ongoing investigation. 
Behl said ACSO is using mutual 
aid — the agreement between 
law enforcement agencies to lend 
assistance across jurisdictions 
— and various resources from 
surrounding departments, including 
the FBI. But ACSO is still leading 
the investigation. 
“The FBI has resources available to us,” Behl said. “To say that 
they’re not involved at all is not 
true — they are. They’re helping, 
they’re assisting. But they’re not the 
ones doing the investigation.” 
There have been seven bomb 
threats made in Alachua County 
since January including the four at 
Buchholz, she said. 
“We have to treat every 
single bomb threat as though it is 
credible,” Behl said. “It’s a form of 
terrorism. It really is.” 
The effects of fake bomb threats 
go beyond logistical and financial 
disruption. These threats further 
hinder attempts to stay on the 
curriculum’s schedule.
Cassandra wants more resources 
dedicated to campus security. She 
wishes the school’s administration 
had more of a set plan for moving 
students during an evacuation. 
“I feel like we should have more 
security in the school rather than 
having our classes taken away from 
us and our learning ability taken 
away from us,” Cassandra said. 
Cassandra’s experiences 
ring similar to some Buchholz 
alumni who faced the string of 
fake bomb threats in years past. 
Daniel Funston, a 2018 Buchholz 
alumnus, remembers the initial fear 
on campus during the 2016 bomb 
threats. 
“We were kind of confused and 
a little worried that they could be 
real,” Funston said. 
Behl said the student responsible 
was charged with three felony 
counts, had to pay restitution fees 
and perform community service 
hours. Behl said the student had 
to pay roughly $5,500 in restitution 
to the school board and $2,500 to 
ACSO. 
Whoever is responsible for the 
recent string of threats could accrue 
a second-degree felony with the 
potential to pay fines up to $10,000. 
By the third bomb threat, 
Funston said students began to 
doubt the validity and seriousness 
of the threats. Instead of fear, 
students felt inconvenienced by the 
repeated interruption of the day. 
“We were just like, ‘Oh, now it’s just annoying,’” he said. 
Funston said his awareness 
of school safety at Buchholz was 
eclipsed by the distraction of his 
schoolwork. The disruption from 
the string of threats his sophomore 
year made him more in tune to the 
open campus. 
“As far as campus security goes, 
I would not call Buchholz a secure 
campus,” he said. 
Cassandra and Funston are 
not alone in their concerns over 
campus safety. Deborah Lee Jones, 
a Gainesville resident and Buchholz 
High School parent, is troubled by 
the safety protocols and response of 
the school board. 
Jones and her family recently 
moved to the Gainesville area from 
Orange County. After enrolling her 
son at Buchholz, she noticed a lack 
of campus security. 
“We walked right into open 
double doors, and we walked 
around that mall area for about five 
minutes looking for the office,” she 
said. “No one stopped us. No one 
asked us anything. I never saw a 
police officer.” 
The bomb threats and varying 
evacuation processes have solidified 
Jones’ worries over her son’s safety. 
Jones’ son, who was on campus 
during the bomb threats, is now missing additional days due to 
a possible COVID-19 exposure 
on campus. When Jones went 
to the school to pick up her son 
to quarantine, she had no issue 
walking into the building. 
“I walked right in,” Jones said. 
“I could have gone and sat in a 
classroom if I wanted. I don’t think 
anybody would’ve stopped me.” 
Jones believes there needs to 
be more communication from 
the school’s administration to the 
community. 
For parents who may not be able 
to be as active in their student’s 
schooling due to work, Jones 
expressed concern about the lost 
educational resources available to 
those families.   
“The principal needs to address 
the community,” she said. “The 
school board needs to address the 
community. Something needs to be 
put in place for these kids so that 
they don’t continue to miss all this 
learning.” 
You can submit tips anonymously 
or on record to Alachua County 
Crime Stoppers at 1+(352)-372-
STOP for up to a $1,000 reward.
@reneehancockuf
rhancock@alligator.orgInvestigation continues into Buchholz High School bomb threats  
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
F.W. Buchholz High School, located at 5510 NW 27th Ave., is 
seen, with the door open, on Saturday, Sept. 11, 2021. Over the 
past month, there have been four empty bomb threats.
In the past month, the school has had four false alarms4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
Kelly Baker’s wife relies on 
her phone or tablet to work as 
a certified nursing assistant in 
Gainesville. Her mother-in-law 
also takes classes from home, and 
her 5-month-old daughter enjoys 
watching educational videos. 
However, the 29-year-old 
Gainesville resident’s family 
struggles with its spotty internet 
provider, Cox and often relies on 
costly personal hotspots. 
“We’ve been managing, 
obviously, but it’s pretty rough,” 
Baker said.To remedy situations like 
Baker’s, a group of Gainesville 
residents is pushing to help areas 
with poor internet service and 
help increase digital equity across 
the board. 
Bryan Eastman believes 
publicly-owned internet is the 
solution to the digital divide — 
the gap between those with and 
without reliable technology and 
internet.
Eastman is an administrator 
for the Facebook group Connected 
Gainesville, which advocates for 
accessible and high-speed internet 
for the community. He said there 
are some areas in Gainesville, particularly in East Gainesville, 
that lack reliable internet 
connection. The group wants the 
Gainesville City Commission to 
supply funding for publicly-owned 
broadband internet. 
The proposal was originally 
scheduled to be heard by the 
commission Aug. 25, but the 
meeting was canceled due to issues 
related to COVID-19. Eastman 
said he expects the meeting to be 
rescheduled to October, where he 
and other affected citizens will 
explain why it’s an important 
initiative. 
“It’s internet owned and 
operated by the people that use it,” Eastman said. “The same way 
that our utilities are owned by 
people who are actually using it.” 
About two decades ago, 
wireless internet connection was 
considered a luxury, he said. 
Today, every student, business 
and home is somewhat reliant 
on wireless internet. Since the 
COVID-19 pandemic began, 
the need for sufficient internet 
connection has drastically 
increased. 
Eastman sees the internet as 
a human right in today’s digital 
world and is hopeful that the 
proposal will pass.
Magellan Advisors, a 
company that helps plan and build broadband networks for 
communities, wrote a report on 
connecting Gainesville homes to 
better internet connection. The 
report includes maps of areas most 
affected by the digital divide. 
It divides Gainesville into five 
areas of need. The area most 
affected by poor internet access 
is in East Gainesville, particularly 
the block from 13th Street through 
to Waldo Road, which is labeled as 
Priority Area One in the report. The 
least affected area encompasses 
North Gainesville, northeast 
Gainesville and UF’s campus. 
According to the report, a 
broadband network is an eligible Publicly-owned internet proposal coming to Gainesville City Commission
ASHOUR IS THE SIXTH SCHOLAR-IN-
RESIDENCE SANTA FE HAS HOSTED
By Eve Thompson
Alligator Staff Writer
Being an academic woman in Egypt is dif -
ficult, Mona Ahmed Ashour said. But being an 
academic woman studying feminism in Egypt 
is nearly impossible, she said.
Ashour is a Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence 
at Santa Fe College. She used to be a profes -
sor of English and English Literature in Au -
gust 2019 at Ain Shams University in Cairo. 
This semester, Ashour is teaching Santa Fe’s 
African humanities class, as well as its world 
religions class. And she will stay in Gainesville 
for the academic year.
After completing her 2019 doctoral thesis 
in Egypt on ecofeminism, the relationship be -
tween women and nature, Ashour applied to 
the Fulbright scholarship program at Santa Fe, 
which allows American colleges and universi -
ties to host scholars from around the world. 
Scholars also teach courses, guest lecture and build relationships with 
the local community.
Ashour was originally 
selected for the scholar -
ship position in early 
2019, but she had to post -
pone the trip because of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Now, as she is attempting 
to adjust to life in Florida, 
she said she feels supported by the Santa Fe 
community.
“I’m struggling at this point, a little bit, to 
be alone here all the time. Actually, many, 
many American professors are calling me all 
the time, and taking me … to the supermar -
ket and to many places here in Gainesville,” 
Ashour said.
She said she is also adjusting to the many 
cultural differences, including the way wom -
en in academics are often treated.
“To be a woman who has some kind of 
academic position in Egypt, or in any Arab 
country, is not easy at all because women are 
somehow in Arab societies still being dealt 
with as someone different, someone that should be kept under a certain limit,” Ashour 
said.
Ashour said when she told her adviser she 
was going to study feminism for her doctor -
ate, he warned her it might negatively affect 
her way of thinking.
“He told me, ‘Be careful because this is go -
ing to be so bad for you if you’re going to be 
affected by their ideas,’” Ashour said.
She chose the program at Santa Fe because 
it would allow her to continue her research 
and build connections with American profes -
sors.
“They may ask me about the Egyptian cul -
ture, all the time, we exchange experiences,” 
Ashour said. “We exchange opinions, visions 
about everything.”
Ashour co-teaches African humanities 
with Sarah Cervone, associate professor of 
humanities at Santa Fe. Cervone said Ashour 
has been able to offer a diverse point of view 
for students.
“I’ve been teaching it by myself for almost 
a decade, and so the opportunity to collabo -
rate with her has been great for me, as well as 
for the students,” Cervone said. Cervone said African humanities gives stu -
dents a broad overview of expressive medi -
ums such as film, poetry and literature as they 
relate to Africa. 
“If I’m presenting something about spe -
cific phenomena like ancient empires, then 
[Ashour] can take the students much deeper 
into Egypt specifically,” Cervone said.
Ashour also teaches a contemporary world 
religions class with Jason McCombs. He said 
she has taught him about Egyptian culture 
and her experience as a professor.
“It’s not just having another person, which 
is always good to have a different perspective, 
as most classes aren’t co-taught — but a cross-
cultural perspective,” McCombs said.
Ashour said she has enjoyed getting to 
know the students at the college, and she is 
excited to continue teaching this semester.
“My experience with Santa Fe College is 
just amazing,” Ashour said. “I have encoun -
tered many wonderful instructors, professors, 
and the students are so [critical] thinkers.”
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.orgEgyptian Fulbright Scholar to teach classes at Santa Fe until May
monthly salaries.
Sarah Kurtis, a 28-year-old UF 
biology doctoral student, said she 
was disappointed with UF’s re -
sponse to the letter.
“Wearing masks inside UF 
buildings is all they’re asking,” she 
said. “It’s not super difficult.”
Kurtis said she is especially 
disappointed because she has 
friends and colleagues in the biol -
ogy department who have preex -
isting conditions and were denied 
requests for accommodations to 
teach online.
She said many UF professors 
teaching in person are immuno -
compromised, over 50 years old or 
have children too young to be eligi -
ble for the vaccine that they could 
be putting at risk.
“This is a fight for our survival,” 
Kurtis said. “By putting on a mask, 
you’re increasing the chances of 
your fellow students and your in -
structor surviving to see the end of 
this semester.”
Faculty and students from San -ta Fe share similar feelings about 
their college’s response.
In a statement, Santa Fe Presi -
dent Broadie wrote that the col -
lege is unable to comply with the 
letter’s request. Broadie didn’t 
explain why the college could not 
mandate masks indoors. Instead, 
he emphasized the college had 
already implemented protections 
against the virus.
Broadie’s statement also men -
tioned a new vaccine incentive 
program combined with more 
informational programming. He 
wrote Santa Fe would be willing 
to collaborate with the county, UF 
and others in additional ways to 
help stop the spread of the virus.
Daniel Clifft, a 21-year-old San -
ta Fe engineering sophomore, said 
he would have supported a mask 
mandate.
“I am a little disappointed see -
ing President Broadie not com -
mit to doing more,” Clifft said. “I 
would probably feel more safe if, 
instead of making masks available 
for students to have, just requiring 
them.”
Cornell expressed confusion at the responses from the university 
and the college.  
“I guess my response would 
be is I don’t understand their re -
sponse,” Cornell said. “As I un -
derstand the law, they actually do 
have the authority.”
Cornell said he spoke with 
Broadie directly and is confident 
that Broadie wants to take some ac -
tion, such as putting up signs about 
the county order around campus.
If the request in the letter is 
denied, Cornell said his board is 
prepared to enforce the county’s 
mask mandate on the college and 
university. But he said he doesn’t 
anticipate a significant clash on the 
question of masking. 
“The reality is, and the practi -
cality is, is that if the board decides 
to continue this emergency order, 
we only have two more weeks,” 
Cornell said. “I don’t think we’re 
going to get into a big fighting 
match with the university or the 
college.”
@Oateyah
oateyah@alligator.org
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.org
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgMASK MANDATE , from pg. 1Prepared to enforceDr. Ashour
SEE INTERNET,  PAGE 5
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Paul Ortiz, UF Department of History professor and UFF member, 
speaks during the protest for a mask mandate at Tigert Hall on 
Friday, Aug. 20, 2021. UFF members and Graduate Assistants 
United organized the event to protest the lack of COVID-19 
precautions going into the fall semester at UF.
The commission will hear the proposal in OctoberMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
FOUR CITY EMPLOYEES HAVE 
RESIGNED IN THE PAST 
FOUR MONTHS
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville City Commission will 
decide whether to terminate City Manager Lee 
Feldman at a meeting Sept. 16. 
Commissioner Desmon Duncan-Walker 
added a discussion on Feldman’s termination 
to the agenda for the next city commission 
meeting Sept. 16. This follows Commissioner 
Gail Johnson’s Aug. 23 resignation 
announcement, which she said was partially 
because of Feldman’s employment.
Duncan-Walker did not respond to The 
Alligator about why she decided to add the 
discussion to the agenda.
Three other city employees have resigned in 
the last four months, including former Director 
of the Office of Equity and Inclusion Teneeshia 
Marshall, who oversaw an investigation 
into Feldman. Feldman had been accused of 
gender discrimination and retaliation against 
a coworker in November 2020, and an 
independent attorney found sufficient evidence 
for retaliation.
Marshall said she resigned due to a toxic 
work environment and noncompetitive pay, according to her exclusive interview with 
WCJB.
City attorney Nicolle Shalley and city clerk 
Omichele Gainey submitted their letters of 
resignation Sept. 8. Shalley wrote in an email 
to the commission that she had accepted a 
position as Levy County’s attorney, and Gainey 
did not explain why she was resigning.
City Commissioner David Arreola said there 
was a lack of communication and collaboration 
between the city manager’s office and some 
employees who resigned, including Marshall 
and Shalley. 
There were times where Shalley didn’t 
receive any communication from the city 
manager’s office prior to meetings, making it 
difficult for her to do her job, Arreola said. 
“The issue was they weren’t getting 
information,” he said. “They didn’t feel as 
though they had an officer who wanted to 
work on the same team.”
Mayor Lauren Poe also asked Gainesville 
Regional Utilities General Manager Ed Bielarski 
to resign Sept. 10. Poe said he asked Bielarski 
to resign because he wasn’t the right person for 
the job at this time.
“These are important positions, and 
both folks, the charter officer and the city 
commission who directs them, have got to 
have a high functioning relationship,” he said. 
“It just has to feel like the right fit. You could 
have a completely competent person but if it’s not a good fit moving both ways then it’s going 
to be less than effective.”
Poe told CBS4 Bielarski said he will not be 
resigning. 
The City of Gainesville still operates as a 
strong organization, including the attorney’s 
office, the clerk’s office and GRU, Poe said.“Services will still be provided, and we will 
work on filling those positions with somebody 
that will be the right fit for the right time 
being,” he said.
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgGainesville may terminate both its city and GRU managers
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville City Manager Lee Feldman attends a city commemoration of 9/11 at 
Reserve Park on Saturday, Sept. 11, 2021. There have been four resignations of city 
officials in the past four months — two of whom cited him as a reason for submitting 
their resignations after an investigation into his conduct. Feldman’s termination will be 
discussed at a meeting on Thursday, Sept. 16, 2021.
use of the American Rescue 
Plan Act funding, which was 
signed into law March 11 with 
the goal of relieving economic 
and health effects from the 
pandemic. The city will receive 
about $32 million, and an 
estimated $12 million could 
fund the start of the broadband 
network in the area most 
affected by the digital divide, 
according to the report.
Eastman believes this plan 
would greatly benefit those 
who live in Gainesville’s low-
income areas and communities 
of color. 
“The issues are devastating 
for kids who aren’t able to get 
the education that they need 
on the internet,” Eastman said. 
“Especially if we are moving 
more and more toward a digital-
based education system.” 
He said Cox has been the 
sole provider of internet in 
Gainesville for too long and 
described it as a “monopoly.” 
Although AT&T is becoming 
available in some areas, he 
would like to see a shift away 
from privately-owned internet 
companies.
However, companies 
like Cox Communications, 
Inc. remain skeptical at the 
prospect. 
Cox spokesperson Cam 
Johnson describes publicly-
owned internet as a “risky and 
expensive endeavor.” Citing 
a 2021 Neighbors Survey, he 
explained the money spent 
on building and operating a broadband network could be 
better used on different issues 
residents are concerned with 
such as racial equality, policing 
standards, affordable housing 
and cost of living. 
Cox services 99% of the 
homes and businesses in the 
city and expanded its network 
by 50% in 2020, Johnson said.
Gainesville residents 
like Baker are trying to shy 
away from Cox, complaining 
they have issues with spotty 
connection.
Baker tried to switch 
services to AT&T, but her area 
is not eligible yet. Much of 
East to southeast Gainesville 
only has one or two available 
internet providers, while areas 
around the UF campus and 
West Gainesville have up to 
five providers to choose from, 
according to BroadbandNow’s 
map of internet providers in 
Gainesville. Cost of internet 
service is a big issue for her 
family, and her home resides 
in the second-most affected 
area in the Magellan Advisors 
report. 
“All we need is just internet,” 
Baker said. “We were paying 
[Cox] over like $150 a month 
for services we weren’t using.”
Baker said publicly-owned 
internet would benefit her 
family. She would be able 
to fill out job applications 
and stay connected with her 
potential employers, her wife 
could work as a certified nurse 
assistant more easily, and her 
daughter could grow up with 
the technology and learning 
resources she needs.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgINTERNET,  from pg. 4Monopoly
DRAFTS OF THE FIRST FOUR 
CHAPTERS OF IMAGINE GNV 
ARE AVAILABLE FOR 
PUBLIC INPUT
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
Tina Days, a 43-year-old East 
Gainesville resident, has seen genera -
tions of people leave Gainesville be -
cause of the lack of resources on the 
east side of town. She hopes the city’s 
new proposal will change that trend 
for her and her family.
“It’s long overdue,” she said. 
“We’ve lost generations of people 
that’s already gone and decided that 
they’re going to leave because of the 
lack of resources, housing all over the 
east side.”
A plan is in the works to help bridge 
the economic gaps between neighbor -
hoods throughout the city.
Currently in planning stages, Imag -
ine GNV is a proposal the Gainesville 
City Commission will present in Octo -
ber. It is a state-mandated plan meant 
to reinvent the city over the next 10 
years. The plan aims to guide the city 
on how it spends public funds and 
determine guidelines for residential 
areas, schools, cultural centers and in -
frastructure.
The first four drafts were made 
available Aug. 25, and it highlights 
policies that aim to overcome racial 
disparities, especially the predomi -
nantly Black and lower-income neigh -
borhoods of East Gainesville. The city 
is welcoming community feedback via 
survey, email and community meet -
ings.
Days is excited for the educational 
changes in the comprehensive plan for 
her two daughters and 5-month-old 
baby. In fact, she’d like to see them 
made as soon as possible.
“I don’t even know when the last elementary school has been built on 
the east side,” Days said. “I don’t un -
derstand why the development needs 
to take 10 years. If you go over to the 
west side, it seems like new construc -
tion, new housing, new stores happen 
overnight.”
City Commissioner David Arreola 
is hopeful the plans will set the tone 
for the goals of the commission over 
the next decade.
“The reason why we’ve chosen to 
go with ‘Imagine GNV’ as our brand 
for this process is because we’ve com -
mitted ourselves to become the first 
city in America that puts equity as the 
main centerpiece of our comprehen -
sive plan,” Arreola said.
The first chapter of the plan is titled 
Gainesville Today, which serves as 
an introduction to Imagine GNV. The 
chapter introduces Erica, a 36-year-
old mother of two and teaching as -
sistant who struggles with housing 
issues, transportation and community 
resources. As the plan goes on, Erica 
is shown enjoying the benefits of the 
plan and how a reimagined Gainesville 
helps her deal with day-to-day issues.
The second chapter, How We 
Learn, explores the future of pub -
lic education. The chapter addresses 
the inequity and achievement gap in 
Gainesville’s current public school 
system, and it vows to redraw school 
district zones and expand higher qual -
ity education to low-income students.
Our Cultural Identity, the third 
chapter, will guide the city in its pres -
ervation of the history and culture. The 
chapter also shares upcoming plans to 
expand the city’s arts and cultural pro -
grams, such as starting weekly work -
shops in neighborhood centers and 
collaborating with UF and Santa Fe’s 
arts programs.
The last chapter that was pub -
lished, How We Get Around, plans 
on continuing the expansion of conve -
nient public transportation, bettering the environment and the community. 
The chapter also discusses implement -
ing the Gainesville Vision Zero Frame -
work to eliminate deaths and injuries 
caused by traffic accidents.
The next chapters waiting to be 
published are Where We Live, How 
We Work, Our Environment, Our 
Health and Wellbeing and Our De -
mocracy.
Arreola said the city is trying to 
estimate the impact of development 
and land use on people living in those 
areas. He said he is looking forward 
to seeing the housing plan in action. 
While he said the problem is national, 
there are local solutions the city can be 
working on to help alleviate the hous -
ing crisis.
“The perspective we’re taking now 
and we’re asking people in the city to 
engage with is to consider who is be -
ing affected,” Arreola said. “Consider 
the neighborhoods and don’t just con -
sider [what’s inside] their pocketbook, 
consider who they are. What is the 
family of their neighborhood? What is 
the history of their neighborhood?”
City Commissioner Reina Saco said 
public input on this comprehensive 
plan is vital to its success.
“Us seven, and even our staff, can 
have great ideas and can read all the 
studies on how other cities like ours 
are different and are moving forward, 
but those things might not work here,” 
Saco said. “We want the meat on the 
bones to come from the community.”
While the goals outlined in the plan 
are ambitious, Saco believes any prog -
ress is still progress. 
“You don’t necessarily have to get 
to 100% at each of these because it 
might not be possible,” she said. ”But 
so long as we are working towards it 
and not regressing, I see that as suc -
cess.”
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgRacial disparities at the forefront of Gainesville 
City Commission’s 10-year comprehensive plan6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021
NEVER FORGET
By Christian Casale
Alligator Staff Writer
One morning in 2001, Americans 
crowded around office TVs with 
colleagues, longed to hold the 
children they had just sent to school 
and made crude estimates as to how 
long it would take to recover all the 
bodies from downtown Manhattan. 
It began like any ordinary 
Tuesday — until a few hours 
redefined the decades to come. 
Footage of a plane slamming 
into the World Trade Center flashed 
across almost every screen in 
America. Black smoke clogged a 
clear New York day. And it wasn’t 
just paper and chairs falling out of 
the raging fireballs in the skyline. It 
was everyday Americans.
Workers. Parents. Friends. 
Nearly 3,000 people were killed 
when terrorists hijacked four planes 
the morning of Sept. 11, 2001. Two 
planes collided into the World Trade 
Center in downtown Manhattan 
and the ensuing collapse left the 
country’s largest city reduced to 
smog and debris. Another plane 
eviscerated the western side of 
the Pentagon, the U.S. military 
headquarters in Washington D.C. 
United Flight 93, which the 
hijackers intended to fly into the 
Capitol, was pulverized at full speed 
in a field outside of Shanksville, 
Pennsylvania. Passengers had 
attempted to retake control of the 
plane.
From that moment forward, 
America became a fundamentally 
different place. The attacks leave a 
deep, oozing wound that sting the 
national psyche. 
But fear, confusion and shame 
rippled through close-knit Muslim 
communities across the country. In 
one day, everything changed for a 
minority group already estranged 
from the American norm. 
There were eyes relentlessly 
glued to them on buses. Constant 
“random security screenings.” 
Passive-aggressive bomb and 
terrorist jokes. 
A new status as the American pariah
Strangers stalked people — who 
they assumed were Muslims — 
in shopping malls, demanded to 
inspect their bags in airports and 
set their cars on fire. They tore off 
women’s hijabs — a religious veil 
worn by Muslim women — and shot 
innocent people dead in the street.
The contentious atmosphere was 
no different at UF.
The Alligator was flooded with 
editorials that debated the need for 
revenge through retaliatory war. 
Students wrote in to share the 
rampant discrimination Muslims 
faced, including when a flower shop 
turned away a student’s boyfriend 
for his religion. Even Gainesville 
Health and Fitness Centers issued 
a call for unity under columns 
detailing blooming bigotry.
Under increased scrutiny, 
UF’s Muslim students repeatedly 
defended themselves in print. 
For two former UF students and a 4-year-old girl, 9/11 altered religion, 
identity and safety.
“Proactive, protective and defensive”
Iman Zawahry was asleep in 
her Gainesville apartment when 
her fiancé woke her up. A fire was 
raging in New York. 
Like any college student, 
Zawahry, then a 20-year-old 
UF religion and Middle Eastern 
languages and cultures senior, 
drifted off to sleep again. Classes 
would begin for the day just a few 
hours later.
Then, the phone calls poured 
in. She rushed to the TV, crowded 
alongside her cousin, roommate, 
best friend and fiancé. They all 
stared at the screen in collective 
horror. 
“We all looked at each other 
in fear for what was happening in 
our community, in our American 
community,” she said.
Their horror soon transformed 
into worry as more details spread 
and more mourned across the 
country. News reporters shared the 
names of the al-Qaeda operatives 
who pulled off the attacks. They 
were Arabs. The tactical leader 
of 9/11 came from her parents’ 
homeland: the Egyptian-born 
Mohammed Atta. 
Zawahry, who grew up in 
Panama City, Florida, knew what 
came next. 
As president of Islam on 
Campus, she prepared to organize in 
“proactive, protective and defensive 
mode.”
“Stay home. Don’t leave right 
now,” she said.
She repeated those words every 
time she called her fellow IOC 
members. But she added extra 
emphasis when she spoke to those 
who were visibly Muslim.
“Even before Sept. 11, there were 
always hate crimes against Muslims in some way,” she said.
Disheartened by the tragedy, 
Zawahry instantly collaborated 
with interfaith organizations in 
Gainesville to plan a vigil for the 
victims of the attacks — a sign of 
solidarity among the city’s Muslim, 
Christian and Jewish worshippers.
But over the next few days and 
weeks, she found herself in the same 
uncomfortable position that many 
other American Muslims faced. 
She had to defend herself against 
reactionaries: a perpetual task that 
still lingers today.
Incessant questions and 
conspiracy theories circulated, tying 
an American religious minority to 
a fanatical terrorist network that 
launched its attacks from the other 
side of the world. 
Questions encircled Zawahry’s 
brain.
Was she supposed to explain 
ultraconservative interpretations of 
Islam that don’t reflect the views of 
the religion’s billion adherents? 
Should she, an American who 
wanted to mourn, be constantly 
apologizing? 
Did she owe anyone an 
explanation as if she were somehow 
responsible? 
Gainesville didn’t see the same 
level of violence against those 
suspected to be Muslim that other 
parts of the country did. Most 
prevalent were the microaggressions 
that came with wearing a hijab in 
2001.
“You speak well,” people would 
tell her. “I didn’t know that you 
could go out and do this.”
Despite the taunts and ignorant 
comments, much of the UF and 
Gainesville community stood in 
solidarity with Muslim students.
“That’s what I really loved 
about being here in Gainesville is 
the emotional support from the 
interfaith community was just so amazing,” Zawahry said. “A 
tremendous amount of support all-
around to where if someone wasn’t 
supportive it would stick it out to 
me.”
While students offered to walk 
Zawahry and other Muslim students 
to their cars, professors weren’t 
always as understanding. 
A few days after 9/11, she emailed 
one of her religion professors to let 
him know that she wouldn’t make 
it to class that day. She shared 
her fears, and he responded with 
indifference, lamenting that all 
Americans were suffering.
That experience stayed with her 
to this day. 
“When a student emails me 
personally and tells me something 
they’re concerned with, I offer 
emotional support,” she said. “But 
I didn’t get it from him at the time.”
Now, Zawahry teaches media 
production, management and 
technology at UF’s College of 
Journalism and Communications. 
She’s an award-winning filmmaker and serves as the director of the 
first-ever American Muslim film 
grant. 
Film is a way for her to uplift 
the Muslim community. Because if 
change mirrors a snail’s pace, how 
many Nike commercials would 
have featured a hijabi woman 20 
years ago?
“It all seemed to have been for 
nothing. ”
A particularly painful toothache 
kept Mohammad Sherif from dozing 
off the morning of Sept. 11. 
Wide awake, he flicked the TV 
on to what he thought was a movie. 
But he then flipped through the 
channels and realized all showed 
a gaping, black hole in the North 
Tower. Minutes later, the second 
plane hit the South Tower in real 
time. 
The 19-year-old UF journalism 
junior rushed over to his fiancée. He 
dragged a sleepy Zawahry, who’s 
now his wife, to the TV to witness 
the tragedy.
“It didn’t seem real,” he said. “It 
was harrowing.”
Sherif grappled with balancing 
his identity as a son of Muslim 
immigrants and an American 
hurting from a terrorist attack. 
“A lot of patriotic sentiments 
kind of turned into jingoistic ones 
against a minority group, and we 
see that happen often,” Sherif said. 
“But we also felt that as Americans, 
that this was a hijacking of our 
religion to do something that kind of 
denigrated and desecrated what we 
believe in as a country, which is that 
this is a land of opportunity.”
Sherif, now 40 and a law firm 
partner, grew up in Gainesville. 
His mother, a medical doctor. His 
father, a professor at UF. Both came 
to the U.S. from Egypt in 1977. 
Even though Sherif is an Arab 
with brown skin, he recognized he 
carried a sense of privilege. And in 
2001, being visibly Muslim meant 
being a visible target.
“It was easy to identify somebody 
wearing a headscarf,” he said. “I 
don’t necessarily have anything 
that stands out like that. It made me 
aware that the plight of each Muslim 
is not the same.”Twenty years later, 9/11 stirs pain, worry for Muslim community  
Photo courtesy of Mohammad Sherif and Iman Zawahry
Iman Zawahry and her husband, Mohammad Sherif, met during their undergraduate years at UF.Photo courtesy of Wafaa Ateyah
Wafaa Ateyah was 4 in 2001. The UF psychology doctoral 
student, 24, still feels the effects of the attacks two decades later.
SEE 9/11,  PAGE 7Wafaa Ateyah was 4 years old the morning of Sept. 11. Since then, 
her life, at times, has been obscured by two tall, vertical shadowsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
UF’S COLLEGIATE VETERANS SOCIETY 
HOSTED THE EVENT FOR GAINESVILLE 
COMMUNITY TO COME TOGETHER IN 
REMEMBRANCE OF SEPT. 11, 2001
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Never forget. 
Separately, two words, ‘never’ and ‘forget’ 
have little meaning. But when used together, 
they have the power to unite. 
Etched in countless American minds are the 
memories of the country gathered together in 
every home, school and place of work to watch 
the towers come crumbling down.  
Saturday marked 20 years since the tragic 
9/11 attacks on America. First responders, 
Gainesville residents, UF students and even 
pets arrived at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium with 
flags raised high and heads bowed low, all 
in remembrance of the lives lost on Sept. 11, 
2001.
UF’s Collegiate Veterans Society hosted 
their fifth annual stair climb at the stadium 
to honor the men and women who gave their 
lives to save thousands. Beyond the losses that day, America gained 
a surge of patriotism that took over the coun -
try, a sense of unity and honor that remained 
strong at the stadium event. More than 300 
people gathered to climb the stadium stairs 
from bottom to top 11 times as a symbolic rep -
resentation of the approximately 1,980 steps of 
the World Trade Center.
At the entrance of Gate 18 at about 8 a.m., 
the crowd listened to speakers such as Harold 
Theus, Alachua County Fire Rescue fire chief. 
One person summarized the events that took 
place on 9/11 with a story followed by the na -
tional anthem. 
Right before everyone was dismissed to 
start their climbs, they paused for a moment 
of silence at 8:46 a.m., the time the first plane 
flew into the north tower. 
Most people say they will never forget 
where they were when they heard the news, 
and for Savanna Turner, president of the Colle -
giate Veterans Society, her memories still bring 
her to tears. 
Turner was in the eighth grade on the day 
of the attack. That morning, she did not want 
to attend school that day. At about 8:45 a.m., 
she was in tears but did not know why. Her 
mother then calmed her down and encouraged her to go, she said. 
“I get into my English class and my teacher 
comes in, shuts all the blinds, turns the lights 
off, shuts the door and turns the TV on,” Turn -
er said. “Right around that time, the second 
plane had hit the tower.” 
Turner said this stair climb is done across 
the country. As a student-led organization, 
CVS wanted to create a sense of community 
and organize the event locally.
Being able to participate in such an event 
is special for many of the firemen in the area. 
“Those guys went to work that day, said 
goodbye to their wives, said goodbye to their 
children not knowing that they wouldn’t be 
coming home,” said Greg Healy, an Alachua 
County Fire Rescue lieutenant. “We honor that 
when we do this.”
The honorary stadium climb allows each 
participant to individually reflect on what the 
day means to them.
“I’m thinking about why I joined the fire 
service in 2007 and thinking about the gentle -
men that knew even when the first tower col -
lapsed that there was a strong chance that the 
second tower was going to collapse — and 
they still went in anyways,” Healy said. 
Many demonstrations of different scales are held across the nation as a way for Americans 
to honor the fallen. This stair climb is one of 
Gainesville’s ways of saying, “We will never 
forget.”
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.org 
ABOUT 50 PEOPLE 
GATHERED IN RESERVE PARK 
TO HONOR THE VICTIMS
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff writer
In 2001, Rev. Debra Hepburn 
ran to the mental health unit at St. 
Luke’s University Hospital in Beth -
lehem, Pennsylvania, immediately 
following the news of a plane 
crash. The epic scope of what hap -
pened hadn’t fully occurred to her 
yet. 
Shrieks filled the corridors. 
Hepburn, a chaplain, knew the 
country was in trouble.
It’s been 20 years since the day 
when thousands of Americans 
died at the hands of an al-Qaeda 
terrorist attack. Twenty years of 
pain, strength and growth.
Hepburn, now the Chaplain 
of UF Health Shands, took to the 
podium and blessed everyone that endured challenges from the hor -
rific day. 
Roughly 50 members of the 
Gainesville community came to -
gether at Reserve Park Sept. 11 
and recognized those who were 
forever impacted by the day of 
Sept. 11, 2001, and the effects on 
our country thereafter. 
The Gainesville Fire Rescue 
and Gainesville Police Department 
joined the honor guard in open -
ing the ceremony as they marched 
to the podium and perched three 
flags. The country, state and city 
flags sat behind speakers as they 
took to the lectern and recounted 
their 9/11 stories.
The presentation came to a 
pause at 8:46 a.m. and 9:03 a.m. 
as the crowd bowed their heads 
in silence and paid their respects 
to the people that didn’t make it 
out alive. Fire and police across 
Gainesville did the same.
Mayor Lauren Poe detailed his 
experience on the day of 9/11. Poe designated Sept. 11 as Patriot Day 
to commemorate the lives lost.
As a history teacher at Gaines -
ville’s Fort Clarke Middle School 
in 2001, Poe had a planning block 
period and wasn’t teaching a les -
son when he heard the news of the 
first plane crash. Students came in 
for their regularly scheduled class 
afterward. Unsure of what to say, 
the class fell silent. But they didn’t 
need words. 
Poe decided to have students 
write in his or her daily journal en -
try as usual. However, that day’s 
prompt was different.  
HePoe told the students to jot 
down every thought and feeling 
that came to mind, related or not 
to what was happening in New 
York. 
“I was devastated,” Poe said. 
“My soul had been ripped out.”
He said his students have told 
him as adults they continually go 
back to those 9/11 entries to re -
flect.Larry Perkins, a 66-year-old 
Gainesville resident, was heading 
to North Carolina on a business 
trip upon hearing the news over 
the radio. Perkins and his husband 
stopped in Atlanta for a lunch 
break and immediately noticed a 
scene he remembers to this day. A 
group of people formed a circle in 
a field, held hands and prayed.
Perkins traveled to New York a 
week later for an art auction. He 
said he was surprised to see the 
city had inhaled heaps of smoke as 
the towers smoldered. He watched 
as lights illuminated the outline of 
the absent twin pillars at night.
“It really brought tears to my 
eyes,” Perkins said.
The 9/11 attacks had implica -
tions for the rest of the world, too.
Catholic Priest Augustine 
Nwagbara discussed the ramifica -
tions 9/11 had on his home coun -
try, Nigeria. The terrorist attacks 
devastated Nigerians as their im -
age of the world’s superpower was shattered, Nwagbara said. 
“What about us?” he asked. 
“That left us with great trauma, 
and the effects of that event is still 
rocking many nations today.”
GPD Police Chief Tony Jones, 
took the stand after Nwagbara to 
thank the heroes who risked their 
lives to save others.
“I felt a sense of unity,” Jones 
said. “We’re still learning, but we 
came together as a nation.”
Jones didn’t fully comprehend 
at first what was happening on 
9/11. He thought it was fake, like 
a play or a movie. But when he 
flipped through news channels, he 
knew it was real.
“When you saw people run -
ning from that building, you saw 
your first responders running to 
that building,” Jones said. “As the 
building came down, heroes rose.”
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgFirst responders and UF community remember 9/11 through stair climb
Gainesville stands in unity for 20th anniversary 9/11 commemoration
Gainesville’s reaction, at the time, was 
split. People screamed obscenities at him. 
Others linked arms with him at community 
gatherings. 
But he still encounters the effects of 
9/11 years later. He and his wife have even 
been approached by someone at an airport 
impersonating an FBI agent. 
“People felt emboldened to take actions 
that were violative of individual rights,” he 
said. “Because collectively, it made sense that 
we as a nation feel like we needed to protect 
ourselves.”
That day, Sherif thought about everything 
American Muslims did to reflect a positive 
image and portrayal of their community. It 
was something they were always conscious of 
as a misunderstood minority group. 
“It all seemed to have been for nothing,” 
he said. “Because what just happened was so 
cataclysmic, it was going to leave a stain for a 
very, very long time.”Two decades later, Sherif can’t envision 
experiencing another pre-9/11 day. People 
have always poked fun at minority groups, but 
attacks escalated with more vitriol, aimed at 
people who looked like him and worshipped 
like him.
“Hijab has truly been a way of 
empowerment for me”
Wafaa Ateyah doesn’t remember the 
planes slamming into the World Trade Center, 
the Pentagon or the Pennsylvania field. 
But even as a 4-year-old in 2001, she 
vaguely remembers the pain — and the 
fear — the adults in the Gainesville Muslim 
community endured.  
“I just hear people around me constantly 
talking about pre 9/11 days … They [Muslim 
women] felt much more comfortable wearing 
the hijab,” she said. 
Ateyah, a 24-year-old UF psychology 
doctoral student, has worn a hijab since she 
was 11. It was a choice she made as an act of 
worship to God.
“When I wear the hijab, I wear it so when 
I walk into a room first people know I’m 
Muslim,” she said. “I think that’s a beautiful thing because I think of my identity as being 
Muslim. People get to know me for who I am, 
not what I look like.”
To Ateyah, the hijab is both an obligation 
prescribed by God and a form of worship. The 
choice is a difficult one. Her life, at times, has 
been obscured by two tall, vertical shadows. 
“Hijab has truly been a way of 
empowerment for me in a world that has 
these unrealistic beauty standards, where 
everyone just wants to look like everyone 
else,” she said. “The hijab really allows you to 
stand out and to really, really, truly learn how 
to love yourself.”
But some don’t view the hijab in the same 
way. 
When she goes out into public spaces, she 
always deals with perpetual stares. People 
freeze in shock when they realize she was born 
in Gainesville and speaks English well. Their 
surprise almost always follows the inevitable 
question all immigrant children hear.
“Where are you really from?”
Her freshman year, a man inspected Ateyah 
while on the bus. He angrily murmured under 
his breath, but she couldn’t hear him.
The man reached his stop. As he exited 
the bus, he crudely uttered words Ateyah remembers years later: He wanted to rip her 
hijab off.
“I’ve experienced that a lot,” Ateyah said. 
“But I would definitely say what I experienced 
on a day-to-day basis is on the microaggression 
level, even to this day in graduate school.”
It hurts, but she’s used to it. She tries to 
not give the stares and comments too much 
attention. And it doesn’t deter her from her 
displaying her identity.
“The hijab is a constant reminder of who 
I am,” she wrote over text after her interview 
with tThe Alligator. “It’s a constant reminder 
of the higher being who is very central in my 
life.”
Despite the tension post 9/11, Ateyah grew 
up identifying as a Muslim Arab American. 
Her faith is the most essential part of who she 
is. It supersedes her other identities, and it’s 
something that’s never going to change.
Sept. 11 became Sept. 12. And then, 2001 
became 2002. But the national trauma of that 
morning remains. Twenty years later, any 
American can still feel reverberations of those 
two towers coming down. Among those who 
feel it most are American Muslims.
@vanityhack9/11,  from pg. 6Rising tensionLauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Anthony “Hutch” Hutchinson, Gainesville 
Fire Rescue first responder, marches up 
the stadium steps during the 5th Annual 
UF Collegiate Veterans Society 9/11 
Memorial Stair Climb at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium on Saturday, Sept. 11, 2021.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Florida volleyball’s rough ranked start
Gators begin the season 1-3 against Top-25 opponents after 
Baylor sweep, but the team’s experience provides solace, pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
“SLEEPTALKER,” THE BAND’S 
FIRST EP, TAKES LISTENERS ON A 
DREAMLIKE JOURNEY  
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
The Driptones’ latest release ends the same 
way many of its fan’s days start: with the sharp, 
incessant buzzing of an alarm pulling someone 
out of sleep and back into consciousness. 
“Sleeptalker,” the Gainesville band’s first 
EP, dropped Sept. 10 at midnight. The collec -
tion is made up of six songs total, two of which 
function as shorter interludes. The Driptones 
debuted the album for a live crowd at High Dive 
Sept. 10, playing alongside Driveaway, Leah 
Rando and Bobby Kidd. 
In June, fans got their first glimpse into the 
project with the release of “Getaway” as a sin -
gle, but Driptones’ lead guitarist Collin Fitzger -
ald, 20, said the EP had been in the works for far 
longer — nearly six months since the band first 
started recording.  
Twenty-one-year-old vocalist, keyboardist 
and guitarist Xander Boggs said the band wrote 
most of the music that appears on the EP during 
quarantine — an environment that ultimately 
influenced its overarching themes. Boredom, 
lethargy and uncertainty about where life is headed were a few of these recurring motifs, he 
said. 
“The main theme behind the EP is that it’s 
not really a problem that you’re unsure about 
where it’s headed because you’re going some -
where either way,” Boggs said. “You’re going to 
get to where you’re supposed to be.”
The structure of the EP was also a deliberate 
decision, following the general outline of a long 
night’s rest. The track opens with an instrumen -
tal interlude, which Boggs said represents the 
act of drifting off to sleep. Each song afterward 
depicts a different “stop” along the dream se -
quence, he said, and the EP ends the way most 
dreams do — with an alarm going off. 
Because of this unique layout, Fitzgerald 
said the EP is meant to be played all the way 
through without stopping. 
Sonically, “Sleeptalker” also comprised a 
shift compared to music the Driptones have re -
leased in the past. While the band has delved 
into a variety of genres, Boggs described the EP 
as more produced than previous songs, with 
greater influence from synthesizers and key -
boards. As for lyrics, he said the writing was 
more introverted and introspective.
Although the EP carries a distinctly “low-
fi vibe” compared to the band’s more recent, 
high-energy singles “Wave Sounds” and “Sun -
sick,” Fitzgerald said the content of the music 
still holds the same depth.The release of “Sleeptalker” followed anoth -
er recent announcement made at the Back to 
School Fest Aug. 28. The Driptones’ are signing 
to the student-run record label Swamp Records.  
Since the Driptones is made up of full-time 
students, Boggs said it’s been a huge advantage 
to receive help when it comes to running social 
media accounts, booking shows, sending out 
emails and conducting other behind-the-scenes 
work. 
“A lot of that weight falls to other people 
now,” he said. “We get to focus on the musical 
content aspect of it, as opposed to all the extra 
stuff that revolves around being a band.” 
Mikey Saltzman, the Driptones’ artist direc -
tor at Swamp Records and a 21-year-old UF fi -
nance junior, said the record label has been de -
veloping a passionate team of students to help 
promote the band’s success. 
“There’s definitely a lot of potential with 
how they brand themselves through social me -
dia and how they can increase band awareness 
around Gainesville,” Saltzman said. “They have 
a lot of visions that they want to be fulfilled, and 
we allow access to complete their visions.” 
Saltzman also said that Swamp Records has 
benefited from an accessible relationship with 
the Driptones due to its status as a local band. 
The group’s connection to the Gainesville com -
munity — especially local venues — makes it 
compelling to the college audience, he said.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.orgDoze off with the Driptones’ new EP  
MUSICMUSIC
EL CAIMÁN
AMBOS PRESIDENTES 
SOSTIENEN QUE NO TIENEN 
LA AUTORIDAD PARA 
INSTITUIR MANDATOS DE 
MÁSCARAS EN LOS EDIFICIOS
Escrito por Omar Ateyah, Eve 
Thompson y Camila Pereira
Periodistas de El Caimán
Traducido por Saira Gonzalez
Periodista de El Caimán
A pesar de la presión del con -
dado, los estudiantes y profesores 
de UF y Santa Fe College seguirán 
teniendo la opción de usar una más -
cara en el campus.
Ken Cornell, presidente de la 
Comisión del Condado de Alachua, 
envió una carta a los líderes de UF y 
Santa Fe solicitando que constituyan 
requisitos de enmascaramiento en 
los edificios en el campus debido a 
los riesgos que presenta la variante 
Delta de COVID-19.
En su carta, Cornell escribió que 
si las escuelas no cumplían, el con -
dado podría eliminar las exenciones 
que excluyen a la facultad y la uni -
versidad del mandato del condado. Según la carta, la comisión afirma 
que tiene el poder de incluir al cole -
gio y la universidad en su mandato 
de enmascaramiento.
El portavoz del condado de Ala -
chua, Mark Sexton, dijo que cuando 
la comisión se reúna el martes, pu -
ede votar para incluir a UF y Santa 
Fe en el mandato, a menos que am -
bos puedan proporcionar evidencia 
de que tienen las manos atadas.
“Si no tenemos la documentación 
que demuestre que [la facultad y la 
universidad] ya no tienen esa autori -
dad [para exigir máscaras], la junta 
podría decidir seguir adelante y exi -
gir que esas entidades sigan la orden 
de emergencia”, dijo Sexton.
El presidente de UF, Kent Fuchs, 
y el presidente de Santa Fe, Paul 
Broadie II, respondieron a la comis -
ión el viernes por correo electrónico.
“Desafortunadamente, no 
leemos el entorno de formulación de 
políticas del sistema de la Universi -
dad Estatal de la manera que usted 
describe en su carta”, escribió Fuchs 
en un correo electrónico a la comis -
ión. “La universidad actualmente no 
tiene la autoridad para tomar las ac -
ciones que usted recomienda”.
Tanto Fuchs como Broadie es -
cribieron que continuarán alentando encarecidamente a los profesores, 
el personal y los estudiantes a usar 
máscaras en los edificios del cam -
pus.
El presidente de la Facultad Uni -
da de Florida, Paul Ortiz, no estaba 
satisfecho con la respuesta de Fuchs.
“Estoy muy decepcionado de es -
cuchar que una de las universidades 
mejor clasificadas del país no tiene 
poder”, dijo Ortiz. “No lo acepto”.
Como profesor de historia de UF, 
dijo que muchos profesores, person -
al y estudiantes tenían esperanzas, 
ya que el condado esencialmente le 
había pedido a la universidad que 
se uniera a la lucha contra el CO -
VID-19.
“Por lo que seremos recordados 
es por cómo respondimos a la may -
or crisis que este país ha enfrentado 
desde la Segunda Guerra Mundial”, 
dijo Ortiz.
Bryn Taylor, presidente de co -
municaciones de UF Graduate As -
sistants United, también dijo que era 
alentador escuchar sobre la carta, 
ya que es algo que GAU y UFF han 
exigido que la administración de la 
universidad adopte.
“Nos alegró verlo porque es bue -
no tener el apoyo de la comunidad 
detrás de nosotros y nuestros esfuer -zos para hacer de UF un campus se -
guro y saludable”, dijo el estudiante 
del programa de doctorado en cien -
cias de rehabilitación de UF.
Taylor dijo que está decepcio -
nada por la respuesta de Fuchs, 
considerando que muchas otras uni -
versidades en los EE. UU., como la 
Universidad de California y la Uni -
versidad de Michigan, han imple -
mentado mandatos de máscara en 
desafío a los gobiernos estatales. Las 
universidades ocupan el primer, se -
gundo y tercer lugar respectivamente 
en el ranking de universidades públi -
cas de U.S. News y World Report a 
partir del domingo.
Taylor señaló cómo la Junta Es -
colar del Condado de Alachua or -
denó máscaras dentro de su sistema 
escolar, arriesgando y perdiendo 
fondos equivalentes a los salarios 
mensuales de los miembros de la 
junta escolar.
Sarah Kurtis, una estudiante de 
doctorado en biología de UF de 28 
años, dijo que estaba decepcionada 
con la respuesta de UF a la carta.
“Usar máscaras dentro de los edi -
ficios de  UF es todo lo que piden”, 
dijo. “No es muy difícil”.
Kurtis dijo que está especial -
mente decepcionada porque tiene amigos y colegas en el departamento 
de biología que tienen condiciones 
preexistentes y se les negó la solici -
tud de adaptaciones para enseñar en 
línea.
Dijo que muchos profesores de 
UF que enseñan en persona están 
inmunodeprimidos, tienen más de 
50 años o tienen hijos demasiado 
pequeños para ser elegibles para la 
vacuna que podrían estar poniendo 
en riesgo.
“Esta es una lucha por nuestra 
supervivencia”, dijo Kurtis. “Al pon -
erse una máscara, aumenta las posi -
bilidades de que sus compañeros de 
estudios y su instructor sobrevivan 
para ver el final de este semestre”.
Los profesores y estudiantes de 
Santa Fe comparten sentimientos 
similares sobre la respuesta de su 
universidad.
Lee el resto en línea en 
alligator.org/section/elcaiman
@Oateyah
oateyah@alligator.org
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.org
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgUF, Santa Fe entre la espada y la pared con el condado para requerir máscaras en los edificiosKiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Zach Gerbi, Driptones guitarist 
and vocalist, performs during 
Back To School Fest at 
Heartwood Soundstage on 
Saturday, Aug. 28, 2021.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    SSttiicckk  
11..    ________  PPaallmmeerr  55..    BBoolldd,,  ppuusshhyy
22..    TTyyppee  ooff  ssppeeaarr  66..    CCeerrttaaiinn  bbaabbyy  bbiirrdd  
33..    NNoobbiilliittyy  77..    PPeeppssiinn,,  ffoorr  oonnee  
44..    HHuurrrryyHHEEAARRDDEE
LLRRNNAADDOOVVYYNNRREE
EEOOTTLLWW
NNOOAARROOHHPP
TTYYAARRYYLLOOZZMMEEEENNYY
UUHHLLSSTTEEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AAddhheerree    55AA--NNeerrvvyy    66AA--OOwwlleett    77AA--EEnnzzyymmee
11DD--AArrnnoolldd    22DD--HHaarrppoooonn    33DD--RRooyyaallttyy    44DD--HHuussttllee    BB--RRoonn  HHoowwaarrdd99--1133--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  mmaaddee  hhiiss  ddiirreeccttoorriiaall  ddeebbuutt  iinn  
11997777  wwiitthh  tthhee  ccoommeeddyy  ““GGrraanndd  TThheefftt  AAuuttoo..””  
BONUS● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-1313 Wanted 12 Autos
By Rich Proulx
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/07/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/07/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, September 7, 2021
ACROSS
1 All-inclusive
5 Inked indication 
of approval
10 Son of Seth who 
lived to 905, per 
the Bible
14 “Moi? Never!”
15 Hang in midair
16 __ San Lucas: 
Baja resort
17 Queen dowager 
of Jordan
18 Sports stadium
19 Singer Redding 
with two 
posthumous 
Grammys
20 Street in London’s 
Brixton Market
23 Caveman Alley
24 Ways in or out
25 Usual way in
31 Fair-hiring abbr.
32 “Old MacDonald” 
refrain
33 Indian title
36 Do little
38 Take an oath
40 Travel by 
Greyhound, say
41 Three-pointers, in 
hoops lingo
43 “Amadeus” 
director Forman
45 Cuz and sis
46 Where it’s hard 
to make a wrong 
turn
49 When “light 
through yonder 
window breaks” 
in “Romeo and 
Juliet”
50 Poker pot paper
51 Way to stay safe 
... or what each 
set of circles 
represents vis-à-
vis its answer
58 Mall smooching, 
etc., initially
59 Lacking originality
60 Qualities that 
make deals 
difficult
61 Legal wrong
62 Desert respites
63 Use a scythe on
64 Targets
65 Flower holders
66 HotDOWN
1 Frank with a 
diary
2 Hammer or sickle
3 Midwest native
4 Alphabetically 
last birthstone
5 Wrinkly dogs
6 “Cornflake Girl” 
singer __ Amos
7 With, on le menu
8 Suvari of 
“American Pie”
9 Soviet 
newspaper
10 Affordable ride
11 Enjoying-the-
great-outdoors 
walk
12 Stage awards
13 Shipwreck signal
21 Trade show 
giveaway
22 Very long periods
25 Pool table 
surface
26 Raise, as kids
27 Was a bit too 
enchanting
28 Self-
transformation 
result, to the self
29 Advertising link30 Wonka creator 
Dahl
34 Romeo’s last 
words
35 Like a paper clip
37 Optometrists’ 
exams
39 Optimistic quality
42 Travel with the 
wind
44 Cease
47 Same-as-above 
marks48 Classroom tools
49 “Me too!”
52 The “E” in Q.E.D.
53 Get up
54 Part of a 
shopping list
55 “A Death in the 
Family” author 
James
56 Gently persuade
57 Athlete’s award
58 School 
fundraising gp.
By Mark McClain
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/08/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/08/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Wednesday, September 8, 2021
ACROSS
1 Chess result
5 “NASCAR on 
NBC” analyst 
Earnhardt Jr.
9 Metalworker
14 Cancún coin
15 A party to
16 Island near Maui
17 *Devoted ESPN 
viewer
19 Uneasy feeling
20 Word after box 
or law
21 Bullish sound?
22 Wail
23 *Spec for 
sandpaper or salt
27 Coll. near the Rio 
Grande
29 Hard rain
30 Dance class topic
31 First name in skin 
care
33 Caddie’s offering
35 Make a wrong 
turn, say
36 *Quarry that 
supplies 
aggregate
40 Guys
43 Jai __
44 Quebec’s __ 
Peninsula
48 Racecourse 
shape
50 Ready for bed, 
briefly
53 Long-running 
CBS series
54 *Garden walkway 
component
57 Malarkey
58 Pachelbel work
59 Treasury 
secretary Janet
61 Sahara features
62 Last player 
selected for 
a Wimbledon 
ranking ...  or part 
of each answer to 
a starred clue
65 Locale
66 Heck of a hike
67 Dell rival
68 Brings in
69 Actor Grant
70 Drive-__
DOWN
1 MLB rally killers2 Researchers’ 
publications
3 To date
4 Klingon officer in 
the “Star Trek” 
franchise
5 ’70s hot spots
6 Strengthen, as 
glass
7 Seuss’ Cindy __ 
Who
8 Suffix with exist
9 Language 
student’s 
challenge
10 Medieval estates
11 Thankless sort
12 Preferable, 
gastronomically
13 Major success
18 Half a mint?
21 Contrived plot
22 Alert for an actor
24 Checkout printout
25 Unload, say
26 “Morning Edition” 
airer
28 Alternative to 
Margie
32 Noted period
34 Important
37 Square up
38 Hotel shuttles39 Light earth tone
40 Short flight
41 Hurricane 
mandate 
responder
42 Tropical 
grassland
45 Sudden stop 
sound
46 Trailblazer
47 “C’__ la vie!”
49 Umpire’s 
pregame request51 Olympic star 
Jackie __-Kersee
52 Deceptive
55 Wine qualities
56 Building wing
60 Challenge for an 
atty. wannabe
61 TiVo, for one
62 Agcy. concerned 
with fraud
63 Gershwin  
brother
64 R&B’s __ Hill
09/08/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
answers on pg. 101. TELEVISION: What was the name of Tim 
Taylor's friend and sidekick on the "Home 
Improvement" sitcom?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Which U.S. city has the 
nickname "Big D"?
3. LITERATURE: Which novel begins with 
the line, "Last night I dreamt I went to 
Manderley again"?
4. MEDICAL: What usually causes rickets 
in children?
5. MUSIC: Which novel is referenced in 
The Police's song "Don't Stand So Close 
to Me"?
6. FOOD & DRINK: Cafe du Monde is a 
famous restaurant in what city?
7. ENTERTAINERS: Which famous actor was 
born Maurice Micklewhite?
8. MEASUREMENTS: What scientific unit 
of measurement also is the name of a 
mammal?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is a 
thalassophile?
10. ANATOMY: What is the colored part of 
the eye called?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
Hiring New Team Members
Looking for a full time and part time mainte-
nance man. Mostly handy man type work. Also 
looking for full and part time housekeepers.  
Housekeepers are paid by the room and thus 
can make more per hour.
Please apply in person at the Comfort Inn, 
3440 SW 40th Blvd Gainesville.
No phone calls please. Thank, we hope you 
will join our outstanding team.
9-20-21-4-14
Car Wash Help Wanted
Earn up to $20/hr! Now hiring for general car 
wash labor. Part time/Full time shifts avail-
able. Must have valid FL license. 
Apply online @ parkplacecarwash.com.         
9-27-21-7-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille Servers
Spurrier's is looking to hire servers! We are 
open & we have a great team of servers. 
Now we want to add you! Work in a friendly, 
fast paced environment where real friends & 
connections are made! Looking for FT & PT. 
Great pay and benefits. 
Apply at spurriersdraft.com 
9-13-21-3-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
GET VACCINATED TODAY!
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
answers below1. A 1985 music video for a Dire Straits song fea -
tured footage of sports highlights and bloopers. 
What was the song?
2. The Rungrado 1st of May Stadium, site of the 
annual Grand Mass Gymnastics and Artistic Perfor -
mance Arirang, is located in what Asian country?
3. Name the Springfield, New Jersey, golf course that 
hosted seven U.S. Open Championships from 1903-
93 and PGA Championships in 2005 and 2016.
4. What "The Falcon and the Winter Soldier" and 
"Lodge 49" actor was a goaltender for such junior 
pro hockey teams as the Langley Hornets, Coquitlam 
Express, Brampton Capitals and Chicago Steel?
5. What Dallas Cowboys receiver celebrated a 45-
yard touchdown catch in Super Bowl XXVII by dunk -
ing the ball over the goal post crossbar?
6. What did legendary college basketball coach Jerry 
Tarkanian have a habit of chewing on during games?
7. The University of Akron's athletic teams are 
known by what nickname?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.14 Help Wanted 24 Pets 13 Wanted
Dungeon Master wants 4 to 8 players for 3.5 
Campaign. Some characters partially pre-
generated. Dungeons & Dragons and related 
games for 50 yrs campaign in Reitz Union 
Food Court. Saturdays, football permitting. 
12:00 - 18:00. Primarily overland travel ready 
to game first session generating characters. 
352-378-1955. Post 6 p.m. Gainesville. Call 
me on weekdays.                        9-13-21-1-13
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. 
Your donation helps fund the search for miss-
ing children. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & 
RV's too!  Fast Free Pickup-Running or Not 24 
Hour Response-Maximum Tax Donation- 
Call (888) 515-3443
9-7-1-13
Freon Wanted: : We pay$$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169  or 
visit Refrigerantfinders.com
9-7-1-13 
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-21-13-14
Personal Care Assistant
Part time help needed to assist 30yr old fe-
male with wheelchair transfers, personal 
care, food prep, etc. $12 per hour. Located on 
62nd Boulevard.  Great experience for health 
care students. Contact pcajob3@gmail.com.  
9-13-21-2-14
Mi Apa Latin Cafe Servers & Managers
Mi Apa is hiring servers & managers. Servirs 
can make $18+/hr, MGRs can make $55+/yr. 
Apply @ miapajobs.com or at the Jonesville
location between 10am-12pm.  
10-4-21-6-14
Enthusiastic companion Female to work with 
developmentally disabled adult. Must have re-
liable, safe transportation. Background check 
required, $15/HR, 2 days/WK & Sat. 9am - 
3pm contact 352-339-6265 by text only please. 
9-13-21-2-14
Trivia Test  answers1. Al Borland
2. Dallas
3. "Rebecca"
4. Lack of vitamin D 
5. "Lolita"6. New Orleans
7 . Michael Caine
8. Mole, which is used to measure 
particles in a substance
9. A lover of seas and oceans
10. IrisSports Quiz  answers1. "Walk of Life."
2. North Korea.
3. Baltusrol Golf 
Club.4. Wyatt Russell.
5. Alvin Harper.
6. A towel.
7. The Zips.CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE1 1: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSubmit your ad to one of the following categories today!   Contact us:  alligator.org/ classifieds   | classified@alligator.org  |  (352)373- FIND
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for 
injury or loss arising from contacts made through ad-
vertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021
solution  belowOPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
found found   
something? something? 
place a place a FREE FREE   
"found""found" ad  ad 
in thein the
alligatoralligator   
classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
- - - - - - - - spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler - - - - - - - - spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler 1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceLearning, to be of much use, must have a tendency 
to spread itself among the common people. 
— Henry Ward Beecher
scan to 
subscribeMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
GOLFRICHARDSON SHINES WHILE 
JONES OFFERS A TALE OF 
TWO HALVES
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Redshirt freshman Anthony 
Richardson scrambled to his left 
with a South Florida defender clos -
ing in behind him and two more 
bearing down in front. He found 
his target, turned his body, planted 
his feet and rifled the ball forward 
less than a second before contact.
Thirty-five yards downfield, 
wide receiver Jacob Copeland 
climbed the ladder over Bulls’ cor -
nerback TJ Robinson, snatching 
the ball out of the air and tapping 
his toes in bounds inside the USF 
10 as the Florida fans in attendance 
broke into rambunctious cheer. 
A few plays later, on fourth 
and goal from the 1-yard line, UF 
starting quarterback Emory Jones 
rolled right on a bootleg and lofted 
the ball to freshman Nick Elksnis, 
but the young tight end couldn’t 
make the catch. Jones and his of -
fense trudged toward the bench, 
the boos of their own fans shower -
ing down around them.
The two performances and their respective receptions felt symbolic 
of Gators fans’ thoughts about the 
two quarterbacks through 2021’s 
first two games.
The previous Florida drive end -
ed with a Jones interception, his 
second of the day and the redshirt 
junior’s fourth pick of the season 
after he threw one the previous 
three years. The Georgia native 
connected for only two touch -
downs in the first two games, av -
eraged 5.39 yards per attempt, and 
managed a passing efficiency of 
63.46, 117th in the country. 
Richardson, meanwhile, has 
thrown no interceptions, equaled 
Jones’ two passing touchdowns 
on 38 less attempts and more than 
doubled his elder’s passing rating 
according to FloridaGators.com 
(261.16 to 105.67). The freshman 
also leads the team with 275 rush -
ing yards, 120 more than the next 
leading rusher, Jones.
The young quarterback set the 
Gators offense ablaze against South 
Florida from his opening snap. On 
his first play from scrimmage, he 
faked a handoff to running back 
Nay’Quan Wright before unleash -
ing a deep ball to Copeland for a 
75-yard touchdown, one of his 
three scores longer than 70 yards 
this season.
“He does special things,” head coach Dan Mullen said about Rich -
ardson. “Doesn’t always do the 
right thing, but he does special 
things.”
Mullen expanded on his 
thoughts and the responsibilities of 
quarterbacks on the field beyond 
visible performance.“There’s a lot of things you’ve 
got to read,” Mullen said. “There’s 
a lot that the quarterback has to 
do, a lot of different reads that are 
out there on the field, so it makes 
sense...It’s a long season, and we 
have young quarterbacks that I’ve 
got to continue to grow and con -tinue to develop.”
The fourth-year coach made a 
similar statement during a media 
session on Sept. 6 when he high -
lighted how Jones optioned to the 
correct play against Florida Atlan -
tic, which led to a touchdown.
Mullen again doubled down on 
Jones leading the team under cen -
ter, adding both he and Richarson 
will play in every game. He refuted 
the idea that loyalty, seniority or 
experience plays into his decisions 
for who starts, however.
“My responsibility is to put ev -
erybody on the team in position to 
win,” Mullen said.
With No. 1 Alabama coming to 
town and Crimson Tide head coach 
Nick Saban’s vaunted defense in 
tow, Jones and Richardson face 
their toughest test yet on Sept. 18. 
The defending national champions 
allowed 13.5 points per game in 
their first two contests, including 
13 points to the then-No. 14 Miami 
Hurricanes on Sept. 4, and hauled 
in more interceptions (4) than pass -
ing touchdowns surrendered (3). 
Florida and Alabama kick off at 
3:30 p.m. at Ben Hill Griffin Stadi -
um Sept. 18.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.org
AFTER UNDERGOING ISOLATION LAST 
SUMMER, THE GATORS WERE ACTIVE 
ON THE COURSES THIS OFFSEASON
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
The summer of 2020 was not a good time 
for golf. The COVID-19 pandemic rampaged 
through the world, and most clubhouses 
closed their doors and organizations post -
poned their events. After a full season, busi -
ness boomed again in the summer of 2021 as 
Gators golfers sharpened their games in the 
offseason once more.
Ricky Castillo, Annabell Fuller and Yuxin 
Lin capitalized on the return of summer com -
petition and made their mark on the national 
and international stages.
Castillo dominates for United States
The Yorba Linda, California, native en -
tered the offseason hot after a 12th-place in -
dividual finish at the NCAA championships 
in Scottsdale, Arizona. The Walker Cup 
awaited him after he hung up his Florida 
colors for the summer. The biannual com -
petition between the best male amateur golf -
ers in the United States and Great Britain & 
Ireland took place at Seminole Golf Club in Juno Beach, Florida. Castillo helped secure a 
third straight win for the U.S. 
In his four rounds of match play, the ju -
nior won all of his matches, and he became 
the seventh individual to win all his rounds 
in Walker Cup history. The last golfer to pull 
off an undefeated record was current PGA 
Tour star Collin Morikawa, now third in the Official World Golf Rankings.
Castillo appears primed to take another 
leap forward for Florida this fall. He led the 
Gators in scoring average during each of his 
two seasons in Gainesville. In his first year 
as an upperclassman, Castillo serves as the 
face of UF’s team.
Fuller takes on the majors
Fuller is another Gators golfer who repre -
sented her country this summer. The junior 
represented England at the European Ladies’ 
Team Championships and helped her team 
secure a first-place finish.
The Kingston upon Thames, England, 
native also competed for her country at the 
Curtis Cup in North Wales. At the tourna -
ment, which uses the same format as the 
Walker Cup, Fuller posted a record of 3-2 as 
England fell to the U.S. Despite the loss, the 
junior took valuable lessons from competing 
with other top amateurs, she hopes to apply 
to Florida.
“We had a great team atmosphere (on 
team England) this summer,” Fuller said. 
“I’ve already been talking with coach (Gla -
ser) about how to bring that to our team.”
The loss didn’t end Fuller’s busy sum -
mer, however. The Gators star also made 
her major debut when she competed at the 
AIG Women’s Open. She finished in a tie for 
61st at 7 over par, and the experience she 
garnered playing alongside professionals is something her time at Florida can’t replace.
Entering this season, Golf Channel ranked 
her the 23rd-best female golfer in the coun -
try. 
Lin takes next step at Open Championship
The Beijing, China, native, ranked the 
34th-best male golfer in the NCAA in a Golf 
Channel article, also spent part of his sum -
mer across the pond. The former Southern 
California transfer joined the team in Jan. 
2021 and qualified to participate in the Open 
Championship, one of the four men’s ma -
jors. This was his second appearance in the 
tournament, having previously played in 
2018. Lin made the cut for the first time in 
2021 and ended the week 6 over par, tied for 
74th. He placed as the second-highest ama -
teur in the field.
Both the men’s and women’s team return 
to play this month. The Fuller-led women’s 
squad kicks off its season in Charleston, 
South Carolina, at the Cougar Cup on Sept. 
13. The men’s team begins its season on 
Sept. 17 at the Fighting Illini Invitational in 
Chicago. After an offseason full of success 
for the stars of Florida golf, the Gators hope 
their success translates  to the orange and 
blue.
@CarsonCashion
ccashion@alligator.orgFlorida’s quarterbacks further entangle against South Florida
Gators golfers shine in offseasonSamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Anthony Richardson on the sidelines during 
the Gators’ 42-20 win over South Florida on Sept. 11, 2021.
Photo courtesy of the UAA
Florida's Ricky Castillo celebrates a putt   
in the first round of the 2021 NCAA  Cle 
Elum Regional at Tumble Creek Golf Club 
in Cle Elum, Wash., on May 19, 2021.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2021
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$559999
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   
&& KARAOKE KARAOKE
on theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$44offoff
allall  FLATBREADSFLATBREADS
$$33
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
KEY LIME PIE KEY LIME PIE 
SHOTSSHOTS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
nightnight
GO GO 
GATORS!GATORS!
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
VOLLEYBALL
TOUGH COMPETITION 
RAISED CONCERNS 
ABOUT THE GATORS WITH 
CONFERENCE PLAY LOOMING  
By Joseph Henry 
Sports writer
The Gators volleyball team are 
reeling after losing three of their last 
four matches, but they will continue to rely on their legendary coach and 
seasoned roster as the season moves 
forward.  
Head coach Mary Wise, now in 
her 31st year at Florida, earned her 
900th win with the program on Aug. 
28, but her team fell to 4-3 following 
a sweep at the hands of No. 17 Bay -
lor on Sept. 11. 
Florida looked the part of a true 
title contender after three straight 
sweeps to start the season. The Hornet Invitational was by no 
means elite competition, but with 
nine straight set victories and three 
sweeps, the Gators were firing on all 
cylinders. 
UF took a huge step up in West 
Coast competition with a match 
against Stanford. The then-No. 21 
Cardinal handed the Gators their 
first loss of the season, upsetting the 
top-10 squad and halting their early 
momentum. 
“Practices were really, really, re -
ally important,” said middle blocker 
Lauren Forte about the week be -
tween the Stanford loss and Florida’s 
home opener against Minnesota. 
Freshman outside hitter Merritt 
Beason took the court inside the Ste -
phen C. O’Connell Center for a home 
match for the first time on Sept. 5. 
The rest of her fellow starters played 
at home several times over their 
years in Gainesville, but for the first 
time since 2019, Florida fans could 
see them in person. 
The orange and blue faithful re -
turned in full force at the O’Dome 
and provided a huge spark to the 
then-No. 5 Gators. The opponent 
that day, the No. 10 Golden Gophers, 
were no slouches and gave Florida 
all kinds of trouble. Wise and her 
team had seemingly no answers for 
Minnesota outside hitter Stephanie 
Samedy, who crushed down 31 kills. Despite Samedy’s impressive in -
dividual effort, the Gators put togeth -
er a solid team showing with 69 kills 
and a .306 hitting average. Beason 
and outside hitter T’ara Ceasar led 
the way with 19 and 16 kills, respec -
tively, in the 3-1 victory. 
Following the win, Florida had 
no time to let off the gas as No. 17 
Baylor headed to Gainesville for two 
consecutive matches. 
Riding the momentum of their 
previous win, the Gators turned on 
cruise control, while the Bears began 
speeding. 
Seven sets was all it took for 
Baylor to leave Gainesville with two 
wins. Both nights the Bears topped 
Florida in kills and hitting percent -
age. Outside hitter Yossiana Pressley 
averaged 15 kills per match for the 
green and gold.  
The No. 7 Gators seemed slug -
gish compared to the immensely 
energized Bears. Florida’s hitting 
percentage dipped below .200 for 
the first time this season in both 
matches. 
Despite the rough stretch of 
games, the Gators lineup bursts with 
experience. Other than Beason and 
libero Elli McKissock, all of Florida’s 
starters are seniors. 
Ceasar and setter Marlie Monser -
ez are viewed as the cornerstones of 
the team. Ceasar leads the team with 94 kills, averaging 3.92 per set and 
Monserez accounts for 253 (84.9%) 
of the Gators’ 299 assists. 
Following matches against Stan -
ford and Minnesota, Monserez was 
named SEC Player of the Week. The 
Windermere, Florida, native aver -
aged 12.12 assists and 4.83 digs per 
set through those two matches. 
“[She is] just what you would 
want in a senior,” Wise said about 
Monserez after the win over the 
Golden Gophers. “Work ethic, com -
petitiveness, attention to detail. 
Right now she is playing with the 
full package”
Meanwhile, Ceasar consistently 
manufactures statement plays as her 
game revolves around powerful kills 
and crushing blocks. The redshirt 
senior brims with confidence in her 
surrounding team and the chemistry 
they have. 
When asked if she thinks the 
Gators have the ability to make a 
run at a national title, Ceasar said, “I 
don’t think, I definitely know.” 
A rebound looks likely as the 
Gators wrap up non-conference 
play this upcoming week with a trip 
to Florida State on tap Sept. 15 fol -
lowed by two matches with Coastal 
Carolina on Sept. 18 and 19.
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.orgFlorida volleyball is 1-3 against top-25 opponents, but experience should lead the way
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Marlie Monserez prepares to serve during a match in 
2019.
