We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperWomen’s History Month
Meet the trailblazing women of UF and Santa Fe,  pg. 8
Fisher Farms
Meet the family behind the fifth-generation farm,  pg. 7Exit Door
There was an exodus of talent following the 
men’s basketball team’s second-round loss to 
Oral Roberts in the NCAA Tournament. Catch 
up with the departures on pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 27
THOSE 18 AND OLDER CAN 
PRE-REGISTER BEFORE APRIL 5
By Alexander Lugo & Manny Rea
Alligator Staff Writers
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis expanded 
the eligibility of COVID-19 vaccines to 
people 40 years or older starting March 
29 and those 18 and older starting April 5.
Students and faculty can pre-register 
for a vaccine through the Florida Depart -
ment of Health in Alachua, said Dr. Mi -chael Lauzardo, the director of UF Health’s 
Screen, Test and Protect program.
The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine will also 
be available for people 16 and older start -
ing April 5. All vaccines are open to those 
18 and older. 
UF plans to collaborate with the FDOH 
to offer vaccines to students, faculty and 
staff in accordance with state guidelines, 
Lauzardo said. Plans for testing sites, as 
well as dates and capacities for immuniz -
ing the new groups, aren’t finalized yet. 
More details will be released this week, he said. 
UF might use Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 
and the Cultural Plaza parking garage 
on Hull Road as future vaccination sites, 
Lauzardo said. Both areas have been used 
as vaccination sites previously. He said 
the sites’ hours will cater to students with 
availability later in the day. 
The University of Central Florida start -
ed offering vaccines to all faculty March 
11, but UF followed the state’s lead on 
vaccine distribution. Other universities, 
like Florida State University, the Univer -sity of South Florida and the University of 
Miami, are all following state guidelines.
Vaccine recipients will be able to opt 
out of the biweekly on-campus testing two 
weeks after receiving their final doses, 
Lauzardo said. They can also be excluded 
from isolation protocols if an individual 
is contact traced from an infected person. 
“This is exciting,” he said. “We want 
to just get going and do this as safely, ef -
ficiently and as quickly as we can because 
A PROPOSED CHANGE TO 
PROGRAM FUNDING CAUSED 
FAMILIES TO REEVALUATE 
COLLEGE PLANS
By Carolina Ilvento & 
Alan Halaly
Alligator Staff Writers
Kendall Lindsay made her de -
cision about where to go to col -
lege with one key thought in mind –– how her family would afford 
degrees for its graduating triplets.
Lindsay, 18, turned down her 
early admission to Duke Univer -
sity to attend UF next Fall be -
cause she knew the Bright Futures 
scholarship program would fully 
fund her in-state tuition. 
But, when she heard about the 
Florida Senate bill that proposed 
to change funding for the program 
thousands of students across the state rely on to attend college, she 
started to worry.
“I definitely would reconsider 
choosing the University of Florida 
over Duke because, without that 
full ride, I could have gotten to go 
to Duke for about the same price,” 
she said.
Lindsay’s not alone in her wor -
ries about college funding. Stu -
dents and parents across the state 
protested the bill for weeks, lead -ing senators to remove the bill’s 
most controversial aspects, which 
included making certain majors 
ineligible for full funding through 
the scholarship. Still, the legisla -
tion continues to gather attention 
as it moves toward the Senate 
floor with language that no lon -
ger specifies how much students 
will receive through Bright Fu -
tures. The bill will be heard again 
by the Appropriations Committee Wednesday. 
Currently, Florida Academic 
Scholars receive funds for 100% 
of tuition and fees, while Florida 
Medallion Scholars receive 75%. 
The bill proposes Bright Futures 
awards will be “equal to the 
amount specified in the General 
Appropriations Act,” which de -
termines the state’s budget each Gov. DeSantis expands COVID-19 vaccine eligibility
Amended Bright Futures bill passes in subcommittee, worrying high school seniors and families   SEE UF VACCINE,  PAGE 5
SEE BRIGHT FUTURES,  PAGE 5
Lennon Fisher looks at his family farm in 
Alachua County as Lennon Fisher Jr. stands 
beside him with carrots in hand. Their family 
has owned Fisher Farms for five generations, 
but the property has shrunk over time. 
They made it through the hardships of the 
pandemic with some help from a GoFundMe 
page and business across North Florida.
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
SEE FARM,  PAGE 7T oday’s Weather
THE UNIVERSITY WROTE 
THE GROUPS VIOLATED 
COVID-19 POLICIES
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer
Three conservative UF student 
groups were suspended after violating 
university COVID-19 guidelines and 
failing to register an on-campus event. 
UF’s chapters of Turning Point 
USA, the Network of enlightened 
Women and Young Americans for 
Freedom held a Conservative Coali -
tion Cookout with UF’s College Re -
publicans at Norman Field on March 
3.
The university announced in a 
statement March 21 it has photos of 
the attendees not adhering to physical 
distancing guidelines or wearing face 
coverings. UF also said it obtained 
text messages that indicate members 
of the student groups were aware of 
the COVID-19 policies and knew they 
were required but did not register the 
event with the Vice President for Stu -
dent Affairs according to the Use of 
University Space policy. 
Student Government Senate Presi -
dent Franco Luis condemned the uni -
versity’s actions in a letter to Heather 
White, associate vice president and 
university dean of students, and 
D’Andra Mull, vice president for stu -
dent affairs, on March 24. 
Luis wrote that the suspension 
shows UF does not hold all student 
groups to the same standard. He 
wrote that he’s seen other student 
groups not adhering to COVID-19 pol -
icies since the start of the pandemic 
without any action from UF. 
Luis did not answer The Alligator’s 
questions asking which other student 
groups had been breaking COVID-19 
policies. 
Carter Mermer, the president of 
Turning Point at UF, said participants 
were encouraged to bring masks to 
the event in social media post cap -
tions. The 22-year-old UF business ad -
ministration senior said most students 
at the event adhered to the mask pol -
icy, but there were some who did not 
comply despite being told by Mermer 
to do so. 
“At the end of the day, I can’t force 
them to do it,” he said. “If they don’t 
want to wear a mask outside, then there’s really nothing that I can do.” 
Mermer received notice of the 
group’s interim suspension on March 
5. He said he attempted to appeal the 
suspension March 10 but was rejected 
March 17. 
In his appeal, Mermer wrote he 
didn’t reserve the Norman Field be -
cause he did not believe it was re -
quired. He thought it was public prop -
erty where the organizations could 
“peaceably assemble.” 
He also wrote that he has been 
strict with masks ever since being rep -
rimanded by student affairs in the past 
about the mask-wearing policy. 
Mermer said he does not believe 
the university is attacking the orga -
nization for its political ideologies, 
but he does feel the response was ex -
treme. 
“They managed to suspend all of 
the largest conservative clubs on cam -
pus in one fell swoop,” Mermer said. 
One attendant at the cookout, who 
learned before the event they should 
isolate in accordance with CDC and 
state guidelines, was photographed 
maskless with their arms around 
two other attendees, according to the 
statement. It is unclear whether this 
student is facing any disciplinary ac -
tion.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
did not answer questions about the 
dates of the meetings among the uni -
versity and the organizations, how it 
acquired the text messages and pho -
tographic evidence nor information 
regarding the individual who was at 
risk. Orlando wrote in a text message 
that everything UF has to say about 
the issue is in the statement.
The university’s statement comes 
after it received backlash from conser -
vative politicians about the decision 
to temporarily suspend the chapters. 
Fox News reported that according to 
UF Turning Point chapter secretary 
Abby Streetman, members took off 
their masks to eat during the event but 
were socially distanced when playing 
sports and were told through an Insta -
gram post to bring masks.
On March 4, one attendee posted 
several pictures from the gathering 
on Twitter showing some unmasked 
people posing for group photos and 
socializing. The photos included other 
groups wearing masks and socializ -
ing. 
UF dispelled any claims about tar -geting the groups for their political be -
liefs in its statement.
“The university has not taken, and 
would not take, action against a stu -
dent or registered student group based 
on the viewpoint they represent or the 
content of their speech,” the state -
ment read. 
Karin Lips, president of the nation -
al Network of enlightened Women, or 
NeW, wrote in a statement on March 
22 that the organization is a strong ad -
vocate for “intellectual diversity” on 
American college campuses, urging 
UF’s administration to “hold liberal 
and conservative organizations to the 
same standards on campus.”
Another group leader, Charlie 
Kirk, founder of Turning Point USA 
condemned UF’s actions in a Tweet 
Saturday and discouraged people 
from donating to the university. Kirk 
has been known to spread conspiracy 
theories and inflammatory rhetoric 
on Twitter such as ideas about CO -
VID-19. 
Philip Smith, the president of the 
YAF chapter at UF, wrote in a text 
message that the organization is not 
releasing a statement at this time. 
Interim suspension requires the 
groups to temporarily stop all chapter 
activities, according to the statement. 
A meeting will take place with Stu -
dent Conduct and Conflict Resolution, 
which is a service within the Dean of 
Students Office and aims to provide 
processes and support for those im -
pacted by or involved with UF regula -
tion violations. 
The university will share informa -
tion regarding the allegations, and 
each group will be granted a chance 
to respond.
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 27
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
MT. JOY AND FLIPTURN 
PLAYED FOR STUDENTS
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer
A year after UF’s campus 
shut down due to COVID-19, the 
university’s first in-person so -
cially distanced live music event 
marked a return to normalcy. 
Student Government Produc -
tions, an SG-funded agency that 
pays entertainers to perform at 
UF, hosted its first socially dis -
tanced concert Friday featuring 
indie rock bands Mt. Joy and flip -
turn. The event was held at Fla -
vet Field at 7 p.m. Friday and was 
free to all registered students.
At the concert, students sat 
and danced in small groups of 
up to six people inside about 180 
distanced pods. Each of the pods was enclosed with metal fencing.
Clara Savardi was thrilled as 
she walked out of Flavet Field 
with a group of friends at the end 
of the show. She was thankful to 
be able to enjoy good music, do 
something fun and release some 
stress, given that she didn’t get 
to enjoy a Spring Break this year.
“I was able to experience good 
music and hang out with my 
friends in a safe environment, 
so it really was a win-win,” the 
21-year-old UF biology senior 
said.
Masks were enforced through -
out the entire concert. It is un -
clear how much money SGP paid 
the bands, and The Alligator sub -
mitted public records requests 
for their contracts.
The band COIN was initial -
ly scheduled to perform in the 
event, but its concert was can -
celed due to “unforeseen cir -cumstances” and replaced by 
flipturn’s performance. COIN’s 
concert will be rescheduled to a 
later date, according to the SGP 
Facebook page.
SGP chair Adrian Badenjki 
did not answer The Alligator’s 
emails asking why COIN did not 
perform and exactly how many 
people attended the event Friday.
Cody Paddack, a 19-year-old 
UF political science sophomore, 
was excited to safely experience 
live music again and enjoyed the 
pairing of the bands.
“I am someone who has been 
off-campus for a while for COV -
ID, and I was really appreciative 
that they made it safe to come 
back to campus for this,” she 
said.
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgUF temporarily suspends three 
conservative student groups
UF hosts its first live, social-distanced music event since shutdownMONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
SPEAKERS SAID AAPI ALLIES 
SHOULD GO THE EXTRA 
MILE TO SQUANDER RACISM 
By Alan Halaly and Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writers
Protestors sat on a hill in De -
pot Park, folding 1,000 origami 
cranes — a nod to the ancient 
Japanese tradition, senbazuru, 
which is said to grant a holy wish. 
The cranes will showcase col -
lective strength along with writ -
ten messages about hate against 
Asians to create a virtual message 
garden.
Over 300 miles away from At -
lanta, Gainesville came together 
to mourn the losses of the victims 
of the Atlanta spa shootings.
“I do not need to know these 
women directly,” said Jyoti Par -
mar, a 55-year-old North Central 
Florida Indivisible organizer, re -
ferring to the six Asian American 
shooting victims. “I do not need 
to know them personally. They 
are me. They are all of you out 
here.”
Racism against Asians has been 
on the rise with more than 3,700 
accounts of hate crimes against 
Asians nationally in roughly a 
year reported in March — an in -
crease of about 1,000 incidents 
from the last Stop AAPI monthly 
national report in February.
In response to the three At -
lanta mass shootings and upward 
trend in hate crimes, more than 
200 protestors marched down 
Main Street from Bo Diddley 
Plaza to Depot Park Saturday af -
ternoon to condemn the ongoing 
violence and stand in solidarity 
with victims. Another demonstra -
tion was held in Gainesville last Saturday by the Chinese Ameri -
can community.
The Anti-Hate Team, an or -
ganization Parmar founded con -
sisting of members from activ -
ist groups North Central Florida 
Indivisible, GoDDsville Dream 
Defenders and Moms Demand 
Action, collaborated to organize 
a GoFundMe to host the march. 
They raised more than $2,000 as 
of Sunday evening, surpassing 
their original goal of $1,500.
The funds covered expenses 
such as shirts that read “Racism 
is a virus” and “Not your stereo -
type,” candles and signs, Parmar 
said. Any additional donations 
will fund future team projects.
Mayor Lauren Poe released a 
statement Tuesday condemning 
violence against Asians. UF Presi -
dent Kent Fuchs issued a similar 
statement March 19. Poe, joined 
by City Commissioner David 
Arreola, addressed the crowd at 
the event.
Poe said as a teacher, looking 
to U.S. history is a powerful way 
to fix problems in the present.
“I want to let you know that 
here in the city of Gainesville, we 
stand on the side of love against 
hate, regardless of where you 
came from or how long you’ve 
been here,” he said.
Paul Ortiz, president of the 
United Faculty of Florida at UF, 
issued an official statement at the 
demonstration calling for UF to 
provide more support for AAPI 
faculty. He said the university 
should place more emphasis on 
Asian American scholars in its 
curriculum.
Ortiz emphasized how the 
fight for long-term change is nev -
er an easy process, but it’s worth withstanding discomfort. 
“There’s no way to do this 
work without at times feeling a 
little bit uncomfortable,” he said. 
“Discomfort during these dia -
logues, by the way, is a precursor 
to genuine personal change and 
eventual institutional change.”
Tai Min Tegeder, a 19-year-old 
Gainesville native who attends 
Agnes Scott College in the Atlanta 
area, said she was frightened to 
learn about the mass shooting in 
Atlanta. She never considered be -
ing killed because of her race a 
possibility until now.
She read aloud a poem titled 
“The Game Board: Second Gen -
eration Chinese American Female 
Edition” by Laura Lisa Ng, which 
uses the metaphor of a board 
game to describe the female 
Asian American experience. The 
poem detailed a process of mov -
ing forward on the “game board” 
when assimilating to American 
culture and moving backward 
when Asian culture becomes un -
comfortable for white Americans.
“I’m here because I believe 
that no one should die for some -
one’s bad day,” she said, in ref -
erence to one Atlanta police cap -
tain’s rationale for the shootings.
Youri Chang, a 20-year-old UF 
English and telecommunications 
sophomore, said she’s learned 
how important it is to speak out 
against Asian hate because of the 
complacency of older generations 
of Asian Americans. She said the 
fear in her parents’ eyes about 
how she may be perceived as a 
queer feminist only makes her 
angrier at the people who dis -
couraged self-expression in their 
generation.
“I’m sick and tired of seeing how my parents and my elders 
have had to repress every beau -
tiful part of themselves and their 
culture in order to assimilate 
and survive here,” Chang said. 
“It makes me vow to never, ever 
assimilate to this country’s vio -
lence.”
Young Gainesville activists 
also took to the stage at Depot 
Park and shared their experienc -
es as Asian Americans in public 
schools, where they feel forced to 
hide their culture.
Tvisha Josha, a 13-year-old 
Lincoln Middle School student, 
said she often decides not to talk 
about her culture around others 
because of how it’s been per -
ceived by other students in the 
past. 
“In 2020, we were afraid of 
going outside because of the pan -
demic,” Josha said. “Now it’s 2021 and there are Asians afraid 
of going outside and being killed.” 
She was joined by Flora Xu, 
another 13-year-old Lincoln Mid -
dle School student, who told the 
crowd she was mortified by con -
tinued acts of violence toward 
Asian Americans, and wonders 
when non-Asian people will act 
on their thoughts and prayers for 
Asian lives.
“I’m only 13, and I shouldn’t 
have to question if I’ll grow up or 
not,” she said. “I shouldn’t have 
to question if every day might be 
my last or the last of my loved 
one.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgMore than 200 protestors call for action and solidarity at Stop Asian Hate march
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Larry Wang, 29, (left) and Shirley Ai, 28, (right) sit at Depot Park 
as they listen to speakers during a vigil on Saturday, March 27, 
2021. The vigil followed a march from Bo Diddley Plaza, which 
was held to raise awareness about increasing anti-Asian violence 
across the U.S and to remember the victims of the shootings 
that killed eight people in Atlanta.
LUNES, 29 DE MARZO DE 2021
www.alligator.org/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones so El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/elcaimanFisher Farms
Meet the family behind the fifth-generation farm,  pg. 7El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un twet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
PROGRAMAS COMO LIBROS DE 
FAMILIA OFRECEN TUTORÍA PARA 
LOS HIJOS DE FAMILIAS MIGRANTES 
DURANTE LA PANDEMIA
Por Isabella Barnet 
Escritora de Caimán
Skyler Cuevas recuerda ver cómo se ilu -
minaba la cara de un padre cuando su hijo 
recibía tutoría especializada a través de su 
organización, Children Beyond Our Borders. 
Ahora, como presidenta de la organización, 
Cuevas y su equipo tuvieron que adaptarse a 
los cambios que les trajo el COVID-19 a ellos y 
a las familias migrantes a las que sirven.
“Poder ofrecer estos servicios y haciéndoles 
saber que nosotros estaremos ahí por ellos 
cada semana para continuar ayudándoles en 
la educación de sus hijos fue icónico”, dijo la 
presidenta. 
Antes de la llegada del COVID-19, las fa -
milias migrantes del condado de Alachua re -
cibían ayuda en persona de parte de un grupo 
de voluntarios especiales afiliados con la or -
ganización Children Beyond Our Borders, o 
CBOB por sus siglas en inglés. Un programa 
dentro de CBOB, Libros de Familia, se dedica 
a cerrar la brecha entre los hijos de familias 
migrantes y la educación de calidad.
La organización sin fines de lucro fue fun -
dada en 2003, establecida por un grupo de es -
tudiantes colombianos de UF que se enfocaban 
a ayudar los niños de Colombia. Después de 18 
años, CBOB extendió su enfoque de Colombia 
a los niños de todo el mundo con la esperanza 
de que la educación pueda empoderar a todos.
“Nuestro principal objetivo es que la edu -cación equivale al empoderamiento para la co -
munidad latina”, dijo Cuevas. “Si tienes alguna 
conexión con un grupo minoritario, deberías 
tenerlos en cuenta de cualquier manera que 
pueda”.  
En Gainesville, el capítulo de CBOB de la 
Universidad de la Florida ayuda a niños locales 
con servicios de tutoría y becas. 
Joel Hernandez, el coordinador de Libros de 
Familia de UF, está a cargo de mantener el pro -
grama y de conectar a estudiantes voluntarios 
de UF con las familias migrantes del condado. 
Antes de COVID-19, los voluntarios daban 
tutoría en el hogar del niño migrante o en una 
biblioteca local y establecían una relación cer -
cana para ayudar a las familias. Algunos tu -
tores de CBOB hicieron el esfuerzo de construir 
relaciones más profundas con estos niños al 
pasar tiempo con ellos fuera del entorno de 
tutoría — algunos niños, que nunca habían es -
tado en la playa, iban con sus tutores de Libros 
de Familia.
Ahora, esas relaciones son difíciles de man -
tener debido a las luchas que enfrentan muchas 
familias y sus hijos a causa de la pandemia, la 
cual ha cambiado la manera en que los niños 
atienden a sus clases virtualmente.  
A principios de la primavera de 2021, el 
plan de reapertura de la Junta Escolar del Con -
dado de Alachua permitió que los estudiantes 
continuaran aprendiendo en el aula. con me -
didas establecidas para mantener a los estudi -
antes seguros, pero muchos niños de familias 
migrantes luchan con estudiar virtualmente. 
“Imagina que eres un estudiante sin saber 
el inglés y te estás retrasando porque tienes 
que aprender inglés, y encima de eso tienes 
que tomar una clase para aprender el lengua -
je”, dijo Hernandez. “Adicionalmente, si eres alguien que se muda de lugar a lugar, no estás 
recibiendo una experiencia de educación (igual 
a la) que otros estudiantes reciben”. 
Hernandez también enfatizó el hecho de 
que la mayoría de los padres no hablan inglés 
y no saben cómo usar la tecnología requerida 
para que sus hijos estudien virtualmente. La 
aplicación Zoom es usada frecuentemente en 
las escuelas, y los estudiantes voluntarios a 
menudo tienen que mostrarles cómo conectar 
a los hijos con Libros de Familia en línea.
“Un problema muy grande ha sido la con -
exión wifi. Nos parece tan simple, pero algu -
nos de ellos no pueden pagar un buen wifi o 
simplemente no lo tienen”, dijo Cuevas. 
No fue hasta la reciente Ley del Plan de 
Rescate Estadounidense de 2021 que más fa -
milias inmigrantes se volvieron elegibles para 
los pagos de estímulo, incluidos los titulares de 
visas H-2A, H-2B y H-1B bajo las cuales mu -
chas familias migrantes califican. Sin embargo, 
cualquier migrante con un número de identi -
ficación personal del contribuyente (ITIN) no 
califica para los pagos de estímulo.
Para las familias que necesitan ayuda, 
CBOB ofrece un programa de becas para niños. 
También están ampliando sus esfuerzos de re -
caudación de fondos para incluir a las familias 
migrantes que necesitan tecnología para con -
tinuar con sus esfuerzos de tutoría en línea.
El Programa de Educación Migrante de Ala -
chua, un programa financiado por las Escuelas 
Públicas del Condado de Alachua, ayuda a la 
población migrante del condado al informar a 
CBOB de cualquier familia que necesite tutoría 
para sus hijos.
“Es una relación casi simbiótica porque se 
enriquecen los voluntarios de UF al conocer 
estas familias”, cuenta Victoria Gomez de la Torre, supervisora del Programa de Educación 
Migrante de Alachua. “Y es como cambiarse 
de país al momento que llegan a esas casas”.
Gómez de la Torre se dedicó a ayudar ni -
ños y familias migrantes cuando empezó como 
tutora hace 15 años después de graduarse con 
su maestría en estudios latinoamericanos de la 
Universidad de la Florida. 
Dijo que parte de la lucha que enfrentan los 
migrantes es la inseguridad de la vivienda des -
de el inicio de COVID-19. Según una inspec -
ción anual realizada por el Departamento de 
Salud de Florida en Alachua, 22 de los 65 cam -
pos de trabajo para migrantes se encontraban 
en condiciones insatisfactorias en 2020.
“Ha afectado a la población migrante 
porque viven en lugares muy rurales, trabajan 
en los campos en su mayoría, es gente que no 
necesariamente escucha las noticias… es gente 
que por obvia razones no está en el radar ni de 
los departamentos de la salud, ni de una enti -
dad que trabaja con el problema de COVID”, 
dijo Gomez de la Torre. 
Según el Departamento de Salud de Florida 
en Alachua, entre 150.000 y 200.000 traba -
jadores agrícolas migrantes y de temporada y 
sus familias viajan y trabajan anualmente en el 
estado de la Florida. Muchos de ellos llegan a 
trabajar con sus familias, incluyendo sus hijos 
que viven en campos de residencia en diferen -
tes campos en el norte de la Florida. 
“Nadie los tiene como población de su es -
tado, entonces nadie los toma en cuenta para 
tomar decisiones dentro de la pandemia”, dijo 
Gomez de la Torre.
jbarnet@alligator.org
STUDENT VOLUNTEERS WITH LIBROS 
DE FAMILIA OFFER TUTORING 
SERVICES FOR CHILDREN OF 
MIGRANT FAMILIES
By Isabella Barnet 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Skyler Cuevas vividly remembers seeing a 
parent’s face light up as their child received 
specialized tutoring through the UF chapter 
of Children Beyond Our Borders. Now, as 
the president of the chapter, Cuevas and her 
team are adapting to the changes COVID-19 
brought them and the migrant families they 
serve. 
“Being able to offer these services and let -
ting them know that we are here for them 
every week to continue helping them with 
their children’s education was memorable,” 
Cuevas said. 
Before COVID-19, the migrant families of 
Alachua County received in-person help from 
a group of special volunteers affiliated with Children Beyond Our Borders (CBOB). One 
program within CBOB, Libros de Familia, is 
dedicated to closing the education gap for 
children of new migrant families. 
A group of Colombian UF students that 
first focused on helping Colombian children 
later founded the non-profit organization in 
2003. After over a decade, CBOB extended its 
emphasis from Colombia to children world -
wide with the hope that education could em -
power all children. 
“Our main goal is equating education to 
the empowerment of the Latino community,” 
Cuevas said. “If you have any connection 
with a minority group, you should take them 
into account in any way you can.”
In Gainesville, the CBOB UF chapter helps 
local children with tutoring services and 
scholarships. 
Joel Hernandez, the coordinator of UF’s 
Libros de Familia, is in charge of maintaining 
the program and connecting UF student vol -
unteers with migrant families in the county. 
Before COVID-19, volunteers tutored in the 
migrant child’s home or at a local library and established a close relationship with families. 
Some CBOB tutors went out of their way to 
build stronger relationships with these chil -
dren by spending time with them outside the 
tutoring setting — some children, who had 
never been to the beach, would end up visit -
ing them with their Libros de Familia tutors.
Now, those relationships are difficult to 
maintain due to the struggles many families 
and their children face because of the pan -
demic, such as virtual learning.
The School Board of Alachua County’s 
Spring 2021 COVID-19 response plans allowed 
students to return to classes with measures in 
place to keep students safe. Still, many chil -
dren of migrant families struggle with study -
ing virtually.
“Imagine you are a student who doesn't 
know English, and you are falling behind 
because you need to learn English; on top of 
that, you need to take a class to learn the lan -
guage,” Hernandez said. “Additionally, if you 
are someone who moves from place to place, 
you are not receiving an educational experi -
ence [equal to] what other students receive.”Hernandez also emphasized that most par -
ents don't speak English and don't know how 
to use the required technology for their chil -
dren to study virtually. The Zoom app is fre -
quently used in schools, and Libros de Famil -
ia volunteer students often need to teach the 
parents how to connect their children online. 
“One big problem has been Wi-Fi connec -
tion. It seems so simple to us, but some of 
them can’t pay for good Wi-Fi or simply don't 
have it,” Cuevas said. 
It wasn’t until the recent American Rescue 
Plan Act of 2021 that more immigrant fami -
lies became eligible for stimulus payments, 
including H-2A and H-1B visa holders that 
many migrant families qualify under. How -
ever, any migrants that file with an Individual 
Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) do not 
qualify for stimulus checks.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/elcaiman
ibarnet@alligator.orgLas familias migrantes luchan contra los problemas de la educación virtual
Migrant families face virtual education problems following COVID-19
ESPAÑOLESPAÑOL
ENGLISHENGLISHMONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
year. This means Bright Futures award 
amounts could change every year when the 
annual budget passes. 
Students and families questioned their 
future plans and finances when the bill was 
first proposed and are still worried about 
funding not being guaranteed for students.
“My family is depending on Bright Fu -
tures to help my kids get through college,” 
Lindsay’s mother, Amy Lindsay, said.
Without Bright Futures, the Lindsays 
would have to dip into their retirement 
funds and savings, and the kids would need 
to take on jobs during their studies. Amy 
would probably have to find a second job 
as well, she said.
As for any schooling beyond college, she 
said her kids might have to delay that if 
they aren’t awarded Bright Futures funding.
“I am very stressed out,” she said, refer -
ring to the initial proposal of the bill. “I am 
trying to think about what and how we are 
going to do to pay for this.”
When the bill was first proposed, stu -
dents and families had to consider how 
they would balance college degree choices 
with family budgets.
Leslie Winograd, the mother of an 
18-year-old high school senior from Boca Raton, said taking away the affordability of 
staying in Florida for college would drive 
young talent away. High-achieving students 
would likely opt for out-of-state schools, 
she said, as they often receive merit-based 
scholarships that lower the tuition to be 
close to in-state tuition prices.
“I just don’t know what they were think -
ing,” she said. “It was a dumba-- thing to 
do. It’s just stupid.”
Jessica Winograd, her 18-year-old 
daughter, said she has never been a sci -
ence-oriented person.
While Jessica has not fully settled on her 
major yet, she knows she wants to pursue 
a career in liberal arts. She emphasized the 
importance of having bright students in all 
fields in the workforce. 
“You need teachers and social workers,” 
she said. “You can’t just have a bunch of 
scientists running around.”
Lexie Sealy, an 18-year-old who is start -
ing at UF this Fall, has practiced five types 
of dance since she was 6 years old and 
dreams of opening a dance studio for un -
derprivileged children. 
But because of the Bright Futures bill, 
she thought about leaving behind the dance 
degree she would pursue in college. She 
even contemplated not attending college at 
all.
Sealy had to work hard to receive Bright Futures. After countless tutoring sessions, 
she said she drove three hours from her 
home in Coral Springs to the nearest open 
SAT testing site, as many closed due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. This was the third 
time she took the exam to earn the mini -
mum score for full funding. 
She was stressed when she heard about 
the bill and questioned the need for a col -
lege education in her dance career, even 
though she knew a dance degree would 
help her refine her passion. 
“It was kind of a push and pull because 
it is something that I have always wanted 
to do, but it is going to be so much more 
expensive for my family to be able to let me 
live out those dreams,” she said.
Alachua County high school seniors 
have also expressed outrage about potential 
changes to Bright Futures funding. 
Luke Bennett, an 18-year-old Eastside 
High School senior, said he qualifies for the 
highest level of the Bright Futures scholar -
ship, which covers 100% of in-state public 
tuition. As an active member of his school’s 
drama club, he said he initially thought 
about either pursuing a minor or double-
major in theatre alongside business man -
agement or political science. After hearing 
about original provisions in the Florida bill, 
he began to reconsider. “I want to be able 
to go to college and do whatever I want to 
do,” Bennett said. “But I’m relying pretty 
heavily on Bright Futures.”
Avery Sperbeck, an 18-year-old Gainesville High School senior who de -
cided to attend UF as a finance major for 
Fall 2021, said Bright Futures funding in -
fluenced his decision to attend an in-state 
college.
Sperbeck is a candidate for the Cam -
bridge Advanced International Certificate 
of Education Diploma (AICE), a program 
that automatically qualifies a student for 
the highest level of funding upon success -
ful completion. 
He said seniors across Alachua County 
public schools have continued to fight 
against the changes by speaking out over 
social media. Above all, he believes it’s not 
right that those who depend on the funding 
may be dissuaded from choosing a Florida 
college. 
“Everybody should be encouraged to fol -
low their passions and not feel pressured 
or financially motivated to go into a STEM 
field where they might not be as happy or 
it’s not their true passion,” he said. “I don’t 
think they should feel any less valid in their 
choices.”
  
Juliana Ferrie contributed 
to this story.
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org
 
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.org
the sooner we get immunity, the 
sooner we get back to normal.”
Everyone should get the vac -
cine to help the university roll 
back social distancing policies, 
he said. Routine testing, masking 
and quarantine availability will 
be scaled back if immunization 
counts on campus stay strong. 
Lauzardo said recent upticks 
in on-campus cases indicate 
these practices must be kept in 
place for now. Eligibility opening 
to college-aged people will help 
suppress the most active spread.Masking, testing and social 
distancing guidelines for Sum -
mer B and Fall 2021 have not 
been finalized. The university is 
planning close-to-normal Sum -
mer B and Fall semesters. More 
than 70% of course offerings in 
the Fall will be in person, which 
reflects the percentage of in-per -
son offered before the COVID-19 
pandemic.
As of March 24, more than 
11,000 people in Alachua County 
have been vaccinated in collabo -
ration with FDOH, Ken Garcia, a 
UF Health spokesperson, wrote 
in an email.
More than 100,000 doses have been administered in Alachua 
County through UF Health, the 
county health department, retail 
pharmacies and medical practic -
es, he wrote.
Faculty found other ways to 
get vaccinated in the meantime, 
with some traveling as far as 
Alabama. Many members have 
been vaccinated at FEMA sites in 
other cities, Lauzardo said, but 
those who haven’t will be in -
cluded in the developing plans.
The United Faculty of Florida, 
UF’s faculty union, arranged for 
a bus to take about 15 UF faculty 
members to get vaccinated at the 
FEMA site in Jacksonville March 13. UFF-UF paid about $1,000 
for the trip, former UFF-UF presi -
dent Steven Kirn said.
Kirn said getting vaccinated 
is a life-or-death situation, and 
he was happy the union got a 
chance to help.
“It’s kind of expensive to send 
a bus over there,” Kirn said. “But 
we were glad to do it because it’s 
not nearly as expensive as hav -
ing somebody get sick.”
Sylvie Blum, a UF French and 
film professor, was one of the 
about 15 people to go on the UFF 
trip to Jacksonville to get vacci -
nated.
Blum was grateful the trip was 
organized because she feared 
driving back from Jacksonville alone after getting the vaccine. 
She didn’t want to possibly suf -
fer side effects while on the road. 
She received the Pfizer vac -
cine, which requires two doses 
and will need to go back to Jack -
sonville to get the second dose. 
UFF has not planned a trip back 
to Jacksonville. 
“I’m just very grateful for the 
union to organize that. It was 
such a relief,” Blum said. “The 
return back was much more joy -
ful.”
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.org
@ReaManny
mrea@alligator.orgBRIGHT FUTURES , from pg. 1
UF VACCINE,  from pg. 1Funding could change year to year
Over 11,000 people have been vaccinated in the countyKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
JOSH RITTENOUR TURNED 
SELLING CLOTHES OUT OF 
HIS TRUNK INTO A BUSINESS
By Christian Ortega 
Alligator Staff Writer
A blue canopy, lined with cloth -
ing racks, stood out in a white ocean. 
In front stood Josh Rittenour, the 
25-year-old owner of Dave’s Freshly 
Used, who resells vintage University 
of Florida merchandise. He wore 
a neon orange Gators hat, and his 
shirt featured Albert the Alligator 
enjoying a beverage while waving a 
pennant. 
His smile, shrouded by a surgical 
mask, remained visible by the wrin -
kles around his olive-green eyes. It 
invited everyone walking by. 
He had been at Florida Vintage 
Market at Cypress and Grove since 
well before noon. He packed his 
blue 2007 Honda Accord until noth -
ing else fit and drove from Braden -
ton to Gainesville that morning. The 
car gets him from A to B 99% of the 
time. As the hours crept by, Ritten -
our drifted further into the shade. He 
forgot his sunscreen.
It was his first pop-up in months. 
He started small in 2011, selling 
out of his trunk in high school then 
his dorm when he enrolled at UF 
in 2013. Now, he says he’s the guy 
who got an economics degree to sell 
old clothing.“There isn’t another person that 
claims to be the Gator guy like me,” 
Rittenour said. 
At the March 14 pop-up, several 
vendors featured UF gear. It’s natu -
ral to find a few Florida shirts, hats 
and jackets in Gainesville, but no -
body dedicates their collection to the 
college like him. 
Rittenour created his business’ 
name off his high school nickname, 
Dave. He thought it was catchier 
than “Josh’s Freshly Used,” and it’s 
not uncommon for people to call 
him Dave before he corrects them. 
Though his business didn’t be -
come an LLC until 2018, Rittenour 
grew up thrifting.
His parents would take their kids 
to flea markets and thrift stores on 
weekends. The Rittenours even 
planned vacations around thrifting, 
lengthening road trips by hours or 
even days. 
Rittenour remembers going to a 
flea market with his grandma when 
he was 6. He had no idea what to 
look for and his eyes wandered from 
display to display, largely oblivious 
to what was around. 
Until a collection of cards caught 
his eye. Pokémon cards. 
“They were the coolest thing,” 
he said. 
Rittenour said he’s addicted to 
the excitement of finding something 
he never knew existed. Everything 
he buys, sells and sometimes wears is one-of-a-kind. 
“They don’t have s--- like this 
anymore,” Aydan Child, a 19-year-
old UF sophomore who traded one 
of his tank tops for some of Ritten -
our’s shirts during the pop-up, said.
The vintage market is a booming 
industry. It’s a solution to avoiding 
fast fashion. Consumers love it be -
cause the clothing is unique. 
In 2020, Lyst’s “Year in Fash -
ion” report showed the phrase “vin -
tage fashion” generated more than 
35,000 new searches on its web -
site. Entries for related keywords 
increased by 104%. Clothing resale 
website Thredup’s 2020 resale report 
predicts the secondhand market will 
be valued at more than $60 billion 
by 2024. 
Rittenour’s garage is a maze. He 
regularly navigates through walls of 
boxes, each filled to the brim with 
shirts, jackets, hats or whatever else 
can fit. In the back is a makeshift 
photo studio. 
He could lose his mind trying to 
keep track of his items; they number 
in the thousands. So he meticulously 
organized an Excel spreadsheet. 
Laundry can consume four days. 
Between photographing, catalog -
ing, packaging and shipping, Rit -
tenour spends the rest of his time 
hunting online. Packages usually 
barricade his front door. Often they 
come from across the world. 
However, he’s not afraid to stop 
a stranger if he sees them wearing 
something he likes. 
When he was a student, he 
would weave through game-day 
crowds, wearing his vintage cloth -
ing, looking to pry what he could 
from bystanders. 
When he was at a restaurant dur -
ing Gator Growl in 2014, he spotted 
someone walking by with a blue 
snapback. On the front in script read 
the word “Growl.” He marched to -
ward the stranger and introduced 
himself. 
The two talked, Rittenour flexed 
his hat collection and walked away 
with the newly acquired hat. In -
side was a label that read “not to be 
sold.”
Leaping from pursuing dental 
school to selling clothes in 2016 was 
frightening. And the idea of telling 
his parents the truth haunted him. 
Still, he had to rip off the Band-Aid. 
At first, his parents Renee and 
Jeff Rittenour didn’t understand 
their son’s decision. 
“I was sick to my stomach,” Jeff 
Rittenour, 60, said.
It took time to embrace Dave’s 
Freshly Used, but now his parents 
actively help him find new items. 
Renee Rittenour said she likes to 
stand and watch her son thrift. 
He’s usually on his hands and 
knees digging through boxes and 
piles of clothes like a hunting dog fixed on a scent. When he sees some -
thing he likes, he usually shouts his 
excitement to no one in particular. 
“Like a kid in a candy shop,” Re -
nee Rittenour, 55, said.  
However, Rittenour didn’t rely on 
his parents to launch his business. 
He knew how to sell and where to 
buy. But years removed from his de -
cision, he’s still anxious. He never 
knows if or when the business will 
fall apart. And he doesn’t know if or 
when fads will pass him by. 
It’s why he doesn’t stop hunting. 
He regularly finds himself falling in 
and out of rabbit holes online. Re -
searching logos are quests he loves 
completing. 
One quest took him seven years 
to complete. 
When UF hired Charley Pell to 
coach the Gators’ football team in 
1979, the university designed new 
logos.
The logo chosen was used until 
1994. 
The other design was reminiscent 
of the modern Seattle Seahawks hel -
met. It was a blue alligator on each 
side with white, toothy jaws open. 
It was allegedly dropped because of 
claims it looked too phallic.
The design struck out to Rit -
tenour because he never knew it 
existed. He spoke with equipment 
managers and even self-proclaimed 
Gator historians to find its origin. 
Seven years later, he was directed to 
an internet thread, where he found 
the elusive logo. 
If he’s not researching, he’s dig -
ging through websites. He likes 
buying crew-neck sweatshirts. He’ll 
never turn down a hat. 
UF club hockey jerseys are his 
white whale. He usually finds one 
online once a year if he’s lucky. 
“I can count on my fingers the 
number of hockey jerseys I’ve 
found,” Rittenour said. 
He never misses the Gators’ 
games. Watching Florida win brings 
him happiness like nothing else. The 
bragging rights help, too. 
Just don’t talk to him after a loss. 
People near him walked on eggshells 
after LSU beat the Gators in Decem -
ber. He was devastated when Oral 
Roberts knocked Florida out of the 
NCAA Tournament. 
“We’re a baseball school,” he 
joked. 
But still, he can’t live in solitude 
with screens occupying all his time. 
Sometimes he needs to be pried 
away from them, something his 
girlfriend Lynzee Janowitz doesn’t 
mind doing once in a while. 
The couple lives together in Bra -
denton, Florida, while Janowitz, 24, 
studies in medical school at Lake 
Erie College of Osteopathic Medi -
cine’s Bradenton campus. 
Rittenour dreams of a brick-and-
mortar location to sell his vintage finds. In an ideal world, the store 
would be in the heart of Gainesville. 
But he can’t expand without 
a brand. A large following means 
regular customers. Steady business 
means he’s doing something right. 
He couldn’t sell out of his trunk 
and dorm forever, so he built a so -
cial media following. He would sell 
off eBay, and he did well early. He 
opened his website to broaden his 
reach. When he ships a package, he 
includes a handwritten note. 
“Yes, we do have a hockey 
team!” one read. He included it in a 
package to a customer who directly 
messaged him on Instagram. They 
had no idea a club team existed until 
they saw the blue jersey. 
At the Gainesville pop-up, some 
customers went because they want -
ed to see what he was selling in per -
son. 
He regularly models his clothing 
in public. It draws attention and is 
an excuse for him to talk about his 
Instagram page. One more follower 
to join his audience. He takes pic -
tures of himself wearing his collec -
tion sometimes, too. He’ll post it and 
hope it pops up on more Instagram 
Explore pages. 
Rittenour also posts advice on 
how to take care of vintage clothing. 
He has an Instagram story highlight 
dedicated to removing stains. 
The weekend of March 20, Rit -
tenour spent more time in a car than 
he did sleeping. He drove to Orlando 
to sell at The Citronaut Flea Market 
with his friend, Doug Ramos. They 
closed their eyes for a few hours and 
then drove to Atlanta for ThriftCon. 
But now Rittenour is back in Bra -
denton. His head buried in a screen, 
looking for clothes, thinking about 
his next pop-up. 
He’s got a business to grow.
@unofficialchris
cortega@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Doctor in the trenches
Stewart Reese, a graduate student offensive lineman, dreams of 
anesthesiology after the gridiron. He wants to show that athletes 
are more than highlight reels and letterman jackets. Pg. 11Scan to listen to the Avenue’s Women’s History Month playlist.
Scan to listen to the 
latest episode of the 
Avenue’s pop culture 
news roundup.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
UF alum ‘Dave’ keeps it fresh
FASHIONFASHION
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Josh Rittenour, owner of vintage Gator shop Dave’s Freshly 
Used, goes through a bin of merchandise at his pop-up 
stand on Sunday, Feb. 28, 2021.
FISHER FARMS WORKS 
WITH UF AND NORTH 
FLORIDA CITIES 
By Michelle Holder 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Defined lines from years of 
working outside adorn Lennon 
Fisher’s face — just like the 
bountiful rows of fruits and 
vegetables that decorate his 
family farm.
“I used to walk out in the fields 
as a little boy just to see things 
come up and grow,” he said. “I 
loved to see it all the time.”
The 59-year-old farmer has 
spent his whole life on his family’s 
nearly 20-acre Jonesville farm. His 
father and the three generations 
before them have done the same.
Founded in 1939, Fisher 
Farms, a fifth-generation Black-
owned farm, supplies produce 
to Gainesville, Alachua County 
and North Florida cities like 
Jacksonville. The farm, which 
grows fruit and seasonal veggies, 
sells its produce weekly at the 441 
Alachua County Farmers’ Market 
and the GNV Market at Heartwood 
Soundstage. 
Fisher’s son, Lennon Fisher Jr., 
29, said the farm is also slowly 
growing its relationship with UF 
and Working Foods, a non-profit 
organization that focuses on 
cultivating local food communities 
in North Florida. To him, UF 
is a growing local agricultural 
powerhouse, and having the 
support of the university is 
beneficial for the farm.
But the COVID-19 pandemic 
created many hardships for 
farmers across the U.S. Sales 
dropped for Fisher Farms after 
farmers markets shuttered, Fisher 
said. His son took up a second 
night job at an Olive Garden in 
Gainesville to help sustain the 
farm and make ends meet.Big corporations often take 
over distribution centers, Fisher 
Jr. said, which makes it harder 
for local farms to compete — 
especially during a pandemic. To 
help the farm stay in business 
and support the local agriculture 
industry, Fisher Jr., set up a 
GoFundMe page Jan. 21.
Money donated to the 
fundraiser will go toward a new 
produce cooler and fencing to 
keep animals from destroying 
their crops. 
“We’re a family that’s trying to 
feed as many people as we can,” 
he said. “We don’t have too much 
to say. We try to keep it humble.”
The farm was recognized by 
the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People 
(NAACP) Environmental and 
Climate Justice Committee in 
February 2019. It also received a 
$5,000 grant from the American 
Land Trust foundation this 
year, which will be used to help 
create fencing around the fields. 
Every dollar raised through 
the GoFundMe fundraiser will 
be doubled by an anonymous 
investor. 
Throughout his time on the 
farm, Fisher said they’ve faced a 
number of economic challenges. 
His parents started selling pieces 
of the farm’s land 15 years ago. 
His grandmother used to have 
trouble selling the peanuts she 
grew.
“The Black farmers, they 
couldn’t grow as much peanuts 
because they gave the lots mostly 
to the whites and less to the 
Blacks,” Fisher said. 
To some, Black farming is 
reminiscent of slavery, Fisher 
Jr. said. But this is not the case 
for his farm. Fisher Jr. said it’s 
allowed him to find a stable path 
in life and feel liberated. 
He said farming makes him 
feel grounded, and it helped him focus solely on work when he first 
started. 
However, Fisher Jr. is worried 
about the future of farming due 
to the younger generation’s 
negative perceptions and under-
appreciation of it as a profession.
Fisher has worked in the field 
from sunrise to sunset and has 
watched his watermelons swell 
from their vines. The fruit, he 
said, is his favorite plant to grow.
But as new neighborhood 
developments take land away 
from wildlife, Fisher Jr. said 
there have been problems with 
animals invading the farm. 
Turkeys, deer and raccoons have 
caused recurring issues. He said 
animals have eaten a whole crop of peanuts three times, which hurt 
sales. 
“The turkeys are collecting 
a lot of stuff,” he said. “They 
love greens, like broccoli and 
cauliflower.” 
Xanna Prentice, a 28-year-old 
market manager for GNV Market, 
said she has known Fisher Jr. and 
his family for five years, through 
working with him at market 
meetings and the Food Systems 
Coalition. 
“I always thought that was like 
an impressive thing to not only 
be a farm in the community but 
also to be kind of helping have 
farmers’ voices be heard,” she 
said.
Prentice said out of 30 total vendor spots at the weekly GNV 
Heartwood market, about 15 are 
typically taken by farm vendors. 
She believes the local farmers 
market is one of the most hopeful 
things in the community.
“When you have a farmers 
market like that, where you have 
local producers, every dollar has 
a ripple effect,” she said. “One of 
the most important community 
investments that we can make is 
to support our local farmers and 
producers.”
Chasity Maynard contributed to 
this article.
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Lennon Fisher (left) and Lennon Fisher Jr. (right) walk between rows of greenery on Tuesday, 
March 9, 2021.Tuesday, March 9, 2021.
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Lennon Fisher picks a carrot, one of his favorite produce, on his family farm in Alachua County on 
Tuesday, March 9, 2021.Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Lennon Fisher Jr. (left) and Lennon Fisher (right) pose for a photo 
at their Alachua County farm on Tuesday, March 9, 2021.
Fifth generation Black-owned farm seeks aid to ease pandemic hardships8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021
THESE WOMEN MARKED FIRSTS 
IN BOTH COMMUNITIES
Staff Report
Alligator Staff Writers
In September 1925, Lassie Goodbread-Black 
stood patiently behind a blocklong line of boys 
waiting to register for Fall classes at UF. But 
when she finally made her way to the registrar, 
he refused to help her. 
“He looked at me like he thought I was a 
nut or crazy or something,” Goodbread-Black 
said in a 1984 interview with Gayle Yamada 
through the Samuel Proctor Oral History Pro -
gram. “He said, ‘Step aside, lady! Step aside, 
lady! This isn’t summer school,’” she re -
counted. “And, of course, my feelings were 
crushed.” 
Despite the initial hurdles she faced, 
Goodbread-Black became the first woman to 
enroll full-time at UF in 1925. The university 
wouldn’t officially begin accepting women un -
til more than 20 years later.
The history of women at UF has been a 
long-fought war, with them officially joining 
the university in 1947 but underrepresented 
for decades after. 
Congress designated March as Women’s 
History Month in 1987. This month, Gainesville 
is remembering impactful women of the past, 
celebrating powerful women of the present and 
empowering successful women of the future. 
It all starts with honoring the women trail -
blazers at UF and Santa Fe College.
University of Florida
Irene Thompson tirelessly fought for in -
creased female representation at UF by becom -
ing the first director of the university’s wom -
en’s studies program in 1977. 
She began by forming a committee to ad -
dress the status of women at UF. She then be -
gan teaching an evening course on images of 
women in literature. 
“If you think I knew what I was talking 
about, you’re out of your mind,” she said in a 
2003 interview through the SPOHP. 
Thompson persevered, and four years later 
she said she applied to the College of Arts and 
Sciences for a probationary program, which at 
the time served as the equivalent of a women’s 
studies minor. 
Two years later, an official women’s studies 
program received 100% approval, and Thomp -
son served as the first director until her retire -
ment in 1986. 
Since then, women have continued to make 
progressive strides within the Gator commu -
nity. 
In 2015, Laura Rosenbury became the Levin 
College of Law’s first permanent female dean. 
In October, Colleen Koch was named the first 
female dean of UF’s College of Medicine.
Aside from UF staff, student organizations 
have taken up the task of honoring historical 
women. 
Izabella Smith, the mentorship co-director 
for the Women’s Student Association, a UF or -
ganization that aims to empower women, said 
the group believes in an accurate historical de -
piction of women. 
Women’s history has been whitewashed, 
the 21-year-old UF agricultural education and 
communication junior said. ‘Whitewashing’ 
can refer to an emphasis on the impact of 
white people’s historical contributions, which 
then diminishes and misrepresents nonwhite 
individuals in history. 
“Women’s history month isn’t just Susan B. 
Anthony, and it really shouldn’t be,” she said. 
Besides diving deep into the actual history 
of women, Smith has one other objective in 
mind for this month. 
“I’m kind of taking it as an opportunity to 
not take much bulls---,” she said. 
The path to success for female students 
in leadership roles hasn’t been without hard -ships. 
Despite an increase in women’s represen -
tation at the university, the UF Student Body 
didn’t experience female leadership in SG until 
less than 40 years ago.
Charlotte Mather-Taylor, the first student-
elected Student Body President, was an active 
member of SG in the 1980s. She said her moti -
vating force has always been service.
During her time at UF, Mather-Taylor 
served as an SG senator, a vice president and 
was elected to be the first female Student Body 
President in 1983. While in SG, she created the 
Minority and Women Cabinet divisions, which 
were originally intended to give a platform to 
underrepresented groups and has now expand -
ed into the Diversity Cabinet Division.
“I ran not because I was thinking I would 
be the first female, but because I really just 
thought I could continue the work I was doing 
and make a difference,” she said.
After she was elected, Mather-Taylor said 
an older female student came to congratulate 
her. The woman confessed she had always 
wanted to run for Student Body president but 
allowed other people to convince her a woman 
couldn’t run. 
“If you feel a passion within your being to 
do something, you should do it,” she said. “At 
least try it because you don’t want to regret 
that.”
She said the leadership demographics 
should reflect the population, but equality can 
only be created when women are supportive 
of each other.
“It is important for women to support other 
women. But not blindly,” she said. “You don’t 
support a woman just because she’s female. 
You want to support a woman who is pro-
female — a woman who wants to empower 
other women.”
She now works as the director for the Agen -
cy Disability and Resource Center of Broward 
County and was honored by the county fol -
lowing the National Women’s History Alliance 
chosen yearly theme of “Valiant Women of the 
Vote: Refusing to Be Silenced.”
Since Maher-Taylor’s presidency, seven 
other women have led UF SG.
Pamela Bingham, who served as UF’s first 
and only Black woman Student Body president 
in 1986, faced challenges during her path to 
leadership in the form of racist and hateful 
comments. 
Following in the footsteps of female trail -
blazers like Bingham and Mather-Taylor, Faith 
Maniti and Gio Mompremier, two women of color, will take over the positions of Student 
Body vice-president and treasurer in late April.
As an Asian American woman pursuing a 
degree in political science, Maniti often finds 
herself as the only woman of color in a room. 
It can be intimidating to speak out in conver -
sations mostly dominated by white men, she 
said. The 21-year-old junior wants to create an 
approachable environment in her office and 
serve as a mentor to SG members and students.
“I am going to make an intentional effort 
to see diversity within my cabinet,” she said. 
“Not just for the sake of diversity, but to give 
an opportunity to someone who may have oth -
erwise not been considered.”
Mompremier is one of the few Black wom -
en to be elected to the SG executive board. She 
said wants to advocate for students in under -
represented communities who often don’t feel 
like they belong within the SG environment.
“Women need to realize that their gender 
or identity shouldn’t be limiting factors or 
something they are scared of in regards to their 
qualifications,” she said.
Other members of SG are working toward 
gender equality, too. Haley Palumbo, the SG 
Women’s Affairs Cabinet director, is one ex -
ample.
Looking to April, the 21-year-old UF po -
litical science and women’s studies junior is 
excited to arrange the Women’s Summit, a 
networking event open to all UF students to 
discuss the inclusion of women in the profes -
sional world at the beginning of the month. 
She also said all SG cabinet members are 
currently planning events for healthy relation -
ship week, which is meant to bring awareness 
to sexual assault, April 12-16. The Women’s 
Affairs cabinet is currently organizing an event 
to discuss sexual assault and consent.
However, UF has yet to see a female univer -
sity president. Since the institution’s inception 
in 1853, all of its presidents have been men. 
Santa Fe College
Similar to UF, Santa Fe College has been led 
solely by male presidents since its inception. 
Santa Fe spokesperson Jay Anderson wrote 
in an email that the college, which has accept -
ed women since its opening in 1966, honors 
notable women within the community by host -
ing an annual Women of Distinction luncheon 
every March. 
Ann Bromley was Santa Fe’s coordinator 
of women’s programs and special projects 
from 1981 until she retired in 1992. She cre -ated the event in 1987 to recognize women’s 
contributions, according to Santa Fe’s website. 
Bromley was the college’s first female admin -
istrator, serving as associate dean for Student 
Affairs from 1966 to 1968, Anderson wrote in 
an email. 
More than 190 women have been honored 
through the luncheon since its creation. A 
“Woman of Promise” category was added in 
2006 to recognize young women between 16-
21 years old for their leadership in the Alachua 
and Bradford County communities, according 
to the website.
Although Santa Fe postponed the 2020 lun -
cheon due to COVID-19, the college hopes to 
recognize those women later this year. An an -
nouncement will be made soon about a 2021 
event and how the college will celebrate the 
2020 honorees, Anderson wrote in an email. 
Joudi Ayroud — Santa Fe’s 2020 Woman 
of Promise — was born and raised in Aleppo, 
Syria. Around the start of the civil war in 2011, 
the 22-year-old Santa Fe organizational man -
agement senior and her family left Syria and 
moved to Qatar where they have lived since. 
Ayroud is currently the college’s Student 
Body president and is the first Arab woman to 
hold this position, she said. Ayroud said she’s 
proud of this and loves being in a position 
where she can give back. 
“Ever since I came to the U.S., I’ve been 
constantly working on breaking those stereo -
types that people have of Arab women that 
they’re oppressed, they’re weak, they’re inca -
pable,” Ayroud said. “I’m none of those, and 
neither are any Arab women.” 
Women’s history should be celebrated ev -
ery day, Ayroud said. She celebrates the wom -
en who got her and others to this point each 
day, she added. 
“It’s about empowering each other,” 
Ayroud said. “It’s about standing by each oth -
er, recognizing that we’re capable of so much, 
and we have so much to offer.”
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.org
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgWomen’s History Month: Remembering the trailblazing women at UF and Santa Fe
Ashley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
Graphic of a modern-day student (left) and Lassie Goodbread-Black (right), the first woman to enroll full-time at UF.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-101For Rent
furnished
Unique artistís studio conversion, available 
April 10. Furnished apartment upstairs, 
sleeping loft, large windows, lots of light. 
$1,050/mo. includes electric and WiFi. 
352-372-5733                            4-12-21-4-1
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
Lake Santa Fe cottage; dock, wifi, utilities; 
grad couple/roommates. $400/mo + 15-20 
hrs/mo caretaking, gardening. Available 
April 25 (352) 4683244.                4-5-21-3-1
Furnished townhouse in SW neighborhood. 
18 min. from campus. $420/week. Utilities and 
internet included. Quiet, cozy, washer/dryer, 
high ceiling, front garden, back porch, parking 
spaces. No pets. Available from April 4. Email: 
vchow331@yahoo.com. phone:352-256-1211     
4-19-21-6-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                    5-10-21-6-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
11..    HHeessiittaatteedd,,  iinntteerrrruupptteedd
11..    SSppooiill55..    DDeesseerrvvee
22..    FFaallll  aappaarrtt  66..    LLooccaallee
33..    PPaasssseedd  oonn  77..    VVeerryy  hhaappppyy
44..    CCrraaffttyy,,  wwiissee  SSDDPPUUAAEE
PPEERRPPMMAAIITTMMRREE
VVUUEEEENN
EEAARRUULLNNVV
CCXXTTEETTNNIIDDEELLTTAAEE
WWSSRRHHDDEEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--PPaauusseedd    55AA--MMeerriitt    66AA--VVeennuuee    77AA--EEllaatteedd
11DD--PPaammppeerr    22DD--UUnnrraavveell    33DD--EExxttiinncctt    44DD--SShhrreewwdd    BB--SSuummaattrraa33--2299--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  iiss  tthhee  llaarrggeesstt  iissllaanndd  tthhaatt  iiss  
ffuullllyy  wwiitthhiinn  IInnddoonneessiiaann  tteerrrriittoorryy..
BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter
answers  on pg. 101. SCIENCE: Where is the world's most 
active volcano located?
2. TELEVISION: Which 1990s TV drama 
invented the catchphrase "The truth is 
out there"?
3. MATH: What is the total of numbers 
1-100 added consecutively (1+2+3, etc.)?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What do the 
100 folds in a chef's hat represent?
5. LITERATURE: In which Harry Potter 
book does the Whomping Willow make 
its first appearance?
6. GEOGRAPHY: How many countries in 
Africa have only four letters in their names?
7. MOVIES: In the animated movie "Up," 
to which scouting group does Russell 
belong?
8. ARCHITECTURE: Who designed the fa -
mous Fallingwater House in Pennsylvania?
9. LANGUAGE: What does the Greek 
prefix "hyper" mean?
10. MEDICAL: What is the common 
ailment classified in medical terms as 
singultus?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
2003  Mercedes Benz S430 125,000 miles, 
well cared for.  $5,500 or best offer. Call 
352-226-0205                                 3-29-2-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today ★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-132For Rent
unfurnished 12 Autos
answer  on page 10
By Don Gagliardo
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/29/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/29/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, March 29, 2021
ACROSS
1 Buckwheat 
porridge
6 Tears, as paper
10 Hobbyist’s book
15 One submitting a 
tax return
16 Operatic solo
17 State bordering 
both Nevada and 
Canada
18 “Almost!”
19 Drink brand 
associated with 
NASA missions
20 Fight off
21 “Parking” image, 
on signs
24 “As I see it,” to a 
texter
25 Stay alcohol-free
27 Ad that spreads 
awareness, briefly
28 Baseball’s Musial
29 Princess from 
a galaxy far, far 
away
30 Society 
newcomer
32 Minnesota NFLer
34 Slacks
36 Second drop-
down list, say
39 “Kosher” image, 
on labels
42 Garage floor 
blemish
43 Wabbit hunter 
Fudd
46 Forward, to Fellini
49 “Just a __!”
51 “Count on me!”
52 Blubbers
53 “Pow!” relative
56 Potatoes often 
used for fries
58 Cape __, Mass.
59 “Registered” 
image, on 
product names
61 Draw out
63 DIY furniture 
brand
64 Fridge forays
67 Diet-friendly
68 Blab
69 Boredom
70 Eccentric
71 Creative pursuits, 
with “the”
72 Yard-grooming 
toolDOWN
1 Fast-food co. 
serving buckets
2 Feel sick
3 Aptly named 
clean-up basin
4 Speaker’s ers or 
ums
5 Sports spot
6 Some rodent 
homes
7 Baghdad’s land
8 Alluring poster
9 Long stories
10 Add to the staff
11 Poetic salute
12 Elk
13 28-Across 
nickname
14 Chinese tea
22 Help
23 Poetic bird of one 
word
25 Mont Blanc, e.g.
26 Arthur of “The 
Golden Girls”
28 King Kong’s 
home
31 Patting-the-
baby’s-back goal
33 “Picnic” 
playwright
35 Petulant state37 Book jacket 
blurbs
38 “His Dark __”: 
fantasy trilogy
40 Defendant’s 
story
41 Hosting the roast
44 Use the feed  
bag
45 OR attendants
46 Go up
47 Ritualistic kind 
of doll48 Kidnap
50 Surly mutt
54 Singer Baker with 
eight Grammys
55 Manufacturer
57 Stony debris
59 Count (on)
60 Gael or Breton
62 Lap-loving pet
65 Past __: late
66 __ Loin of Beef: 
Bugs Bunny 
character
By Peter Koetters
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/23/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/23/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, March 23, 2021
ACROSS
1 Insult
5 Golden fruit that, 
legend has it, 
started the Trojan 
War
10 Heat in “The 
Heat”
14 First-rate
15 Stands at 
lectures
16 Like some 
hygiene
17 Midas stock item
20 Slept noisily
21 Period in office
22 Leered at
23 Left 
surreptitiously
28 Beatty and Kelly
29 “Walking in 
Memphis” 
Grammy winner 
Marc
30 Bill for svc. 
rendered
31 Berry who played 
Storm in “X-Men”
33 Israeli or Arab
36 Simple New 
England houses
40 From dawn to 
dusk
41 ’90s candidate __ 
Perot
42 Buzzer in a 
swarm
43 Half-moon tide
44 Office fill-in
48 Gobble up
52 “Wherefore art 
thou” guy
53 Weighty Kuwaiti?
54 Girl-asks-guy 
dances, informally
55 Director’s “We’re 
done for today, 
people” ... and 
hint to the start of 
17-, 23-, 36- and 
48-Across
60 Bequest 
beneficiary
61 Linney of “Ozark”
62 “Blue” or “White” 
African river
63 “This is __ a test”
64 Matches audio to 
video, e.g.
65 Verbalizes
DOWN
1 Lover of Delilah
2 Airport waiting 
area3 Prepare to use, 
as a lawn chair
4 Updated, as a 
Web page
5 Mimicked
6 For, to  
Fernando
7 “Get a room!” 
evoker, initially
8 Sonny who lost 
to Clay in 1964
9 Portraitist’s prop
10 City-state 
separator
11 Globe
12 Pay or pen 
follower
13 Foxy
18 Captained
19 “She desires to 
speak with you 
... __ you go to 
bed”: “Hamlet”
23 Realtor’s favorite 
sign
24 2010s cooking-
themed talk show
25 Kristen of 
“Bridesmaids”
26 Required wager
27 The “Y” of YSL
29 Be saccharine
32 Here, in Havana
33 Octagonal sign
34 Short aliens?35 Extinct  
elephants
36 Uber  
competitors
37 “Match Game” 
host Baldwin
38 Earnest request
39 Algerian port
43 Land with fjords
45 Clarke who 
played Daenerys 
on “Game of 
Thrones”
46 Sheepishly47 Deputized bands
49 Second attempt
50 Radio settings
51 Circular 
dashboard 
devices
52 U.K. fliers
54 Restorative 
resorts
55 Albeit, briefly
56 Barnyard layer
57 Disturb
58 Operate
59 Pendulum path
03/22/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.I need help driving at various times week -
days to several schools in Gainesville and 
help with chores. Possible shifts include 8 
am to about 10:45, 10 am-12:30 pm, and 
2:30-4:30 or possibly to 6 pm. I'll pay $15hr 
plus money for gas. Kids range in age from 
12-18. rosenson@ufl.edu            3-29-21-1-14
Need patient & dependable female for 3-4 
weeks helping female arranging in new house 
and getting estalished in Gainesville. 3 refer -
ences & reliable vehicle. Call Nancy @ 267-
431-9090. Leave clear voice message includ -
ing name & phone number. $500 / wk. Job 
starts by mid or end of May.            3-29-21-3-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         4-19-21-15-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Receptionists, Cashiers, Night Gate 
Attendants and Grounds Maintenance Staff
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy 
working with the public. High energy and 
low drama is a must! Must have your own 
transportation and availability to work 
nights, holidays and weekends. Full or Part-
time positions available. Apply in person 
ONLY 9 am - 4 pm weekdays - NO phone 
calls! ****GPS Address:**** 5000 NE 60th 
Ave. High Springs, FL 32643   
 5-10-21-6-14
Now you can easily submit Now you can easily submit 
your classified ad for print your classified ad for print 
and/or web editions right and/or web editions right 
through our website!through our website!
just go to:just go to:
www.www. alligatoralligator .org.org
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-15
16 Health Services
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
If you find something, you can place a FREE 
FOUND AD  in our lost & found section. 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 21 Entertainment
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Sunoco across the GPD is looking for a reliable 
clerk to ring up customers and restock coolers. 
Flexible schedule. Call Nita (352-514-6022) to 
schedule appt.                            4-12-21-4-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp 
Counselors, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall. 
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!   
4-19-21-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail -
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
solution  over there
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
solution  over there
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
Sports Quiz  answers1. Clarence DeMar.
2. Rod Woodson, with 
71 (Charles Woodson 
had 65).
3. Ron Cey, Pedro 
Guerrero and Steve 
Yeager.4. Se-ri Pak.
5. Patty Kazmaier.
6. The Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish. 
7. Drone Racing 
League (DRL).Trivia Test  answers1. Hawaii (Mauna Loa)
2. "The X-Files"
3. 5,050
4. 100 ways to cook an egg
5. "Harry Potter and the 
Chamber of Secrets"6. Three: Chad, Mali and 
Togo
7. Wilderness Explorers
8. Frank Lloyd Wright
9. Over, excessive
10. HiccupsCryptoQuote  answer
- - - - - - - - spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - -1. Nicknamed "Mr. DeMarathon," what 
Olympic bronze medalist won the Boston 
Marathon seven times?
2. Which NFL defensive back finished 
his career with more interceptions: Rod 
Woodson or Charles Woodson?
3. Name the three members of the Los An -
geles Dodgers who shared World Series 
MVP honors in 1981.
4. What World Golf Hall of Famer and South 
Korean native won the McDonald's LPGA Cham -
pionship tournament in 1998, 2002 and 2006?5. The annual award presented to the 
best female college ice hockey player in 
the U.S. is named after what Princeton 
University hockey standout?
6. Elmer Layden, NFL commissioner from 
1941-46, played fullback for what college 
football team?
7. Jordan "Jet" Temkin, Paul "Nurk" 
Nurkkala and Alex Vanover are former 
champions in what sports league?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
answers  over there©2021 
King Features Synd., Inc.by Ryan A. 
Berenz
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? 
Somewhere, something
incredible is waiting
to be known.
— Carl Sagan10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/sportsFOOTBALL
GRADUATE STUDENT STEWART 
REESE LOOKS PRIMED FOR THE NFL, 
BUT FOOTBALL ISN’T HIS 
ONLY PROFESSIONAL DREAM
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
“Put him to sleep!”
It’s a battle cry. One that lights a fire in 
football players’ hearts and psychologically 
prepares them to crush opponents. 
For Florida starting right guard Stewart 
Reese, the phrase carries a double meaning. 
The graduate student wants to become an 
anesthesiologist.
“I couldn’t see myself standing and 
operating on people, so I decided to just sit 
behind the scenes and put people to sleep,” 
Stewart said.
Stewart always harbored a passion for 
the medical field, and his infatuation shone 
through in occasionally eyebrow-raising 
ways. 
As a child, he woke early to watch TLC 
medical shows, his favorite centered around 
delivering babies. His wide eyes stuck to the 
screen until the show went off the air around 
midday. 
He observed videos of surgeons replacing 
knees between bites of food at lunchtime. 
In middle school, he learned about a 
pressure point on the head used to incapacitate 
attackers. Naturally, he experimented on a 
middle school classmate, who shrieked that 
she almost passed out.
Stewart’s obsession bloomed into a career 
aspiration. He told his mother, Patricia Reese, 
he wanted to be an orthopedic surgeon. 
As he studied the human body, Stewart’s 
own grew to ridiculous proportions, which 
gravitated him to the game of football. 
“In middle school, the kids used to try and 
determine how many of them it would take 
to take him down because he was such a big 
boy,” Patricia said.
Stewart initially grew too large. He 
couldn’t play football until ninth grade due 
to weight limits in younger leagues.
At Fort Pierce Central High School, 
Stewart’s size captivated scouts nationwide. 
Standing well above 6 feet tall and over 
300 pounds, Stewart could sit crisscrossed, 
a show of his flexibility and movement for 
his stature. His father said Mississippi State 
recruiters were blown away by his son’s 
athleticism in warmup videos they watched.
No matter how much hype Stewart 
gathered athletically, academics came first in 
the Reese house.
One day during Stewart’s freshman year, 
Stewart Sr. checked his son’s grades and saw 
several classes hovering near D’s. He drove 
to the field, pulled his son out of the middle 
of practice and told him he could return to 
practice when his grades improved.
The turnaround took less than a week.
He moved himself to the front of the class. 
He began to participate, raising his hand 
and answering questions. Stewart read the 
assigned books he previously blew off that summer. The teachers were astounded by 
the reinvention.
It’s near impossible to place a glass 
ceiling on someone 6 feet, 6 inches tall, not 
that Stewart’s parents ever tried. In fact, 
the Reeses empowered their children to 
block out negativity. No one had the power 
to discourage Stewart nor his siblings from 
pursuing their dreams and goals.
This message was a deeply personal 
one for both parents, borne from positive 
and negative influences from their own 
childhoods.
Stewart Sr.’s parents always told him he 
could reach the greatest heights with hard 
work, but the world didn’t always share their 
confidence. Older peers told him what he 
wasn’t, what he couldn’t do, a damaging and 
debilitating reinforcement he knew too well.
“That stays with you angry,” Stewart Sr. 
said. 
He and Patricia never wanted their children 
to experience that anger. Negative people, 
negative energy, negative environments, 
all weren’t allowed to hold any power over 
Stewart. Whatever peak he envisioned, he 
just needed to work for it.
Work for it, Stewart did. His dedication 
on the field led him to a three-star rating 
as 247’s 19th-ranked offensive guard in the 
2016 class. 
As he matured into higher levels of 
competition, Stewart knew careers in football 
and health care wouldn’t be easy to balance. 
The NCAA limits athletes to a maximum of 
four days or 20 hours of in-season practice a 
week, amounting to a part-time job without 
including travel and recovery time. 
UF College of Medicine admits a 3.79 
average GPA and a 514 average MCAT score. 
For reference, a 3.5 GPA in the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences graduates with 
honors, and a 514 on the MCAT scores in the 
92nd percentile. 
But like his parents taught him, difficult 
doesn’t mean impossible, and Stewart’s 
confidence never wavered. 
He drew inspiration from Laurent 
Duvernay-Tardif, who started at right guard 
for the Kansas City Chiefs. The Canadian 
earned his Ph.D. in medicine from McGill 
University in 2018, all while playing 
professional football. He helped the Chiefs to 
a Super Bowl victory early in 2020 but later 
shelved his pads for PPE to serve on the front 
lines against COVID-19 in his home country.
So Stewart didn’t compromise. He 
committed to Mississippi State in February 
2016, a program then run by current Florida 
head coach Dan Mullen and offensive line 
coach John Hevesy. 
After a redshirt year, he played 26 straight 
games at right tackle across the 2017 and 
2018 seasons, anchoring the second-best 
rushing offense in the SEC before moving to 
right guard in 2019. 
Even in Starkville, he didn’t forget the 
lesson his father taught him when he pulled 
Stewart from the field. He earned his way 
onto the 2016 SEC First-Year Academic Honor 
Roll and collected SEC Academic Honor Roll honors in 2017 and 2018. 
Dreams of orthopedic surgery gradually 
gave way into anesthesiology as he juggled 
blocking sleds and biology tests, but his 
doctoral dreams never died.
After four years as a Bulldog, Reese 
returned to his home state when he transferred 
to Florida in May 2020. He not only reunited 
with his Mississippi State coaches, Mullen 
and Hevesy, but also his younger brother, 
outside linebacker David Reese. 
He started 11 games at right guard for 
the Gators last season, an experienced and 
reliable presence situated between Kyle 
Trask and opposing defenses.
College athletes typically don’t suit up 
longer than five years before they lose 
eligibility. With the COVID-19 pandemic 
hanging like a cloud over the 2020 seasons, 
the NCAA allowed all fall student-athletes a 
free year of eligibility, which gifted Stewart 
a sixth year to bolster his draft stock and 
continue his march toward medical school.
“We just prayed about it,” Stewart said, 
“and when they made the statement that 
they were going to be allowing us to come 
back, we were happy. I can't be happier to 
be back.”
Stewart isn’t the only Reese sibling with 
aspirations in the medical field. 
Brandon, his older brother, worked as a 
paramedic in Jacksonville, and Stewart saw 
his brother’s work up close and personal, like 
when he walked through an ambulance after 
a critical care transport.
“Seeing what I'm doing, he's probably 
more comfortable doing it because he sees 
me in that role and he's hung out with me 
and he sees what my life is like,” Brandon 
said.While at Mississippi State, Stewart flew 
out to visit his brother, who now works as 
a nurse in Las Vegas, and witnessed the 
field again when he met doctors and walked 
through the hospital Brandon calls an office. 
As he ambled through the halls of his 
brother’s workplace, the veil of mystique and 
professionalism gave way to familiarity.
“A lot of people have this fear of 
healthcare and doctors and stuff like that, but 
they're just normal people, and he saw that,” 
Brandon said.
Stewart hopes to be one of those normal 
people one day, though medical school may 
wait if the NFL comes calling. A professional 
career wouldn’t slow Stewart down at all, it 
would be another layer of the plan. 
He wants to inspire kids everywhere, 
especially young athletes who feel scared to 
pursue lives off the field and away from the 
gym. 
“A lot of times people always push, 
especially kids that are big, athletic, they'll 
always tell them 'Play sports, play sports,’” 
Stewart said. “I think, a lot of times, they 
have other dreams and aspirations outside 
of sports. Because sports is so popular, they 
usually get caught up and just play sports 
and never really pursue anything outside of 
it.”
Stewart hopes his success, both wearing 
a Gator helmet and a white coat, shows 
children there’s more to an athlete than 
highlight tapes and letterman jackets. 
In the meantime, however, people still 
need to be put to sleep and Stewart Reese 
will be the man for the job.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgA doctor in the trenches
Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorsSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
AlligatorSports has a podcast. 
The AlligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.Photo courtesy of Patricia Reese
Stewart (51, far left) standing with his family on his senior night at Fort Pierce 
Central High School.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2021
MEN’S BASKETBALL
UF LOSES FIVE PLAYERS TO NBA 
DRAFT AND THE TRANSFER PORTAL
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
As a despondent Gator squad walked 
off the court after a devastating collapse to 
Oral Roberts March 21, the team’s varied 
reactions told a story. 
Teary-eyed guard Tyree Appleby 
clenched down on his jersey. A group of UF 
players, namely junior Colin Castleton and 
sophomore Scottie Lewis, shuffled toward the locker room in unison. 
Meanwhile Noah Locke, who bricked 
a go-ahead three moments earlier, eluded 
his teammates and the TruTV cameras after 
the game. Less than a week later, the junior 
surprised many by entering his name into 
the transfer portal. 
Tre Mann kicked off an exodus of play -
ers and coaches from the Florida basketball 
program Tuesday when the sophomore de -
clared for the NBA Draft and expressed his 
intention to hire an agent. 
Jacksonville University announced that 
UF assistant Jordan Mincy would take over its head coaching position March 25. 
Mincy’s departure coincided with a num -
ber of departures over the next two days. 
Locke, sophomore Ques Glover and junior 
Osayi Osifo all announced their decisions to 
transfer from Florida. 
Castleton posted a brief statement Sun -
day, where the second-team All-Conference 
center announced his decision to enter the 
NBA Draft. However, the Michigan transfer 
specified that he wouldn’t hire an agent and 
ensured that his eligibility remains intact. 
Mann made the same decision last sea -
son and elected to return for his sophomore 
campaign.
The relaxed NCAA transfer regulations 
and allure of professional basketball hal -
lowed out Florida’s roster. One week re -
moved from Florida’s season-ending defeat 
to ORU, four players who played at least 10 
minutes in that game declared for the NBA 
Draft or the transfer portal. 
Florida’s emigration blends in with a 
hectic 2021 season. An unprecedented 
900 players entered the college basketball 
transfer portal, and 75 schools lost at least 
five players. 
However, UF’s roster turnover furthers 
concerns about coach Mike White’s re-re -
cruiting and talent evaluation. Over the last 
three seasons, Florida suffered 10 losses to 
the transfer portal, namely star point-guard 
Andrew Nembhard. 
Nembhard sizzled the nets at Gonzaga 
season, shooting 55% percent as a role 
player for the nation’s top overall seed
The double-digit departures cast a bleak forecast for the 2021-22 season, as Appleby 
may serve as the only returning Gator with 
more than 10 points per game. 
Four-star recruit Kowacie Reeves should 
add immediate depth at the shooting guard 
position, and White may pursue the trans -
fer market to fill the expanding void.
Gator County reported March 24 that 
Florida reached out to four transfer candi -
dates: Cameron Shelton from Northern Ari -
zona; CJ Felder from Boston College; Jarrod 
West from Marshall; and Brandon McKis -
sick from Missouri-Kansas City. 
Felder turned in a solid 11-point perfor -
mance against the Gators last November 
and served as one of BC’s most efficient 
scorers last season. Felder’s size and ver -
satility make him White’s top recruit in the 
transfer portal this offseason. 
West enters the transfer portal as one of 
Conference USA’s most well-rounded play -
ers. The senior opted to pursue his fifth-
year of eligibility after he posted a top-100 
assist rate and steal rate. 
The Marshall transfer also shot 40% 
from three-point territory, a welcomed ad -
dition to a UF team with no returning play -
ers better than 35% from beyond the arc.
Florida returns just eight players. Even 
if Castleton returns to Gainesville for his 
junior season, White will need prudent 
business in the transfer market to ensure 
Florida’s status as an NCAA tournament 
regular.
@declanaw
dwalsh@alligator.orgFlorida basketball suffers exodus of players, coaches
Alligator File Photo
Mike White yells calls during a game last season.
