We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGators defense hungry for redemption
After a subpar 2020, Florida’s defenders are 
ready to prove themselves in 2021.
Find this story on pg. 11Vaccine hesitancy
34% of Alachua County residents are not vaccinated, pg. 5
City Commissioner resigns
Gainesville residents sound off, pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 2
GRADUATE ASSISTANTS CAN 
EXPECT TO SEE FEE RELIEF 
THROUGH THE BURSAR
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
UF graduate assistants will be re-
imbursed for health and transporta-
tion costs as part of fee relief for Sum-
mer and Fall 2021.
The decision to provide relief to 
the assistants for the two semesters 
was made on Aug. 4 in a bargaining 
session between UF’s Graduate Assis-
tants United and the university. GAU 
bargains the entire contract every 
third year and then, in between those 
years, they negotiate specific articles, 
mainly with stipends.
However, UF did not agree to cov-
er the health and transportation fees 
for graduate assistants beyond Sum-mer and Fall 2021, so this financial 
fight is far from over.
“It’s a constant struggle to just 
keep things where they are at and 
then hopefully pull the rope a little bit 
to our side,” GAU Communications 
Chair Bryn Taylor said. “So I would 
not be surprised if we had to renegoti-
ate this again.”
Taylor said the fee relief is a huge 
accomplishment toward graduate as-
sistants’ rights.
“It’s a slow process but when you 
get wins like this, it’s very rewarding 
and very satisfying,” she said.
UF graduate assistant Ana Pires 
said international students go 
through an extensive process to get 
their health insurance and bank ac-
counts set up before paying for any 
of the fees. 
“International students spend a lot just to come here and knowing that 
I would be treated the same as any 
US citizen Ph.D candidate was quite 
nice,” Pires, a 29-year-old political 
science doctoral student, said. 
With UF agreeing to pay for gradu-
ate assistant’s health and transporta-
tion fees, Pires hopes to continue re-
ceiving these benefits throughout her 
four-year program.
“It takes a chunk out of my wor-
ries because graduate assistantship 
stipend is not, you know, it won’t 
make you rich,” Pires said.
Since Fall 2019, graduate assis-
tants have been required to pay for 
their health and transportation fees, 
which cover on-campus programs 
like the Student Health Care Center, 
the Counseling and Wellness Center, 
unlimited Regional Transit System 
bus rides and access to parking, Tay-lor said.
After paying the fees, she said 
graduate assistants were reimbursed 
through several $15 to $20 additions 
to their paychecks throughout the se-
mester.
But that’s not what GAU and UF 
had agreed upon back in 2019, Taylor 
said.
“We have been trying to get it so 
that they will actually pay the fees on 
our behalf like we agreed upon origi-
nally, and they finally agreed to do it 
a couple of weeks ago,” she said.
Instead of receiving sporadic pay-
check reimbursements — the prior 
arrangement — graduate assistants 
can expect to get fee relief through the 
bursar, according to a GAU Facebook 
and Twitter post Aug. 10.
Rachel Hartnett, GAU co-presi-
dent, said the 2021-2023 GAU Collec-tive Bargaining Agreement requires 
UF to pay for their health and trans-
portation, which UF has only done 
once since negotiations began in 
2017.
“It’s a huge accomplishment that 
should never have had to have been 
fought for,” Hartnett said.
Harnett said negotiations took 
a long time because UF argued the 
mechanism used to pay the fees on 
graduate assistants’ behalf was ille-
gal. However, UF has not specified 
how it’s illegal.
Avoiding all illegalities, she said 
GAU has repeatedly asked for docu-
mented proof of the method of paying 
fees and is willing to negotiate a new 
contract if UF can demonstrate why 
the procedure does not work.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgUF to cover health and transportation fees for graduate assistants
By Max T aylor
Alligator Staff Writer
Masks are here to stay in Alachua County Pub -
lic Schools. 
Leon County’s Circuit Court Judge John Coo -
per called Gov. Ron DeSantis’ ban on school dis -
trict mask mandates unconstitutional and ruled 
against it Aug 27.
ACPS was one of 10 counties to challenge De -
Santis’ mask mandate ban, joining Broward, Hill -
sborough, Leon, Miami-Dade, Palm Beach, Sara -
sota, Duval, Indian River and Orange County. 
Following DeSantis’ executive order prevent -
ing schools from creating blanket mask mandates, 
a group of Florida parents of public school children 
sued the Florida Department of Education, the 
Florida Board of Education, Education Commis -
sioner Richard Corcoran and the governor.
In his ruling, Cooper established the defen -
dants did not have the authority to prevent school 
boards from imposing mask mandates — making 
DeSantis’ order unconstitutional.
Cooper’s ruling means the mask mandate ban 
will become null and void, as he determined the 
state violated the principle of separation of pow -
ers. 
Until the written order is issued next week, the 
mask mandate ban will remain in effect. 
After Cooper’s ruling, a spokesperson for De -
Santis delivered a statement conveying the ad -
ministration’s distaste for the outcome, citing an 
infringement on parents’ right to choose.
“It’s not surprising that Judge Cooper would 
rule against parent’s rights and their ability to 
make the best educational and medical decisions 
for their family, but instead rule in favor of elected 
politicians,” the statement read. “This ruling was 
made with incoherent justifications, not based in science and facts — frankly not even remotely fo -
cused on the merits of the case presented.”
Cooper, in a Zoom call that was live streamed 
on YouTube, said the governor had expressed 
doubts about the validity of the Centers for Disease 
Control’s guidance in his executive order.
“The CDC, by the overwhelming weight of evi -
dence, is considered the preeminent medical au -
thority in this country about infectious diseases,” 
Cooper said. “The state of Florida has, in the past 
on many occasions, adopted and incorporated 
CDC guidelines and recommendations into the 
state statutes.”
After the ACPS mask mandate was put into 
place, Education Commissioner Richard Corcoran 
sent an email Aug. 25 to Alachua County Super -
intendent Carlee Simon requesting records for 
any student reprimanded for not complying with 
ACPS’ “unlawful face covering mandate policy.”
“So not only do the doctors who testified here 
recognize the Centers of Disease Control as a legiti -
mate, reputable source of information., iIt appears 
that over many years, so has the Florida legisla -
ture,” he said. 
On Aug. 26, a day before Cooper’s ruling, Si -
mon curtly replied to Corcoran’s demands. 
“Given that the School Board of Alachua Coun -
ty does not have an unlawful face covering man -
date policy, we do not have anything to report,” 
Simon’s email read.
In Simon’s official statement about the ruling, 
she agreed with the court’s decision, but warned 
this ruling is not the end of the battle.
“The state has made it very clear that it would 
appeal any decision it considered unfavorable,” 
Simon wrote. “Fortunately, the School Board has 
given me the authority to take legal action to pro -
tect our district’s ability to make decisions in the 
best interests of our students, families, employees and the broader community.”
The Alachua County School Board celebrated 
after Cooper’s decision; their defiance of DeSantis’ 
executive order proved legal in the end. 
“I’m happy, and it’s almost like it’s my birth -
day,” McNealy said. “Little do they know how this 
helps all of the children and all of the employees in 
our community.”
McNealy, along with other board members, 
was in charge of creating the mask mandate. Ad -
vice from medical professionals was one of the 
biggest foundations of their decision, she said, 
sometimes even providing advice via email.UF should also be careful to listen to those 
medical professionals for the Fall semester, she 
said, especially considering the recent spike in CO -
VID-19 cases from the Delta variant. 
On Aug. 27, Alachua County had 403 total 
COVID-19 patients. Of those patients, 16 were pe -
diatric cases. Above all, vaccinations paired with 
masking is the right combination to prevent class -
room spread, she said.
“Now we need to be more encouraged than 
ever to go on and take the vaccine,” McNealy said.
@MTaylor_Journ
mtaylor@alligator.orgAlachua County Public Schools mask mandate is legal, state judge rules
The decision comes after a heated battle between 
ACPS and the Florida Department of Education
Photo by Kiara Cline
Students walk through Turlington Plaza in between classes on Monday, Aug. 23, 
2021. Monday marked the beginning of the Fall semester at UF.
FIRST WEEKT oday’s WeatherSubscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 2
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber, zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.org
THE STATE LAW 
GUARANTEES PROPER 
CARE FOR INMATES 
IN LABOR
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Cries from a jail cell are not un-
heard of. But pursuant to state law, 
the tears of a newborn behind bars 
should be. 
Protests erupted in Gainesville 
Aug. 11 and Aug. 21, after Erica 
Thompson gave birth in an Ala-
chua County Jail cell and lost her 
baby hours later at UF Health 
Shands Hospital. Activists are 
pointing to HB 1259, also known 
as the “Tammy Jackson Act,” in a 
local case similar to Jackson’s. 
Jackson will be remembered 
in the Florida Legislature as the 
namesake for a law improving the 
treatment of pregnant inmates in 
labor. In April 2019, Jackson lived 
through  seven hours of labor with-
out medical assistance inside the 
Broward County Jail. Her story is 
now being echoed across Alachua 
County after Thompson, a 25-year-
old Gainesville resident, experi-
enced a similar reality. 
Tray Johns, a 46-year-old lob-
byist who has been in contact with 
Thompson, was essential in pass-
ing the Tammy Jackson Act, which 
took effect on July 1, 2020 after be-
ing signed by Gov. Ron DeSantis.
“The similarities between Tam-
my Jackson and Erica Thompson: 
it’s almost the same,” Johns said. 
“Two Black women, two women 
that was clearly, clearly and vis-
ibly pregnant, clearly and visibly 
screaming for help.” 
The law grants inmates in labor 
proper care, including being taken 
to a medical facility and not placed 
in restrictive housing. Although the 
details of the investigation aren’t 
released, activists claim Thompson 
was in restrictive housing while in 
labor.
Amid celebration in 2019 after 
Florida passed the Dignity for In-
carcerated Women Act, which gave 
female inmates free access to pads 
and tampons, Johns received a call 
informing her of a woman who had 
just given birth in Broward County 
Jail. 
In April 2019, Jackson was left 
to suffer alone in Broward County 
Jail’s solitary confinement where 
she was in labor for seven hours 
without medical attention, accord-
ing to her lawyers. After being ig-
nored by staff while in pain, Jack-
son had to crouch to the floor and 
catch her baby. In a news report, 
Jackson recalled being horrified 
and apologizing to her newborn for 
the drop.
Fast forward to 2021, history is 
repeating itself.
Thompson posted on Facebook 
Aug. 10 retelling her story of grief 
after losing her child.
“About 11 p.m. last night I 
delivered my child by myself all 
alone in my jail cell in my bed,” she wrote. “They finally believed 
me when they walked in and I was 
holding my child.”
Law enforcement, however, dis-
putes certain details of what hap-
pened to Thompson.
Kaley Behl, ACSO spokesper-
son, insisted the Tammy Jackson 
Act was not violated by the jail. 
Because the investigation is ongo-
ing, ACSO would not disclose more 
information. 
“When the Tammy Jackson Act 
was passed … we were ahead of 
the game, making sure that our 
policies complied with the law 
even before the accreditation stan-
dards took effect and we were 
bound by them,” Behl said. “So we 
were on the front end of it. We are 
definitely not violating the law.”
She doubts the security footage 
will be released, but photos from 
an ACSO press conference Aug. 20 
show Thompson with emergency 
responders.
Johns argues ASCO is covering 
its tracks with the photos and the 
law was broken because all jails 
are restrictive housing.
“[The law] specifically says that 
a woman should not be kept in re-
strictive housing while giving birth, 
and she should be transferred to a 
facility that's basically conducive 
for giving birth,” she said. “There's 
no jail facility or no place inside 
of a jail that's conducive to giving 
birth.” 
Bob Dekle, a retired UF law pro-
fessor, is unsure if ACSO violated 
the Tammy Jackson Act in this 
case. 
“The question in my mind 
would be, ‘Did they respond to the 
medical situation in a timely fash-
ion,’’ which doesn’t have anything 
to do with the Tammy Jackson 
Act,” Dekle said. “The law requires 
the custodian of a prisoner to take 
care of the prisoner and see to the 
prisoner's medical needs.”
Florida Prisoner Solidarity and 
Dream Defenders reached out to 
Thompson after she shared her 
story. Thompson then called Johns 
— the organizer who was integral 
in passing the Tammy Jackson Act. 
She knew Johns had helped Jack-
son after the birth of her child Mi-
randa in jail.
Hatdrika Noble-Monroe, a 
27-year-old East Gainesville na-
tive, said she was appalled to learn 
about what happened to Thomp-
son. 
“Not only was it illegal what 
was done to her, but it was simply 
not humane at all,” Noble-Monroe 
said. “Being a mother, being a 
woman, things such as this should 
not occur, especially when there’s 
medical attention that can be ob-
tained.”
This hasn’t been the only trou-
ble the community has had with 
ACSO. Growing up, Noble-Monroe 
was told stories of her uncle, Syl-
vester Strong, who her family be-
lieves died because of the Alachua 
County Jail’s negligence.
At 6-years-old, Noble-Monroe 
remembers visiting her uncle who was in a diabetic coma because 
he got his medication late. Recall-
ing the emotions her family went 
through, she said she was one of 
the first people to share Thomp-
son’s Facebook message and be-
lieve her story. 
“They should release the vid-
eo,” Noble-Monroe said. “This is 
feeding into the lack of trust that 
we have for them, and this is why 
we do not trust law enforcement., 
Tthis is why we struggle with 
building and bridging the relation-
ship between the community and 
law enforcement.”
The question on the minds of 
activists was plastered on a poster 
in white, yellow and red letters at 
a protest last week where demon-
strators occupied roads in front of 
the Alachua County Jail —  “Was 
the Tammy Jackson Act passed for 
nothing?!”
Karine Dieuvil, a 21-year-old 
lead organizer with GoDDsville 
Dream Defenders, remains uncon-
vinced by the photos released to 
the public. To Dieuvil, they only 
show half of the truth. 
“The fact that there was a police 
officer right next to Erica Thomp-
son hearing her scream for help 
and nobody came until after her 
seven-month-old premature baby 
was delivered tells me in and of it-
self that there is nothing that you 
can excuse in a video,” Dieuvil 
said. “The only thing that I think 
is acceptable at this point from 
the sheriff's office, if words are all 
they're going to provide, is an apol-
ogy.”
In response to what happened 
to Thompson, Johns is working to 
create a new act called “Protecting 
the Dignity of Women and Infants” 
or “Ava’s Law” to support Thomp-
son and other women in similar 
positions. Johns said she’s col-
laborating with Florida State Sen. 
Shevrin Jones to see the legislation 
to fruition. 
“The Tammy Jackson Act ba-
sically dealt with giving birth in 
solitary confinement,” Johns said. 
“But Ava's law goes one step fur-
ther to just basically catch and re-
lease pregnant women that are ar-
rested for nonviolent offenses.”
The new proposal would make 
it so women visibly pregnant and 
with non-violent offenses would 
be released back to their home 
with a ticket to appear in court at 
a later date after being booked in 
jail. Women who are in labor will 
receive emergency services and be 
transferred to a facility.
idouglas@alligator.org
@Ad_ScribendumGainesville activists point to the 
Tammy Jackson Act in the death of 
former inmate Erica Thompson’s babyMONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021THE SPECIAL ELECTION TO FILL 
HER AT-LARGE SEAT COULD BE IN 
EARLY NOVEMBER
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Lacy Gifford, 38, voted for Commissioner 
Gail Johnson because of her commitment to 
East Gainesville, Porters Quarters and Semi-
nary Lane. But with Johnson’s voice gone, the 
East Gainesville resident is uneasy about not 
having a voice for historically Black neighbor-
hoods on the commission.
“I don’t know what I can hope for honest-
ly,” Gifford said. “It seems like there are two 
Gainesvilles, and only one of them is being al-
lowed a voice to speak.”
Johnson, an official whom many East 
Gainesville residents relied on to advo-
cate for them, was re-elected for a second 
term in March. Her election alongside East 
Gainesville advocate Desmon Duncan-Walker 
was thought to signify a new era of initiatives 
geared toward positive change on the east side 
of the city.
However, Johnson announced Aug. 23 her 
last day in city hall would be at the end of 
September. She cited concerns with the city’s 
unfulfilled promises, a lack of racial and gen-
der equity commitments and City Manager Lee 
Feldman’s employment as reasons for her res-
ignation. The Gainesville City Commission is planning a special election to replace her for 
early November.
Johnson didn’t reply to multiple requests 
for comment by phone or email as of Aug. 29.
Her resignation requires a special election 
because there are more than six months un-
til the next regular election, according to city 
codes. 
The last time a city commissioner resigned 
was in 2010, according to city spokesperson 
Shelby Taylor. Jack Donovan was replaced 
by a commission appointment after resigning 
in November 2010, which was less than six 
months before the city’s spring 2011 election.
One of Johnson’s reasons for resigning 
was Feldman’s employment. Feldman was ac-
cused of gender discrimination and retaliation 
against a coworker in November 2020. 
In a subsequent investigation, Civil Litiga-
tion Attorney Robert Clayton Roesch didn’t 
find evidence of gender discrimination but did 
find evidence for retaliation. Feldman stayed 
in office, but Johnson voted against keeping 
him in the position.
Feldman directed The Alligator to city 
spokesperson Rossana Passaniti when asked 
to comment about Johnson’s resignation. Pas-
saniti did not respond in time for publication.
Gifford said the city needs more people 
from East Gainesville and the Black commu-
nity to best represent them, and the city needs 
to address Johnson’s concerns, starting with 
firing Feldman.
“I just think she has incredible leadership,” she said. “I think that her voice and her vision 
is something that Gainesville was craving and 
was denied.”
Johnson also cited unfulfilled city promises 
and projects as reasons for her resignation. 
One such promise included the Gainesville 
Community Reinvestment Area project, which 
was created to help fund development in East 
Gainesville and underserved communities. 
Some community members believe that it 
hasn’t succeeded in what it was created to do. 
“I can do any challenging job as long as I 
see the path, as long as I see a light at the end 
of the tunnel,” she wrote on Facebook. “I no 
longer see the path that will allow me to con-
tinue serving the people of Gainesville in the 
way I know you deserve.”
Gainesville City Commission met Aug. 26 
to discuss a special election to replace John-
son, which could be held Nov. 2 or Nov. 17. 
The city has 60 days after Johnson’s official 
resignation letter to hold an election. Whoever 
replaces her will serve until the end of her term 
in 2024.
Finalized dates for the election are unclear, 
and Alachua County Supervisor of Elections 
Kim Barton didn’t respond to emails asking 
when the dates would be finalized as of Aug 
29.
While some citizens will miss Johnson in 
office, others took her resignation as a sign of 
her strength.
Chanae Jackson, a 42-year-old Gainesville 
native, said she was disheartened at the news of her resignation. However, she was also 
proud that Johnson resigned when her job 
started tearing her down.
Jackson will keep supporting Johnson in 
her next endeavors and by voting in the up-
coming special election, she said.
“I’m looking forward to seeing what she is 
going to do in response,” Jackson said. “She 
might have resigned, but she didn’t quit.”
Daniel Jerkins, the 35-year-old owner of 
Florida Hip Hop Radio, first met Johnson in 
2017 when she announced her candidacy for 
City Commission. Since then, she’s been an 
inspiration for the Black people in Gainesville 
by standing up for marginalized communities.
“I definitely did not like hearing that she 
resigned the other day, but I totally understand 
and support her reasoning,” Jerkins said. “I’m 
very appreciative of the last three or four years 
that we’ve had with her.”
Johnson was an important representa-
tion for Black women, Jerkins said. His own 
daughters — ages 10 and 13 — got to know 
Johnson and her own daughter well as friends.
Jerkins interviewed Johnson for his radio 
station the first time she ran for office, and his 
two daughters sat in on the interview. 
“They were rooting for her,” Jerkins said. 
“To this day, she’s just an excellent example 
for young Black women and just the Black 
community.”
@meggmcglone
mmglone@alligator.orgGainesville residents react to City Commissioner Gail Johnson’s resignation
THE TROOP BELIEVES THE 
DRESS CODE UNFAIRLY 
TARGETS YOUNG GIRLS 
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Portia Espinosa felt awkward 
when a teacher publicly called her 
out in front of her peers for wear-
ing a top revealing her shoulders in 
violation of dress code.
“It was in the middle of the caf-
eteria when every single student in 
my grade was in there,” the now 
14-year-old Newberry High School 
freshman said. “It’s embarrassing. 
No one wants to get dress coded or 
called out or put in front of every-
one.”  
Today, Portia is banding togeth-
er with Girl Scouts Troop 224 to 
reform the culture around Alachua 
County Public Schools’ dress code. 
The girls are using this effort to at-
tain their Silver Award, an honor 
that signifies successful completion 
of a community service project.  
As the dress code stands today, 
the group sees it as unjust and dis-
criminatory against girls. 
The troop compiled data from 
students across ACPS in support of 
their views about the dress code. 
More than 100 students respond-
ed to a Google Form with questions 
about how many times an indi-
vidual has been dress coded, their 
comfort level when dress coded and 
whether they’ve received a referral 
for too many dress code violations. 
Of the 24 males surveyed, 17% 
were dress coded, according to their 
data. In comparison,  71% of 126 
females surveyed were dress coded.          
The group garnered more than 
1,600 signatures in a petition ad-
vocating for a committee to inves-
tigate dress code matters in the 
county. They’d like to see more non-discriminatory dress code poli-
cies as well as discreet enforcement 
and less harsh punishments. As 
written, the dress code allows for 
students to “be asked to leave an 
after-school activity” if they violate 
its rules and allows for further con-
sequences if violations continue.
On the website where they com-
piled their data, the troop laid out a 
revised dress code, which includes 
changes such as removing the re-
quirement that clothing not be 
“oversized” and pants not “baggy.” 
The girls also want to remove exist-
ing conditions about the wearing of 
outer garments such as jackets and 
sweaters.   
All three girls spearheading the effort — Portia, Josie Kirwan and 
Bella Cline — agreed young people 
should be willing to speak up and 
take a stand on matters that con-
cern them.
Josie, a 14-year-old Gainesville 
High School freshman and member 
of the troop, believes an update to 
ACPS’ dress code is long overdue.  
“The main things that we have 
a problem with in the dress code is 
that it’s sexist, and it targets larger 
girls,” Josie said.
The group’s findings indicate 
ACPS students who weigh about 
123 pounds were dress coded six 
or more times in the school year 
while students weighing about 
115 pounds have been dress coded about two or three times.
The girls are also concerned the 
enforcement policies regarding the 
dress code are too strict.  
Their study found 31% of sur-
veyed students who had been 
dress-coded were not allowed to 
participate in everyday school ac-
tivities because of what they were 
wearing. 
“I think that the dress code is 
more of a distraction for students 
than the clothing could ever be,” 
Josie said, pointing out that viola-
tions could lead to students being 
taken out of the classroom.
They’re also concerned that 
dress-coding often happens in pub-
lic, frequently leading to embar-rassment for the students involved. 
Their data shows more than 90% of 
students surveyed have stories like 
Espinosa’s where the dress code 
was enforced in front of others 
rather than in a one-on-one setting. 
Jessica Kirwan, Josie’s 42-year-
old mother, said the troop managed 
to communicate their concerns ear-
lier in the year to Donna Kidwell-
Diehlman, the former ACPS execu-
tive director of Exceptional Student 
Education and Student Support Ser-
vices.  
Due to changes initiated by 
new Superintendent Carlee Simon, 
Kidwell-Diehlman was no longer 
working there at the end of June. 
Simon did not renew the contracts 
of a number of ACPS officials in-
cluding Deanna Feagin, the Glen 
Springs Elementary principal, and 
Thomas Cowart, the director of 
maintenance and construction.  
Kirwan said the troop needs to 
find a new contact at the school 
board so they can submit their 
dress code proposals.
Bella, a 13-year-old eighth-
grader at P.K. Yonge Developmen-
tal School, believes the dress code 
policies undermine the educational 
purpose school is meant to serve 
due to its strong focus on students’ 
attire.  
“I think that it targets girls in 
particular, and it distracts from 
the fact that we’re supposed to be 
learning, and we’re not coming to 
school for clothing,” Bella said.
Bella is passionate about making 
a difference. 
“Personally, I would just say to 
go for it if you feel strongly about 
it and it’s something that’s impact-
ing you or people that you know,” 
she said. “Somebody has to start to 
make a change, and that might as 
well be you.”
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgGirl Scouts Troop petitions to change ACPS dress code
Graphic by Melanie Peña
MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
Eight months after the initial roll-
out of the COVID-19 vaccine, 34% 
of Alachua County residents remain 
unvaccinated.
This month, the Food and Drug 
Administration approved the Pfizer 
BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. How-
ever, hesitancy to get the shot con-
tinues despite strong recommen-
dations from UF, city, county and 
national officials.
Data from the Kaiser Family 
Foundation shows that Hispanic and 
Black vaccination rates lag behind 
those of white people in most states 
across the country. In Florida, al-
though the Black community makes 
up 15% of the population, it only ac-
counts for 9% of those vaccinated. 
Historically, Black people have 
faced discrepancies from the U.S. 
health care system, which resulted 
in hesitancy toward medical and sci-
entific recommendations, including 
the COVID-19 vaccine. 
Examples include the Tuskegee 
Syphilis experiment, in which Black people were unethically subject to 
scientific experiments, and the Hen-
rietta Lacks case, where scientists 
took a Black woman’s cancerous 
cells without her consent while she 
sought treatment. 
Chanae Jackson, a 42-year-old 
Black East Gainesville resident, rec-
ognizes that people around her are 
hesitant to take the vaccine. 
“We [the Black community] do 
have a great distrust for the medical 
system,” Jackson said.
She’s managed to convince more 
than 200 people to get vaccinated de-
spite popular skepticism.  
“The statistics still are in your fa-
vor to get vaccinated,” she said. 
Jackson contracted COVID-19 in 
July, when cases spiked in Florida. 
After receiving the vaccine months 
prior at CVS, she was not hospi-
talized and faced mild symptoms, 
which she feels were minimized by 
the vaccine.
Traci Amberbride, a 49-year-old 
teacher at the PACE Center for Girls 
in Alachua County, is also concerned 
about those who refuse to get the vaccine and is nervous about the 
rapid spread. 
The center allows parents to sign 
an opt-out form for their children to 
attend class without a mask. How-
ever, every student whom Amber-
bride teaches still chooses to wear 
their mask.
“I’m tired of wearing masks,” she 
said. “I would like us not to, but that 
means we have to be safe. We have 
to get to that point.” 
Amberbride was hesitant to send 
her eighth grade daughter to school, 
where nearly everyone is maskless. 
She wants people to get vaccinated 
to achieve a level of herd immunity.
“If the people who could be vac-
cinated that don’t suffer from those 
kind of problems were vaccinated, 
then you totally minimize the pool of 
hosts for the virus,” she said.
Amberbride does not believe this 
is an instance where those for and 
against the vaccine can agree to dis-
agree. 
Finding accurate information is a 
challenge, though, as scientists and 
elected officials find new ways to distribute information. 
As an immunologist, Maigan 
Brusko urges people to educate 
themselves on the COVID-19 vac-
cine. 
“The scientific community in 
general needs to get better at get-
ting the message out more clearly,” 
the 37-year-old UF assistant scientist 
said.
With the surge of the more in-
fectious and deadlier Delta variant, 
Brusko believes the vaccine is now 
more important than ever. 
UF Health infectious disease ex-
pert Dr. Kartik Cherabuddi recog-
nizes the fear many immunocom-
promised people have about the 
COVID-19 vaccine but still ensures 
the vaccine is safe. 
“I haven’t found an immuno-
compromising condition that would 
preclude you from vaccination,” he 
said.
Cherabuddi also mentioned the 
vaccine’s quick release is a factor in 
people’s hesitancy toward the CO-
VID-19 vaccine. 
He emphasized the vaccine tri-als went through a rigorous review 
process. Scientists across the U.S. 
continue to look for flaws in the vac-
cine, but none have been successful, 
Cherabuddi said.
“Every scientist, investigator, 
doctor has reviewed them in such 
great detail that if someone could 
find a significant issue with the tri-
als themselves, they will become fa-
mous,” he said.
He said the first dose of any of 
the three vaccines — Pfizer, Mod-
erna or Johnson & Johnson — guar-
antees 40% to 50% protection from 
contracting the virus and lessens the 
spread of the Delta variant.
UF is working with multiple 
groups across the community to en-
courage vaccination among vulner-
able groups through targeted events 
and outreach programs. “Because 
misinformation is not uniform, lack 
of confidence is not uniform,” Ch-
erabuddi said. “We have to under-
stand what the specific areas are that 
we must address and that informa-
tion sharing is a two-way street.”
fbuckley@alligator.org
@_faithbuckleyCOVID-19 vaccine hesitancy persists in Alachua County
QUEER GAINESVILLE 
RESIDENTS ARE SADDENED 
BUT UNDERSTAND WHY IT 
WAS CANCELED
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
Two years ago, Gainesville hosted its larg-
est pride parade ever. Thousands celebrated 
by wearing rainbow colors and marching to Bo 
Diddley Plaza to the tune of “Love Shack” by 
The B-52’s. 
But since the outbreak of COVID-19, the tra-
dition had to take a pause.
The Pride Community Center of North 
Central Florida has organized the parade and 
festival annually since 1992. But because of 
the current surge of COVID-19 Delta variant 
outbreak, the organization decided Aug. 24 to 
cancel this year’s Gainesville Pride Festival and 
Parade. 
Eden Goodman, a 20-year old UF business information systems junior and president of UF 
club oSTEM, recalled attending the 2019 Pride 
Festival as a freshman who had never been to 
any other pride events before.
“It was a nice, comforting situation to be 
in for somebody who was just moving out for 
the first time and realizing that there are lots of 
people like you,” Goodman said. “There were 
families and there were people in their 50s and 
60s and it was really nice to see that sort of 
population being represented.”
Today, Goodman’s heart aches for queer 
college students like them who are searching 
for a display of community.
“My heart goes out to the students that are 
not able to experience that and are yearning for 
that sort of thing,” they said. “I wish it were 
different.”
PCCNCF’s president Tamara Perry-Lunardo 
said she was looking forward to hosting the 
festival again. She’s disappointed the PCCNCF 
Board of Directors, festival co-chair and other 
community members had no choice but to 
cancel the event to protect the health of the Gainesville community.
“Last year, we canceled the Pride Festival 
thinking that it was just a COVID year and it 
had to be done,” Perry-Lunardo said. “In the 
summer, when the average for COVID cases 
each day were low, we were excited to plan for 
the possibilities of in-person events for Pride 
Month.”
The organization has held the Pride Fes-
tival and Parade during Pride History Month 
every October since 1992, under the leadership 
of its co-founder Terry Fleming. In the past, 
PCCNCF held events like an awards show and 
a silent auction during the festival. In October 
2019, it hosted the Art in Crosswalks program, 
which led to the painting of the three rainbow 
sidewalks downtown that still color Southeast 
First Street today.
Mayor Lauren Poe even designated April 
28 as Terry Fleming Day after the lifelong 
Gainesville activist passed on the same day in 
2020.
Friends of Fleming still remember his love 
for the Gainesville community.Perry-Lunardo was introduced to the 
PCCNCF through Fleming. They had started an 
LGBTQIA inclusion group together at their lo-
cal church and shared a passion working with 
members of the community.
“One of the main things our organization 
tries to do is promote the wellness and safety of 
the LGBTQ+ community in Gainesville,” she 
said. “If we host an event that attracts thou-
sands of people from all over North Florida, we 
won’t be doing that.”
Perry-Lunardo said she believes the LG-
BTQIA community is particularly sensitive to 
the issues of the pandemic because of its his-
tory with the HIV/AIDS epidemic. To queer 
people who were alive during that period in 
history, she said, COVID-19 feels familiar. 
Tayler King, a 20-year-old UF biology junior 
and external VP of UF’s Pride Student Union, 
said her organization planned on working with 
PCCNCF for this year’s festival.Gainesville’s Pride Community Center cancels parade and festival for second year in a rowRoughly 66% of county residents age 12 and up are vaccinated as of Aug. 26
Continue reading on alligator.org•   •   •5001 NW 34th Blvd
352-505-6644   •   africanunique.comGrocery, Beauty, Fashion, Wellness
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Wise’s wonderful milestone
Florida volleyball coach becomes second coach to win 900 
games with one program, pg. 12Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
Adorned in vibrant, over-
sized graphic T-shirts and pat-
terned pants, indie-rock group 
Hotel Fiction complained about 
the Florida heat, joked about 
their alma mater’s alleged rival-
ry with UF and gave an electri-
fying performance for a crowd 
of more than 500 Aug. 28.
Earlier this year, student-run 
record label Swamp Records 
collaborated with Gainesville 
music venue Heartwood Sound-
stage to host Indie Live, a six-
part outdoor concert series spot-
lighting indie talent. This fall, 
the two groups are teaming up 
once again for more shows over 
the next three months. 
The series kicked off Saturday night with 
the Back to School Fest, which included per-
formances by regional acts, as well as local fa-
vorites The Late Night Losers, The Forum and 
Driptones. 
Hotel Fiction, composed of 22-year-old Uni-
versity of Georgia graduates Jade Long and Jes-
sica Thompson, said they made the drive from 
Athens, Georgia, to Gainesville just in time to 
headline the concert alongside The Hails — a 
band the musicians have been a fan of since 
high school. 
Their performance was the fourth stop on 
their fall tour and included songs from their 
debut album “Soft Focus,” which dropped 
Aug. 27. Long said the album, which had been 
nearly two years in the making, felt like a “cul-
mination of our college experience.” As hun-
dreds of audience members cheered and sang along to newly released songs, this sentiment 
was felt across the crowd. 
“We didn’t really expect it to become an 
album until about a year ago, and it just felt 
right,” Long said. “So to put it all into the 
same project feels really true and raw to us, 
and we’re just happy that it’s finally out in the 
world.” 
Compared to Spring semester’s Indie Live, 
safety measures at the Back to School Fest re-
flected Florida’s loosening COVID-19 precau-
tions. Seating, which was split among benches 
and chairs, wasn’t fully socially distanced, 
and masks were only enforced for those in the 
roped-off area directly in front of the stage, 
which was capped at about 100 people. 
Regardless, 21-year-old UF entrepreneur-
ship senior Gabriela Gonzalez said she felt safe 
given Heartwood’s present safety precautions. 
“I like that the venue is outside because I feel like that gives it a lot of flexibility for peo-
ple that aren’t as comfortable,” she said. 
As for the slow return to live music, which 
Swamp Records hoped to contribute to with 
the Back to School Fest, Gonzalez said it was 
about time.
Shannon Mercatante, a 20-year-old UF pub-
lic relations senior and president of Swamp Re-
cords, said Indie Live was a worthy comeback 
to live music.
This time around, she’s optimistic the series 
will continue to bridge the gap between stu-
dents and local talent. 
“Hopefully shows like this will bring a lot 
more of the UF student body, as well as the 
Gainesville community, all together to cel-
ebrate the music scene of Gainesville,” Mer-
catante said. 
Some of the newest among this scene is The 
Late Night Losers, which got their official start in January. The self-described 
rock ‘n’ roll band is Gainesville-
born and -bred, composed of 
two current UF students and 
two recent UF grads. 
And if that’s not enough to 
cement The Late Night Losers 
to the Gainesville arts scene, 
the group lives right down the 
street from the Driptones — 
which announced their official 
signing to Swamp Records at 
the event Saturday. 
“It’s dangerous,” 22-year-old 
lead singer of The Late Night 
Losers Thomas Allain joked. 
“There can only be one band on 
the street at a time.” 
As for their introduction to 
the field, he said the band re-
ceived a lot of support from 
Heartwood owner Dave Me-
losh. The venue itself, Allain said, is a special 
place in Gainesville — resources, equipment 
and staff included. 
At the Back to School Fest, the band’s first 
time back after being apart for the summer, 
The Late Night Losers played a variety of 
songs closing with “End of the Road,” which 
was recorded at Heartwood in June. 
The show went on past midnight, marking 
the close of August’s Indie Live, but the begin-
ning of Swamp Record and Heartwood’s dive 
back into the live music scene in Gainesville. 
The next installment of Indie Live is 
planned for Sept. 10 at Heartwood Sound-
stage and will include performances from Faze 
Wave and MADWOMAN.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.org‘About Time’: Indie Live is a warm welcome back to live music
MUSICMUSIC
Photo by Kiara Cline
The Driptones perform during Back to School Fest at Heartwood 
Soundstage on Saturday, Aug. 28, 2021. The venue hosted five 
indie bands to celebrate the start of a new school year.Photo by Kiara Cline
Jade Long, Hotel Fiction lead singer, sings and plays 
piano during Back to School Fest at Heartwood 
Soundstage on Saturday, Aug. 28, 2021. Long and 
Jessica Thompson, guitarist, started the band two 
Scan to follow the Avenue on SpotifyMONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
Try the Orange & Blue sub, made with chicken tenders and topped 
with buffalo sauce and blue cheese dressing. Save time before class. 
Order ahead for in-store pickup at publix.com/orangeandblue . A taste 
of schoolspirit .
For a limited time onlyUF President Kent Fuchs and the Board of 
Trustees have turned their backs on the UF campus 
community. Their decision to ban even temporary 
measures puts all of us at risk, and it represents a 
fundamental failure to rise to the needs of the day.
Here are the facts that we face:
• Even if vaccinated, we can get sick. The Cen -
ters for Disease Control estimates approximately 
35,000 new symptomatic breakthrough infections 
in the US each week among 162 million vaccinated 
Americans, as of July. 
• Even if vaccinated, we can transmit. Vaccinated 
people can spread the disease if they catch a break -
through infection, NPR reports. 
• We are near but not at the peak of the Delta 
wave of the pandemic, with a 28% rise in the 14-
day average of daily cases and a 35% rise in hospi -
talizations nationwide, as of Aug. 24.
• Local ICUs are maxing out capacity with 76% of 
UF Health Shands Hospital ICU beds in use and 
100% of North Florida Regional Medical Center’s 
beds in use.
• The Delta wave will peak as classes resume. UF’s 
own Emerging Pathogens Institute estimates the 
wave will peak in late August or early September.
Shands CEO Ed Jimenez tells us, “I don’t see an 
end in sight. If it’s true that we’re not peaking yet, 
then there’s more to come — that’s nerve-racking.” 
Given this information, the CDC recommends 
“layered prevention strategies, such as wearing 
masks, are needed to reduce the transmission of 
this variant.” But at UF, the top-down command 
is to return to normal for Fall. We will not man -
date vaccines. We will not mandate tests. We will 
not mandate social distancing indoors. We expect 
masks, but we cannot require them.
The CDC recommends layers of protection, but 
President Fuchs and the Board of Trustees ask us 
to pretend the pandemic doesn’t exist.
The Board of Trustees themselves will be taking 
appropriate precautions. Their August meetings 
are being held virtually with their September meet -
ing “TBD.” One can only surmise “TBD” depends 
on how things are going for you and me.I will teach several in-person classes this semes -
ter as the pandemic rages around us, as will many 
other faculty members. I have children at home 
who are unvaccinated, as do many others. Still, 
other faculty have close families who are immu -
nocompromised. President Fuchs and the Board of 
Trustees are heedlessly putting our families at risk.
It doesn’t have to be this way.
The deans of UF’s largest colleges assembled a 
sensible plan for re-opening: allow online options 
for the first three weeks of classes. That extra time 
would have allowed for new arrivals to receive 
their vaccines and for the Delta wave to crest and 
fall. After those three weeks, colleges could reas -
sess. When this news was communicated to the 
faculty, it was received with relief. President Fuchs 
and the Board of Trustees, however, received the 
news with contempt. Without sparing any time to 
consider, at 9 p.m. on Aug. 13, they overruled the 
deans. 
We know what decisive leadership looks like. 
Alachua County Public Schools Superintendent 
Carlee Simon is under similar pressure as UF lead -
ership, but she had the intelligence to follow the 
science and the strength to lead.
Recognizing the current wave of Delta infec -
tions, she instituted a mask mandate for the first 
weeks of classes. As a result of her decisive leader -
ship, as many as 16 other school districts followed 
suit to the benefit of the children in their communi -
ties. Each of these governing bodies took a sensible 
stand to protect the students they oversee.
But where is our leadership? Utterly absent. 
In place of leadership, we are thanked for our 
dedication. I’m tired of hand-wringing and hollow 
expressions of gratitude. In an email from President 
Fuchs, the only rationale given for our way forward 
is the fact no other university in the State Univer -
sity System is taking appropriate measures. This 
excuse is insufficient and it speaks to the Board of 
Trustees’ abdication of their responsibilities to our 
community and President Fuchs’ inability to lead.
—Anonymous UF faculty memberIn a year and a half, the COV-
ID-19 pandemic has drastically 
changed humanity’s way of 
life. With work and academic 
environments shifting to vir-
tual settings and in-person social 
activities coming to a halt, rela-
tionships of all types are bound to 
experience a level of strain due to 
these changes. 
People in relationships, including 
friendships, family relationships and 
romantic relationships, can experi -
ence unhealthy and abusive behaviors. According 
to a 2010-2012 Centers for Disease Control survey, 
more than one in three women — 44,981,000 vic -
tims —  and one in three men — 35,236,000 vic -
tims — experience contact sexual violence, physi -
cal violence or stalking by an intimate partner.
Although these statistics show the frequency of 
relationship violence, warning signs of unhealthy 
relationship dynamics can often be identified be -
fore the abuse escalates. 
As we experience the ebb and flow of the pan -
demic, the prospect of returning from life behind 
a screen may cause people to rush certain aspects 
of their lives. Both friendships and romantic rela -
tionships that experience this rush can exemplify 
one of the 10 signs One Love Foundation identifies 
as unhealthy behavior in a relationship: intensity. Intensity, in this sense, can be de -
fined as a person expressing extreme 
feelings that cause one to feel over -
whelmed, coupled with an uncom -
fortable pace of the relationship. In -
tensity in relationships can be present 
without considering the constraints 
of the pandemic. However, increased 
isolation caused by COVID-19 has the 
potential to amplify the impact of this 
unhealthy behavior. 
With the pandemic converting 
multiple aspects of life to a virtual 
form, many resort to social media to 
check in with friends and family. Although social 
media serves a great purpose in keeping people 
connected, it can also be deceiving as it typically 
displays only one version of a relationship. This 
version often paints a rosy picture, creating a false 
representation of the true relationship dynamic. 
Relationship education would not suggest in -
terrogation of relationships displayed online, but 
rather, it would serve to remind others about the 
warning signs of unhealthy behaviors. Others 
would be encouraged to ask open-ended questions 
in case a potential abusive behavior is identified. 
This can help to prevent an already unhealthy situ -
ation from escalating violently. 
Health and safety concerns from a UF faculty memberImportance of relationship education today
ColumnOne Love at UF
The Alligator encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.LUNES, 30 DE 
AGOSTO DE 2021
www.alligator.org/
section/elcaimanMONDAY,  
AUGUST 30, 2021
www.alligator.org/
section/opinions El Caimán Opinions
LA DECISIÓN SE PRODUCE 
DESPUÉS DE UNA BATALLA ENTRE 
ACPS Y EL DEPARTAMENTO DE 
EDUCACIÓN DE FLORIDA.
Escrito por Max T aylor
Traducido por Saira Gonzalez
Las máscaras seguirán puestas en las 
escuelas públicas del condado de Alachua. 
El juez de la corte de circuito del con-
dado de Leon, John Cooper, calificó la 
prohibición del gobernador Ron DeSantis 
sobre los mandatos de máscara del distrito 
escolar como inconstitucionales y decidió 
en contra de DeSantis el viernes.
ACPS fue uno de los 10 condados que 
impugnó la prohibición del mandato de 
máscaras de DeSantis, uniéndose a Bro-
ward, Hillsborough, Leon, Miami-Dade, 
Palm Beach, Sarasota, Duval, Indian River 
y el condado de Orange.
Siguiendo la orden ejecutiva de DeSan-
tis que impide que las escuelas creen man-
datos generales sobre máscaras, un grupo 
de padres de Florida de niños de escuelas 
públicas demandó al Departamento de Edu-
cación de Florida, la Junta de Educación de 
Florida, el Comisionado de Educación Rich-
ard Corcoran y el gobernador.
En su decisión, Cooper estableció que 
los acusados   no tenían la autoridad para 
evitar que las juntas escolares impongan 
mandatos de máscaras, lo que hace que la 
orden de DeSantis sea inconstitucional.
La decisión del viernes significa que la 
prohibición del mandato de máscaras será 
nula y sin efecto, ya que determinó que el 
estado “violó los derechos al debido pro-
ceso del distrito local”.
Hasta que se emita la orden por escrito 
la próxima semana, la prohibición del man-
dato de máscaras seguirá en vigor.
Después de la decisión de Cooper, un 
representante de DeSantis emitió una de-
claración en la que expresaba el disgusto de 
la administración por el resultado, citando 
una infracción al derecho de los padres a 
elegir.
“No es sorprendente que el juez Cooper 
dicte en contra de los derechos de los pa-
dres y su capacidad para tomar las mejores 
decisiones educativas y médicas para su fa-
milia, sino que en lugar de eso, dictamine 
a favor de los políticos electos”, se lee en 
el comunicado. “Esta decisión se tomó con 
justificaciones incoherentes, no se basó en 
la ciencia y los hechos; francamente, ni si-
quiera se centró de manera remota en los 
méritos del caso presentado”.
Cooper, en una llamada de Zoom que 
se transmitió en vivo en YouTube, dijo que 
el gobernador había expresado dudas sobre 
la validez de la guía del  CDC en su orden 
ejecutiva.
“El CDC, por el abrumador peso de la 
evidencia, es considerado la autoridad 
médica preeminente en este país”, dijo 
Cooper. “El estado de Florida, en el pasado, 
en muchas ocasiones, adoptó e incorporó 
las pautas y recomendaciones de los CDC en los estatutos estatales”.
“Así que los médicos aquí no solo 
reconocen al CDC como una fuente de in-
formación legítima y de buena reputación, 
parece que durante muchos años, también 
lo ha hecho la legislatura de Florida”.
Después de que se implementó el man-
dato de máscara de ACPS, el comisionado 
de Educación Richard Corcoran envió un 
correo electrónico el 20 de agosto a la su-
perintendente del condado de Alachua, 
Carlee Simon, solicitando registros de cual-
quier estudiante reprendido por no cumplir 
con la “política de mandato de cobertura 
facial ilegal” de ACPS.
El 26 de agosto, un día antes de la de-
cisión de Cooper, Simon respondió seca-
mente a las demandas de Corcoran.
“Dado que la Junta Escolar del Condado 
de Alachua no tiene una política de man-
dato que cubra un rostro ilegal, no tenemos 
nada que informar”, decía el correo elec-
trónico de Simon.
En la declaración oficial de Simon sobre 
la decisión, ella estuvo de acuerdo con la 
decisión del tribunal, pero advirtió que esta 
decisión no es el final de la batalla.
“El estado ha dejado muy claro que 
apelará cualquier decisión que considere 
desfavorable”, escribió Simon. “Afortun-
adamente, la Junta Escolar me ha dado la 
autoridad para emprender acciones legales 
para proteger la capacidad de nuestro dis-
trito de tomar decisiones en el mejor interés 
de nuestros estudiantes, familias, emplea-
dos y la comunidad en general”.
La Junta Escolar del Condado de Alach-
ua celebró la decisión de Cooper; su desafío 
a la orden ejecutiva de DeSantis resultó le-
gal al final.
Una oficial de la Junta Escolar, Leanetta 
McNealy, dijo que tenía ganas de “bailar un 
jig”.
“Estoy feliz y es casi como si fuera mi 
cumpleaños”, dijo McNealy. “Poco saben 
cómo esto ayuda a todos los niños y todos 
los empleados de nuestra comunidad”.
McNealy, junto con otros miembros de 
la junta, estuvo a cargo de crear el mandato 
de la máscara. El consejo de los profesion-
ales médicos fue uno de los mayores funda-
mentos de su decisión, dijo, a veces incluso 
brindando consejos por correo electrónico.
UF también debe tener cuidado de es-
cuchar a esos profesionales médicos para el 
semestre de otoño, dijo, especialmente con-
siderando el reciente aumento en los casos 
de COVID-19 de la variante Delta.
El viernes, el condado de Alachua tenía 
un total de 403 pacientes con COVID-19. De 
estos pacientes, 16 eran casos pediátricos. 
Por encima de todo, las vacunas combina-
das con el uso de las máscaras son la com-
binación correcta para prevenir la propa-
gación en el aula, dijo.
“Ahora necesitamos estar más motiva-
dos que nunca para continuar y vacunar-
nos”, dijo McNealy.
sgonzalez@alligator.org
mtaylor@alligator.orgEl mandato de máscara en ACPS es legal, 
de acuerdo a un juez estatal
Melanie 
Hernandez
UF Campus Ambassador
The One Love Foundation
Continue reading on alligator.org•   •   •BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Leather sofa for sale
Beautiful soft leather sofa with two built in 
recliners. One spring is missing but other-
wise working, very comfortable, and in great 
shape. $60 ebbyguru@hotmail.com.
8-30-21-1-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE- 
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN 
SETS $149 KING SETS $199 NEW 6 
DRAWER DRESSERS $220 NEW 5 
DRAWER CHEST $199 WE HAVE OVER 
300 MATTRESSES IN STOCK: SAME DAY 
DELIVERY: WE DELIVER COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH AVE 
GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953          9-07-5-6
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    PPlleennttyy  
11..    FFoorreesseeee,,  pprreeddiicctt  55..    PPaarrtt  
22..    RRuunn  66..    PPeerrmmiitt  
33..    GGoobblliinn  77..    ________  ssaauuccee  
44..    BBeeaatt,,  cciirrccuummvveenntt  NNOOEEHHUUGG
PPCCTTXXEEEEEEPPCCEEII
LLOOAALLWW
EEOOAAEEPPTTRR
LLRREEGGNNIIMMTTUUEEPPAANN
UUTTIIWWTTOOAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--EEnnoouugghh    55AA--PPiieeccee    66AA--AAllllooww    77AA--PPeeaannuutt
11DD--EExxppeecctt    22DD--OOppeerraattee    33DD--GGrreemmlliinn    44DD--OOuuttwwiitt    BB--PPiinnoocccchhiioo88--3300--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  ffiiccttiioonnaall  cchhaarraacctteerr
ddaatteess  bbaacckk  ttoo  11888833..
BONUSDONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. 
Your donation helps fund the search for miss-
ing children. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & 
RV's too!  Fast Free Pickup-Running or Not 24 
Hour Response-Maximum Tax Donation- 
Call (888) 515-3443
8-30-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-21-13-1413 Wanted 10 For Sale
By C.C. Burnikel
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/30/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/30/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, August 30, 2021
ACROSS
1 To-do list entry
5 Largely seasonal 
Golden Arches 
sandwich
10 Mimicked
14 Not doing much
15 “The Vampire 
Diaries” 
protagonist
16 Sleeveless top, 
briefly
17 Special access 
for celebrities
20 Slender fish
21 Boxer Laila
22 Garfield’s dog 
frenemy
23 Mass 
communication?
26 Fire up, as a 
motor
27 Thumbs-up vote
28 Superman foe 
Luthor
31 Fill drink orders
35 Navigational aid 
letters
38 Winter glider
40 Greet at the door
41 Well-organized
42 Presidential 
biographer __ 
Kearns Goodwin
44 Ctrl-__-Del
45 Heats, as water 
for pasta
46 Popular  
Chinese  
takeout dish
49 Praise highly
50 Freeway  
vehicles
51 Markdowns, and 
what 17-, 23- and 
46-Across all 
exhibit
55 Modern hotel 
amenity
58 Word from the 
Yiddish for 
“expert”
59 Stereotypical 
techie
63 Fencing sword
64 Like milk on the 
floor
65 Nabisco cookie
66 “Easy __ it”
67 Screams
68 Negotiator’s 
assetDOWN
1 Helpful hint
2 Madison Ave. 
figure
3 More cunning
4 Body armor fiber
5 Got together with
6 Easily understood
7 Film spools
8 Concave navel
9 Softball club
10 Northeasternmost 
U.S. national park
11 Terrified reaction
12 Game show host, 
e.g.
13 Fizzle out
18 To date
19 Mars explorer
24 Pre-holiday nights
25 “Late Night” 
actress Amy
28 Hallucinogenic 
drug
29 Skip the big 
wedding, maybe
30 It’s a copy and a 
company
32 At hand
33 Shop with a slicer
34 Quick meal
35 Company with a 
spokeslizard36 Goes white from 
fright
37 Ave. crossers
39 Desserts topped 
with gummy 
worms
41 “Wrong-o!”
43 Chocolate-and-
toffee bar
45 Champagne 
variety
47 Weak, as an 
excuse48 Discourages
52 Magician’s garb
53 Bad to the bone
54 Solar panel 
component
55 Tied the knot
56 Debut on the 
NYSE
57 Consultant’s 
payment
60 Named time span
61 Remote button
62 Speck in a URL
By Freddie Cheng
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/24/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/24/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, August 24, 2021
ACROSS
1 Bursting with 
testosterone
6 RPM gauge
10 Border on
14 Aquafina 
competitor
15 Beige hue
16 Aussie pal
17 Sci-fi fleet leader
19 Vicinity
20 New Age Irish 
singer
21 They’re drawn in 
pubs
22 Industry bigwigs
23 Perceptive 
person
25 Displeased looks
29 Sweetie pie
30 “Star Trek” 
communications 
officer
31 Skeleton 
component
34 Old Testament 
twin
38 Indigenous U.S. 
people
41 Hershey’s 
foil-wrapped 
chocolate treat
42 Website unit
43 First color to 
move, in chess
44 Prefix with pod
46 Drove (around)
47 Uncontrollable 
person
53 With room to 
spare
54 Many a Dickens 
child
55 Wise, as advice
59 “Ciao!”
60 At a loss for 
words, and what 
the starts of 17-, 
23-, 38- and 
47-Across can 
literally be?
62 Greenside shot
63 Burn soother
64 Backed, with 
“with”
65 __ Christian 
Andersen
66 KGB country
67 See 55-Down
DOWN
1 Viral online item
2 Door-to-door 
cosmetics seller3 Atlantic __, N.J.
4 “LOL”
5 Buck in a wallet
6 Cybertruck 
maker
7 Complainer’s 
“belly” ending
8 Like fresh chips
9 Drill sergeant’s 
syllable
10 Smart speaker 
brand
11 Netanyahu’s 
successor
12 Wombs
13 Poke fun at
18 Stadium  
sounds
22 Dove sound
23 Balkan native
24 Only singer 
to have a #1 
single in six 
straight decades 
(1960s-2010s)
25 Doomed
26 Spiced tea
27 Double play  
pair
28 Mild  
reprimands
31 Sheep bleat
32 Texter’s “Holy 
cow!”
33 Once named35 Yacht propeller
36 Initial poker bet
37 Previously 
owned
39 “Outta this 
world!”
40 Victor’s shout
45 “The Last Jedi” 
heroine
46 Miso soup cube
47 Door fastener
48 Nebraska city
49 Agree to take 
part50 GI truants
51 Old iPods
52 Nation bordering 
Libya
55 With 67-Across, 
like one who’s 
been stuck at 
home for too 
long, slangily
56 Verdi classic
57 “Oh, wow!”
58 Drain swirl
60 Sigma follower
61 PC “oops” key
08/23/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
GET VACCINATED TODAY!
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/answers below1. MOVIES:  What is the name of the 
trouble-making fraternity in "National 
Lampoon's Animal House"?
2. LITERATURE:  What kind of pet 
does Neville have in the Harry Potter 
book series? 
3. MUSIC: Which singer/songwriter is 
nicknamed the Queen of Soul?
4. GAMES:  In the NFL, how long is the 
halftime?
5. TELEVISION:  What is the name of 
Mork's planet on "Mork & Mindy"?
6. GEOGRAPHY:  Tokyo is located on 
which of Japan's four main islands?
7. MEDICAL:  What is the common 
name for deglutition?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM:  What is a 
group of tigers called?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE:  What 
word represents the letter "U" in the 
NATO phonetic alphabet code?
10. SCIENCE:  What is the "power -
house" of the cell called?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
Help Wanted Part Time
Yard Help No Grass Cutting. Flexible Schedule 
$15/hr to start. Cash
Payout Weekly. Minimum 5 hours Weekly, 
Near Campus. Call 727-
741-8764. Wooded Lot Needs TLC.  
8-30-21-2-14
Mi Apa Latin Cafe Servers & Managers
Mi Apa is hiring servers & managers. Servirs 
can make $18+/hr, MGRs can make $55+/yr. 
Apply @ miapajobs.com or at the Jonesville
location between 10am-12pm.  
10-4-21-6-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '21  
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-7-21-6-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME.
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact:  fairoaks1879@aol.com   
8-30-21-8-14
AIM After-school staff: Must be 18 & avail-
able weekdays 2-6:30 pm; motivated, en-
gaging, fun, energetic, communicative.
Send resume to:
program@acesinmotion.org.   
9-7-21-2-14
Hiring New Team Members
Looking for a full time and part time mainte-
nance man. Mostly handy man type work. Also 
looking for full and part time housekeepers.  
Housekeepers are paid by the room and thus 
can make more per hour.
Please apply in person at the Comfort Inn, 
3440 SW 40th Blvd Gainesville.
No phone calls please. Thank, we hope you 
will join our outstanding team.
9-20-21-4-14
Car Wash Help Wanted
Earn up to $20/hr! Now hiring for general car 
wash labor. Part time/Full time shifts avail-
able. Must have valid FL license. 
Apply online @ parkplacecarwash.com.         
9-27-21-7-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille
Spurrier's is searching for a team member to 
receive inbound calls & emails prior to open -
ing each day.  This position will take mes-
sages & provide callers with basic info, book 
reservations & answer questions.
Minimum 4 hrs/day from 11 am-3 pm Wed-Sun.
Apply at spurriersdraft.com
9-7-21-2-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille Servers
Spurrier's is looking to hire servers! We are 
open & we have a great team of servers. 
Now we want to add you! Work in a friendly, 
fast paced environment where real friends & 
connections are made! Looking for FT & PT. 
Great pay and benefits. 
Apply at spurriersdraft.com 
9-13-21-3-14
Responsible driver needed to pick up 
our young adult (with Down Syndrome) 
from her training program, assist in after-
noon activities and deliver home. M-TH, 
3pm to 5pm. Background check required. 
Contact Vicki at vickigervickas@cox.net.
9-7-21-2-14Trivia Test  answers1. Delta Tau Chi or Delta House
2. A toad named Trevor
3. Aretha Franklin
4. 12-15 minutes, except for the Super 
Bowl
5. Ork6. Honshu
7 . Swallowing
8. A streak or ambush
9. Uniform
10. Mitochondria, the organelle 
responsible for energy productionCryptoQuote  solutionArt is not a handicraft,
it is the transmission
of feeling the artist
has experienced
-Leo Tolstoy
solution  to the left
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www. alligator .org/classifieds
(352)373- FIND
classified @alligator.org
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE1 1: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDVisit alligator.org/classifieds and submit your ad to one of the following categories today!
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for 
injury or loss arising from contacts made through ad-
vertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.THE FLORIDA DEFENSE 
ALLOWED NEARLY 430 
YARDS PER GAME IN 
2020 BUT LOOKS FOR 
REBOUND IN 2021
Michael Hull
Sports Writer
As prolific as the Florida Gators 
were on offense in 2020, they may 
have been just as bad defensively. 
Florida’s defense allowed nearly 31 
points per game last season, includ-
ing giving up 52 points to Alabama 
in the SEC Championship game. 
The Gators surrendered 428 yards 
per game as well. After departures 
of top offensive talent, this defen-
sive unit needs to bounce back in 
2021 if the team is to be successful.
Luckily, UF is still stocked with 
talent on that side of the ball. Af-
ter breaking down the offense last 
week, here is a look at the Florida 
defense and what to expect this up-
coming season.
Defensive Line
Florida’s front four is deep and 
talented, especially along the edge. 
Former Georgia Bulldog Brenton 
Cox Jr. and redshirt senior Zachary 
Carter headline the group. 
Many believe Cox is primed for 
a breakout season after four sacks 
and 18 quarterback hurries in 2020. 
He consistently faced the best of-
fensive linemen in the country last 
season and should continue to im-
prove this year. Carter led the team 
with five sacks in 2020. He can line 
up on the inside, outside or stand-
ing up on the line of scrimmage, his versatility standing out in an 
impressive stable of pass-rushers.
The depth along the line is es-
pecially impressive. Redshirt senior 
Jeremiah Moon dealt with injuries 
the past few years, playing in just 
13 games over the last two seasons. 
A healthy Moon will shine brightly 
for Florida’s defense, though. The 
lineman totaled 14 tackles in four 
games in 2020, including a team-
leading six tackles against Mis-
souri.
The biggest question mark on 
the defensive line entering 2021 re-
volves around how much produc-
tion Florida gets from its interior 
players. Defensive tackle Gervon 
Dexter will certainly continue to 
see his fair share of snaps. The 
sophomore played all 12 games his 
freshman season, even earning a 
pair of starts. 
Dexter is the most intriguing 
story on the entire line. The for-
mer basketball and track-and-field 
star picked up football in his junior 
year of high school — just three 
years ago. The goliath threw down 
dunks as an eighth grader, started 
on the Lake Wales High School 
varsity basketball team as a fresh-
man and competed in the discus at 
the 2019 FHSAA Class 2A Track & 
Field State Championships. 
Penn State transfer Antonio Val-
entino had some high praise earlier 
this month for the young, green 
defender.
“Gervon Dexter is going to be 
a problem,” Valentino told media 
Aug. 11. “Once he figures every-
thing out and he really knows how 
to play football...it’s over with. It’s 
over with. Somebody is going to 
pay Gervon Dexter millions of dol-lars to play football someday.”
Dexter played second fiddle to 
Tedarrell Slaton, Kyree Campbell 
and Marlon Dunlap Jr. as a fresh-
man. With all three aforemen-
tioned players no longer on Flor-
ida’s roster, it’s now time for the 
second-year tackle to take center 
stage. Dexter has been taking reps 
at nose tackle during fall camp, 
while Valentino and Auburn trans-
fer Daquan Newkirk should see a 
decent number of snaps inside as 
well due to their experience.
Linebackers
The Gators’ linebacking corps re-
turns three mainstays from 2020 — 
Ventrell Miller, Mohamoud Diabate 
and Amari Burney. The veteran trio 
accounted for three of Florida’s top 
four leading tacklers a year ago. 
Miller was by far the team’s 
most productive tackler, and he 
added 3.5 sacks to his 88 total tack-
les. The redshirt senior earned an 
SEC Defensive Player of the Week 
award after his Week 1 performance 
against Ole Miss when he compiled 
15 tackles to open the season. 
Diabate also produced a bounti-
ful 2020: 69 tackles, 1.5 sacks, two 
forced fumbles and an interception. 
The junior should only continue to 
improve alongside Miller, and he 
said the defense is out to prove itself 
this year after a down 2020 season.
“All of us got a chip on our shoul-
der,” Diabate told media Aug. 6. 
“We’re seeing what everybody was 
saying about our defense, about our 
coaches, about us. So, it's like, how 
can you not have a chip? How can 
you not remember that when you’re 
working out, when you’re watching 
film?
“It makes you hungry. We want 
to go back… that’s all we want.”
Despite starting in just four 
games, Burney still made an im-
pact with 52 tackles and two sacks. 
He should continue to rack up the 
numbers this season with increased 
playing time.
Florida should also see some pro-
duction from its younger lineback-
ers, including sophomore Derek 
Wingo, redshirt sophomore Ty’Ron 
Hopper and freshman Scooby Wil-
liams. Hopper and Wingo combined 
for 17 tackles last season. Williams, 
meanwhile, is a four-star recruit 
from Birmingham, Alabama.
Secondary
Ah, the secondary, the biggest 
question mark on Florida's defense. 
It didn’t live up to expectations by 
any means in 2020. Despite boast-
ing 2021 NFL draft picks Marco Wil-
son and Shawn Davis and potential 
2022 first-round pick Kaiir Elam, the 
Gators allowed 258 yards per game through the air and completely im-
ploded against the Crimson Tide, 
giving up 418 yards to future Heis-
man finalist Mac Jones.
Elam returns as the clear leader 
in a relatively inexperienced group 
at corner. Elam allowed only 326 
yards and three touchdowns to 
his opposing receivers in 2020. 
Pro Football Focus gave him an 81 
coverage grade which ranked 24th 
among Division 1 cornerbacks. 
Way-too-early 2022 NFL Mock 
Drafts have the junior pegged as a 
first-round pick, and Sports Illus-
trated projected him as the third 
cornerback off the board behind 
Louisiana State’s Derek Stingley and 
Clemson’s Andrew Booth.
The side of the field opposite 
Elam remains the primary storyline 
in this group. Presumptive starter 
Jaydon Hill tore his ACL earlier this 
August and will miss the entire sea-
son, and coach Dan Mullen has yet 
to name his replacement among the 
Gators practicing in the role.
“I don’t know, it’s not Septem-
ber 4,” Mullen told media Aug. 23. 
“They all get the same reps right 
now.”
Mullen rattled off six names in 
particular who have been compet-
ing for time opposite Elam: SEC 
transfers Jadarrius Perkins (Mis-
souri) and Elijah Blades (Texas 
A&M), redshirt senior Patrick Moor-
er, redshirt freshmen Avery Helm 
and Ethan Pouncey and five-star 
true freshman Jason Marshall. 
Marshall’s true freshman status 
immediately jumps off the page. He 
was the top recruit in Florida’s 2021 
class and the No. 2 cornerback in 
the country, according to 247Sports. 
Who gets the start against FAU is anyone’s guess, but Mullen has a 
number of intriguing options at his 
disposal.
Moving to the last line of de-
fense, the safety room looks to re-
place the production lost from Davis 
and now-Pittsburgh Steeler Dono-
van Stiner. 
Trey Dean III is expected to take 
a step forward in 2021. The senior 
appeared in 11 games last season 
and started the SEC Championship, 
where he recorded his lone inter-
ception of the season. Sophomore 
Rashad Torrence II should also see 
increased playing time after start-
ing only three games and playing in 
nine last year. 
The biggest issue in the 2020 
secondary seemed to be communi-
cation, something ingrained into the 
current unit this fall.
“We sign off and cosign on just 
about anything,” Torrence told me-
dia Aug. 24. “If you ask one person 
to go to the restroom, the whole 
room is going to cosign on it.”
An interesting story to keep track 
of from this group is that of Diwun 
Black. The junior maintained an in-
credibly long road to the University 
of Florida, having to stop in junior 
college for two years before finally 
arriving in Gainesville. Black was 
the top-rated JUCO recruit in the 
country, according to 247Sports, 
and his story will continue in The 
Swamp, where he seems poised to 
play the STAR position.
Desperate to prove itself, the 
Florida defense will get its first 
crack at vengeance Sept. 4 at 7:30 
p.m. in The Swamp against FAU.
mhull@alligator.org
@Michael_Hull33Bounce back: 2021 Florida Gators defensive preview
Samantha Harrison
Linebacker Mohamoud Diabate reacts after making a play 
against Vanderbilt on Nov. 9, 2019.
Samantha Harrison
Two Florida defenders pull down a Virginia ball carrier during the 
Capital One Orange Bowl on Dec. 30, 2019.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2021
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL
MEN’S TENNISBy Kaitlyn Wadulack  
and Joseph Henry
Sports Writers
With the 2021 season barely underway, the Gators 
volleyball team already found some history to celebrate. 
Head coach Mary Wise eclipsed another monumental 
milestone after the first of two matches Aug. 28. Wise 
tallied her 900th win at Florida following a straight-sets 
victory over UC Davis. That total increased just a few 
hours later when the Gators defeated Sacramento State, 
once again in straight sets. Wise now sits at 901 wins at 
Florida and 982 total career victories. 
Her historic victories concluded a 3-0 start to the sea-
son following the Hornet Invitational which featured vic-
tories in nine consecutive sets. 
The day began with the Gators facing off against UC 
Davis for the first time in program history. Florida took 
the early lead after a kill from freshman outside hitter 
Merritt Beason before senior outside hitter Thayer Hall’s 
ace. Hall had the hot hand in the first set with six kills, 
followed by senior middle blocker Lauren Dooley with 
four. 
The Gators and the Aggies exchanged blows through-
out the entire set until the final stretch. Florida netted 
four straight points to grab the first set, 25-21. 
The second set started rough for both squads. Each 
team acquiesced easy points due to service errors. Flori-
da took control after back-to-back kills from redshirt se-
nior middle blocker Lauren Forte and senior setter Marlie 
Monserez made it 8-5. The Aggies unraveled afterward 
as the Gators snagged seven straight points to dominate 
the second set, 25-11. 
UC Davis jumped out to an early 7-3 lead in the final 
frame. The Gators reclaimed the lead after a run capped 
off by a service error from Aggies sophomore Lana Ra-
dakovic made it 13-12. A pair of blocks from Beason and 
Forte, a bad set from UC Davis’ Jane Seslar, a redshirt 
senior outside hitter T’ara Ceasar kill and an ace from 
sophomore libero Elli McKissock extended Florida’s ad-
vantage to 18-12. A Hall kill prevented any chance the 
Aggies had for a comeback and ended the third set 25-18, leaving Wise to bask in the glow of her historic triumph. 
Florida racked up 44 kills during the match led by Hall 
and Beason, who had 11 and nine, respectively. Mon-
serez was responsible for 29 of the Gators’ 37 assists, 
and she amassed eight more assists herself than all of the 
Aggies combined. Forte led the Gators defensively and 
stuffed 10 UC Davis swings. 
Once the celebrations settled, Florida took the court 
again to end the Hornet Invitational, this time taking on 
Sacramento State
The Gators got hot quickly in the first set, putting up 
six straight points before the Hornets could finally break 
through on the scoreboard. Florida already extended its 
lead to 16-7 by the time Sacramento State head coach 
Ruben Volta called his second timeout of the set. The 
Gators took the opening set 25-14, highlighted by Forte’s 
three kills and perfect hitting percentage. 
The second set was much tighter than the first. The 
Hornets evened the score multiple times, but Florida nev-
er trailed. After leading by two, the Gators took control of 
the set with a 9-3 scoring run. A Monserez kill, her third 
of the set, gave Florida a 25-17 victory. 
Outside hitter Ellie Tisko earned Sacramento State its 
first lead of the match when she landed the opening kill 
of the third set. The two teams kept pace with one an-
other through most of the set. A Hall attack error gave 
the Hornets a 14-13 advantage and led to a Wise timeout. 
Right out of that timeout, Hall responded with her 
seventh and eighth kills of the game on consecutive 
points. With the score knotted at 19, the Gators rattled 
off five straight points to reach match point. A Hornets 
service error ended the set and match. 
Ceasar led Florida with 12 kills and Monserez im-
pressed by surpassing her 29 assists from earlier in the 
day with 32 against Sacramento State. 
These games served as a tune-up for the Gators ahead 
of their next match Aug. 31 against No. 21 Stanford. The 
meeting with the Cardinal will wrap up Florida’s season-
opening West Coast trip.
@kwadulack
@Josephhenry2424Wise notches 900th win at Florida as Gators volleyball sweeps up opening weekend
Alligator File Photo
UF coach Mary Wise smiles during Florida’s 3-0 win against Florida 
A&M on Sept. 15, 2017, in the O’Connell Center.
Brian Olmo
Sports Writer 
Florida men’s tennis players Ben Shelton and Sam Rif-
fice both qualified for the US Open in Flushing, New York, 
which takes place from Aug. 30 through Sept. 12. 
Shelton, however, was forced to withdraw from dou-
bles competition after he entered COVID-19 protocols on 
Aug. 29. 
Shelton qualified for the tournament for the first time 
in his career. He received wild card bids into the main 
doubles draw after he won the Boys’ 18 & under doubles 
division with partner Bruno Kuzuhara at the United States 
Tennis Association Boys’ 18 & 16 National Championships. 
Shelton didn’t have the luxury of earning automatic en-
try into the singles tournament, but he worked his way into 
the singles qualifying draw after he finished runner-up in 
Boys’ 18 & under singles at the same event. 
The Florida phenom, ranked 801st in men’s singles ac-
cording to the tournament website, knocked off presump-
tive favorite No. 181 Michael Mmoh, 7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (7-5), 
to advance. 
He now sat two wins away from the main draw. Shel-
ton once again faced a highly ranked opponent, No. 118 
Botic Van de Zandschulp from the Netherlands. Van de 
Zandschulp grabbed the first set 6-3, but Shelton managed 
to even the match, winning 7-5. In the decisive third set, 
Shelton fell 6-4 to end up two rounds short of a tourna-
ment berth.Riffice, on the other hand, competed in junior Grand 
Slam titles three times before. While playing major inter-
national tennis tournaments is nothing new for the UF cap-
tain, it’s still a monumental moment for the senior. 
“Playing in the U.S. growing up as an American junior, 
the goal is always to play in the US Open,” Riffice said in 
a release. “Being in college and knowing you have one 
opportunity to get that by winning the NCAA tournament, 
it’s a big deal.”
Last year, Riffice lost in the first qualifying round, 6-2, 
6-4. 
This year, he will look to go the distance in the main 
draw. Riffice earned a wild card by winning the NCAA 
Singles Championship this spring, making him the third 
player in program history to win it. 
“It’s one of those opportunities that you can’t really put 
a price tag on,” head coach Bryan Shelton said. “Being able 
to soak in this environment and to get a real feeling of what 
it’s like to rub shoulders with the very best in the world... 
to see how they practice, practicing with them and to com-
pete against them... there’s no better environment to be in. 
“It’s a motivator, it’s something that validates all the 
hard work they already put in and it tells them that they 
are getting closer in narrowing the gaps.”
Riffice’s championship begins on Aug. 30, when he 
squares off against the No. 15 seed — Bulgaria’s Grigor 
Dimitrov.
bolmo@alligator.org
@BrianOlmo0211Riffice represents Gators tennis at US Open, Shelton forced to withdraw
Grethel Aguila
Florida’s Ben Shelton prepares to hit a ball against Auburn 
on Feb. 21, 2021.
Two matches into her 31st season at Florida, Mary 
Wise hit a major milestone of 900 wins with the school
The senior and sophomore stars qualified for the
singles and doubles tournaments, respectively