We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperWorker shortage
Some businesses in Gainesville are struggling to hire staff as 
business increases with vaccine expansion,  pg. 4
UF vaccines
UF opens vaccines to all students and staff,  pg. 8Payton’s Story
Payton Richards almost had to quit gymnastics 
because of a tumor doctors found when she was 
12. Years later, she’s  become one of the most 
recognizable faces of the gymnastics team , pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 28
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 30 people marched 
from Norman Field to Tigert Hall 
as the sun set Thursday with a 
banner that read “End Workplace 
Exploitation For All.”
Nearly a year and a half after 
international UF doctoral candidate 
Huixiang Chen died by suicide in 
his on-campus lab, UF’s Graduate 
Assistants United held a vigil in 
front of Tigert Hall to honor his 
life. Chen’s body was discovered in 
Benton Hall June 14, 2019. 
The 30-year-old’s death has led 
to accusations against his adviser, 
engineering professor Tao Li, 
regarding abusive behavior and 
academic misconduct. UF said it 
has been investigating the case 
since July 2019.
Graduate Assistants United, 
a labor union for UF’s graduate 
employees, received Facebook 
messages from Chen’s friends, who 
were worried about his safety, prior to his death. In Chen’s suicide note, 
which was published following his 
death, he wrote that a research 
paper he co-authored with Li 
contained inaccurate results and his 
career would be impacted if it were 
published.
Li pressured Chen to proceed 
with the publication anyway, 
placing immense stress on Chen, 
according to the note.
UF placed Li on paid leave Feb. 
15, according to a letter obtained 
by WUFT News. He is prohibited 
from conducting UF-related work, 
visiting campus and talking to UF 
students or faculty; however, he 
remains employed at UF, receiving 
an annual salary of $153,238, 
according to UF’s 2020 fiscal 
analysis.
Li was placed on leave following 
an independent investigation 
conducted jointly by the Association 
for Computing Machinery and the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering. The exact reason why 
he was placed on leave is still unclear. When asked to clarify why 
the university placed him on leave, 
UF spokesperson Hessy Fernandez 
wrote in an email that UF does not 
discuss ongoing investigations.
The vigil was partly an 
expression of frustration at the 
abusive behavior some graduate 
students face from their mentors. A 
group of about 34 people attended 
the vigil held in front of Tigert Hall, 
UF’s administration building. 
They left a framed picture of Chen 
along with notes to the university 
administration on the steps of the 
building’s entrance conveying their 
feelings about Chen’s ongoing case.
GAU President Bobby Mermer 
read four demands for UF regarding 
its handling of the investigation 
on the steps of Tigert Hall. The 
demands included releasing a 
target date for the conclusion of 
the investigation, the release of the 
company names conducting the 
investigation, a statement detailing 
the preliminary findings so far and 
confirmation that results will be 
released when the investigation 
ends. 
In November, GAU gained 
the power to trigger a university UF community honors Huixiang Chen at a vigilSTUDENTS EXPRESSED 
DISAPPOINTMENT WITH THE 
LACK OF TRANSPARENCY  
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer
Emily Fahey worries about 
where she would raise her 
daughters if UF demolishes Ma -
guire Village and University 
Village South, two of the five 
graduate and family housing 
complexes on campus.
She lives at Maguire Village 
with her husband, who is pursu -
ing a Ph.D. in cultural anthropol -
ogy, and their 2- and 4-year-old 
daughters, Penelope and Herm -
ione. They appreciate being able 
to take the girls to a playground 
10 feet outside their house — 
something that cannot be found 
in a complex for undergraduate 
students. 
“If they remove graduate 
housing, they are going to make 
UF less attractive to families 
like mine who want to be able 
to have a family life while they 
pursue a higher education,” Fa -
hey said.
Fahey, 35, is not the only 
graduate housing resident who 
felt unheard and devalued by UF 
after hearing its plans. 
In October 2019, the universi -
ty announced the campus hous -
ing plan with a proposal to tear 
down two of the five graduate 
and family housing complexes 
at UF, stating the buildings were 
falling apart and too costly to re -
pair.
The plan proposes 38% of un -
dergraduate beds be renovated 
or replaced with new ones in the 
next decade. Meanwhile, gradu -
ate housing capacity will be cut 
by a third with no plans to con -
struct new buildings.
President Fuchs will attend a 
Graduate Student Council meet -
ing Wednesday to discuss hous -
ing plans and listen to graduate 
students’ concerns.
Fahey is worried about find -
ing a place off campus compat -
ible with her budget and lifestyle 
if graduate housing is reduced.
The average cost of student-
oriented housing one mile from 
UF’s campus is $1,000 per person 
per month, according to Board of Trustees data. But graduate fam -
ily housing costs about $605 per 
person per month.
The average graduate assis -
tant salary at UF is about $23,000 
per year, according to Graduate 
Assistants United, UF’s union 
for graduate employees. Paying 
for off-campus housing would 
leave only 48% of their monthly 
income for expenses other than 
housing. According to the US 
Census Bureau, rental prices ex -
ceeding 30% of a household’s 
monthly income are considered 
cost-burdened; anything over 
50% of the income is severely 
burdened. 
“We want to be able to bring 
our best academic selves to UF, 
make UF look good and make UF 
a top 5 university,” Fahey said. 
“But we can’t do that if this vital 
service of safe affordable family 
housing is taken away.”
In 2018, Gainesville had the 
second-highest percentage of 
households spending most of 
their income on rent in Florida 
behind only Punta Gorda, on the 
West coast of Florida, according 
to a Harvard housing cost study. 
Nearly 40% of the city’s popula -
tion pays more than half of its 
monthly income in rent, accord -
ing to the study.
While campus housing and 
construction were among the 
main topics of discussion during 
the UF Board of Trustees meet -
ings March 18 and 19, little was 
mentioned about the graduate 
student living experience.
Three graduate students par -
ticipated in public comment and 
emphasized their disappoint -
ment in the university’s decision 
to demolish these buildings.
Graduate Student Council 
president Jonathan Orsini spoke 
at the Board of Trustees meeting 
to highlight graduate students’ 
stress levels and the importance 
of affordable housing. He ref -
erenced a 2018 study from the 
Minnesota Office of Higher Edu -
cation that showed the search 
for affordable housing is a huge 
burden to graduate students, 
and students who have to worry 
about it are unlikely to pursue a 
graduate degree. Graduate students worried about 
UF’s plans to demolish housing units  
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Onna Meyer, 43, twirls a hula hoop around her arm during the Swamp Records 2021 Showcase 
at Heartwood Soundstage on Saturday, April 3, 2021. Read more in The Avenue on pg. 6
SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 5 SEE HOUSING,  PAGE 5The event honored the life of the 
international graduate studentT oday’s Weather
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM 
CHAMPIONS CLUB WILL BE 
LATEST SITE
By Manny Rea
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is offering COVID-19 vaccines 
on campus for students, faculty and 
staff.
The university opened ONE.UF 
pre-registry March 30 for the UF 
community to receive their first or 
second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech 
vaccine Monday, which is in accor -
dance with the governor’s expansion 
of eligibility to ages 16 and up.
On Monday, about 5,000 vac -
cines will be distributed at the Cham -
pions Club section in Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium, where mass vaccination ef -
forts have been held in the past. 
UF does not plan to mandate the 
vaccine for future semesters, but 
other schools like Nova Southeast -
ern University near Fort Lauderdale, 
Rutgers University in New Jersey and 
Cornell University have attempted to 
mandate it with different results. 
The Florida governor issued an 
executive order Friday barring busi -
nesses from requiring COVID-19 
documentation; in turn, Nova South -
eastern University had to wind back 
vaccine requirements for students 
that would have been effective Aug. 
1 in order to comply.UF cannot mandate vaccines un -
less the governor and the Florida De -
partment of Health do, Dr. Michael 
Lauzardo, the head of UF Health’s 
Screen, Test and Protect program, 
said. Yet students are eager to get 
the shot.
Originally, Julia Dawson, a 
20-year-old UF psychology sopho -
more, hoped to get the vaccine this 
Summer, but the time to schedule 
came sooner than expected. She is 
set for noon Monday to get the vac -
cine she’s anticipated since she first 
heard about it last year.
“I’m really happy that I will be 
able to do that because UF was on 
top of it,” Dawson said. “Being able 
to not have to stress about possibly 
getting [COVID-19] or quarantining 
sounds really nice.”
Sarah Bhatt, a 20-year-old UF 
public relations sophomore, will re -ceive her vaccine 2:30 p.m. Monday. 
She is prepared to rest for the next 
couple of days if the vaccine causes 
any tiring side effects such as fa -
tigue, which happen to some people 
according to the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. 
Bhatt is optimistic for guidelines 
like masks and social distancing to 
be relaxed once everyone has re -
ceived their second doses of the vac -
cines. 
“I am really looking forward to 
seeing people's faces and actually 
being able to register their emotions 
and see their smiles,” Bhatt said. 
“It’ll be nice to really get to know 
people a little bit better.”
@ReaManny
mrea@alligator.orgTHE DEALERSHIP DECLINED 
OWNERSHIP OF THE 
HATEFUL MESSAGE ON A 
SANITIZING BOTTLE
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer 
A local car dealership is trying 
to make amends after a custom -
er found an anti-Asian message 
written on a sanitation bottle in -
side the store.
Larry Katz went to the 
Gainesville Nissan dealership Sat -
urday to get his airbags changed 
when he found a clear hand sani -
tizer bottle with a racist slur for 
the COVID-19 virus written across 
it in black ink, according to a 
photo posted on Facebook.
While Katz waited, he found 
the bottle sitting on a salesman’s 
desk. In the post, he wrote he 
confronted the receptionist and a 
salesperson before leaving.
Katz, who is Jewish, said 
standing up for any marginalized 
group was important to him.
“We really have to fight this as 
best we can,” he said.
Clovis Watson, sales manager 
at Gainesville Nissan, said the 
hateful message does not reflect 
the store’s core values. Watson 
said no employees sit at the sales 
desk where the bottle was found. 
The desk is empty and the com -
puter doesn’t work.
Watson called the incident a 
“sick joke,” and said he asked 
his staff if anyone saw the person who left the 
sanitizer. No 
one did, and he 
doesn’t believe 
the message 
was written by 
one of his em -
ployees.
Watson said if he finds out the 
bottle was put out by an employ -
ee, that person will be fired.
“There's no racists here,” he 
said. “I don’t tolerate that.”
Documentation of Asian hate 
is on the rise across the nation. 
Reported hate crimes against 
Asians in the largest U.S. cities 
were up 145% in 2020 compared 
to the previous year, according to 
the Center for the Study of Hate 
and Extremism at California State 
University, San Bernardino. This 
is seen in incidents of unpro -
voked acts of violence toward 
Asians, such as shoving, beating 
and killing. Asian families across 
the country have been associated 
with the “China Virus,” a slur 
used by former President Donald 
Trump in reference to the COV -
ID-19 virus.
In Gainesville, students and 
residents protested this rise in 
anti-Asian hate. More than 200 
people attended a march at Depot 
Park March 27 and about 100 ral -
lied against the recent violence at 
four city street corners the week 
before.
Jeannette Peters, a friend of 
Katz, recalled how Katz felt upon 
discovering the hateful message. “His twin daughters are Chi -
nese, and this experience has 
really upset him and his wife,” 
Peters wrote in a Facebook direct 
message.
Watson, whose father is Ala -
chua County Sheriff Clovis Wat -
son Jr., said he was no stranger 
to racism growing up in Alachua 
County.
He said as a Black man, he 
sympathizes with the Asian 
American community. 
“A lot of people are going 
through a lot of pain right now,” 
he said.
Around 5 p.m. Saturday, Katz 
posted an update on Facebook 
and wrote that he spoke with 
Watson, and Katz’s family will 
meet with Watson next week in 
an effort to make amends.
“I felt that this was a very 
heartfelt apology and he wants to 
make it right,” he wrote in a Face -
book direct message.
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the VOLUME 115 ISSUE 28
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgMan finds racist message toward 
Asians at Gainesville Nissan Dealership
UF begins vaccinations for students, faculty and staff ages 18 and up  MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021THE ONGOING ISSUE HAS 
ESCALATED SINCE THE START OF THE 
COVID-19 PANDEMIC
By Lucille Lannigan 
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Gainesville’s SpringHill Suites by 
Marriott reopened job applications at the be -
ginning of the year – only about 15 people 
applied and three were hired but quickly 
quit. They applied, went through the inter -
view process and then didn’t show up for 
work.
Rebecca Lamb, sales director at the hotel 
off Archer Road, said some new employees 
would come in for their first day on the job 
and then quit in the middle of their shift.
“It’s like a revolving door,” she said.
Other Gainesville businesses, like restau -
rants, are facing the same problem. Small 
business owners are struggling to bring back 
former employees, and others face small ap -
plicant pools of mostly inexperienced work -
ers. The shortages come as COVID-19 vac -
cines enable Americans to return to public 
spaces — only to find them understaffed. 
Some owners point to COVID-19 unem -
ployment benefits to explain the lack of ap -
plicants, while others blame low wages and 
mistreatment from customers. The labor 
shortage has become a statewide issue as 
pandemic restrictions are slowly lifted and 
restaurants try to regain their footing after a 
challenging year. 
Last April, Lamb had to furlough about 
20 of the hotel’s original 29 employees. She 
said the remaining staff — about four man -agers, along with desk clerks and house -
keepers — worked to keep the property run -
ning amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
The managers, working on a 30% pay 
cut, had to take on extra shifts to fill in for 
missing staff. 
About a year later, the staffing gaps re -
main. The hotel asked its furloughed em -
ployees to return at the start of 2021, and 
only a breakfast hostess came back, Lamb 
said.
“People just don’t want to work,” she 
said. 
Lamb worries  stimulus checks and 
unemployment benefits, such as weekly 
checks of up to $275, are discouraging some 
people from returning to work. As of April 
4, the Florida Department of Economic Op -
portunity received more than 6.5 million 
claims for reemployment assistance since 
last March. 
Lamb expects staffing shortages to con -
tinue as long as people receive financial as -
sistance from the government. 
With fewer customers, the worker short -
age didn’t create too much pressure in the 
first few months of the pandemic, she said. 
However, it’s been more difficult to operate 
since business increased in March. 
“All of us feel exhausted and frustrated 
because we’re having to pick up the slack,” 
she said. 
Restaurant owners feel the staff short -
ages are an ongoing issue worsened by the 
pandemic.
Danny Hughes, an owner of Loosey’s 
Downtown in Gainesville, and Headwaters 
in High Springs, said he has worked in the restaurant business since 2000 and watched 
the number of workers in the industry dwin -
dle over the years. He said it’s hard to get 
new people to work – especially people with 
experience. 
“I think we really noticed for the first 
time about three or four years ago,” he said 
about the shortage of workers. “We didn’t 
necessarily get mobbed with applications 
when we put an ad for help.”
To Hughes, a lot of people seem tired of 
working in the service industry due to low 
wages and harsh treatment from customers. 
He said some restaurants had patrons who 
lashed out about inconveniences they expe -
rienced due to short staff or limited hours. 
Working in a restaurant is often viewed 
as unskilled, uneducated labor, he said. City 
and county residents often post their poor 
experiences at restaurants on Facebook food 
review groups. He has seen people encour -
age them in the comments to reach out to 
corporate immediately.
“We all make mistakes on occasion, and 
those are often easily fixable,” he said. “But 
the reactions to those have become more 
and more aggressive, and I think it’s just 
making people not want to do it anymore.”
Hughes believes raising the minimum 
wage — even if the increase isn’t to $15 or 
$20 an hour — can combat the lack of work -
ers. There’s a possibility people are staying 
home on unemployment benefits because 
they’re making more than they would from 
minimum wage, he said. 
“It’s gotten to a point that I’ve been hir -
ing in both of my restaurants for going on 
nine months,” he said. “There’s no end in sight.”
Atticus Steinmetz, economic develop -
ment manager for Gainesville’s Chamber 
of Commerce, an organization that facili -
tates economic opportunity and prosperity, 
echoed Hughes’ belief.
Steinmetz said low wages have been an 
issue for more than a decade in the U.S. He 
believes this is due to a skills gap, which 
is when workers’ skills do not line up with 
those needed for a particular job. This gap 
can lead to underemployment because busi -
nesses don’t want to hire inexperienced 
workers, which in turn creates a slow 
growth in wages, he said. 
Before the pandemic, unemployment in 
the United States reached record lows, yet 
wages did not increase. As soon as research -
ers like Steinmetz began to explore this di -
lemma, the pandemic arrived and unem -
ployment skyrocketed, he said.
Steinmetz’s research showed a drop in 
employment within the leisure and hospital -
ity industry in March and April 2020 along 
with a decrease in the hourly wage for this 
industry. However, his data indicated that 
even in the months before the pandemic be -
gan, the hourly wage was steadily declining. 
The pandemic didn’t create the problem 
of stifled wages, but staff shortages and un -
skilled workers brought attention to the is -
sue, he said. 
“It’s been a huge problem, but it’s prob -
ably coming to a head,” he said.
@LucilleLannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgRestaurants and hotels face staff shortages, small applicant pool
THE GROUP WAS CREATED 
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE 
COVID-19 PANDEMIC  
By Alan Halaly
Alligator Staff Writer
As she kneeled in front of a 
freshly plowed patch of dark brown 
dirt encircled by a wooden fence 
in Reserve Park, Kimberly Brown 
smiled at her daughter Bella.“Remember what I told you? 
How the roots are?” Brown asked, 
raising an herb to show the 7-year-
old. “It’s the plant’s blood vessel, 
you see, because that’s how ours is 
on the inside. It’s a system — that’s 
how they get their water.”
The 30-year-old Gainesville resi -
dent is one of more than 80 mem -
bers of the Gainesville Black Garden 
Network, a Facebook group where 
Black residents share their garden -ing experiences. The group is work -
ing on a plot located in one of sev -
eral community gardens throughout 
the city. These efforts are important 
to East Gainesville, where several 
neighborhoods qualify as food des -
erts. Walmart is the only USDA-
approved grocery store east of Main 
Street within city limits.
Community gardens like the one 
at Reserve Park are part of a city -
wide effort to increase food security 
since the first one was built in 1998. 
Each garden is equipped with a 
hose and a handful of plots that be -
long to other residents who applied 
to get one from the city. Plot own -
ers water others’ plants when they 
drop by the gardens, an unofficial 
rule to keep the plants growing.
Denisha Williamson-Walker, 
a 36-year-old Gainesville resident 
and founder of the Facebook group, 
said she never thought she’d find 
a community of Black people who 
enjoy gardening until she posted a 
question in the “Gainesville Word 
of Mouth” Facebook group, asking 
if there were other Black gardeners 
in the city. 
She received an overwhelming 
response and decided to create the 
city garden group as a way for Black 
residents to share photos and videos 
of the home gardens they worked 
on during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The group grows each month. 
To Williamson-Walker, garden -
ing has been a way to cultivate hap -
piness while in quarantine with her 
wife and son. 
Her intention to farm on this 
plot, Williamson-Walker said, was 
to give Black residents in the neigh -
borhood access to fresh food. “I like being in the dirt,” she 
said. “It’s soothing and therapeutic. 
It keeps you grounded.”
The plot in Reserve Park was do -
nated to the group by Kelley Tom -
lin, a 33-year-old East Gainesville 
resident. Tomlin applied for the plot 
when the park opened last year. 
However, when she became preg -
nant with her daughter, she looked 
to pass the land along to a worthy 
cause. 
After meeting Williamson-Walk -
er online, Tomlin was thrilled to do -
nate the plot to support Williamson-
Walker’s goal of creating a space 
that could become a community 
food source for Black residents in 
the surrounding neighborhood. 
“She’s very inclusive and even 
invited me to be a part of all their 
activities,” Tomlin said. “It’s a re -
ally, really positive group.”
Williamson-Walker came to the 
plot Monday afternoon with Brown 
and her daughter to not only grow 
a variety of fruits, herbs and vegeta -
bles, but a community as well. The 
pair hosts events for Black residents 
to share their love of horticulture 
together. Prior to Monday’s session, 
the group had a seed swap where 
members exchanged plant seeds for 
their home gardens. 
Brown started to garden with 
her daughter at the start of the pan -
demic, mostly growing collards, a 
member of the cabbage family. A 
little over a year ago, she helped 
Bella tend to a strawberry plant, 
which now is bearing unripened 
strawberries.
As a licensed clinical social 
worker at Kimberly Kares Coun -
seling, Brown’s private counseling practice, she often recommends 
gardening to her patients. She be -
lieves they can learn to love them -
selves by loving a plant. 
“I always tell my clients that 
have issues with self-esteem and 
depression to go get a plant and 
name it after themselves,” she said. 
“Then you’re watering yourself and 
you grow with it.” 
The group hopes to continue 
growing their online space.
Nate Porter, a 32-year-old East 
Gainesville resident who is new to 
the Facebook group, said while he 
grew up caring for his grandfather’s 
garden, life got in the way of culti -
vating his own as an adult.
At the beginning of the pandem -
ic, Porter found time and started us -
ing his backyard and other greens -
paces around his house to plant 
crops such as peppers and peanuts. 
It’s an activity he brings his 
two children and wife into for fam -
ily bonding. Each family member 
plants the crop they love the most. 
He said he puts in as many hours as 
he can to maintain it. 
“It’s my diffuser. It’s my thera -
py,” he said. “When I’m frustrated 
after a long night at work, the next 
morning I go and sit out there and 
drink my coffee. I go through the 
crops, play with them and plant 
some stuff. It’s just a relief.”
Ultimately, the food service 
worker has found a sense of peace 
in the midst of COVID-19 chaos 
through his home garden — and 
he’s not alone.
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org‘It’s my therapy’: Black Gainesville residents find community in gardening  
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Kimberly Brown, 30 (left), sprinkles fertilizer around newly planted 
daises as her 7-year-old daughter, Bella Smith (right), waters a 
garden plot behind her on Monday, March 29, 2021. They spent 
the day at Reserve Park for the second Gainesville Black Garden 
Network meeting since the group formed in February.
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
investigation based on anonymous complaints 
in a bargaining agreement signed by UF’s 
Board of Trustees, Mermer wrote in an email. 
The language allowing GAU to use anonymous 
complaints to trigger an investigation was 
added as a response to Chen’s death.
UF is now required to give the union a 
copy of any future investigation findings if it 
files a formal complaint to the university and 
asks UF to investigate. However, UF is not 
required to release the results for Chen’s case 
once it is concluded because the agreement 
was passed after Chen’s death and GAU did 
not file a complaint, Mermer said. 
UF has seen the union’s demands, but 
declined to comment on them due to the 
ongoing investigation, Fernandez wrote.
“The university should release all details 
of the investigation and, at the very least, 
suspend Tao Li without pay, if not terminate 
his employment entirely,” Mermer wrote in 
an email.
Some students marched Thursday night 
to show their solidarity with Chen. Mentor 
abuse is still an issue at UF, Zachary Bush, 
a former UF physics graduate student, said. Bush said he faced verbal abuse from his 
advisor, who still works at UF. He said he 
believes his former mentor is still verbally 
abusing people. He wishes mentors would 
refrain from degrading their students and 
stick to more respectful criticism. 
GAU’s new ability to trigger an investigation 
using anonymous complaints is a step in the 
right direction, Bush said.
“Obviously it’s not an isolated issue,” 
Bush said. “It’s happening to other graduate 
students, and who’s to say how many more 
graduate students are out there who don’t 
want to speak up because they’re afraid.” 
Five graduate students spoke at the vigil. 
Some expressed grief over Chen’s death while 
others shared frustration at how stories of 
mentor abuse, like Chen’s, are too common 
in higher education.
“They want the talent of international 
students, they want the labor of international 
students, they want the money of international 
students, but they don’t want to protect those 
international students who are most at risk of 
mentor abuse,” Bryn Taylor, a 24-year-old UF 
rehabilitation science graduate student, said 
at the vigil.
Taylor, who is also GAU’s communications chair, believes there’s a systemic problem 
regarding the mistreatment of international 
students. Because their immigration status 
is tied to their employment, they often fear 
reporting incidences of abuse, Taylor said. 
She wants UF to vocally condemn abusive 
behavior among mentors.“Wherever Huixiang’s soul is, I hope he’s 
getting, at least, some well-earned rest,” 
Taylor said at the vigil.
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.orgVIGIL,  from pg. 1GAU President read four demands
Credit
Attendees carry a banner that reads “Graduate Assistants United Remembers Lost 
Friends & Colleagues End Workplace Exploitation for All” from Norman Field to Tigert 
Hall on Thursday, April 1, 2021 for a vigil honoring the life of Huixiang Chen, a graduate 
student who died by suicide in 2019.
“The last thing graduate stu -
dents need is additional stress 
from housing insecurity,” Orsini 
said.
Amanda Pritzlaff, a Ph.D. can -
didate and representative for Grad -
uate Assistants United, also spoke. 
She highlighted the value graduate 
students bring to the university, 
such as the part they played in 
earning UF a record of more than 
$900 million in research funding 
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Board of Trustees Chair Mori 
Hosseini said the board has pri -oritized undergraduate students 
recently but will address graduate 
student needs soon.
“I assure you, we are on it,” 
Hosseini said. “It is our turn to pay 
attention to you.”
In the meantime, graduate stu -
dents like Jacqueline Schnieber 
still depend on the availability and 
affordability of on-campus hous -
ing to attend UF. 
Schnieber, a 28-year-old inter -
national fourth-year English Ph.D. 
student from Germany, lived in 
Tanglewood Village, a graduate 
complex located on 13th street, 
for her two first years of study. She moved off-campus in 2019. 
Schnieber said finding a reliable 
and affordable apartment is par -
ticularly difficult for international 
students because of unfamiliar 
contracts and pricing of the area.
“Having grad housing was a 
major blessing, and I don’t think 
I could have done it without it be -
cause I was already low on money 
when I came,” she said.
Graduate students bring value 
to the university through the high 
tuition they pay and the inten -
sive work and research they do, 
Schnieber said. She hopes to see 
more effort from the university to 
hear their needs.
“Instead of lip service, we want 
to see action,” she said. “We don’t want another email saying how 
much you value us; we want to 
see you actually coming to the 
table and listening to our stories 
and hardships.” 
Lack of transparency from the 
university is another criticism 
from graduate students.
Orsini said the university didn’t 
inform graduate students about its 
plans to cut graduate housing in 
2019 and 2020, nor why. 
This Spring, he sent a survey 
to all students living in graduate 
and family housing to evaluate the 
impact tearing down their housing 
would have. Approximately 30% 
of students living in graduate and 
family housing were still unaware 
UF planned to close Maguire Vil -lage and University Village South. 
It is important the university 
investigates the needs of graduate 
students, Orsini said. He praised 
the appointment of a Board of 
Trustees member to further study 
those needs.
The Board of Trustees resched -
uled Dr. Sylvain Dore’s presenta -
tion on the graduate student expe -
rience from March 18 to its June 
meeting.
“Graduate students’ and the 
university’s needs should not be 
competing,” he said. “They should 
actually be in alignment.”
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgHOUSING,  from pg. 1Graduate housing to reduce by 40%Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Baseball Breakdown
Beat writer Ryan Haley breaks down Florida’s recent up-and-
down performances on the diamond, pg. 12
Scan to listen to the Avenue’s pop culture news roundup.
SHOWCASE 2021 TOOK 
PLACE SATURDAY AT 
HEARTWOOD SOUNDSTAGE  
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
Even in the midst of a pandemic, 
Swamp Records continues to com -
mand the Gainesville music scene.
The student-run record label host -
ed its 2021 spring showcase Saturday 
at 7 p.m. The event took place at 
Heartwood Soundstage, with in-per -
son performances by headliner Par -
rotfish and local favorites Driptones, 
helloashtonchase, Faith & Majesty, 
Neverless, Dionysus, Mace and Ar -
den. Gainesville bands The Forum 
and Driveaway also made a virtual 
appearance, with 15-minute pre-
recorded sets by each band broad -
casted in between live performances.
In addition to music, the event 
hosted food vendors such as Ger -
main’s Chicken Sandwiches, Radha’s 
Kitchen and several artisan vendors. 
The program was Swamp Re -
cords’ seventh annual showcase, 
marking the start of a slow return to 
normalcy after 2020’s Spring show -
case was canceled and Fall Fest 2020 
was moved online due to the CO -VID-19 pandemic. Showcase 2021 
followed COVID-19 precautions and 
social distancing guidelines, requir -
ing masks for attendees and imple -
menting distanced seating.
Swamp Records president Bella 
Clements said the record label values 
Showcase as their biggest event of 
the year and part of the downtown 
Gainesville yearly music scene. The 
22-year-old UF marketing senior 
said the spring showcase is the best 
chance to offer Swamp’s signed 
bands the opportunity to either head -
line a big music event or open for a 
popular headliner. All profits also go 
directly back into supporting Swamp 
Records’ bands, projects and events, 
she said. 
Clements said Showcase 2021 
was a big success for everyone in -
volved, and she “couldn’t have imag -
ined a better lineup, better vendors 
or better food.” 
“Seeing people dancing and sing -
ing and enjoying themselves, even 
in the midst of everything going on 
right now, was one of the best feel -
ings ever,” she wrote in a message. 
“I’m so thankful to Heartwood and 
so glad we could put on this event for 
the community!” 
This year, after a COVID-19-fu -
eled hiatus from the spring show -case, Clements said Swamp Records 
was excited to bring the event back. 
Inspired by this return, the theme for 
Showcase 2021 was spring, playing 
on concepts of renewal and bloom. 
“We definitely want it to be some -
thing that feels like a rebirth,” she 
said. “Bringing the arts community 
back into the in-person sphere.” 
Clements said the record label 
treated Showcase 2021 like a “big 
comeback event,” pushing the lim -
its of what a typical music showcase 
looks like.
“We (wanted) to make Showcase 
not just a music event — it’s more of 
a festival,” she said. 
Tiffany Silva, a 22-year-old UF 
English and international studies se -
nior, attended the spring showcase 
Saturday night.
“The music scene in Gainesville 
was able to blossom again in the 
hands of Swamp Records,” she wrote 
in a message. “There was a feeling of 
normalcy in the midst of live music 
and friends!”
Indie sister duo Faith & Majesty 
announced their signing with Swamp 
Records last February, and Show -
case 2021 was their first in-person 
event under the record label. Majesty 
Smith, 23, said live music was one of 
the reasons she and her sister Faith, 27, originally moved to Gainesville in 
2019. She said the two were thrilled 
to perform at Showcase and with the 
support of Swamp Records and the 
Gainesville community. 
“It’s going to feel so nice and so 
nostalgic finally getting to gather 
safely as a music community,” Maj -
esty said prior to the show. “It’s 
going to be like friends meeting up 
again.”
The duo’s set Saturday was full of 
original songs, including their most 
recent release, “Premise.” 
Saturday night was also Swamp 
Records’ first time working with 
Parrotfish, a Florida-born, Nashville-
based alternative rock band. The 
band’s 24-year-old guitarist, Joe Cad -
recha, said they were excited to play 
in Gainesville again after their High 
Dive debut February, and they are 
hoping to meet new fans and get con -
nected with the UF audience. 
As with many bands, COVID-19 
put a damper on Parrotfish’s abil -
ity to perform live throughout much 
of 2020. Instead, Cadrecha said the 
group used the time off to write new 
songs, record and get better at song -
writing and production. As condi -
tions start to improve, however, he 
said he sees there being “a huge ex -
plosion of live music next year.” Cadrecha also said he thinks 
people are eager to get out and do 
something social, using live music as 
a distraction from the chaos of every -
day life. 
“Shows kind of create a social 
camaraderie, and that’s something 
people have been missing this past 
year,” he said.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.orgSwamp Records brings a ‘rebirth’ of live music with seventh annual Spring showcase
MUSICMUSIC
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Florida-based band Faith&Majesty performs during the Swamp Records 2021 
Showcase on Saturday, April 3, 2021. The singer-songwriter sisters, Faith (left) 
and Majesty (right) Smith, sang original songs at Heartwood Soundstage.Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Houston Whitehouse, 27, prepares his The Cozy Fern stand Saturday, April 3, 
2021, during the Swamp Records 2021 Showcase at Heartwood Soundstage.
Scan to listen to the 
latest episode of the 
Avenue’s pop culture 
news roundup.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!
NEW donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.
grifolsplasma.comNEW Plasma Donors EARN OVER 
$300 for ﬁ  rst 4 Donations!*Save a life. Be a hero.Save a life. Be a hero.Save a life. Be a hero.
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!**
*fees subject to change without notice **when applicable We DO NOT pay by weight!004IA2
004_SH_4x4_4cFA_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFA_BiomatUSA.indd   1 2/17/21   11:17 AM2/17/21   11:17 AM
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
LUIS DOES NOT SPEAK FOR 
ALL OF SG, STUDENT BODY 
PRESIDENT TREVOR 
POPE WROTE
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government Senate 
President Franco Luis’ first official 
action in his newly elected position 
was writing a public letter to SG and 
university officials expressing disap -
pointment in UF’s recent decision to 
suspend three conservative organi -
zations from campus.
After announcing the suspension 
of UF’s chapters of Turning Point 
USA, the Network of enlightened 
Women and Young Americans for 
Freedom, the university was criti -
cized for being politically biased 
from students and selectively en -
forcing guidelines onto conservative 
groups.
In his letter, Luis expressed con -
cerns about UF’s decision to tempo -
rarily suspend the organizations for violating COVID-19 guidelines. He 
argued the university was silencing 
conservative voices and the sus -
pension violated the First Amend -
ment by depriving students of their 
freedom of speech and right to as -
semble. 
Luis sent the letter to Dean of 
Students Heather White and Vice 
President of Student Affairs D’Andra 
Mull, and forwarded it to members 
of SG March 24.
“While I understand and re -
spect the University’s COVID-19 
policies, the selective enforcement 
of those guidelines and discrimina -
tion against the three conservative 
groups cannot be ignored by student 
leaders such as myself,” Luis wrote. 
Luis expanded on what he meant 
by “selective enforcement,” writ -
ing that UF’s administration failed 
to hold all student organizations to 
the same standards. He said he wit -
nessed “multiple instances” of other 
student organizations violating the 
university’s COVID-19 guidelines, in 
which no interim suspensions were 
mandated. 
He did not answer The Alliga -tor’s questions asking for examples 
of such instances.
“As a publicly funded institution, 
we must maintain a neutral stance 
to the various voices that help make 
our campus great,” he wrote in an 
email.
Student Body President-elect 
Cooper Brown, Student Body Vice 
President-elect Faith Maniti and Stu -
dent Body President Trevor Pope 
wrote in emails that Luis’ letter and 
opinions are not representative of 
Student Government’s viewpoints 
as a whole.
Brown, who served as the pre -
vious Senate president, endorsed 
the university’s enforcement of its 
clearly stated protocols and guide -
lines onto students and organiza -
tions. The university has “not only 
the right but the responsibility” to 
keep its students healthy, he wrote 
in an email.
“My belief has always been that 
personal politics have no place 
in Student Government,” Brown 
wrote. “We are here to serve the 
students and that is not a partisan 
issue.”Maniti echoed Brown’s belief, 
writing in an email that allowing 
personal beliefs to interfere with 
their roles as Student Body leaders 
is irresponsible. 
“I want to make it clear that this 
was not a matter of silencing voices, 
but rather emphasizing the safety of 
students,” Maniti wrote.
Student organizations are re -
quired by the university to register 
all events regardless of political or 
ideological beliefs, Pope wrote.
“While this interim suspension is 
unfortunate, it applies to all student 
organizations equally,” he wrote.
During Senate’s public com -
ment March 30, Senator Zachery Utt 
(Murphree, Inspire) was the only 
senator to mention Luis’ letter. He 
expressed frustration with it being 
the first action taken by the new 
Senate president.
“This was not indicative of the 
way that the Senate feels,” Utt said. 
“It was wrong. It was an attempt to 
introduce this university into a po -
litical landscape that has no interest 
in being on.”
UF released a statement March 21 reiterating that it did not attack 
the organizations because of their 
political beliefs. Instead, it claimed 
to have followed standard practice 
to suspend organizations and in -
dividuals who violate established 
guidelines. 
“The university has not taken, 
and would not take, action against a 
student or registered student group 
based on the viewpoint they repre -
sent or the content of their speech,” 
the statement read.
The release referenced evidence 
of attendees not wearing masks nor 
adhering to social distancing guide -
lines at the event, thus “jeopardizing 
the health and safety” of students. 
The Alligator has requested copies 
of the evidence.
The statement also clarified that 
four other student organizations and 
more than 20 students have been 
suspended for violating the same 
guidelines, mostly from Interfrater -
nity and Panhellenic councils.
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgSenate President takes public stance against conservative clubs’ suspension  
EAST HALL REMAINS UNUSED SINCE 
BEING SET ASIDE FOR SPRING
By Manny Rea
Alligator Staff Writer
In preparation for another Spring semester 
in the COVID-19 pandemic, UF set aside three 
dorms for COVID-19 positive students to quar -
antine in, but much of the space went unused as 
positivity rates fell.
As more students moved onto campus and 
registered for face-to-face classes, the university 
moved all of East Hall’s residents out during the 
Fall to create an additional quarantine facility. 
The addition of East Hall marked the third quar -
antine dorm hall at UF, along with Trusler Hall 
and Riker Hall, which have been available since Fall.
However, the dorms have been used sparse -
ly since January — East Hall hasn’t housed a 
single student this semester, said UF Health 
spokesperson Ken Garcia. UF hasn’t decided 
whether it will reuse the dorms for isolation in 
the Summer and Fall.
Last semester, 1,289 students stayed in the 
quarantine dorms for on-campus isolation, Sara 
Tanner, UF Student Affairs marketing and com -
munications director, wrote in an email. In the 
Spring, 304 students isolated on campus as of 
March 25. From the first day of classes Aug. 31 
until the last day of exams Dec. 18, 3,390 stu -
dents tested positive. This semester, 1,870 stu -
dents have tested positive since Jan. 11.
Kelly Keehan, a 19-year-old UF applied phys -
iology and kinesiology sophomore, said her ex -
perience in the quarantine dorms felt mostly quiet. She was contact-traced from a COVID-19 
positive student she encountered after an out -
door event. Keehan was sent to Riker Hall from 
Jan. 12 to Jan. 25 to quarantine.
 While there, she would occasionally run into 
another student in the communal bathroom but 
otherwise went about her day alone. She filled 
her time with a daily regimen of schoolwork, 
Zoom yoga and phone calls with family and 
friends.
“It’s definitely challenging, but I think if you 
give yourself grace and make sure to still text 
people and call — FaceTime people throughout 
the time that you’re quarantined it’s definitely 
manageable,” she said.
At its highest this semester, quarantine dorm 
occupancy stood at 14% Jan. 28 through Jan. 
30. It dropped to 1% occupancy between March 
2 and March 12 before rising to 7% Sunday, ac -cording to the university’s testing dashboard.
As UF mulls over options for upcoming se -
mesters, former East Hall residents miss their 
old home. 
Nicholas Reid, a 19-year-old UF mechanical 
and aerospace engineering freshman, passes by 
his old dorm on the way to Gator Corner Dining 
Center daily. He moved out from East Hall in 
December along with 155 other residents.
The COVID-19 pandemic decreased social 
events for on-campus residents, but Reid said 
East Hall residents stayed social. 
“I don’t think UF should have broken up 
East Hall,” Reid said. “We had a great commu -
nity there. We still talk to each other, we still 
hang out and everything but it’s tougher now.”
@ReaManny
mrea@alligator.orgUF quarantine dorms keep a low capacity through the Spring semester8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021
THE CENTER OPENED 
MARCH 29 ON SANTA FE’S 
NORTHWEST CAMPUS   
By Juliana Ferrie &              
Sofia Echeverry 
Alligator Staff Writers 
Elisabeth Eder set out to create 
a space for her community, clip -
board in hand.
The 21-year-old sociology San -
ta Fe College second-year student 
began a petition to open an LG -
BTQ+ resource center last Febru -
ary. She started by convincing stu -
dents to add their signature to the 
paper fastened to her clipboard. 
Eder noticed the need for an ac -
cepting circle of people bonded 
through their similarities, and 
found that more than 400 people 
agreed, she said. 
The groups and clubs available 
to Santa Fe’s LGBTQ+ students at 
the time didn’t suffice, Eder said. 
People needed a physical space to 
curb feelings of isolation.
“I felt a bit alone,” she said.
The Santa Fe College LGBTQ+ Student Resource Center officially 
opened March 29 to solve these 
problems. The center, located on 
Santa Fe’s Northwest Campus in 
Room G-023, is decorated with 
pride flags, including a miniature 
one adorning a small succulent 
plant on the windowsill.
Inside the resource center, liter -
ature will be available for students 
to browse, and it will serve as a 
space for people to gather, read or 
study, Santa Fe’s LGBTQ+ Facul -
ty and Staff Affinity Group repre -
sentative Chelsea Carnes said. The 
center will hold small events and 
hopes to hold discussion groups, 
panels and film screenings in the 
future, she said.
Although March 29 was the re -
source center’s grand opening, the 
space has been available to stu -
dents since its soft opening Feb. 8, 
Carnes wrote in an email. The soft 
opening provided them with more 
time to decorate and find supplies 
while still offering services to stu -
dents, Carnes wrote. 
The center will be open Mon -
day through Thursday from 10 
a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Carnes wrote. Santa Fe was missing a perma -
nent space for the LGBTQ+ com -
munity that wasn’t run by stu -
dents to provide resources, Eder 
said. With most students graduat -
ing within two years, maintaining 
existing groups was challenging.
“We had a pride club that was 
kinda getting off the ground, but I 
realized we needed so much more 
than that,” Eder said. “We needed 
resources and support and to be 
able to meet each other, make 
friends and have a community.” 
Cheryl Calhoun, Santa Fe’s 
Dean of Access and Inclusion, 
stood in front of the small rainbow 
ribbon taped to the entryway of 
the center and addressed the nine-
person crowd at the grand open -
ing Monday.
When former Santa Fe Presi -
dent Jackson Sasser hired her 
three years ago, she said tackling 
an LGBTQ+ space was her big -
gest challenge.
“This was the space that scared 
me the most because it touches 
who I am as an individual,” Cal -
houn said at the event, tearing up. 
“I thank all of you for making this easy, making it okay to be who 
we are, making it okay to be open 
about who we are.” 
One of the reasons a space like 
this was so important, Calhoun 
said, is because gender identity 
and sexuality aren’t always appar -
ent without an individual’s disclo -
sure.
“Having a space like this allows 
our students to come into a space 
and meet other people that have a 
bit of an understanding that they 
have walking through this world,” 
she said. 
Using the petition, Eder wrote a 
resolution for the center that Santa 
Fe Student Government approved 
and the College Senate, which is 
run by Santa Fe faculty and staff, 
passed, according to Santa Fe’s 
website. From there, a small task 
force, including Eder and Santa Fe 
faculty, staff and students, devel -
oped the center, Carnes said. 
Members of the LGBTQ+ Fac -
ulty and Staff Affinity Group, a 
social organization for Santa Fe 
faculty and staff to support one 
another and LGBTQ+ students on 
campus, will take turns operating the center, she said. Members re -
fer to it as the Q+ Affinity Group.
The center plans to offer a 
work-study position, which will 
provide a student with the op -
portunity to work at the center 
part-time as an administrative as -
sistant, Carnes said. In addition, 
the college’s Access and Inclusion 
Advisory Committee members will 
offer staff support, she said. 
Overall, Eder hopes the re -
source center will be an accepting 
place for LGBTQ+ students for 
years to come — and a place for 
them to make instant friends.
“I hope that any student can 
walk through these doors and feel 
comfortable talking to anyone in 
the room and just know they have 
such a supportive community of 
people who truly want what’s 
best for them and can relate and 
have been through similar experi -
ences,” Eder said.
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.orgSanta Fe College celebrates LGBTQ+ resource center grand opening  SANTA FE’S CONFIRMED POSITIVE 
COVID-19 CASES ARE SELF-REPORTED  
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Colleges and universities across the country 
created online dashboards to display COVID-19 
numbers, but since the onset of the pandemic, 
Santa Fe College only reports the number of 
cases in weekly staff emails.
The college developed its current system of 
reporting case numbers based on what its em -
ployees wanted to know and how frequently, 
Lela Frye, the college’s director of human re -
sources, said. Instead of developing a publicly 
accessible dashboard, Santa Fe faculty and staff 
receive weekly email reports from Frye with the 
college’s COVID-19 numbers, she said. 
“I don’t know that there’s a reason why we 
don’t,” Frye said about Santa Fe posting num -
bers. “We don’t have a reason to do it, if that 
makes sense.” 
UF created a COVID-19 dashboard in Au -
gust to publicly display the number of cases. 
UF officials repeatedly pointed to the numbers 
as they made reopening plans for the Spring, 
despite topping charts with some of the highest 
reported case totals among the country’s uni -
versities in November. 
Frye said the college never created a CO -
VID-19 dashboard, and she’s unsure whether 
students ask about the data. But as a public re -
cord, Frye said if a student asks for the data, 
they would receive it.
Students who are interested in seeing Santa 
Fe’s COVID-19 data can contact Student Affairs 
by email, spokesperson Jay Anderson wrote in 
an email. The college will provide interested in -
dividuals with the total number of confirmed 
positive student cases, as well as data on stu -
dents who reported feeling ill, he wrote.
The college relies on self-reporting to col -
lect its data, Frye said. When someone reports 
symptoms of COVID-19 or exposure to some -
one who tested positive, she said the college 
opens a file. From there, Santa Fe’s contact 
tracers reach out to the employee or student 
listed in the report, which make up the college’s 
processed cases number, she said. 
The reports include data from Monday after 
business hours through the following Monday, Frye said. The college began documenting stu -
dent cases March 8, 2020, and employee num -
bers the following day, she said.
Santa Fe treats symptomatic employees and 
students as presumptive positives, meaning in -
dividuals are still required to isolate even if they 
test negative, Frye said. The college does not 
offer testing. 
“We never adopted a test-based philoso -
phy,” Frye said. “We adopt the much more 
conservative symptoms-based method.” 
In Fall 2020, 13,996 students enrolled at 
Santa Fe. The college required faculty, staff and 
students to complete COVID-19 training mod -
ules before returning to campus for the Fall 
semester. Masks and physical distancing are 
also required to protect those on campus. This 
Spring, Santa Fe offered courses in four differ -
ent formats: in-person, online asynchronously, 
as traditional hybrids and as virtual hybrids. 
If students feel ill or concerned about hav -
ing the virus, they are told to contact their 
county health department, Anderson wrote in 
an email. Students can schedule a COVID-19 
test with the assistance of the Alachua Coun -
ty Health Department and Bradford County 
Health Department, Anderson wrote. 
Students fill out a form if they have COV -
ID-19 or have been exposed and inform their 
instructors their classwork may be affected 
through Canvas, according to the college’s 
website. Faculty are encouraged to report stu -
dents to Student Affairs who were sick, Frye 
said. Faculty and staff should contact Human 
Resources by email if they have been exposed 
or had COVID-19, according to the website. 
Employees or students who do not report to 
their respective departments are handled on a 
case-by-case basis, Anderson wrote in an email. 
When Santa Fe contact tracers complete a 
student report, they notify all faculty listed on 
the student’s schedule and provide the date the 
individual can return to campus, Frye said. Fac -
ulty are expected to keep the information con -
fidential and receive a follow-up email when 
the student is officially cleared for campus, she 
said. 
Employees and students can’t return to cam -
pus until a contact tracer clears them through a 
follow-up consultation, Frye said. 
Faculty, staff and students who don’t stay 
away from campus, report their status or com -ply with COVID-19 protocols are “subject to 
disciplinary action or other appropriate adverse 
response by the College,” according to its web -
site. 
Because the college did not mandate testing, 
faculty, staff and students can choose whether 
to report a positive test result, Frye said. The 
number of positive cases within the college 
could be higher than the number Santa Fe was 
able to report as a result, she said.
In terms of asymptomatic COVID-19 cases, 
students and employees who feel well and 
have no known exposure to the virus are al -
lowed on Santa Fe property, Anderson wrote in 
an email. The campus enforces mask-wearing 
and social distancing to protect against asymp -
tomatic spread, he wrote.
Through a timeline created by the contact 
tracing teams, Santa Fe determines if an indi -
vidual has been on campus while positive and 
whether that resulted in further community 
spread, which means causing any additional 
exposures, Frye said. 
These measures have been successful for 
the Santa Fe community, Anderson wrote in 
an email. In the last year, only eight people 
tested positive for COVID-19 as a result of what 
the college’s contact tracers may have deemed 
community spread. 
“That’s a huge success story, and it tells us 
that the protocols we have put in place have 
been effective at mitigating the risk,” Anderson 
wrote in an email. 
Tony Rodriguez, a 23-year-old Santa Fe 
student earning his associate degree in health 
sciences, is currently taking his courses online 
because of COVID-19. Rodriguez preferred to 
learn virtually this semester because he lives 
with family members who are at risk due to 
their ages and health conditions, he said. He 
saw the effects of the virus personally when his 
mother, who is a nurse, became infected, he 
said. 
“It just makes me more cautious when I 
make decisions of interacting in public with 
people or going back to campus and stuff,” Ro -
driguez said.
Rodriguez said he started at Miami Dade 
College, but he transferred to Santa Fe because 
of the way it handled COVID-19 and its priori -
tization of the community’s safety and health. 
He plans to apply to get his Associate of Science in Nursing at Santa Fe and later get his Bachelor 
of Science in Nursing at UF. 
He said Santa Fe has communicated well 
with its students about COVID-19 updates. Ro -
driguez personally doesn’t ask about Santa Fe’s 
COVID-19 numbers because he doesn’t want to 
submerge himself in the negativity. 
“To me, it’s just psychologically too much, 
so I try not asking,” Rodriguez said. 
Although Rodriguez feels this way, he said 
students have different preferences and should 
be able to access the numbers publicly if they 
want. 
Mary Grace Eaton, an 18-year-old Santa Fe 
first-year working toward an animal sciences 
associate degree, had firsthand experience with 
the college’s COVID-19 protocols. 
When she became ill during the Fall semes -
ter, she missed class and reported her illness 
to her professor with a doctor’s note, she said. 
However, because her doctor verified she was 
not sick with COVID-19, Eaton did not have to 
quarantine, she said. 
Soon after, her professor reported her case 
to Santa Fe, and Eaton received a call from 
Student Affairs, she said. She didn’t know her 
professor had told the college about her illness 
until she got the phone call, she wrote in a text 
message.
If Eaton had been exposed or had the virus, 
she said she would have had to quarantine for 
10 days — even if she received a negative re -
sult. 
“They really made sure that you did not 
have any contact with campus,” Eaton said.
Eaton and her friends have not heard any -
thing about the college’s case numbers, she 
said, and she would like to see a COVID-19 
dashboard specific to Santa Fe. Eaton said she 
thought Santa Fe would email or text her about 
the numbers. 
Eaton works for a daycare and chose online 
classes this semester to prevent exposing the 
children to COVID-19. 
“I know, for me at least, it’s really difficult 
doing online, and I know if I saw the numbers 
that would be helpful if I were able to do in-
person,” Eaton said.
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.orgExplaining Santa Fe College’s COVID-19 reporting procedures   BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
3 Sublease
Sublease in LynCourt Square 1st Floor, fur -
nished 2br/2ba, W/D, Male, Individual lease 
required. $500/month 1blk from UF SW 
3rd Ave & SW 12th St. Call 407-234-7438.   
5-16-21-4-3
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-61For Rent
furnished
Unique artistís studio conversion, available 
April 10. Furnished apartment upstairs, 
sleeping loft, large windows, lots of light. 
$1,050/mo. includes electric and WiFi. 
352-372-5733                            4-12-21-4-1
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
Lake Santa Fe cottage; dock, wifi, utilities; 
grad couple/roommates. $400/mo + 15-20 
hrs/mo caretaking, gardening. Available 
April 25 (352) 4683244.                4-5-21-3-1
Furnished townhouse in SW neighborhood. 
18 min. from campus. $420/week. Utilities and 
internet included. Quiet, cozy, washer/dryer, 
high ceiling, front garden, back porch, parking 
spaces. No pets. Available from April 4. Email: 
vchow331@yahoo.com. phone:352-256-1211     
4-19-21-6-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                    5-10-21-6-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
11..    ________  eeiigghhtt
11..    PPllaayy55..    ________  llaayyeerr
22..    UUkkrraaiinnee  nneeiigghhbboorr  66..    UUsshheerr
33..    DDiizzzzyy,,  wwhhiirrlliinngg  77..    HHoo  CChhii  MMiinnhh  CCiittyy,,  oonnccee
44..    SSeerriioouuss,,  tthhoouugghhttffuull  UUFFGGIIEERR
CCRROOFFIILLZZEEOOOONN
UUGGEEIIDD
RROOGGGGAAIIEE
EELLGGRRIIEENNOONNAAIISSGG
LLOONNMMSSEEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--FFiigguurree    55AA--OOzzoonnee    66AA--GGuuiiddee    77AA--SSaaiiggoonn
11DD--FFrroolliicc    22DD--GGeeoorrggiiaa    33DD--RReeeelliinngg    44DD--SSoolleemmnn    BB--ZZooddiiaacc  ssiiggnnss44--55--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ccoonncceepptt  ooff  ________  ________  oorriiggiinnaatteedd  
iinn  BBaabbyylloonniiaann  aassttrroollooggyy.. BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter
answers  on pg. 101. LANGUAGE: What is the word for "M" 
in the international alphabet code used 
in radio?
2. TELEVISION: What was the real first 
name of the character Fonzie in the 
comedy "Happy Days"?
3. SCIENCE: Which country has the great -
est number of tornados annually?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capital of 
Australia?
5. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What are the only 
two known mammals that lay eggs?
6. LITERATURE: What was the name of 
the first monster in "Beowulf"?
7. MOVIES: What was the name of the 
villain in the movie "Three Amigos!"?
8. U.S. STATES: What is the nickname of 
Wyoming?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the 
color of envy, culturally speaking?
10. BUSINESS: Which country's basic 
currency is the sol?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today ★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-132For Rent
unfurnished 10 For Sale
answer  on page 10
By Sheryl Bartol
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/05/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/05/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 5, 2021
ACROSS
1 Guys
6 Overplay on stage
11 Sting operation
14 Rent-a-car 
company
15 State one’s views
16 Penn or Brown, 
e.g.
17 *Bank form
19 Oz’s __ Woodman
20 “Smell Ready” 
deodorant brand
21 Prepare to exit 
one’s car
22 Actress/inventor 
Lamarr
23 Like Hammett’s 
falcon
25 Jamaican music
27 In the thick of
30 “Let me run that 
errand”
34 Spoke like Daffy
37 *Surprise 
inheritance
39 At some prior time
40 Like A-listers
42 __ Piper: rat-
removal fellow
43 *Venue for a 
license plate 
game
45 Political 
candidate lists
47 Key above Shift
48 Some green 
sauces
50 Org. in Clancy 
novels
52 Support pieces 
above doors
56 “Star __ III: The 
Search for Spock”
59 China’s __ Kai-
shek
62 __ v. Wade
63 “Justice League” 
actress Gadot
64 With “on,” not 
strong, as an 
argument ... 
and what might 
cause the ends 
of answers to 
starred clues?
66 ER fluid hookups
67 Soprano Fleming
68 Allow to fluctuate, 
as a currency
69 Service charge
70 Heroic Schindler
71 __ Dame
DOWN
1 “__ Secretary”: 
2010s CBS 
drama2 Echo Dot 
assistant
3 Flap for a mic
4 Moody music 
genre
5 Insincere “My 
bad”
6 Breeding 
environment
7 Church niche
8 Paper factory
9 Troop groups
10 Get-up-and-go
11 Name, as 
sources
12 “Metamorphoses” 
poet
13 Part of a Wall St. 
address
18 One with 
confidential info
22 Thirty after the 
hour
24 Dated stereo 
component
26 Josh
28 Credit card 
motion
29 __ for tat
31 Milk, in Marseille
32 TV show about a 
high school choir
33 Cutlass 
automaker
34 Myths, legends, 
etc.35 Informed of
36 Ella’s improv 
style
38 Like stored 
Russian dolls
41 Blistex target
44 Bi- plus one
46 Extended period 
of time
49 Vampire 
vanquisher
51 Partner of pains
53 Spew lava and 
ash54 Introvert
55 Everglades  
plant
56 “The workweek’s 
almost over!”
57 Glowing review
58 Above all __: 
more than 
anything
60 Slugger Aaron
61 Swedish furniture 
chain
64 Sign of a sellout
65 Musician Yoko
By Prasanna Keshava
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/30/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/30/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, March 30, 2021
ACROSS
1 Holiday sub
5 Kilt wearer
9 “Mazes and 
Monsters” 
novelist Rona
14 Natural soother
15 To be, to Balzac
16 Popular ride 
app’s basic level 
of service
17 Perspiration 
cause by fear of 
failure
19 “Is it too risky?”
20 X
21 Turquoise kin
22 Indian strings
23 Lucky wristband
26 Autumn shade
28 Children’s author 
Blyton
29 Spiral shape
30 Fashion label 
from Milan
32 Gross less 
deductions
35 “Don’t cheer yet!”
39 Gave the 
go-ahead
40 Emcees
41 Ballpark officials
42 Fabergé perfume, 
originally
43 Surgical tube
44 Best woman?
50 Gofer’s task
51 University of New 
Mexico player
52 Game-winning 
line
55 Arnold of “It’s a 
Mad, Mad, Mad, 
Mad World”
56 Confined to 
one’s residence 
... or, as the 
circles show, a 
description of four 
puzzle answers
58 “All kidding __ ... ”
59 Totals
60 Poker stake
61 Church council
62 Redwood, e.g.
63 Aussie hoppers
DOWN
1 Only president 
who was also 
chief justice2 Vogue alternative
3 One born under 
the sign of 
Cancer
4 Oomph
5 Refuse conduit
6 Third-stringers
7 Dental care brand
8 Asian New Year
9 Court-ordered, 
as a review
10 Eased up
11 Born in the wild
12 “__ Jacques”
13 Live and breathe
18 Sun, for one
22 “500” initials on 
Wall Street
24 Repressed, with 
“in”
25 Harvests
26 It’s eight in 
Madrid
27 “Order up!” 
shouter
30 Italian sauce with 
pine nuts
31 Word before race 
or trap
32 Top dog
33 “SportsCenter” 
channel
34 Midterm or final36 Crowded into
37 Elvis’ “__ Dog”
38 Camera setting 
that does 
everything 
except point and 
shoot
42 Best Actor winner 
for “On the 
Waterfront”
43 Hoity-toity sort
44 Parts of Western 
landscapes45 Culturally 
pretentious
46 Get in shape
47 Pancake maker’s 
need
48 Metz man
49 Quite  
overweight
53 Fully aware of, as 
a scheme
54 Lofty verses
56 Post-WWII pres.
57 Rowboat mover
03/29/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
attention :
Starting April 5, all 
Floridians age 18 and older 
will be eligible to receive 
the COVID-19 vaccine.
Get vaccinated today!
scan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail -
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
Reliable, courteous drivers needed. 
Flexible hours. We provide the vehicles. 
(352) 777-9488                             4-5-21-1-14
We are looking for a highly motivated and 
driven candidate for a part-time position to 
provide administrative support to the Attorney. 
Some legal studies preferred but not required. 
Must be bilingual, fluent in Spanish. Please 
send your resume to attorney@yvlawfl.com.
4-5-21-1-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         4-19-21-15-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Receptionists, Cashiers, Night Gate 
Attendants and Grounds Maintenance Staff
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy 
working with the public. High energy and 
low drama is a must! Must have your own 
transportation and availability to work 
nights, holidays and weekends. Full or Part-
time positions available. Apply in person 
ONLY 9 am - 4 pm weekdays - NO phone 
calls! ****GPS Address:**** 5000 NE 60th 
Ave. High Springs, FL 32643   
 5-10-21-6-14
Now you can easily submit Now you can easily submit 
your classified ad for print your classified ad for print 
and/or web editions right and/or web editions right 
through our website!through our website!
just go to:just go to:
www.www. alligatoralligator .org.org
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-15
16 Health Services
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
If you find something, you can place a FREE 
FOUND AD  in our lost & found section. 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 21 Entertainment
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil -
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RVs 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                                    4-5-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Sunoco across the GPD is looking for a reliable 
clerk to ring up customers and restock coolers. 
Flexible schedule. Call Nita (352-514-6022) to 
schedule appt.                            4-12-21-4-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp 
Counselors, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall. 
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!   
4-19-21-5-14
solution  over there
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
solution  over there
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
Sports Quiz  answers1. Lee MacPhail.
2. Marshawn Lynch, 
Seattle Seahawks.
3. Garrincha.
4. Cincinnati's 
Riverfront Stadium.5. Bert Sugar.
6. Bossaball.
7. Pedro and Ricardo 
Rodriguez.Trivia Test  answers1. Mike
2. Arthur
3. United States, central 
and south regions
4. Canberra
5. Duck-billed platypus and 
the spiny anteater6. Grendel
7. El Guapo
8. The Equality State
9. Green
10. PeruCryptoQuote  answer
- - - - - - - - spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - -1. What baseball executive served as 
president of the American League from 
1974-83?
2. Name the NFL running back who re -
peatedly said "I'm just here so I don't get 
fined" at a Super Bowl XLIX media-day 
press conference.
3. Brazilian footballer Manuel Francisco 
dos Santos, famous for his spectacular 
dribbling, was better known by what 
nickname?
4. On June 30, 1970, the Atlanta Braves' 
Hank Aaron hit the first home run in the 
history of what stadium?5. What boxing writer and sports histo -
rian, known for his signature fedora and 
cigar, was editor and publisher of "The 
Ring" magazine from 1979-83?
6. What sport, originating in Spain in 
2005, combines volleyball, soccer and 
gymnastics with music, and is played on 
an inflatable court with trampolines on 
both sides of the net?
7. Mexico's premier motorsports track is 
named after two brothers who both died 
in auto-racing incidents nine years apart. 
Who are they?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
answers  over there©2021 
King Features Synd., Inc.by Ryan A. 
Berenz
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something?found something?   
Truth often suffers more
by the heat of its
defenders than from the
arguments of its opposers 
— Carl Sagan10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021
www.alligator.org/sportsFEATURE
THE SOPHOMORE ALMOST HAD 
TO QUIT GYMNASTICS BECAUSE A 
TUMOR DOCTORS FOUND 
WHEN SHE WAS 12
By Zachary Huber 
Sports Writer
Payton Richards floated through the air 
with unbreakable focus until gravity pulled 
her down. She froze upon landing and 
unleashed an infectious smile in front of a 
socially distant, sold-out O’Connell Center 
versus Kentucky. She scored a 9.875 that 
tied her career-best on floor. 
But Richards wasn’t always that way.
She would be nervous before events. 
So she would go to her club coach Don 
McPherson to support. He always responded 
that he was nervous, too.
Richards, like many athletes, became 
antsy before she competed. She created 
a pre-meet ritual akin to NBA star LeBron 
James’ chalk toss before tip-off for herself. 
She carried the habit like a tattoo from age 
12 to college, even with different coaches 
and after she nailed a previous routine.
However, her gymnastics career didn’t 
start until her parents saw her on the sideline 
at her brothers’ football games. 
Richards mimed the cheerleaders and 
cartwheeled. That’s when her mother Becky 
Richards knew her daughter was a gymnast. 
“She would do everything that they did 
with not ever being coached,” Becky said. 
The difficulty of their maneuvers never 
phased Richards. 
Becky, a former gymnast and coach, 
worried for her daughter as she understood 
the sport’s intensity. She encouraged 
Richards to try out other sports like 
swimming and soccer. But none stuck like 
gymnastics. 
She confronted that reality when 
Richards’ eyes were glued to the TV in the 
summer of 2004. That’s when Becky knew 
she belonged on the mats.
Carly Patterson surged back in the 
Olympics after she landed out of bounds on 
vault to seal the second all-around title in 
American history. Three-year-old Richards 
turned to Becky.
“Mommy, I want one of those. I want 
one of those, and I want to do that,” Becky 
recalled what Richards told her.
And Richards’ journey to Florida 
gymnastics took off like a plane down a 
runway in eighth grade. She got her passport 
stamped in Italy for an international meet 
and received interest from colleges.
Months before the trip, she started to 
complain to her parents about persistent 
pain in her lower back area. Becky took her 
to a pediatric orthopedic doctor, who treated 
it with physical therapy and dry needling, 
a treatment similar to acupuncture to ease 
muscular pain.
But two months later, Richards’ pain 
lingered despite the needles’ pricks and 
prods. The doctor then ordered 12-year-old Richards an MRI. Her journey became an 
expedition. 
The results came in three days later, and 
her parents’ hearts sank into their stomachs. 
Doctors discovered a tumor in her 
hamstring in January 2015. They diagnosed 
Richards with a nerve sheath tumor, a 
rare type of tumor treated with surgery, 
chemotherapy or radiation. 
Her doctor immediately referred them 
to Dr. Terrance Peabody, an orthopedic 
surgeon at Ann & Robert H. Laurie Children’s 
Hospital of Chicago. 
Her parents spent hours researching the 
tumor like the night before a final exam. 
They quickly learned it was more than a 
“baby tumor.”
Two weeks after the MRI, they met Dr. 
Peabody, and Richards’ father asked for the 
worst-case scenario. 
There were two potential outcomes: the 
tumor is removed and biopsied or Richards 
would lose her leg and endure chemotherapy 
and radiation. 
Her parents slumped out of Dr. Peabody’s 
office in disbelief. Their world shifted from a 
trip to Italy to a ride to the pediatric wing in 
a matter of days. 
Tears trickled down McPherson and his 
wife Patrice’s faces when they found out 
about the original scan. 
The second MRI poured gasoline on an 
open fire. Richards’ chances of returning to 
gymnastics looked slim. She would be lucky 
to walk correctly again as she suffered from 
a condition called drop foot, which causes 
difficulty lifting the front of the foot.
With each MRI, the news worsened. 
Richards’ tumor was encapsulated in her 
hamstring muscle.
Richards entered a state of denial. She 
downplayed the severity of the tumor like 
it was nothing beyond a sprained ankle. She 
thought she would return to the gym in a 
couple of weeks. 
“She just didn’t understand it,” Becky 
said. “She had no clue. It was like when the 
doctor was talking to us; it went in one ear 
and out the other.”
Many in Richards’ life were worried that 
she wasn't taking the diagnosis seriously, 
especially because she may have never 
sported a leotard again. But she shared her 
unfiltered feelings with her lifelong friend 
Jessica Roberts. 
Roberts met Richards in third grade and 
the duo became inseparable. 
“She did everything she could and pushed 
and had this determination to get back to 
gymnastics and make it work,” Roberts said. 
Richards prepared for the surgery so she 
could return to gymnastics. 
Five days later, on Feb. 24, 2015, Becky, 
her husband and Richards’ grandparents 
sat in the waiting room of Ann & Robert H. 
Laurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago. 
They stared at the surgery update board 
like students in a classroom glared at a clock 
for the end of the school day. After two 
hours, a nurse strolled out. A routine update 
delivered the news of a lifetime. Richards was out of surgery. 
When Dr. Peabody opened her leg and 
slid the hamstring over, the tumor popped 
out. He breathed a sigh of relief because 
the worst-case scenario was avoided. But 
the waiting game resumed. Dr. Peabody 
shipped the tumor out to pathology. They 
waited a week for the results.
Saddened by the neonate cries from the 
nursery, Richards didn’t want to spend 
another day in a hospital bed. Dr. Peabody 
struck a deal with her and said he would 
sign her discharge forms if she could walk to 
the bathroom and climb stairs. And she did.
The Richards’ left the hospital around 
midnight. But her family, coach and doctor 
weren’t convinced she was in the clear to 
return to gymnastics.
Alyssa Parlich, another of Richards 
lifelong friends, believed she emerged after 
the surgery with a new perspective on life. 
“She realized that it could be over in like 
an instant,” she said. “She was a little bit 
more cautious and realized that she had an 
amazing gift.”
During her two month recovery, 
Becky and Richards didn’t 
mention gymnastics. McPherson, 
meanwhile, prepared for her 
return to Aerial Gymnastics 
Club. 
He called Dr. Peabody to 
learn how to rehabilitate from 
her injury. The doctor gave 
Richards the green light to 
start practicing again but 
warned that she might not 
be the same gymnast.
“I knew if Payton came 
back to gymnastics, she 
would not be a happy 
camper if she couldn’t 
fly,” McPherson said.
The path was bumpy 
when she returned to her 
club’s gym. The doctors 
cleared her to start jogging 
and complete figure eights. 
McPherson noticed her foot 
looked like a puppeteer 
controlled it.
Six months later, it 
was like a light switch 
flipped on. Richards 
rediscovered her old 
self. 
Richards overcame 
hurdles like the 
frustration of not picking 
up where she left off after 
surgery with hard work.
“Being here and being able 
to do what I love is surreal; 
it’s amazing,” she said. “I'm 
so grateful and thankful that it 
turned out that way because I 
know that there was a lot on the 
table that could have gotten 
taken away from me."
Richards’ career picked up, 
and she received interest from college coaches at 13.
But the sophomore only considered one 
school: Florida. The Gators and their star 
gymnasts like Alex McMutry, Bridget Sloan, 
Kennedy Baker and Alicia Boren became 
idols. 
However, UF stood a thousand miles 
away from Mokena, Illinois, and her parents 
didn’t want to send her to school that’s so 
far away. 
But they became sure of Richards’ decision 
when she walked into Dr. Peabody’s office 
two weeks after her surgery to have her 
stitches removed. She wore a Northwestern 
sweatshirt when he asked where she’s going 
for college.   
She told the doctor that she was dead 
set on being a Gator. Dr. Peabody turned 
to Becky and told her that his mentor is a 
UF physician. That’s when they knew they 
made the right call.  
And Florida reciprocated interest. 
Richards captured assistant coach 
Adrian Burde’s eyes. Head coach 
Jenny Rowland admired her 
because she’s a natural at 
the sport.
“She smiles, and she 
is confident and she loves 
gymnastics,”  
Rowland  
said. “Really, those are 
the great attributes that I look 
for in an athlete is their love, 
and passion for the sport. She is 
just so bubbly and giddy.”
However, Becky wanted 
Richards to consider multiple 
schools to find the right fit for 
her. But she only needed to 
visit one. 
The Richards made the 
15-hour trek from Mokena, 
Illinois, to the Swamp. They 
visited Florida on Oct. 3, 
2015, when the No. 25 Gators 
football team defeated No. 3 
Ole Miss 38-10.
And the moment she 
stepped on campus, Richards 
felt at home, like she never left 
Mokena. She hung out with 
the 2015-2016 gymnastics 
team and met her parents 
at halftime. She begged her 
parents to let her commit, 
and they eventually gave in.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/sports
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgRichards: The career that was almost cut short
Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorsSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
AlligatorSports has a podcast. 
The AlligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2021
BASEBALL
A CLOSER EXAMINATION OF 
WHAT’S PROMISING AND 
WHAT’S CONCERNING FOR 
GATORS BASEBALL DURING A 
MERCURIAL SEASON
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Tommy Mace bellowed as 
he retired the final Rebel Friday 
night. The home crowd cheered 
the series-opening victory over 
Ole Miss.
The scene stood in stark con -
trast to the previous weekend at 
Founders Park for the Gators, 
when they dropped all three 
games to South Carolina. It was 
their first sweep at the hands of 
the Gamecocks since 2006.
The gap between the two 
weekends, furthered by a series 
win over the Rebels Sunday, re -
affirmed that Florida’s problem 
doesn’t concern its ceiling. It 
concerns how often they reach it.
An 18-9 record in early April 
shouldn’t tempt the panic button, 
and Florida remains in prime po -
sition to make a run to Omaha. 
But for a team atop every pre -
season national poll that received 
all but two votes to win the con -
ference, it’s been unsatisfying at times.
What’s been the bane of Flor -
ida’s games early on? What can 
the team hang its hat on? Here’s 
a closer examination.
What’s bad?
The Gators fielding didn’t re -
gress to the mean in 2021. It re -
gressed to mediocrity. 
A year ago, Florida commit -
ted 10 errors in 17 games, and no 
Gator earned more than two. In 
2021, Florida totaled 31 errors in 
the first 27 games, an increase of 
0.56 miscues a game. 
Shortstop Josh Rivera, named 
second-team All-SEC in the 
coaches’ poll, committed eight 
himself for a team-low .904 field -
ing rate. Only Jud Fabian and 
Kendrick Calilao remain perfect 
in the field. So far, the Gators 
surrendered 20 unearned runs.
The team’s fielding percent -
age slipped to .970, 130th in the 
country and directly between 
South Alabama and Loyola Mary -
mount (CA). The team’s .984 
average from 2020 would rank 
seventh.
One could make a compelling 
argument that Florida’s strength 
in 2020 lay late in the game on 
the mound. Three Gator reliev -ers pitched more than 10 innings 
with ERAs of 1.20 or lower. The 
bullpen combined for five saves, 
an 8-0 record and a 1.76 ERA in 
more than 76 innings. Florida 
threw 22.2 consecutive scoreless 
innings in relief from Feb. 29 to 
March 6.
So far in 2021, Florida’s reliev -
ers combined for 44 earned runs 
in 110 innings of work, discount -
ing Tommy Mace and Jack Left -
wich’s closing efforts against Ole 
Miss. A 3.60 ERA and a 3-4 re -
cord feel night and day from the 
dominance a year ago.
Disasters and pitfalls snag 
Florida’s pitchers more than a 
year ago. The Gators allowed 25 
home runs in the first 27 games, 
with 29.9% of surrendered hits 
for multiple bases. Their extra-
base hits allowed rose from 1.94 
to 2.48 per game, and opposing 
slugging percentage flew from 
.294 to .367. 
The team’s ERA inflated from 
2.41 to 3.86 and the opposing 
batting average rose from .207 
to .237. Florida’s strikeouts per 
nine innings fell from 10.72 to 
9.34. The margins sound small 
on paper, but the regression on 
the mound and in the field means 
the Gators yielded 4.70 runs per 
game so far this season.What’s good?
Florida didn’t regress at the 
plate. In fact, their 2021 numbers 
are eerily identical to a season 
ago.
The Gators batted .277 thus 
far, a marginal decline from their 
.285 average in 2020. They in -
creased their slugging percentage 
from .447 to .451, and their on-
base percentage dipped from .383 
to .366. They collected an aver -
age of 7.04 runs and 9.78 hits per 
game so far, within striking dis -
tance of their 7.24 runs and 10.06 
hits per game in 2020. 
They’ve struck out less, too. 
They failed to make contact on 
27.8% of their at bats a year ago 
compared to 24.9% of at bats in 
2021.
The offense delivered consis -
tently this season as well. They 
scored 10 or more runs five 
times against six games with five 
runs or less. At least five Gators 
reached base safely in every game 
this season, and they tallied eight 
or more hits in 20 games.
A trio of true freshmen im -
pressed early at the plate. In -
fielder Colby Halter started all 
but two games and batted .297. 
His 21 RBIs rank third on the 
team. Outfielder Sterlin Thomp -
son batted .274 in 21 starts with a team-high three triples. Infielder 
Jordan Carrion recorded 14 hits 
in 20 games, including his first 
home run Sunday.
The class of 2020 drew atten -
tion on the mound, too. Carrion’s 
allowed four hits and no runs in 
6.1 innings this year, perform -
ing well enough for head coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan to say he could 
grow into a closer role. Right 
hander Chase Centala threw a 
scoreless four innings in his first 
start against North Florida, and 
Timmy Manning permitted just 
two hits in 5.2 innings of relief. 
Manning’s first start against 
Stetson, five earned runs in un -
der two innings, left much to be 
desired. But the newest wave of 
Gators already show promise.
As Florida sits exactly half -
way through the 2021 season, it 
can take pride in its offense and 
newest additions. However, if the 
Gators want to leap from fifth in 
the SEC East to national champi -
onship contenders, it’s obvious 
what holds them back.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgFlorida baseball state of the union: What’s bad and what’s good ?