We Inform. Y ou Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperMLK Celebration
For the first time in 40 years, the m arch was held online , pg. 6
Santa Fe COVID-19 numbers
The college is continuing in-person classes,  pg. 2Redemption 
The Gators left the College World Series 
stunned after an earlier exit. They were 
robbed of redemption last season. Will this 
season end their way? Pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperTUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 17
A CAR HIT A GROUP OF FIVE
UF STUDENTS ON A
NEARBY SIDEWALK, 
KILLING ONE OF THEM
By Asta Hemenway
Alligator Staff Writer 
Just over a month after a UF freshman was 
killed in a hit-and-run on West University Av -
enue, another five students were hit –– and 
one died –– after a crash on the road Saturday 
evening.
Sophia Lambert, an 18-year-old UF theater 
sophomore in the Delta Phi Epsilon sorority, 
died following the crash, and five others were 
hospitalized. 
A Honda Accord was heading west on Uni -
versity Avenue when it tried turning south 
on Northwest 17th Street and crashed into 
an eastbound Honda Civic, according to a 
Gainesville Police Department press release. 
The Honda Civic skidded sideways, hitting a 
pole and five UF students on the sidewalk, 
including Lambert.
As of Monday afternoon, one student is 
still in the hospital while three students and 
the driver of the Honda Civic have been re -
leased, GPD spokesperson Graham Glover 
said. GPD and University Police are investi -
gating the crash. 
At about 7:30 p.m., GPD officers were 
called to the scene near Midtown, Glover said.
Two months ago, Maggie Paxton, a UF 
student and member of the Kappa Kappa 
Gamma sorority, was killed in a hit-and-run 
in the same area. Three hit-and-run crashes in December left Paxton and another dead and 
one in critical condition in Gainesville.
Now, UF students and city residents are 
calling on the school and Gainesville to take 
action. A petition created Saturday night had 
gained more than 18,000 signatures as of 
Monday evening. A second petition calling 
for speed bumps on University Avenue was 
created Sunday afternoon and had more than 
9,000 signatures as of Monday evening. 
UF Senior Vice President and Chief Oper -
ating Officer Charlie Lane and Vice President 
for Student Affairs D’Andra Mull sent out a 
statement to students, faculty and staff Sun -
day afternoon announcing Lambert’s death, 
as well as offering counseling and support. 
The university asked the community to keep 
Lambert, her family, friends and the others 
injured in the crash in their thoughts. 
“Please do not hesitate to reach out to us 
for help,” they wrote in the statement. “The 
loss of any student life is unfathomable, and 
we recognize the effect the loss of one of our 
own has on the collective community.” 
They also wrote that conversations about 
pedestrian and vehicular safety are under -
way. UF President Kent Fuchs wrote in a 
tweet Sunday evening that his heart goes out 
to Lambert’s family and friends and that he 
is committed to “efforts regarding pedestrian 
safety on and around campus.”
UF Delta Phi Epsilon posted on Facebook 
Sunday evening the sorority is deeply sad -
dened by Lambert’s passing during her first 
semester in the chapter. 
Delta Phi Epsilon described her as a bright 
light who had a passion for theater, politics, 
Dance Marathon, Hillel, the UF Jewish com -
munity, and Chabad UF Jewish Student Cen -ter. 
“Our sisters remember Sophia as a kind, 
sushi-loving, Broadway enthusiast, outspo -
ken girl who cared for others and loved deep -
ly,” the organization’s statement read. 
The total number of people in both cars 
in Saturday’s crash was unknown Sunday af -
ternoon.
The driver of the White Honda Accord was 
Boris Stoyanov, a 19-year-old UF architecture 
sophomore, said Cole Wyatt, a passenger in 
the car. 
Wyatt, also a 19-year-old UF architecture 
student, said he and Stoyanov were OK fol -
lowing the crash but are still processing what happened.
Wyatt said when he was in the Accord 
during the crash, the air bag popped up and 
he noticed smoke but didn’t see what hap -
pened.
“It’s scary how fast it happens,” Wyatt 
said. “It was overwhelming.”
An investigation of the crash is still ongo -
ing.
 
Julia Cooper contributed to this report.
@astahemenway
ahemenway@alligator.org UF student dead after car crash on University Avenue
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
A memorial for Sophia Lambert, an 18-year-old UF theater sophomore in the Delta Phi Epsilon 
Sorority who died following a crash on West University Avenue Saturday, Jan. 16, 2021, can 
be seen at the site of the incident. Five other people were hospitalized after the crash.
FREDRIC LEVIN DIED ON JAN. 12 AT 
83 AFTER CONTRACTING COVID-19
By Abigail Hasebroock,
Alligator Staff Writer
Martin Levin’s voice, slightly quivering 
from the remnants of tears, confidently an -
nounced to those at his father’s outdoor funer -
al that once the world is safe from COVID-19, 
a true celebration would be held for his dad. 
“It will be a blowout party,” Martin said. 
“It will be a Fred Levin celebration.” 
UF’s Levin College of Law namesake Fred -
ric Levin died Jan. 12 due to COVID-19 com -
plications. He was 83 years old. 
Levin graduated from UF law school in 
1961, and UF renamed it to the “Fredric G. 
Levin College of Law” in 1999 after receiving 
a $10 million donation from Levin. Though he 
struggled academically during his time as an 
undergraduate student, he graduated among 
the top of his class in law school, UF College 
of Law Dean Laura Rosenbury said. 
“He was always an advocate for the un -
derdog,” Rosenbury said. 
“He always reminded me 
that he had a very low un -
dergraduate GPA and that 
the dean of the law school 
at the time when he start -
ed assumed he would not 
graduate.” 
Levin went on to not 
only graduate but become 
one of the nation’s most successful attorneys. He then used the success 
and wealth he accumulated to give millions of 
dollars to universities and organizations. 
Levin won several awards throughout his 
life and was named as the top civil litigator in 
Florida by the National Law Journal in 1994. 
The pinnacle of his legal career was reach -
ing a $13 billion settlement with the tobacco 
industry that saves over 100,000 lives every 
year, according to the Levin Papantonio Raf -
ferty Law Firm. 
Rosenbury said Levin’s generous contri -
butions to UF have created opportunities for 
students through numerous scholarships, and 
his positive example illustrates the power of a 
law degree.
“He pushed me to take the law school to 
new heights,” she said. “We’ve made a lot of 
progress, but we still have progress to go, and 
I will hear his voice in the back of my head as 
I move forward.” 
Levin was born and raised in Pensacola, 
Florida, under a roof that housed him and his 
five brothers. He met his wife, Marilyn, during 
his time at UF, and after raising four children 
together and 51 years of marriage, she passed 
away in 2011, according to the Levin Papanto -
nio Rafferty Law Firm. 
Mark Proctor, president of the Levin Pa -
pantonio Rafferty Law Firm, worked with 
Levin for over 40 years. He said Levin’s Jew -
ish heritage often left him feeling like an out -
sider, especially growing up. 
“It was that experience learned at a young 
age that really molded and colored his entire 
life,” Proctor said. 
Levin developed a heart for every man, 
which allowed him to represent and give a voice to the people he worked with through -
out his career, Proctor said. He won more than 
25 verdicts in excess of $1 million with some 
cases involving the wrongful deaths of a child, 
housewife and wage earner, according to the 
Levin Papantonio Rafferty Law Firm. 
“He was always looking to level the play -
ing field,” Proctor said. “His spirit will live on 
in our law firm and in the work we do for -
ever.” 
Levin was known for more than his life as 
a lawyer. He was a father, a grandfather and a 
loving family man. 
In the funeral service conducted by his 
family, his granddaughter, Jacqueline Good -
man, 33, reflected on the man she knew as 
her fun-loving grandfather. 
“To me, he was grandpa,” she said. “My 
grandpa, who would make up silly songs 
about berries and threaten to sing them at our 
school talent show.”
During the funeral, Levin’s family mem -
bers also recalled how he was an avid fighter 
against racial injustice, bigotry and greed.  
“Dad had a very difficult time even under -
standing how someone could be prejudiced,” 
Martin Levin said. “And dad never hesitated, 
in any capacity, to speak up against the ma -
jority, against the authority, against the estab -
lished and against the popular.” 
UF Levin College of Law plans to create a 
tribute webpage in Levin’s honor. Students, 
staff and faculty can email Assistant Dean for 
Messaging and Outreach Whitney Smith at 
smithw@law.ufl.edu with any thoughts or 
memories, and gifts to the College of Law can 
be made in Levin’s honor. 
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgLevin College of Law namesake dies of COVID-19
Levin
FACULTY REPRESENTATIVES EXPRESS CONCERNS 
OVER LACK OF ACCESS TO ICU CAPACITIES AND 
ACTION PLAN THRESHOLDS
By Manny Rea
Alligator Staff Writer 
Intensive care unit capacities are used to de -
termine the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic 
for hospitals and the areas they serve. 
However, UF Health hasn’t released daily 
ICU capacity figures at UF Health Shands Hos -
pital to the public, said Steve Kirn, the co-chair 
of the UF faculty union’s COVID-19 task force. 
UF administration hasn’t made an action plan 
available if capacities were to reach a certain 
level either.
Some are concerned that the UF administra -
tion’s lack of publicly available information may 
leave the university blindsided by a crisis.
Shands had 132 COVID-19 positive patients 
in its 1,100-bed hospital-wide capacity Mon -
day, UF Health spokesperson Ken Garcia said. 
Of those 132 patients, 20% of them were in the 
ICU. 
Garcia clarified in an email that this is a snap -
shot in time, and the hospital census changes Faculty and graduate students 
raise questions over ICU capacities
SEE ICU,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather
THE COLLEGE REPORTED 
A TOTAL OF 555 POSITIVE 
CASES SINCE THE 
PANDEMIC’S START 
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Santa Fe College will con -
tinue to hold in-person classes 
this semester while maintaining 
COVID-19 safety protocols and 
guidelines. 
Since the beginning of the CO -
VID-19 pandemic in March, 511 
Santa Fe College students and 44 
employees have tested positive 
for COVID-19, spokesperson Jay 
Anderson said. This total repre -
sents the college as a whole, in -
cluding online students, Ander -
son said. Of the total, 77 students 
and 17 employees may have vis -
ited campus while positive, he 
said. 
UF has reported more than 
7,500 positive cases since March 
18, according to UF’s Testing 
Dashboard. The university re -
ports its number of cases through 
the dashboard; however, Santa 
Fe does not have a public dash -
board on its COVID-19 landing 
page.
Unlike UF, Santa Fe will not 
require students to be routinely 
tested but they are strongly en -
couraged to, especially if they’re 
experiencing symptoms, Ander -
son said. Leading up to and dur -
ing the Fall semester, Santa Fe 
College provided opportunities 
on campus to get tested through 
the Florida Department of Health 
in Alachua County, Anderson 
said. The tests were administered 
for free, according to Santa Fe’s 
website.  
“We’ve been very proac -
tive since the beginning on this, 
about if you start to feel sick, 
do not come to the campus,” he 
said. “Do not come to any Santa 
Fe College property.” All students, faculty and staff 
should focus on their health first 
and participate in self-screening, 
Anderson said. Santa Fe College’s 
faculty and staff prefer students 
miss a day of classes rather than 
accidentally spread COVID-19. 
In the Fall, faculty, staff and 
students were required to com -
plete COVID-19 training modules 
before the start of the semester, 
according to Santa Fe College’s 
website. People were not allowed 
to return to campus until com -
pleting the training, Anderson 
said.
The college is offering Spring 
courses in four different formats, 
including in-person, to give stu -
dents as many options as pos -
sible, Anderson said. Everyone 
on campus is required to wear 
a mask, and the number of stu -
dents per classroom has been re -
duced to ensure physical distanc -
ing. 
The college has also trans -
formed larger spaces on its cam -
pus, such as the Fine Arts Hall 
auditorium, into classrooms, 
Anderson said. These spaces al -
low the college to accommodate 
for larger classes while following 
COVID-19 guidelines.  
Aside from in-person classes, 
Anderson said students have 
the option to take classes online 
asynchronously, as a traditional 
hybrid or as a virtualized hybrid. 
The traditional hybrid combines 
on-campus learning with virtual 
meetings, whereas the virtualized 
hybrid is fully online with some 
synchronous Zoom meetings.
“It’s really been an all hands 
on deck,” he said. “All the staff 
and the students have been ab -
solute champs about this, consid -
ering the conditions that we’re 
dealing with.” 
 Joshua Songayab, a 19-year-
old Santa Fe College nursing 
sophomore, said he chose to stay 
online this semester because of his own COVID-19 concerns, as 
well as online’s convenience. 
Songayab believes Santa Fe 
has handled the COVID-19 pan -
demic well and has done a good 
job of keeping students informed 
about its policies, he said. 
“They’ve been nothing but 
helpful to me,” he said.
 
@juliana_f616 
jferrie@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is also published on Monday
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 17
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Kate McNamaraDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgSanta Fe College COVID-19 update 
• Santa Fe College has had 
555 total cases; 511 students 
and 44 employees
• Of the total cases, 94 
individuals may have been on 
campus while positive 
• Santa Fe College will not 
require routine testing during 
the Spring 
• Santa Fe is offering classes 
in four formats: in-person, 
online, traditional hybrids and 
virtualized hybrids 
• Masks are required on 
campus, classrooms at reduced 
capacity to maintain social 
distancing
In the last issue of The 
Alligator a photo of a 
student riding an RTS bus 
was incorrectly credited. 
The photo was taken by 
Julia Cooper, Alligator staff 
photographer.TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
The Sackler School of Medicine-New York State/ American Program offers an 
outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York 
and is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. 
One of these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one 
of the top 10 hospitals around the world.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,000 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org  provides extensive information about Sackler SOM. For further 
information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
Applications for the Class of 2025 are available on our website 
GYMS WILL BE INCREASING CAPACITY 
AND REQUIRING STUDENTS TO BE 
CLEARED FOR CAMPUS
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
To adapt to a busier campus this Spring 
while keeping students safe, UF’s gyms in -
creased capacity, required students to be cleared 
for campus and closed certain spaces.
At Southwest Recreation Center, the weight 
room’s capacity has increased from 70 to 100 
people, and the cardio spaces now have a ca -
pacity of over 100 people, Marty Dempsey, as -
sociate director for facility operations for all UF 
facilities, said.
Dempsey said the gyms were able to increase 
capacity because of the success of the Fall mea -
sures and the ability to space out equipment. 
Making sure patrons are cleared for campus has 
been a smooth process, he said.
The gyms have also kept certain spaces 
closed. Locker rooms, basketball on the multi -
purpose courts, Olympic lifting and water foun -
tains are closed at Southwest Rec to maintain social distancing, Dempsey said.
Features like basketball have been moved 
and playtime is by appointment only, he said. 
Everyone is required to wear a mask, and games 
are limited to 3-on-3 so there are fewer people 
on the court. Staff members maintain records of 
who patrons play with and against each game. 
“That way, if somebody did contract CO -
VID-19, through contact tracing, we would be 
able to identify the other participants, be able to 
reach out, hopefully, help to stop the spread,” 
Dempsey said.
While certain features have been closed, 
Dempsey said others have returned this Spring, 
including more intramural and traditional sports 
and group fitness classes. In the Fall, the gyms 
were just offering virtual and outdoor classes.
“As we’ve been able to develop our proto -
cols and procedures and see what has worked, 
we have been able to return to some of the pro -
grams that our participants love,” Dempsey said.
Long lines haven’t really been an issue this 
Spring, and students are abiding by the safety 
measures, Dempsey said.
“Every once in a while, we’ve got to have 
a conversation with somebody and then talk 
through why we have the policy,” he said. “But 
I appreciate how well the UF community has re -sponded to protecting each other.”
Ty Livezey, a 20-year-old UF political sci -
ence junior, used the gym four times a week 
last Spring. But he plans to go less this semester 
because of lower capacities and the closure of 
certain utilities. 
“A lot of the time, if you want to do any -
thing in the weight room, you’re going to have 
to wait,” Livezey said. “It’s really rare that the 
weight room isn’t at full capacity.”
Livezey also feels that the cleared for cam -
pus requirement doesn’t go far enough, because 
while it requires students to get tested, it doesn’t 
require them to obtain a negative result.
“I don’t think that the cleared for campus 
status means anything if it doesn’t represent 
a negative test or that you just don’t have the 
symptoms, ” he said.
While he understands the risks, Livezey said 
working out is a priority. 
“All my classes are online, and I’ve been in 
quarantine at home for the last nine months,” 
he said. “So, for me, going to the gym is one of 
the few activities that are still open and I con -
sider safe.” 
Katherine Perez, a 21-year-old UF women’s 
studies junior, is a facility operations associate 
for RecSports. She started working this Spring 
and said that despite COVID-19, she feels safe 
at work.
Enforcing the safety measures isn’t tiresome, 
she said, because it’s important to keep every -one safe. All staff wear masks at all times and 
patrons aren’t allowed in without one. Despite 
the precautions, however, she’s more worried 
about Spring.
“I am a bit more worried there will be an out -
break at the gym because there are much more 
people on campus than last semester, ” Perez 
wrote in an email. 
However, Perez said she is grateful to have 
a job right now, especially during a pandemic.
“Having a source of income right now when 
a lot of people have lost their jobs is a privilege,” 
she wrote. “Also, having a chance to interact 
with others has improved my wellbeing.”
Despite the risks, students should feel con -
fident they will be safe at the gym because of 
RecSports’ strict safety measures, Perez said.
Staff members like Perez have enabled the 
gyms to remain open for as long as they have 
and been an integral part of the gyms’ success, 
Dempsey said. 
“Right from the get-go, they were ready to 
get back to work and help serve the communi -
ty,” he said. “They have been amazing in help -
ing give feedback about policies, challenging us 
to look at things in certain ways. They really are 
the ones that make the magic happen.”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.org
SOME UF STUDENTS FEEL 
PARKING TICKET FINES ARE 
UNFAIR, BUT TAPS BELIEVES 
THEY CREATE AN EFFICIENT 
ATMOSPHERE FOR GETTING 
AROUND CAMPUS 
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer
Paige Sam triumphs when she’s 
finally able to find a parking spot on 
campus, but she’s less than elated 
when she returns to find parking 
citations plastered onto her dash -
board.
The 18-year-old UF civil engi -
neering freshman said she received 
eight parking tickets in the Fall. One 
was for parking on the white line, 
but if she hadn’t, she would have 
hit the car parked crookedly next to her. The others were for parking in 
places where her decal didn’t apply 
because she couldn’t find availability 
anywhere else.
“We’re in a pandemic, and it’s 
not like I have $200 to give to park -
ing citations,” Sam said. “It’s just un -
reasonable.” 
UF’s Transportation and Parking 
Services lost over $1.1 million be -
tween April and August of 2020 af -
ter  the COVID-19 pandemic arrived. 
Students like Sam are worried TAPS 
is attempting to make up for revenue 
losses by issuing more parking tick -
ets. Fox said this is not the case. 
In a normal year, UF’s parking 
ticket payment revenue is approxi -
mately $1.4 million, but this year’s 
is projected to be less than half at 
about $500,000, Fox said. Despite 
the expected decrease in funds, Fox 
said TAPS does not enforce parking restrictions solely for monetary gain. 
“We issue parking tickets reluc -
tantly,” Fox said. “We know we 
have to issue them in order to main -
tain some degree of order and con -
trol, or things would be chaos.” 
TAPS has financial reserves 
that have been heavily dipped into, 
which nullifies the need to issue ad -
ditional parking tickets to gain back 
funds, Fox said.
“When you maintain 14 parking 
garages on campus, you need mil -
lions of dollars in reserves for the 
structural maintenance of those fa -
cilities,” he said. “You need money 
in reserve for those rainy days.” 
When students angrily approach 
Fox about the tickets they’ve re -
ceived, he often asks them what 
they believe campus would be like 
if parking wasn’t properly regulated. 
Without the rules in place, getting around campus wouldn’t be efficient 
or effective for students and staff, 
Fox said.
“We are truly not about maximiz -
ing revenue,” Fox said. “We don’t 
say, ‘Go out there and write more 
tickets,’ that’s not what we do, that’s 
not what we’re about.”
This Spring, 432 housing con -
tracts were accepted, which means 
more than 400 students are return -
ing to campus in addition to the 
approximately 6,700 students who 
previously signed contracts for Fall 
and Spring. This could create an up -
tick in parking tickets as parking lots 
become more crowded and students 
compete for spots.
UF is offering roughly the same 
number of in-person classes that 
were offered in Spring of 2020, 
which is contributing to the influx of 
students. Though Mindy Frishman said she 
understands the reasons for the fees 
and possibility of being towed, the 
20-year-old UF biology sophomore 
feels it can be unfair and unneces -
sary. 
“I just wish they made more 
spots, but there’s no land for that,” 
Frishman said.
The lack of land for new parking 
spots, TAPS’ reliance on reserves 
and an increase in the student popu -
lation this Spring are not enough to 
convince all students that UF has 
pure intentions.
“UF is really greedy,” Sam said. 
“That’s something you see just in 
general with the pandemic, they 
care more about making money than 
safety of their students.”
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgHow UF’s gyms are handling COVID-19
UF students express frustration over parking restrictions 4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021AFTER FOUR YEARS OF 
DEVELOPMENT AND 
SETBACKS, GAINESVILLE 
NOW HAS A ROBUST 
ECOLOGICAL PLAN TO 
MAINTAIN THE CITY’S 
NATURAL BEAUTY
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer 
Managing Gainesville’s urban 
forest is on the city commis -
sion’s to-do list this year, so it 
approved a robust plan just in 
time for Florida’s Arbor Day.
Urban forests are trees and 
shrubs that live within a city, of -
ten in parks, landscaped streets, 
gardens and nature preserves. 
The 20-year plan, which was 
approved for funding in 2019, is 
designed to keep Gainesville’s 
urban forest abundant, diverse 
and healthy, while also protect -
ing it from development projects. 
Gainesville’s tree cover also helps energy savings during the 
summer. Florida’s trees save cit -
ies $4 billion a year, according to 
UF/IFAS researchers.
City environmental coordina -
tor Liliana Kolluri said the proj -
ect is made up of seven goals 
to improve the beauty of pub -
lic spaces chosen by the Public 
Committee on Urban Forest Sus -
tainability. The project proposes 
including native plants in land -
scaping, providing tree shade 
at every bus stop and ensuring 
access to parks and trails with -
in a 10-minute walk from any 
Gainesville home. These propos -
als are alongside more than 70 
other policies named in the plan. 
A group of 11 residents helped 
keep the policy community-cen -
tered, Kolluri said.
City staff began surveying 739 
residents in 2019 and found that 
about 90% of those surveyed felt 
the urban forest was very impor -
tant to the people of Gainesville. 
The city commission approved the plan with a unanimous vote 
Jan. 7.
“When you ask people who 
come to visit Gainesville or live 
here what they like about it, ev -
eryone talks about our beautiful 
trees and all the vegetation ev -
erywhere and our nice parks,” 
Kolluri said.
Every five years, the 
Gainesville Tree Advisory Board 
and the public committee will re -
assess the plan’s progress. This, 
alongside annual reports, will 
help mark progress and hold the 
city accountable, although the 
project does not have a strict 
timeline for completion, Kolluri 
said.
“There is flexibility in what 
order we approach these,” Kol -
luri said. “And it just really de -
pends on the resources needed 
and the time needed to do some 
of these specific actions.”
Though the plan was expected 
to be finalized in December 2019, 
it wasn’t approved until Jan. 7.In the summer of 2018, Kol -
luri said the project fell in her 
lap after Gainesville’s arborist, 
the supervisor of the urban for -
est, moved away. The city went 
through three arborists during 
the project’s development. 
The COVID-19 pandemic in -
terrupted the in-person meet -
ings Kolluri’s office had with 
city managers and technical staff 
who were working on the plan, 
she said. After finalizing the pro -
posal through online meetings, 
her team was ready to present 
it to the city commission at its 
last meeting of 2020. But it was 
pushed off the agenda by higher-
priority policies.
While the plan had been in se -
rious development for two years, 
its inception was back in 2016.
UF/IFAS professor Michael 
Andreu contributed to the 2016 
Gainesville Urban Forest Ecologi -
cal Analysis, a report requested 
by the city’s parks and recreation 
department in 2014. The report found Gainesville 
canopy cover reached 47% of the 
city, referring to the ground area 
directly covered by trees.
He said the plan was based on 
a similar urban forest manage -
ment plan he helped develop in 
Tampa. Tampa’s tree cover di -
versity – which has a lot of in -
vasive species and differs greatly 
from Gainesville – required a 
very different approach, he said.
“Our forest really does a great 
job of reflecting sort of what the 
native forest in the surrounding 
areas would be like,” Andreu 
said.
Andreu said the plan split 
Gainesville into different land 
use categories, with specific 
goals for each area. This is nec -
essary due to the size of Gaines -
ville’s urban forest, which is one 
of the largest in Florida.
“It’s a very progressive plan 
and certainly, it includes as -
pects of how do we maintain tree 
health,” he said.
@jack_prator
jackprator@alligator.org
INSTRUCTORS JUGGLE LESSON 
PLANS, NEW TECHNOLOGY AND 
PRESSURE FROM STUDENTS 
AND ADMINISTRATORS 
By Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writer
Between lesson plans, new technology 
and added pressure from UF students and 
administrators, instructors are stretched 
thin.
As the first week came to a close, UF 
instructors reflected on the start of the 
semester with the most in-person classes 
since Spring 2020. They were asked to 
shift gears from teaching entirely online to HyFlex classes. Some found the transition 
on top of preparing their usual material as 
added pressure amid the already-stressful 
pandemic. 
Kylie Williamson, a UF doctoral stu -
dent in bioarchaeology and the instructor 
of an introductory public speaking course, 
began teaching HyFlex classes Jan. 13. 
She encountered problems balancing her 
attention between in-person and online 
students. 
Williamson was concerned online stu -
dents may feel neglected during classes, 
especially since they cannot see or hear 
the in-person students.
“Last semester we were all online, all 
on Zoom, but at least we were on the same playing field,” she said. 
Williamson also had trouble with man -
aging the new technology of HyFlex class -
es.
“It’s just this added layer of unneces -
sary stress,” she said. “It’s the fear of the 
technology not working, students not be -
ing able to hear me.”
As the director of graduate student 
teaching, Anastasia Ulanowicz has ob -
served how graduate students like Wil -
liamson adapted to simultaneously teach -
ing online classes and doing personal 
research since last Fall. She was impressed 
with their adjustments to remote teaching 
but said the shift to hybrid and in-person 
teaching ignored these adjustments by in -
troducing a different system. 
“The graduate students are very, very 
concerned and very afraid,” she said.
Graduate student teachers are also con -
cerned about their health. Many have to 
ride on public transportation, where they 
could potentially contract the virus, to get 
to campus, Ulanowicz said. Others have 
at-risk loved ones to care for and were 
refused Americans with Disabilities Act 
accommodations. Some are even inter -
national students who have shared their 
fears with Ulanowicz. 
“They’ve told me that they’re afraid of 
falling ill and dying thousands of miles 
away from home,” she said. 
These concerns are among the reasons 
why the United Faculty of Florida-UF, 
UF’s faculty union, has fought the return 
to in-person classes. 
UFF-UF’s published an official chapter 
grievance against the Spring 2021 Face-to-
Face Teaching Mandate and the rejection 
of ADA accommodations. The grievance 
states 65% of ADA requests were denied 
to faculty who applied for accommoda -
tions, many of whom have conditions that 
place them at a higher risk for COVID-19.
The announcement of an addition to 
the GatorSAFE app garnered even more 
backlash from UFF-UF. GatorSAFE pro -vides tools to help keep members of the 
Gainesville community safe, and the addi -
tion allowed students to report instructors 
if students feel there are inconsistencies 
between in-person and online teaching. 
UFF pushed back against this addi -
tion because of its potential to violate 
the contract between UF and the faculty 
union. GAU-UF, UF’s chapter of Graduate 
Assistant United, also protested the addi -
tion. UF has since removed the addition’s 
drop-down menu and changed its purpose 
description, but the option to report in -
consistencies in teaching to the university 
remains.
Despite concerns raised by the return 
to in-person classes, some instructors are 
glad they’ve been given the opportunity to 
teach in person. 
For Angela Decarlis, a UF graduate stu -
dent in painting and drawing, it is impor -
tant the figure drawing class they teach 
remains in-person. 
“A lot of people don’t realize that the 
skill of translating a 3D human form to 2D 
is different than it would be if we were 
learning from screens,” they said. 
Accommodating Decarlis’s disability, 
social distancing policies and the course’s 
curriculum has split the class between 
two classrooms of six students each. Al -
though their disability doesn’t put them 
at a greater risk for COVID-19, they wrote 
there are instructors in their department 
also teaching in person who are immuno -
compromised. 
By seating students in two separate 
classrooms and having a work study stu -
dent in class on days when figure models 
are present, Decarlis was able to continue 
teaching in -person.
“There are plenty of educators right 
now who are teaching the classes I am 
teaching online,” Decarlis said. “I am 
grateful to not be one of those teachers.”
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.orgCity approves urban forest management plan 
UF instructors speak out about week one of in-person teaching
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Velvet Yates, director of Distance Learning for the UF Classics Department, begins class in an 
empty classroom on Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2021. She said the university requires her to teach in 
the classroom, even if no students show up. “It’s absurd,” Yates said. “I’ve been teaching online 
classes for 15 years. I know how to teach online classes, and this isn’t it.”
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
ALACHUA COUNTY 
LEADERS REFLECT ON HOW 
RACIAL INEQUITY 
PERSISTS TODAY
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s note: This story contains 
mention of racial violence.
In 1916, resisting arrest and be -
ing related to the friend of a fugitive 
while Black was a crime punishable 
by death. That’s what happened to 
Jim Dennis and his siblings. 
When George Wynne tried to is -
sue a warrant for the arrest of Boisey 
Long, a Black man accused of steal -
ing pigs, Long shot Wynne and then 
escaped into the night. An angry 
mob of about 200 mostly white New -
berry residents formed to search for 
Long. They captured him two nights 
later, but others were caught in the 
crossfire during their rampage.
Jim Dennis, Long’s friend, was 
shot and killed in his home for re -
sisting arrest after being suspected 
of helping Long escape. Dennis’s 
siblings, Bert and Mary, were round -
ed up by the same mob and then 
hanged on an oak tree at the intersec -
tion of Newberry Lane and Alachua 
County Route 235.
With global Black Lives Matter 
protests in response to police bru -
tality and the continued prevalence 
of white supremacy, 2020 was a 
reminder of how the fight for racial 
equity persists today. Some argue 
lynchings never stopped, citing inci -
dents such as the killings of Ahmaud 
Arbery and George Floyd and what 
some continue to call lynch mobs.  Since June 2018, County Com -
mission Chair Charles Chestnut has 
led a county-wide effort to recall Ala -
chua County’s legacy of racial vio -
lence with Truth and Reconciliation. 
Heading into the first few months of 
2021, Alachua County is prepared 
to continue hosting commemora -
tive events to remember victims and 
continue to reconcile with stories like 
Jim Dennis’. 
The commission initiated its en -
deavor in response to national Equal 
Justice Initiative lynching research. 
Local historians were able to confirm 
a national list of victims and find 
more. Eleven lynchings happened in 
Gainesville, according to the coun -
ty’s timeline.
Jim Dennis’ great-grandson 
Warren Lee lives to tell his family’s 
story. He shared what happened on 
Nov. 15 at Heartwood Soundstage 
in Gainesville. The Remembrance, 
Reckoning and Reflection event fea -
tured others who spoke on the state 
of racial equity in the county. 
“The tree is gone,” Lee said dur -
ing the event. “But the memories still 
linger in the city of Newberry.”
While stories like the Dennises’ 
are known, historians are unsure 
of details surrounding other cases. 
Between 1867 and 1942, at least 
50 Alachua County residents were 
murdered at the hands of prejudicial 
lynchings, which is defined as an 
unlawful murder by a group, some -
times even referring to public execu -
tions meant as a punishment. 
Some victims still remain name -
less. Most of them were Black, but 
some were white and at least one 
was Jewish.
Newberry leading the way
Among the 50 lynching victims in Alachua County were the Newberry 
Six – the Black residents who were 
murdered following the accusation 
of stolen pigs, including Dennis and 
his relatives. 
Lee, a longtime Newberry resi -
dent, said he’s still baffled that his 
relatives were murdered over pigs. 
He said he still has a hard time re -
turning to the site of their deaths.
“I cannot imagine seeing their 
bodies flowing back and forth in the 
wind of the tree,” Lee said on the 
Heartwood Soundstage. “I can only 
think: Was it hot that day? Was it 
cold that day? Did the Florida buz -
zards peck at their skin?”
Often lynchings, along with other 
accounts of white supremacy, are 
poorly documented and hard to un -
cover, according to a 2020 New York 
Times report. With time, more ac -
counts of lynchings have come to the 
forefront, like the 2017 county report 
that increased the number of known 
Alachua County lynchings from 21 to 
43. More are likely to be found. 
Newberry Mayor Jordan Mar -
lowe represents the town in the 
Community Remembrance effort. 
It’s difficult to have accurate records 
of lynchings because people, gener -
ally, can be unwilling to participate 
in uncomfortable conversations, he 
said. 
He said Newberry has never tried 
to hide its history of racial violence. 
Marlowe and local organizers 
believe more people may have been 
killed the day of the Newberry Six 
lynchings, so they continue to honor 
the unknown, Marlowe said. After 
organizing honorary gatherings, he 
said the town received positive feed -
back from residents. 
Marlowe said he sees police bru -
tality as a modern-day iteration of racial violence such as the Newberry 
lynchings.
“Think of the Newberry Six in 
1916 and then of Ahmaud Arbery in 
2020,” he said. “You tell me if these 
stories seem similar or not.”
Despite Newberry’s efforts, Mar -
lowe said some other towns in the 
county, such as Hawthorne and 
Gainesville, have decided to ignore it 
by not actively looking for more vic -
tims. The reason the Newberry Six 
is so well-known is because of the 
town’s dedication to search for and 
publicize the truth, he added.
“As long as there’s a city left in 
the county that’s not acknowledging 
our work, then I will take the posi -
tion that we’re at the beginning of 
this process,” he said. “We need to 
see the truth before we can even re -
ally consider reconciliation.”
Micanopy just getting started
In Micanopy, Truth and Recon -
ciliation is still a new conversation.
 Jiana Williams, a 34-year-old Mi -
canopy resident, never could have 
imagined that a lynching took place 
in the same town square where her 
grandmother used to spend her days 
working at a mill.
Local historians are just begin -
ning to uncover the lynchings that 
happened in Micanopy, Williams 
said. After learning the history, she 
said she thinks about her grand -
mother. 
“Knowing that she worked in 
a town where her ancestors could 
have been lynched,” she said. “It 
breaks my heart because it makes it 
tangible.”
Williams joined the Commu -
nity Remembrance effort just over a 
month ago. She felt the need to par -
ticipate in the group effort because she said being Black in America is 
still challenging today, racial vio -
lence has just taken new forms.
“I can’t be in the park bird-watch -
ing without a white woman calling 
the cops,” she said.
Williams said she was the only 
Black teacher at Micanopy Middle 
School, a town where just over 8% 
of the population is Black. She said 
she was the only Black person some 
of her students regularly interacted 
with, which she felt added pressure 
to make those interactions positive. 
The approach of remembrance 
efforts should aim to bring white 
people into the conversation, Wil -
liams said. 
“Twenty years from now, we’re 
going to have the same problem be -
cause it’s just getting passed down,” 
she said. “But these scars are still rel -
evant to the descendants of victims.”
Warren Lee said he wishes Ala -
chua County would teach the history 
of lynchings in classrooms. 
“Not one book will tell you about 
this incident,” Lee said. “But when 
you talk to the citizens of Newber -
ry, they want to talk about it. And I 
think we should.”
He sometimes pictures what his 
relatives’ final prayer might have 
sounded like, he said. As his relatives 
each sat on a horse with a noose 
around their neck attached to the 
tree, he said he believes they might 
have thought of this Bible passage: 
“Though I walk through the valley of 
the shadow of death, I will fear no 
evil: for thou art with me.”
“Did they get to say a final 
prayer?” he said. “I don’t know, but I 
know it wasn’t justice.”
@alanhalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgThe path to reconciliation: How Alachua County confronts its history of lynchings
throughout the day as patients are admitted and discharged.
The United Faculty of Florida-UF and the UF-Graduate 
Assistants United previously demanded increased transpar -
ency regarding UF administration’s reasoning to hold more in-
person classes and for more faculty accommodations Oct. 20. 
Kirn said he is now calling on the administration to provide 
clarity on the hospital front.There are no plans to make an ICU capacity dashboard, 
UF Health spokesperson Bill Levesque said. ICU availability 
changes too frequently throughout the day to include a dash -
board similar to UF’s COVID-19 dashboard, which displays 
on-campus quarantine capacity and daily test counts, he said.
UF Health has extensive, internal disaster plans and pro -
cesses in place for all kinds of events, including the COVID-19 
pandemic, Levesque said, though he did not elaborate on 
what the plans entailed.Since the onset of the pandemic, UFF-UF and UF-GAU have 
expressed concerns about the return of in-person classes in the 
Spring. The groups have said it negatively affects high-risk fac -
ulty members and disregards the failures of other universities 
that tried reopening in the Fall.
For example, the University of Michigan altered Spring 
2021 on-campus plans to be a smaller affair by reducing its 
number of housing contracts and allowing instructors to de -
termine what is the safest class format. UF should follow suit, 
Kirn said. 
The university should lay out thresholds of infection rates 
showing the risks of transmission like the Centers for Disease 
Control’s recommended school reopening indicators, he said. 
For a university campus, a positivity rate of 5% or higher in -
dicates a moderate risk of transmission, according to the CDC. 
These figures, alongside ICU capacities, could help UF faculty 
and staff determine when in-person instruction is no longer 
viable, Kirn said.
“You can’t wait until you’re at 4.5% and then start taking 
action,” Kirn said. “By then, it’s too late.” 
UF-GAU has had to refer to outside sources to better un -
derstand COVID-19 on campus, Rachel Hartnett, the UF-GAU 
healthcare chair and English department graduate teaching as -
sistant, said.
“It leaves you dumbfounded,” Hartnett said. “We want to 
make sure our most vulnerable populations are protected.”
Garcia said Shands has the ability to adjust the number of 
ICU beds to meet the needs of patients. One solution is using 
step-down beds, which provide an intermediate level of care 
for patients between a medical-surgical unit and the ICU.
Shands is also a major referral center for the Southeast, 
Garcia said. Being a Level I trauma center also accounts for 
some occupancies, meaning it can provide total care for an in -
jury from prevention to rehabilitation, according to UF Health. 
Levesque said.  Shands is comfortable with its ICU capabilities 
in and out of the pandemic.
Kirn recognizes the hospital is dealing with a moving target 
of beds and nurses, but he thinks faculty and staff should still 
have a voice in the process.
“We’re all in this together,” Kirn said. “I mean, that’s be -
come the phrase everybody uses, right? If we are, then let’s 
really be in it together.”
 
@ReaManny
mrea@alligator.orgICU,  from pg. 1UF Health Shands had 132 COVID-19 patients Monday
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
J. Evans, a Gainesville Police Department officer, directs traffic into Malcom Randall VA Medical Center on Monday, Jan. 18, 2021. A long 
line of traffic formed outside the hospital as Alachua County residents 65-years-old and older waited to receive COVID-19 vaccines.
6   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
THE KING COMMISSION 
CELEBRATED 
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 
DAY ALL WEEK  
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Martin Luther King, Jr. Commission 
hosted King Celebration week in Gainesville 
once again. But this year, there was no 
march and half of the weeklong festivities 
were streamed online.
The Annual Commemorative March in 
Gainesville has averaged between 3,000 and 
4,000 attendees in the past few years. For 
the first time in 40 years, the event did not 
take place on MLK Day, Rodney J. Long, 
founder and president of the Martin Luther 
King Commission of Florida, said.
Instead, the King Commission hosted 
three online events leading up to its final 
in-person event at Citizen Field: The Hall 
of Fame Gala, The Remembering Martin 
and Coretta Program and the Social Justice 
Town Hall Symposium, according to a press 
release from the King Commission.
Local elected officials, King Commission 
Board members and award recipients sat on 
a stage in the middle of the football field at 
noon Monday. Audience members watched 
speeches and singing performances from the 
stands on both sides of the stadium. Face 
coverings and social distancing were re -
quired at all times.
The commission was relieved to have 
held an in-person event for Martin Luther 
King, Jr. Day, Long said.
“It’s an opportunity for people to get 
out,” he said.  “People haven’t been out to 
events for quite some time.” 
Six elected officials attended the event, 
including Rep. Yvonne Hayes Hinson, Chair 
of the Alachua County Commission Ken 
Cornell, Alachua County Sheriff Clovis Wat -
son Jr., Alachua County Property Appraiser 
Ayesha Solomon, Alachua County Inter -
im Superintendent Dr. Carlee Simon and 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe. Each spoke about the effects of politics in Washington 
D.C. on Alachua County.
“We need a Stacey Abrams movement,” 
Florida District 20 Rep. Yvonne Hayes Hin -
son said. “I suggest to you my brothers and 
sisters of all races, creeds and nationalities 
that we reach deep within our being, our 
souls, and emancipate ourselves.”
The theme of this year’s King Celebra -
tion was “Reclaiming the Dream: The Time 
is Now!” Long said. The holiday is a time to 
reflect on the core goals of King’s nonviolent 
movement for equality and reclaim the ideas 
brought to the forefront of the civil rights 
movement by young people, he said.
“We can easily reclaim the dream, simply 
because of social media,” Long said. “Social 
media is at their fingertips, and they can put 
together a group overnight and have 2,000 
people out on the streets protesting nonvio -
lently about a cause.”
A lot has changed within the organiza -
tion in the past 40 years. To continue cel -
ebrating Dr. King’s achievements and sus -taining his legacy, the commission created 
the Martin Luther King, Jr., Hall of Fame 
and established two scholarships recogniz -
ing local residents for their leadership and 
emulation of Dr. King’s teachings.
The 2021 Edna M. Hart Keeper of the 
Dream Scholarship Award Recipient is 
Taylor Hill-Miles, a senior at Eastside High 
School.
Hill-Miles hopes to inspire others who 
want to make a difference in the commu -
nity. She said she never thought her com -
munity volunteering efforts would get rec -
ognized.
“I was just doing what I loved,” Hill-
Miles said.“Your hard work will pay off, 
whether you see the results or not, and I 
think that is the most important part of com -
munity service.”
Aeriel Lane, a Gainesville activist and 
founder of local nonprofit March for Our 
Freedom, was selected as the 2021 MLK Hall 
of Fame Award Recipient. According to the 
commission, Lane sent a Facebook event in -vite to ten of her friends, and eventually, 
March for Our Freedom saw as many as 
6,000 participants, becoming one of the larg -
est peaceful demonstrations in Gainesville.
“When George Floyd was killed, my 
eight-year-old son asked me if this is some -
thing that could happen to me, and I was 
so scared and so sad by that question from 
someone who is so young. And I just felt 
this sense of needing to take some kind of 
action,” Lane said.
Lane said the holiday reminds her how 
far Gainesville’s Black community has come 
and how much work the community has left 
to do.
“I think, frequently, people like to canon -
ize various people and make them the lead -
ers of a movement,” Lane said. “Whereas, 
we are all leaders of our own tiny move -
ments in our homes, in our families, and in 
our communities.”
@jiselle_lee
 jlee@alligator.orgNo MLK Monday March, but some in-person celebrations at Citizens Field 
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
A person can be seen holding an “I have a dream/Trump imprisoned sign” among 
a crowd at the King Celebration at Citizens Field on Monday, Jan. 18, 2021.Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Christal Harris, 2, rubs her hands together after T.J. Pyche, director 
of communications and outreach for the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections office, gave her hand sanitizer on Monday, Jan. 18, 
2021. Harris attended the King Celebration event with her family.
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Aeriel Lane, a local social justice and community activist, 
accepts the Martin Luther King Jr. 2021 Hall of Fame Award 
on Monday, Jan. 18, 2021. Lane was honored for her work 
organizing the March For Our Freedom event in May.Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
The Florida Fellowship Gospel Super Choir performs at the 
King Celebration on Monday, Jan. 18, 2021.Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Ryan Hope Travis helps his 2-year-old son, Rezen Hope Travis, climb a 
fence at the King Celebration at Citizens Field on Monday, Jan. 18, 2021. 
Ryan Hope Travis said it was the first Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebration 
Rezen was old enough to understand. “Him knowing his history is the 
foundation of him being able to grow,” he said.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Rec Sports and COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic limited several aspects of life, but 
students still use sports as an escape. However, there are still 
mixed feelings, pg. 12THE TWO GROUPS, CREATED 
FOR LGBTQ INDIVIDUALS 
AND BLACK WOMEN, AIM 
TO PROVIDE A SENSE OF 
SOLIDARITY AND COMMUNITY 
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
When Berthina McGill noticed a 
need for minority clinicians in the 
Gainesville community, she immedi -
ately got to work on filling in the gaps. 
McGill – who has over 15 years of 
experience providing mental health 
services – established her private prac -
tice, Appendix Inc., in Gainesville last 
October. Starting in early February, 
the 38-year-old licensed mental health 
counselor will offer two discounted 
therapy groups for Black women and 
members of the LGBTQ community, 
respectively. 
Sessions for the Black women’s 
therapy group will begin Feb. 6 at 
2 p.m. The sessions for the LGBTQ 
group will begin Feb. 4 at 5 p.m. 
Meetings will be held weekly and in 
person at 2790 NW 43rd St., Suite 
100, for $30 per session. Masks are re -
quired, and COVID-19 guidelines will be enforced.
McGill said during the past year, 
she noticed a rising demand for thera -
py from her clients and the Gainesville 
community. She said many of her 
clients have expressed a particular 
appreciation for their sessions as a 
form of social interaction since many 
lost the ability to see friends or family 
due to the pandemic. The political cli -
mate of 2020 only added to the desire 
to communicate with peers in a safe 
place.
“This group is something to ex -
press any emotion, to feel loved and 
motivated and to feel better about our -
selves,” McGill said.
McGill’s decision to create group 
sessions specifically for Black women 
and members of the LGBTQ commu -
nity stemmed largely from requests 
from her own clients, she said. Group 
therapy – and therapy as a whole – is 
a passion of hers, she said; so when 
people approached her concerned 
about the slim options for identity-
specific group sessions in Gainesville, 
she eagerly took on the challenge. 
“I definitely have a goal of hav -
ing different group sessions,” she ex -
plained. “I want to see the needs of 
the community, and then we can nar -row them down.” 
In addition to the discounted group 
sessions, McGill said she also offers 
individual sessions at a price lower 
than most other local services in or -
der to avoid cost being a deterrent for 
those seeking therapy. Having a high 
salary, she said, is not what draws her 
to work in mental health counseling. 
“I’m here to be there for the com -
munity, be there for the people,” she 
said. “That’s what brings me plea -
sure.”
Though the discounted sessions 
are currently aimed at specific mar -
ginalized communities, McGill be -
lieves all people can benefit from 
therapy, which offers an outlet for 
open communication without fear of 
judgement. McGill said she strives to 
be that ear or someone to talk to, from 
a clinical perspective. 
LaNya Lee, a 20-year-old UF psy -
chology junior, plans to participate 
in both of McGill’s upcoming group 
therapy sessions. 
Lee said there is a noticeable lack 
of affordable mental health services 
catered toward Black women and LG -
BTQ people and spaces in Gainesville 
exclusive to these communities in gen -
eral. As these groups compose some of the most marginalized communi -
ties not only in the area but the United 
States, Lee said facilitating these safe 
spaces is especially important. 
“Living in Gainesville and being at 
a predominantly white institute, it can 
be hard to be surrounded by situa -
tions where you might not feel safe or 
comfortable,” Lee said. “It’s crucial to 
have spaces where these people can 
come together and feel like they’re 
welcomed and loved and cared for.”
Providing a space where individu -
als from marginalized communities 
can be authentically themselves and 
process what they’re going through, 
Lee said, is one of the prime goals of 
McGill’s upcoming group sessions. 
Lee said similar therapy groups 
centered on transgender people or 
the Black community as a whole 
could also be beneficial in the future. 
Lee said they hope such opportuni -
ties would help these communities 
survive and process current global 
events. 
For Lee, therapy serves as a 
bouncing-off point to facilitate open 
discussion and get difficult topics off 
their chest, and clients interested in 
McGill’s group will be provided with 
a safe space, Lee said. Those interested in securing a 
spot can contact McGill at Berthina@
yourappendix.com or (352) 470-0601. 
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.org
THE GAINESVILLE RESTAURANT IS 
NOW ACCEPTING CREDIT, MOBILE 
PAY WITH NEW CHARITY PROGRAM
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
 
If you ask Satchel Raye about himself, he’ll 
tell you he’s just Satch – the guy who sells 
pizzas.
 That’s exactly what he’s been doing since 
March 7, 2003, when Satchel’s Pizza first 
opened at 1800 NE 23rd Ave. With stained 
glass windows decorating the side, a hodge -
podge of plants and garden knick-knacks adorning the lawn and a sky-blue van akin to 
the Mystery Machine front and center, Satch -
el’s is a tough building to miss.Over the years, 
the restaurant has become a Gainesville staple.
 Underneath Satchel’s eclectic exterior 
is the undeniable spirit of community – one 
bolstered by the recent Round Up For Char -
ity (RUFC) program the restaurant has imple -
mented in tandem with their new acceptance 
of credit cards, electronic pay and other forms 
of payment. The restaurant made the switch 
from its 17-year-long cash-only policy Jan. 12 
and added the program, which encourages 
customers to round up their total to the near -
est dollar for donations to charities around 
Gainesville.
 The shift to credit cards wasn’t a decision 
Raye, 53, ever thought he’d make. Satchel’s 
was known over the years for being a cash-
only establishment, he said, and the ATM 
machine outside the restaurant allowed cus -
tomers to withdraw cash quickly if they didn’t 
have any on hand. The format wasn’t hinder -
ing business, so the idea of broadening accept -
ed forms of payment seemed unnecessary.
 Consistency wasn’t the only thing holding 
the restaurant back from making the switch, 
though. Satchel’s has annually donated all the 
ATM fees, set at $1.50 per transaction, to char -
ities around Gainesville since the machine’s 
installation seven years ago, totaling to about 
$25,000 annually. The removal of the cash-
only policy, and the subsequent drop in traffic 
to the ATM machine, might have threatened 
those numbers, Raye said, putting the chari -
ties that have come to rely on donations from 
Satchel’s in jeopardy.
 “My big hang-up with the credit cards was 
mostly that I had gotten used to giving all this 
money to charity,” Raye said. “The charities have come to depend on it after so long.”
But with the gradual growth of the busi -
ness, including the opening of a second lo -
cation, Satch2, the need to expand became 
stronger – so the business shifted gears. 
Satch2 opened in July 2020 with the accep -
tance of credit cards and the RUFC program in 
place. When the format proved to be success -
ful at the second location, bringing in around 
$1,000 a month in donations with about half 
the patronage of Satchel’s, Raye made the call 
to adjust at the main location.
 “When we saw at Satch2 that it worked, 
we said, ‘Well, let’s switch over and do Round 
Up For Charity,’” he said.
 The RUFC program was established as a 
replacement for the ATM fee donations. Cus -
tomers will be asked if they’d like to round 
up their total to the nearest dollar following 
their purchase, and the extra amount will all 
be donated to charity. To encourage donations 
and support for the program, Satchel’s has 
designed T-shirts, stickers and other merchan -
dise available for purchase.
 It’s a program characterized by conve -
nience, Raye said. RUFC couples the default of 
paying by card with the ease of rounding up 
instead of making a flat donation, and with the 
restaurant researching and vetting each char -
ity, the work usually associated with donating 
to charity is all but eliminated for the custom -
er. For those reasons, Raye said he anticipates 
the program being a success.
 “I’m going to guess 95% of people round 
up,” he said.
 Gainesville’s status as a smaller city, plus 
the restaurant’s total of $25,000 in ATM fees, 
has allowed Satchel’s to partner with nearly 
every charity in the area over time. Those 
charities include the Sequential Artists Work -shop, Grace Marketplace and Community 
Spring.
 “We kind of rotate around,” Raye said. 
“We give to these ten, and then these ten, and 
these ten.”
 Satchel’s has also donated regularly to the 
Civic Media Center (CMC), an information 
center that serves as a resource for grassroots 
organizing and activism. As a nonprofit, the 
organization runs completely on donations. 
Manu Osorio, a 25-year-old board member 
and volunteer at the CMC, said continued 
funding from Satchel’s has been instrumental 
to the maintenance and upkeep of the center.
 “There’s been several times that Satchel’s 
has come through for us and supported, and 
that’s the impact,” they said.
 Appreciation for Satchel’s, and Raye him -
self, has been abundant in the community. 
From letters to pictures to the Satchel’s logo 
sprawled on the side of a box truck, Gainesville 
charities have continually praised the restau -
rant for their generosity and giving spirit.
 But Raye says he couldn’t do it alone. After 
all, he’s just “the guy in the kitchen, making 
pizzas with his head in the oven.” The pro -
gram doesn’t work, he said, unless everyone 
– customers, employees, and management – 
participates.
“It’s like the trilogy, like the Father, the Son 
and the Holy Ghost. They all equal,” he said.
 Raye credits the community effort for the 
impact Satchel’s has made across Gainesville. 
He said getting everyone involved, giving his 
customers the sense that they made a differ -
ence, is the real power of his pizza place.
 “The thing about a restaurant is it’s not 
just a place to make a buck, it’s a place to in -
vest in a larger ecosystem,” he said.
 
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgGainesville therapist offers group sessions for minority clients
Satchel’s Pizza is encouraging patrons to Round Up For Charity
MENTAL HEALTHMENTAL HEALTH
FOODFOOD
Courtesy to The Alligator
Satchel’s Pizza has been a staple in 
the Gainesville community since its 
opening in 2003.
The Avenue’s back-to-
school playlist features 
the songs we’ve had on 
replay to get us through 
the beginning of the new 
semester.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
THE CWC HOPES ITS NEW PROGRAM 
WILL PROVIDE FURTHER HELP FOR 
STUDENTS DURING THESE 
CHALLENGING TIMES
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
Long lines and limited counselors are why stu -
dents like Cassidy Roberts turned to the UF Coun -
seling and Wellness Center’s new online program, 
SilverCloud. 
The CWC created SilverCloud, a self-guided 
online resource, to provide students an online al -
ternative to mental health counseling during CO -
VID-19, said Geoff Lee, a clinical assistant profes -
sor at the CWC. The online program first became 
available to students in November 2020 before 
officially launching just after the first of the year 
and includes modules on anxiety, depression and 
stress, he said.
Roberts has been referred to the CWC three 
times by UF Health physicians, nurse practitioners 
and her counselor from her hometown. But she’s 
never gotten an appointment.
“Every single time, they’ve never been able to 
call me back, or the line has been too long, and 
I wasn’t an emergency client, so they didn’t get 
me in,” the 19-year-old UF chemical engineering 
sophomore said.
The launch of SilverCloud comes after COVID-19 
forced the CWC, which was already bursting at the 
seams, to close March 2020 and resort to telemen -
tal health services. The CWC had to set up technol -
ogy and train staff, and it dipped into its savings 
to pay for these unexpected expenses. This, along 
with stagnant funding, led to a limited budget. 
SilverCloud is not necessarily a replacement for 
counseling or therapy, but it’s a good first step for 
some students, Lee said.
“There are enough students that might be deal -
ing with something, but don’t necessarily have the 
time or energy to devote to counseling, or may not 
be ready to take that step,” Lee said. “So, it’s a re -
ally nice introduction to things that we can do to 
take care of ourselves.”
The CWC began working on SilverCloud in early 2020. Work on the online platform was interrupted 
when COVID-19 hit in March and the CWC had to 
shift its focus to developing telemental health ser -
vices. Work on SilverCloud picked up in Fall, and 
it was officially released during the first few days 
of 2021, Lee said.
SilverCloud cost about $25,000 to provide access 
to every student on campus, Lee said. 
Currently, 62 students are using SilverCloud, 
Lee said. A feedback survey from 23 users showed 
positive results, as they have found the modules 
interesting, relevant and helpful.
Roberts said she would rather see the counseling 
center’s money spent on more counselors. But if 
it can’t hire more of them, SilverCloud is the next 
best thing.
“I know it would be a great resource for people 
who are just starting or need a quick stress relief 
situation,” she said. “It’s a good beginning step.”
Renae Burke, a 22-year-old UF biomedical en -
gineering and music fifth-year, said they haven’t 
used SilverCloud. But from what they know, it’s 
a good first step toward making more immediate 
services available to students.
Burke scheduled appointments with the CWC in 
Summer 2017, Fall 2018 and Fall 2019. The first 
time, they were able to meet with a counselor be -
cause of higher availability in Summer. But the 
other times, they were told no counselors were 
available and to look elsewhere, Burke said.
“They don’t even tell you before you come in 
that there isn’t a counselor availability,” Burke 
said. “And it may be another three or four weeks 
before you’re able to meet with someone who’s not 
even at UF.”
While they said SilverCloud appears to be a 
good alternative, it may not work for everyone – 
especially people who have severe depression or 
anxiety. 
“It may be more difficult to put in the work on 
their own as opposed to being held accountable for 
working on their mental health with a one-on-one 
counselor,” Burke said.
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgWe’ve seen two of our classmates killed 
by cars on University Avenue since 
December. That’s too many.
On Saturday evening, a car crash 
on University Avenue resulted in the 
death of UF theater freshman Sophia Lambert 
and the hospitalization of five others.
UF released a statement the following day 
about the crash closing with a promise: “The 
safety of our campus is paramount, and we 
want you to know conversations are underway 
regarding pedestrian and vehicular safety, on 
and around our campus.”
But will conversations be enough?
Just over a month ago, 18-year-old UF stu -
dent Maggie Paxton was tragically killed in a 
hit-and-run crash on University Avenue. The 
driver still has not been identified, and UF 
never released a statement acknowledging the 
crash. Was her death not enough to take the 
issue of traffic safety on University Avenue seri -
ously? If action had been taken then, could we 
have avoided the terrible events that transpired 
on Saturday evening? 
It’s easy to criticize UF for not advocating on 
behalf of its students’ safety, but the respon -
sibility doesn’t rest solely on the university’s 
shoulders. University Avenue is a state-owned 
road, meaning our state representatives are in 
the position to make the safety changes needed.
Who are our state representatives? Rep. 
Chuck Clemons and Sen. Keith Perry. Just in 
case you were wondering. 
If UF’s administration and our state represen -
tatives needed ideas on where to start, one traf -
fic safety petition has proposed installing speed 
bumps on University Avenue and has already 
garnered thousands of signatures. According to 
the Florida Department of Transportation, the 
estimated cost for a speed bump is $2,000, a 
mere drop in the bucket of our state spending, 
and about $1,000 less than what one UF student 
pays for full-time in-state tuition in a semester.
Another idea is to reduce the current 35 mph 
speed limit. In the Florida Driver Handbook, 
the standard speed limit for municipal, business 
and residential areas is 30 mph. Why would 
University Avenue, a road littered with student 
apartment complexes, UF dorms and known for 
heavy student foot traffic, boast a higher speed? 
If a 15-year-old is expected to know standard 
speed limits to get a learners’ permit, our elect -
ed officials who put these speed limits in place 
should too. 
Drivers could hold themselves accountable 
through the use of radar speed displays along -
side the road. Speed enforcement cameras could 
be implemented as well. Even barriers could be 
placed alongside the road to avoid hit-and-run 
situations like we saw back in December. The 
list of solutions goes on and on.
We’ve heard the UF promise to start conver -
sations before, but we have yet to see results 
on the other end. We’ll be listening closely to 
see where it goes. Students shouldn’t be afraid 
to walk off campus, let alone walk along the 
border of campus. The more time we waste on 
conversations, the more we put pedestrian lives 
at risk. Now is the time for action, and it needs 
to be immediate.  
Call Rep. Chuck Clemons, Sen. Keith Perry, 
and the UF Administration about making Uni -
versity Avenue safer like your life depends on 
it. Because frankly, it does.  
The Editorial Board is made up of the Editor-in-Chief, 
Digital Managing Editor, Engagement Managing Editor, 
and Opinions Editor.CWC creates new program to
satisfy high demand for servicesUF traffic safety conversations: 
we’ll be listening  
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
NEW DISCOVERY ELIMINATES COMMON
SEXUAL PROBLEMS!
All Natural Male Enhancement
Product Increases Staying Power, 
Performance, & Pleasure.
Risk Free 60 Day Guarantee &
FREE SHIPPING
15% Discount with coupon perform09
Visit: TryProZyte.com
1-19-1-16
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
solution on page 10The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         2-15-21-6-14
Office 365 Migration Services
Embrace the modern workplace and empow -
er modern employees to be more creative, 
agile, and productive with modern productiv -
ity tools. Star Knowledge is a Microsoft Gold 
Partner with 10 years of experience around 
Microsoft Solutions such as Office 365, 
SharePoint, Dynamics 365, Microsoft Teams 
and Azure. Want to move to the cloud? 
Contact us for Office 365 migration services.
1-19-21-1-14
We are seeking current 4-40 & 2-20 licensed 
insurance producers for a new Property and 
Casualty Agency opening soon in the Ocala and 
Gainesville areas. Must have license before hire. 
Flexible schedule, competitive pay, base wage 
plus commission and bonuses. If interested 
please email amandamree@gmail.com with 
your contact information to set up an interview.
1-19-21-1-141For Rent
furnished15 Services
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                      2-1-21-4-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. Immed oc -
cupancy. ABSOLUTELY HUGE! Gorgeous 
Wood Floors, cent AC/HT, dishwasher, laun -
dry room, fenced, pets OK $1,795 per month. 
352-665-8166                               1-26-20-6-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
★★LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION ★★
2 bedroom houses & apartments 
all price ranges
pets arranged
text or call 352-359-2304
2-8-21-5-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 
or visit RefrigerantFinders.com 
1-19-1-1313 Wanted
answers on pg 101. GEOGRAPHY: What is the longest river in Asia?
2. TELEVISION: What is the name of the trash -
can dweller in PBS' "Sesame Street"?
3. FOOD & DRINK: What kind of nuts are used 
to make marzipan?
4. MOVIES: What incantation did the fairy 
godmother use to transform the character in 
Disney's animated "Cinderella"?
5. MEDICAL: What is a more common name for 
onychocryptosis?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a male goose called?
7. LITERATURE: In which famous work did the 
phrase "eat, drink and be merry" appear?
8. MUSIC: What is the most watched video on 
YouTube?
9. CHEMISTRY: What is the chemical symbol 
of potassium?
10. AD SLOGANS: Which company sells its 
popular clothing with the slogan, "Quality 
never goes out of style"?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
By Kevin Christian and Andrea Carla Michaels
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/19/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/19/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, January 19, 2021
ACROSS
1 Prepared, as a 
bed
5 Scuttlebutt
10 Col. Sanders’s 
chain
13 Soft palate 
feature that 
translates to “little 
grape”
15 Battery terminal
16 Right-angle 
shape
17 Where Alcatraz 
sits
20 Towel embroidery 
word
21 Like many meds
22 “A __ Day’s 
Night”: Beatles 
song
23 Disc sport 
popular 
on college 
campuses
28 Shakespearean 
fairy queen
29 Jay of late-night 
TV
30 Lady’s man
33 “A Room of One’s 
Own” author
35 Admirer
38 Give-it-a-test-run 
advice
42 Kiki, Sandra or 
Ruby
43 Brainiacs, maybe
44 Mass __: an I-90 
nickname
45 Fair
46 “Dude!”
48 Storied pot-of-
gold spot
56 Achy
57 What a slob 
makes
58 Nitrogen-based 
dye
59 Hiding-your-eyes 
parent-baby 
game
64 Veer off course
65 Vegan and Paleo 
regimens
66 Roadside hot dog 
seller
67 NBC staple for 45 
years
68 Daisy variety
69 Three in a deck
DOWN
1 __ pork: Chinese 
menu item2 To no __: in vain
3 Kirsten of Spider-
Man films
4 Toymaker for 
Santa
5 Charged
6 Mom’s brother
7 “Surely you don’t 
mean me?!”
8 Has too much, 
briefly
9 __ center
10 Skewered dish
11 Bell-bottom 
bottom
12 Only non-
rhyming Pac-
Man ghost
14 Roastery draw
18 Many a Mideast 
native
19 Very, very
24 Website for film 
buffs
25 Polar bear 
hangouts
26 Bank (on)
27 Inside scoop
30 Inc., in England
31 Underground find
32 Pastrami holder
33 Value
34 Chicago airport 
code
35 “The X-Files” org.36 Arctic seabird
37 TV’s “Science 
Guy”
39 Plenty, in texts
40 Gala
41 “Once __ ... ”
45 Kangaroo kid
46 Diamond bag
47 Daredevil 
dangers
48 TV sports 
awards
49 Hall of Fame 
pitcher Ryan50 Southern twang
51 E, on a gauge
52 Peanut Butter 
Cup creator
53 Storybook 
elephant
54 Layer with a hole
55 “Toy Story” 
cowboy
60 “Yes, indeed!”
61 Give a thumbs-
down
62 “__ whiz!”
63 Law firm fig.
By Paul Coulter
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/12/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/12/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, January 12, 2021
ACROSS
1 Playfully shy
4 Cooled with 
cubes
8 Shrubs arranged 
as barriers
14 Anger
15 It has three 
numbers and two 
slashes
16 Staves off
17 *Afternoon  
social that may 
include a waltz  
or three
19 Stay close to
20 Start of a pirate’s 
refrain
21 Matching tops 
worn together
23 Phobos, to Mars
25 Cry after a 
golfer’s ace
26 “Even __  
speak ... ”
29 Goldarn
31 [None of the 
above]
34 New Mexico art 
community
35 Wall St. takeover
36 Tom, Dick or 
Harry
37 U.K. continent
38 *Brewery 
container
40 Arg. neighbor
41 Hopping joints?
43 Elton John’s title
44 Chinese menu 
possessive
45 Used a stun gun 
on
46 Jared of “Panic 
Room”
47 Russo of 
“Ransom”
48 Panache
50 “Giant” author 
Ferber
52 “The Piano 
Lesson” painter 
Henri
54 Depends (on)
58 Summer TV fare
59 Like the U.S. 
political system, 
and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
61 Hush-hush
62 Deep sleep
63 B&B, maybe
64 1896 and 2004 
Olympics setting65 Command to a 
dog
66 Anatomical 
pouch
DOWN
1 Part of SLC
2 Sundae-topping 
cookie
3 “All right!”
4 “Famous 
Potatoes” state
5 Does some 
necking
6 “Yada, yada, 
yada” letters
7 Tick repellent
8 Hard thing to  
kick
9 Vespers
10 Population 
statistic
11 *Growing 
business?
12 Coup d’__
13 Ukr. or Est., once
18 Stadium toppers
22 Barrister’s topper
24 Local theater, 
briefly
26 Bothered big-
time
27 Hot spot
28 *Monster.com 
activity30 Swedes’ 
neighbors
32 Noted 2001 
bankruptcy
33 Word in a green 
trio?
36 British landing 
facility
38 Sheets and 
pillowcases
39 Sky box?
42 Professor’s 
address
44 Singing syllables46 Capt.’s 
underlings
49 Helpers: Abbr.
51 Sherpa’s country
52 Convene
53 Carve in stone
55 Colored eye part
56 Italian peak
57 Match audio and 
video
58 Mandela’s land: 
Abbr.
60 Tales of __: 
misfortunes
01/11/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.answers  below1. Doak Walker won the Heisman Trophy in 
1948 playing multiple positions for what 
college team?
2. In 1973, what Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher had 
such a severe case of the yips that the "condi -
tion" was colloquially named after him? 
3. What team drafted Purdue quarterback 
Jim Everett with the third overall pick in 
the 1986 NFL Draft, then traded his rights 
to the Los Angeles Rams?
4. In December 2004, who was hired as 
head coach of the USC Trojans men's basket -
ball team only to resign five days later?
5. What baseball team won the 2020 KBO 
League championship with a 4-2 Korean 
Series win over the Doosan Bears?
6. What three-time winner of the Formula 
One World Drivers' Championship was 
killed in an accident while leading the 
1994 San Marino Grand Prix?
7. What San Diego Chargers player set the NFL 
record for longest play by returning a missed 
field goal 109 yards for a touchdown in a 2007 
game against the Minnesota Vikings?
(c) 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution  below
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-15-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Sports Quiz  answers1. The Southern 
Methodist University 
Mustangs. 
2. Steve Blass.
3. Houston Oilers.4. Rick Majerus.
5. The NC Dinos.
6. Ayrton Senna.
7. Antonio Cromartie.Trivia Test  answers1. Yangtze River
2. Oscar the Grouch
3. Almonds
4. "Bibbidi bobbidi boo"
5. Ingrown toenail6. A gander
7. The Bible
8. "Baby Shark Dance"
9. K
10. Levi's: PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
 alligatoralligator
solution  below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
CryptoQuote  answer10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
The good thing about
being a hypocrite is that
you get to keep your 
values. — Alan AldaFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida/Vanderbilt canceled
The game,  which was originally rescheduled, was dropped as the 
Commodores discontinued the remainder of their season after 
COVID-19, opt-outs and injuries depleted their roster. Scan the QR 
code to read more.Florida Gators ranked No. 1 in 
D1Baseball’s preseason rankings. 
Florida will officially enter the 2021 
season as the consensus No. 1-ranked 
team, having previously been 
named No. 1 by Collegiate Baseball 
Newspaper and Perfect Game.BASEBALL
FOLOAFTER A DOMINANT 2020 
CAMPAIGN WAS CUT SHORT, 
PRESEASON TOP-RANKED GATORS 
WILL FINALLY GET A CHANCE 
TO ERASE ITS LOSS AT NCAA 
REGIONALS TWO YEARS AGO
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
The day is June 2, 2019.
It’s just before 5:30 p.m. in Lub -
bock, Texas, on a warm, overcast 
evening. The wind that has blown 
the last few hours is starting to 
settle. Two years after winning the 
College World Series, the Florida 
Gators were eliminated from the 
NCAA Regional Tournament.
The 2019 season started with 
high expectations. Almost every 
season at Florida had, especially 
under coach Kevin O’Sullivan. The 
Gators were ranked No. 4 by Base -
ball America before the season be -
gan. The memories of 2017’s title 
run remained fresh on everyone’s 
minds.
However, the team was alarm -
ingly young, with true freshmen 
accounting for more than a third of 
the roster.
“We thought we might have 
some learning curves with how 
young we might be and because 
we played so many freshmen, but 
we still thought it would be a pret -
ty good year,” said Jacob Young, a freshman outfielder in 2019.
The season started well enough. 
The team won a series against Mi -
ami and defeated then-No. 6 Flor -
ida State with a jaw-dropping 20-
run performance. As the schedule 
transitioned to conference play, 
the Gators held a 14-5 record. 
Florida then dropped five of its 
first six SEC games  — a splash of 
cold water that doused any mo -
mentum. The ship steadied from 
there, but the Gators would still 
finish the season with a 13-17 
in-conference record. It was the 
team’s first losing record in the 
SEC since 2013 and its worst con -
ference mark under O’Sullivan.
Still, all was not lost in the 
locker room. The Gators gained 
confidence after entering the SEC 
Tournament off a season-ending 
sweep over Missouri, according to 
Kirby McMullen, who now plays 
third base for Florida.
A 10th-inning loss to Texas 
A&M in the opening round of the 
SEC Tournament led the Gators to 
the fateful Regional competition in 
Lubbock. The third-ranked team 
in the four-squad bracket, Florida 
dropped its opening contest to the 
second-seeded Dallas Baptist Uni -
versity Patriots, Florida beat Army 
to stay alive and force a rematch 
against DBU.
The elimination game against 
the Patriots started well but turned nightmarish in the top of the 
fourth inning. The Gators took the 
field defensively with a 2-0 lead 
but returned to the dugout nine 
runs later, now trailing by seven. 
Florida didn’t go down without 
a fight, bringing in six more runs 
and advancing the tying runner to 
third base during the bottom of the 
ninth for Young. 
Young grounded out. After four 
straight trips to Omaha, the Gators 
had their first Regionals exit since 
2014.
“We knew we had our chance 
at Regionals,” Young said, “We 
played some good teams, we had 
a good chance, but we just kind of 
felt we came up a little short.”
While Young said the fresh -
men were gutted for players who 
would never see the college field 
again, the seniors and draft pros -
pects who would take their talents 
elsewhere, the focus of the young -
er end of the roster immediately 
shifted ahead.
“We had our year to learn and 
get experience, and we were ready 
to attack the next year and make 
up for some of the wrongdoings,” 
Young said.
To say the 2020 squad simply 
redeemed itself would be a monu -
mental understatement. 
It was clear that something 
different was in the air around 
O’Sullivan’s squad. The talent and the work ethic were there but there 
was something else, too. The en -
tire program shared a chip on its 
shoulder, a desire to make sure 
that what happened the year be -
fore was never repeated.
“All of the sophomores were 
going to be really ready,” Young 
said. “We were all really prepared 
and kind of wanted to show every -
one that we’re no joke.”
The team came out of the gates 
blazing, winning its first 16 games 
including a sweep over then-No. 1 
Miami. It reached the pole position 
on Baseball America’s rankings on 
Feb. 24 and looked not only ready 
to erase the flaws of the 2019 post -
season, but to make extra room in 
the trophy case as well.
Then the rest of the world inter -
vened. The day before the Gators 
were scheduled to take on Georgia 
to open conference play, the NCAA 
canceled all remaining winter and 
spring championships due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Collegiate 
sports everywhere ground to a 
halt. 
The redemption Florida desired 
was put on hold. This time, forces 
outside of their control risked both 
a chance at vindication and the 
bonds forged along the way.
“A lot of us were upset about 
the friendships that might have 
gotten cut short with kids sup -
posed to be getting drafted and signing,”  McMullen said. “Obvi -
ously, a lot of that didn’t end up 
happening.”
The Gators’ losses from that 
top-ranked team were actually 
quite minuscule this offseason. 
Star pitchers Tommy Mace and 
Jack Leftwich weren’t selected in 
a shortened MLB draft and chose 
to return to Gainesville for an -
other run. Longtime staple Austin 
Langworthy didn’t return, but a 
vaunted recruiting class and trans -
fer arm Franco Aleman added their 
names to the talent pool on a ros -
ter that somehow got even deeper.
As the new season draws clos -
er, it appears the Gators will finally 
have an unobstructed path to re -
demption. The NCAA has con -
ducted several championships al -
ready and seems to have a plan for 
hosting athletic competitions. The 
team now has a chance to prove 
that 16-1 start a year ago wasn’t a 
fluke.
“Since we didn’t get to do it last 
year, that motivation kind of crept 
forward into this fall,” Young said.
The opportunity in front of this 
Florida team isn’t lost on those in 
the locker room, especially those 
who were there that overcast June 
day in Lubbock.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.org
FLORIDA HAS STRUGGLED 
TO DEFEND AGAINST LARGER 
TEAMS THROUGH SIX GAMES OF 
CONFERENCE PLAY 
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
A glance at the Florida men’s basketball 
roster, decorated with elite recruits and athleti -
cism, exposes a shortcoming. One that’s a bit 
too literal.
UF currently has the fourth-shortest team in 
the SEC, according to KenPom. 
Florida’s diminutive makeup was a strength 
when it lived in transition against inferior op -
position, but against the trees of the SEC, it’s 
a decided disadvantage. Mississippi State ex -
ploited the Gators down low Saturday, scoring 
52 points in the paint while snagging 21 more 
rebounds.
The Bulldogs are the sixth tallest team in the 
country, which compares to Florida’s other SEC 
losses against Kentucky and Alabama, which 
rank fifth and 45th in height, respectively. 
The emergence of junior forward Anthony 
Duruji, who stands at 6 feet, 7 inches, added some fortitude to the Gator frontcourt, but UF 
remains undersized in most positions.
The most common lineup for Florida con -
sists of guards Tyree Appleby, Tre Mann and 
Noah Locke along with forward Anthony Duru -
ji and center Colin Castleton, according to Ken -
Pom. They average out at just 6 feet, 5 inches, 
leaving glaring matchup problems all over the 
floor.
Florida faces Tennessee on Tuesday, which 
ranks ninth in height, and has five games 
scheduled against top-100 teams in that catego -
ry. The Gators will need to resolve their strug -
gles against tall rosters in order to keep dreams 
of an NCAA tournament bid alive.
Cut back on the fouls
Florida made a difficult front-court matchup 
nearly impossible against MS State over the 
weekend after many of its taller players suf -
fered early foul trouble. 
Duruji was limited to three first-half minutes 
after two early fouls, one of which came cheap -
ly on offense. Castleton swatted four shots in 
the first half but was forced to be tentative de -
fensively after setting an illegal screen. “We have to stop fouling at the end of the 
day,” Castleton said. “Everybody has to do it. 
You put yourself in a bad position when your 
starting four-man can’t be out on the court.”
Florida has size off the bench in 6-foot-
10-inch Omar Payne and 6-foot-7-inch Osayi 
Osifo. While the duo are serviceable defenders, 
they’re limited scorers and shouldn’t see the 
floor for many minutes at a time. 
Limiting fouls has been a continued point 
of emphasis for coach Mike White, and Flori -
da’s big men need to heed his advice and keep 
themselves on the floor.
T eam Rebounding
Defensive rebounding has been a continued 
problem for the Gators, ranking 253rd in offen -
sive rebounding percentage allowed. Lopsided 
totals on the glass are often blamed on the 
frontcourt, but rebounding is a team stat and 
Florida’s guards need to rebound as well. 
The backcourt grabbed five offensive re -
bounds over the weekend, which is concerning 
given the lack of long rebounds. 
UF’s perimeter players were also beaten 
too easily by dribble penetration, forcing help 
defense and creating weak-side rebounding op -
portunities. 
Florida’s run ‘n’ gun style of play is stifled 
by a concerted effort on the defensive glass, but 
UF only scored 10 points in transition over the weekend anyway. If the Gators are going to be 
forced to run their half court sets, they must 
clean up on the boards. 
Hope for Lewis’ return
Sophomore guard Scottie Lewis was de -
clared ineligible for last Tuesday’s game against 
Ole Miss for health and safety reasons. Lewis 
will sit out against Tennessee on Tuesday and a 
timetable for his return is still unclear 
Despite standing at just 6 feet, 5 inches, 
Lewis boasts a 7-feet wingspan and a reputa -
tion as an outstanding defender. 
His block percentage (5.5) ranks in the top 
150 nationally, and his interior defense from 
both the two and three is outstanding. 
Lewis played just 20 minutes against Ala -
bama and didn’t suit up against MS State. While 
his return won’t completely solve Florida’s in -
terior issues, they’re exacerbated without the 
Jersey-born defensive stalwart. 
Tennessee has manageable size in the front -
court, with 6-foot-9-inch  center John Fulker -
son as the tallest starter. Even with the con -
tinued absence of Lewis, Florida should show 
improvement and be able to contend with the 
Volunteers down low Tuesday.
@declanaw
dwalsh@alligator.orgFlorida baseball has a shot at redemption after early 2019 exit
Bully ball is the bane of the Gators 12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021
REC SPORTS
THE EFFECTS OF THE PANDEMIC ARE 
SEEN TO BE FEW AND FAR BETWEEN 
By Faith Buckley
Sports Writer
 
wear face masks and be smart about ex -
posure in large events. With loose and un -
enforceable rules, players often take advan -
tage of any leniency.
 David Khaskin, an 18-year-old econom -
ics freshman, plays ultimate Frisbee and 
soccer on weeknights. He said he’s frustrat -
ed with the laissez-faire attitude on the field. 
“Some of those people do not care what -soever, and it is concerning to me,” he said.
The COVID-19 pandemic put an indefinite 
hold on life in Gainesville, but the bright 
lights hitting the grass of Flavet, Norman 
and West Fields tell a different story.
 A few days into the spring semester, 
players lace their cleats and set up nets for 
pickup games. Spikeball, football, basket -
ball, ultimate Frisbee and soccer games be -
gin during the day and spill over into dusk.
But students share mixed feelings be -
cause COVID-19 regulations take a limited 
presence on the field.
 UF’s COVID-19 protocols are similar to 
last semester’s: Respect social distancing,  Khaskin wishes more people would fol -
low the guidelines. Most don’t wear masks 
while playing, and others aren’t cautious off 
the field either. Khaskin said he occasion -
ally overhears others talking about attend -
ing bars and clubs. 
“It’s just embarrassing for this univer -
sity,” he said. “That should not be happen -
ing.”  
Not all players mind the current ap -
proach to COVID-19 protocols, however.
 Andrew Graeler, a 19-year-old history 
freshman, is satisfied with current regula -
tions when he plays football with friends. 
During the pandemic, Graeler said he came 
to terms with the idea that there’s a risk as 
soon as he walks onto the field. 
“If you want to be social distancing and 
follow the guidelines, you can’t really go out 
and play the sports with a bunch of people,” 
he said.
However, Graeler recognizes that there is 
room for improvement. 
“I try not to hang out with huge groups of 
people,” he said. “It could be better. When 
sports come into play, social distancing and 
any type of regulation goes out the win -
dow.”
Jared Beaufait, a 19-year-old biologi -
cal engineering freshman, has the same 
outlook on the situation. Everyone playing 
pickup games is there because it’s a casual 
and unregulated environment, he said. He 
doesn’t mind the guidelines, or lack thereof, 
because he wants to get out and have fun.
“There’s no real way to regulate it,” Beaufait said. “People like going out all the 
time.”
 Sam Martocci, a 23-year-old biomedical 
engineering graduate student, has no other 
option but to oblige by the rules. He plays 
spikeball as an intramural sport at UF and 
competitively in Florida Roundnet, an am -
etuer spikeball league, where he ranks 18th 
at the expert level. He’s one of many stu -
dents who travel to meets and attend prac -
tices for the sake of competing. 
 Players on higher levels of the game 
opt out of wearing masks when facilities 
allow it. However, while competing within 
UF facilities, masks are required during the 
entirety of gameplay. Spikeball requires six 
feet of distance between each player anyway 
so the risk of contact is lower, Martocci said.
  While loose regulations pass for pick-
up games, harsher COVID-19 guidelines are 
required for club sports. Last semester, Rec -
Sports postponed all gameplay until further 
notice. 
This semester, screening questionnaires 
will be required and temperatures will be 
checked. Masks must be worn during game -
play. Tryouts for intramural sports like 
beach volleyball and flag football are next 
week.
“I am very happy that they put those into 
place so that we can safely play and safely 
compete,” Marcotti said.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.org COVID-19 changed the game of pickup sports — but not really
Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Freshman Campbell Harmon throws a shot during a quick Sunday-night pick up 
football game.
