We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Student government
SG taps into reserves account,  pg. 5
First woman named assistant dean and 
director of business school
Erica Studer-Byrnes starts July 19,  pg. 3Beal grounded
Former Florida guard Bradley Beal 
withdraws from Olympics. Read this story 
on pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JULY 19, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 40
Prize and fees are subject to change. Limited time only. See office for details.Tour and enter to win an  
Electric Scooter!
Scan to schedule a tour:Apply today and save up to $325  with zero down @
AmericanCampus.com/Gainesville
Houston Harwood / / Alligator Staff
Marian Hernandez, 21, a psychology senior, (right), and Sayda Chimilio, 21, an elementary education senior, (left), 
shout “Patria y Vida” as they raise signs embellished with colors of the Cuban flag on Friday, July 16, 2021. UF students 
gathered at the corner of University Avenue and 13th Street Friday to protest human rights abuses in Cuba.
By Alexander Lugo and 
Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writers
Protestors sprawled across 
the corner of West University Av -
enue and Northwest 13th Street 
July 16. 
The #SOSCuba Gainesville 
demonstration — hosted by UF 
students from Take Action Flori -
da, a social activism group — gar -
nered support from about 70 stu -
dents and Gainesville residents 
who called for action to change 
current conditions in Cuba. 
The protests are in response 
to food and medicine shortages, 
inflation, nationwide blackouts 
and a rise in COVID-19 deaths 
on the island in the past month. 
Thousands of Cubans both in the 
country and in the U.S. are dem -
onstrating to express frustrations against the current government’s 
rule.
The government in Cuba de -
tained protestors through mobi -
lizing police and military units 
and took teenagers from their 
homes to fight alongside the gov -
ernment, sometimes against their 
own families, according to a CBS 
Miami article.
“It’s literally civilians versus 
the military at this point,” Sayda 
Chinilio, a 21-year-old UF el -
ementary education senior, said. 
“Kids my age are being taken 
from their homes to fight against 
their own people.”
Chinilio’s stepdad was forced 
to enlist in the military at 15 
years old in Cuba. After delay -
ing his draft, he was imprisoned 
and sent to a labor camp where UF students protest against Cuba’s government
SEE CUBA,  PAGE 4
95 VICTIMS HAVE BEEN 
RECOVERED AND IDENTIFIED 
FROM THE SITE AS OF JULY 17
By Isabella Barnet
Alligator Staff Writer
Three University of Florida alum -
ni were recovered and identified from 
the rubble of the Surfside Champlain 
Towers South condominium after it 
partially collapsed on June 24. 
26-year-old Argentinian Nicole 
“Nicky” Langesfeld and 28-year-old 
Venezuelan Luis Sadovnic were both 
recovered from the site on July 7, ex -
actly two weeks after the collapse.
Langesfeld graduated in May 
2016 and was a part of the UF chap -ter of Alpha Omicron Pi sorority be -
fore graduating from the University 
of Miami School of Law. She met 
Sadovnic during her time at UF, and 
they married each other this year af -
ter a beachfront proposal last Decem -
ber in front of the Champlain Towers 
that once stood 12 stories tall. 
A GoFundMe dedicated to the 
couple to alleviate financial burdens 
for their families has raised nearly 
$120,000. 
Sadovnic graduated from Santa 
Fe College in 2014 and later gradu -
ated from UF with a bachelor’s of sci -
ence in food and resource economics 
in 2016. He was an avid golf player 
and played for Vinotinto Sub 17, the 
Venezuelan national soccer under-17 
team.
His cousin, Moises Rodan, was also among those recovered from the 
Champlain Towers rubble. 
The two cousins attended a pri -
vate Jewish school together in Ven -
ezuela and were active members of 
UF’s Chabad Jewish Center. 
Rodan, a 28-year-old UF alum -
nus, was recovered on July 11 along -
side his cousin Andres Levine, a Flor -
ida International University alumni, 
who was with him in unit 403 when 
the building partially collapsed. The 
Venezuelan graduated in May with a 
bachelor’s degree in computer engi -
neering. 
Stefanie Alvarez, 25, remembers 
her boyfriend Rodan as a selfless, 
hardworking individual who aspired 
to help others in his community. Ro -
dan would often go to the McDon -
ald’s on University Avenue and buy dozens of burgers for the homeless 
people nearby. 
“He would do this around three 
times a month and wouldn’t tell any -
one about it,” she said. “Sometimes 
I would find out about it, but it was 
something that filled him with joy—
it was something he loved to do.” 
The couple, both originally from 
Caracas, met at Santa Fe College in 
an English class. Alvarez knew him 
since he first arrived in Gainesville 
in 2016, two years after emigrating 
from Venezuela herself.
Alvarez planned to temporarily 
move to Miami with Rodan at the 
Champlain Towers upon returning 
from Gainesville, just a week after 
the collapse. 
She wants others to know how 
overjoyed Rodan was about gradu -ating from the University of Florida 
after he couldn’t finish his civil engi -
neering degree in his homeland. 
“Everyone should take an ex -
tra step to help others because it’s 
something Moi taught all of us,” she 
said. “His perseverance stopped him 
from ever giving in to a failed exam, 
computing a bad code, or a bad pro -
fessor… his biggest accomplishment 
was graduating from UF, and he was 
so, so proud to be a Florida Gator.”
Rodan’s legacy lives on through 
Stefanie, his parents, his siblings, his 
nephews and nieces, his friends and 
his dog, Balu.
ibarnet@alligator.orgUF alumni identified from the Surfside Champlain Towers South Condominium
TRADUCCIÓN ESPAÑOLA,  PAGINA 7Following protests in Cuba, a 
group of UF students gathered to 
support the ongoing demonstrationsT oday’s Weather
THE COMMISSION VOTED 
TO PASS TWO MOTIONS 
INCREASING PARKING FEES 
AND REDESIGNATING ZONES
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer
After emerging from about two 
weeks of recess, the Gainesville City 
Commission met July 12 for a spe -
cial city commission meeting where 
Malisa McCreedy, the city’s director 
of transportation and mobility, gave a 
presentation on proposed changes to 
parking zones and rates. 
Parking rates haven’t increased 
since 2004.
“The discussion about parking 
rates has been something that has 
been talked about for at least over a 
decade,” City Manager Lee Feldman 
said. 
Feldman said a final decision 
needs to be made in order to deter -
mine whether there will be a revenue 
increase in the general fund budget 
for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 
and ending Sept. 30, 2022.
The proposed changes include 
limiting areas that are considered 
high demand as two-hour parking 
spaces that cost $1 an hour, limit -
ing off-street surface lots to four-hour 
spaces, reducing parking garage rates 
to $0.50 an hour and slashing five of 
the current parking zones and redes -
ignating the remaining six. 
Annual parking permit rates for all 
zones will increase from the current cost of $115.75 for zones 1, 2 and 5 
and $58 for all other zones to $216, 
which will create a potential increase 
in city revenue of about $225,000. 
McCreedy said the idea behind the 
higher prices for the two-hour spots is 
to ensure one or two spots are avail -
able on curbsides at all times. 
The proposed parking changes 
were motivated by the city’s 2021 
community survey response that 
found parking availability as the No. 
2 concern.
While Commissioner David Arreo -
la said he supported the hourly park -
ing changes, he is opposed to the pro -
posed neighborhood parking permit 
rate increase. 
“Since rates haven’t changed in 17 
years, just at the period of time we’re 
at now with people’s economic strug -
gles a lot of people who are paying for 
these passes are probably not ready 
to take on this additional burden of 
cost,” he said. “And so I don’t think 
it’s the right time for us to make such 
a dramatic leap even if there is a ratio -
nal nexus for it.”
Mayor Lauren Poe said he be -
lieved all the passes will sell quickly, 
however.
“We’ll learn if it’s priced too high if 
we don’t sell all the passes,” he said. 
“That’s simple supply and demand.”
Increasing pedestrian and bicycle 
safety and maintaining the city’s goal 
of reducing the effects of climate 
change also propelled the proposed 
changes.
“This is one of the things we can 
do as a city to help with lowering greenhouse gases,” Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos said. 
He said drivers often circle in 
search of a spot to park which is a 
big issue contributing to vehicle emis -
sions, and the proposed changes will 
help mitigate that.
Hayes-Santos suggested funding 
more lighting in the areas that will 
experience higher parking demand to 
accommodate for the rise in people 
using those spaces, and Commission -
er Reina Saco agreed. 
The commission unanimously 
voted to pass the motion to implement 
the changes in the parking fee struc -
ture and passed the motion to change 
the neighborhood parking permit fees 
4-2 with Arreola and Commissioner 
Gail Johnson in opposition. Commis -
sioner Desmon Duncan-Walker was 
absent for both votes.
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 40
 Gainesville residents can expect a spike 
in parking fees and annual permit rates
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
STANDARD GARAGE 
BY UF NOW OPEN!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!
CITY HALL IS OPERATIONAL AGAIN AFTER 
GAINESVILLE FIRE RESCUE DEEMED MOST 
OF THE BUILDING CLEAR OF CHEMICALS
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville’s city hall was evacuated before the regu -
lar city commission meeting July 15 after chemical fumes 
leaked into its ventilation system.
The commission meeting was canceled July 15 and 
rescheduled for July 19. Some of the treatments used 
for an ongoing roof replacement were accidentally re -
leased into the building’s air conditioning system. The treatments contained acetone and APTES, which can be 
hazardous to inhale. 
Gainesville Fire Rescue recommended the evacuation 
out of an abundance of caution, Shelby Taylor, a city 
spokesperson, said.
The building is open and operational again except for 
one section, which is still being monitored, Taylor said.
The roof is being replaced for the first time since 1964 
after water leaks were reported in the building, Taylor 
said. A 2017 report on the building deemed the roof to 
be in need of repairs, according to the Gainesville Sun.
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.orgGainesville’s city hall evacuated due to chemical leakMONDAY, JULY 19, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Erica Studer-Byrnes, the soon-
to-be assistant dean and director 
of the Heavener School of 
Business, is the first woman ever 
appointed to the position.
Studer-Byrnes, who starts 
the position July 19, will be in 
charge of operations and strategic 
development within the business 
undergraduate program. She 
plans to implement university 
level policies across campus 
and facilitate the undergraduate 
experience with career readiness 
skills.
“I’m sure when a lot of female 
students read that they felt proud 
and excited that a female would 
be stepping into the role,” Isabella 
Rowland, a 22-year-old marketing 
masters student, said.
Studer-Byrnes’ first steps 
as assistant dean and director 
will include defining the culture 
in the undergraduate business 
school by working to provide 
the best services to students, she 
said. In doing so, she will target 
welcoming back both students 
and faculty as they readjust to in-
person classroom settings. 
“I also will be focusing on 
really greatly making sure that 
people still feel celebrated, feel 
connected, feel like they’re part of 
the bigger team,” Studer-Byrnes 
said. “Regardless of if it’s a day 
that they’re working remotely or 
if it’s a day that they’re working 
in the office.”Studer-Byrnes is the first 
woman to lead the Heavener 
Business School and the second 
woman on the dean leadership 
team. She acknowledged the 
imbalance between the college’s 
student population, which she 
said is roughly 50/50 in female-
to-male ratio, and the professional 
field, where there are few female 
CEOs in Fortune 500 companies. 
There is a disconnect between 
who learns the skills and who 
ends up taking leadership roles, 
she said.
“I think it’s important for our 
female students to see a woman 
in a leadership position,” Studer-
Byrnes said.  
Studer-Byrnes has about 20 
years of experience in academic 
roles and is a four-time Gator, 
completing her Bachelor of Arts in 
philosophy, Bachelor of Science 
in psychology, Master of Arts in 
education and Ph.D. in counseling 
and counselor education. 
She wants to expand the 
college’s leadership programs, 
which she said is a strength of the 
school that lacks participation.
The business school offers 
many curriculums, including an 
experiential learning program 
designed for students to engage 
in industry-driven collaborations. 
The college also offers the Florida 
Leadership Academy, which 
hosts business competitions for 
sophomores to develop leadership 
qualities.
“This big suite of programs 
that we have is something that we’ve developed in house as a 
way to provide opportunities 
for students to develop career 
readiness skills that are the types 
of skills that you’re just not going 
to pick up in classes,” Studer-
Byrnes said.
She said it creates a culture of 
empowerment, success, inclusion 
and career readiness.
Isabella Rowland, a Heavener 
student assistant and Warrington 
Welcome Peer Leader, agrees 
with Studer-Byrnes’ sentiments 
and hopes to see an increase in 
participation. 
For four years, Studer-
Byrnes worked as the associate 
director of Heavener where she 
led operational strategy during 
the pandemic with the previous 
associate dean and director, Alex 
Sevilla. 
Sevilla left UF to work at 
Vanderbilt as the vice provost 
of career advancement and 
engagement, but he said Studer-
Byrnes is poised for great things 
and will shine in providing more 
resources to support Heavener’s 
students. 
“She is a phenomenal data 
analyst and really understands 
how to pull insights from data that 
we collect,” Sevilla said. “Being 
able to really take that data to the 
next level to inform us on how we 
can continue to strengthen what 
we would define as the Heavener 
student experience I think that 
that’s one space where she will 
play a key role.”
Warrington College of Business dean Sabyasachi “Saby” 
Mitra appointed the committee 
that chose Studer-Byrnes as the 
next associate dean and director. 
He said he was not surprised 
when Studer-Byrnes was chosen 
because of her many years of 
experience.
“Some people can only 
really think about big picture 
and strategy and others really 
focus on the details and the 
implementation,” Mitra said. 
“But we have someone who does 
both.”Mitra hopes to see Studer-
Byrnes modernize the business 
administration curriculum, 
improve the student experience 
with more meaningful engagement 
and career service opportunities 
and retain a more diverse group 
of students at Heavener. 
“I think business education 
is at a really unique time period 
right now,” Studer-Byrnes said. 
“So, I’m excited to come in at a 
time where there’s a lot of moving 
and shaking already happening 
and expand our reach in a really 
meaningful way.”
 
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgUF Heavener School of Business names new assistant dean and director
Courtesy to The Alligator
Erica Studer-Byrnes, the assistant dean and director of the 
Warrington College of Business.
Erica Studer-Byrnes is the first female to lead the Heavener 
Business School and the second female on the dean leadership team4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021he cut sugar cane. Years later, he es -
caped to Mexico and eventually ar -
rived in Miami.
Today, Cuba is governed by 
Miguel Díaz-Canel Bermúdez, whose 
administration has experienced lim -
ited medicine and vaccination avail -
ability, contributing to the rise in the 
country’s COVID-19 death toll.
Cuba’s economic crisis is partly 
due to the lack of tourism — one 
of their main sources of income — 
from existing U.S. travel restrictions 
and current restrictions on travel 
imposed during the COVID-19 pan -
demic. This, along with the govern -ment’s rationing system, has contrib -
uted to soaring prices and scarcity of 
food, according to Amnesty Interna -
tional’s 2020 report on Cuba.
Now, Chinilio said her stepdad’s 
family is starving.
“We have no way of communi -
cating to them,” she said. “It hurts a 
lot to see what’s happening.”
Chinilio says she is not support -
ive of U.S. intervention, but thinks 
it’s necessary because of how bad 
the situation is on the island.
Protests showing solidarity with 
Cuban protesters have sprung up 
from Miami to Chile. The #SOSCuba 
demonstration was the third protest 
against the Cuban government to 
take place in Gainesville last week. “The reason people are protest -
ing right now, it’s not one thing, 
they’re protesting because they’re 
tired of everything,” Sophia Medina, 
an 18-year-old UF exploratory fresh -
man, said.
For more than two hours, the 
crowd chanted “libertad,” the Span -
ish word for liberty.
Alexandra Quintana, co-founder 
and vice president of Take Action 
Florida, organized the demonstra -
tion to create a haven for people to 
express themselves and heal while 
building empathy and raising aware -
ness about the humanitarian crisis in 
Cuba, she said.
“I am trying to garner as much 
attention to the issue,” she said, “be -
cause, at the end of the day, it’s an 
international issue. Human rights is 
an international issue.”
On July 16, U.N. Human Rights Chief Michelle Bachelet urged the 
government to address the Cuban 
people’s concerns and release those 
detained for exercising their funda -
mental freedoms.
Quintana urges people to amplify 
Cuban people’s voices while being 
allies to other countries in humani -
tarian crises like Haiti, Venezuela, 
Colombia, Yemen and South Africa.
“We’re all fighting corruption at 
the end of the day,” she said.
Being Cuban-American and 
raised in Miami by her immigrant 
parents, Quintana said seeing the 
protests in Cuba deeply affected 
her because of generational trauma 
passed down through her family.
“Even though I might not know 
everyone on the island, or know, or 
have the same connections as my 
parents do, I still feel it the same 
way,” she said. “I was raised that 
way.”
For 28-year-old Cuban-American 
Daniel Antonio Miguel, being sur -
rounded by the UF Cuban student 
community as several people spoke 
and shared their stories brought him 
to tears. 
“I had this tenseness, this sort 
of uneasiness in my chest, and 
like screaming out felt so good 
— screaming out ‘libertad’ felt so 
good,” Miguel said. 
The UF history senior was born 
and raised in South Florida by his 
parents who immigrated to the U.S. 
from Cuba during Fidel Castro’s re -
gime in 1987. 
Miguel grew up hearing stories 
about the struggles of the island 
from his family, so seeing the pro -
tests break out in Cuba inspired him 
to show support for his community.
“It just felt like I was here in soli -
darity with my pueblo [town],” he 
said. 
Miguel’s sentiments are shared 
by other students whose family 
members experienced Cuba’s gov -
ernment under different leaders 
firsthand. 
Nelson Diaz, a 25-year-old Santa 
Fe building construction manage -
ment sophomore, said he left Cuba 
when he was 14. In Cuba, his dad was a lawyer and his mom a nurse, 
but they still endured tough condi -
tions. Now, his dad is an electrician 
and his mom does not work. 
“My grandfather, he fought with 
Fidel in the revolution, and he’s just 
disappointed with everything that 
has happened — 62 years of dicta -
torship,” Diaz said.
His grandparents still live in 
Cuba, and he said it destroys him 
whenever he talks to them on the 
phone. He wants to see some kind of 
humanitarian intervention with the 
goal of transitioning the island to a 
democracy.
“We don’t want capitalists, we 
don’t want a dictatorship, we don’t 
want any of that. We want the peo -
ple of Cuba to be able to choose their 
own president,” Diaz said.
This month’s protests represent 
an outcry against Cubans’ current 
reality and their ancestors’ history. 
It’s common to see families live 
in the same house through four gen -
erations without any maintenance, 
Gabriel Rivera, who left Cuba five 
years ago to the day of the July 16 
protest, said. Many people there die 
from houses collapsing on them, he 
said.
“What happened in Miami, that 
is a day-to-day in Cuba,” Rivera said.
He said Cubans get indoctrinated 
into political ideologies at an early 
age, and many don’t understand life 
outside the island. The censorship of 
the internet and media outlets un -
der Castro’s rule has only worsened 
Cuba’s isolation.
“You see American movies, but 
you think that that doesn’t exist, it’s 
like that cannot be possible, how so 
many people can have liberty, cars, 
houses,” Rivera said. “When we’re 
born there, you don’t struggle, you 
just live. You start to struggle when 
you realize what is outside Cuba.”
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.org
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgCUBA,  from pg. 1International support
Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Elizabeth Carmenate, a UF marketing junior, wrapped in a Cuban flag, sings and cheers during a 
protest on Friday, July 16, 2021.
By Eve Thompson
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The only college of veterinary medicine 
in Florida, UF’s College of Veterinary 
Medicine is ranked ninth in the country, 
with its prominent research and patient 
care recognized nationally. 
Home to six degree programs and 454 
doctorate of veterinary medicine students, 
its research and graduate training 
programs have been featured in a variety 
of online publications.
  In the past year, researchers at UF’s 
College of Veterinary Medicine have 
discovered a new disease affecting 
gopher tortoises, performed a total 
ankle replacement surgery on a dog and 
developed a new treatment for animals 
with bone loss.
“When I was interviewing for positions 
around the country and internal medicine 
faculty positions, this was the one that best met my hopes to combine high-level 
patient care with teaching and clinical 
research,” Dr. Julie Levy, professor of 
shelter medicine education at the College 
of Veterinary Medicine, said.
Besides having the state-of-the-art 
clinical skills laboratory and the leading 
aquatic animal health program, Dr. Levy 
also said the faculty felt like a family.
“The thing that struck me with the UF 
veterinary school was how friendly and 
collaborative everybody was,” she said. 
“You felt like this was a family working 
towards a common goal, rather than a 
collection of people working towards their 
separate goals.”
There are two animal hospitals open to 
the public on the Gainesville campus, a 
Small Animal Hospital and a Large Animal 
Hospital. Last year, they treated over 
42,000 animals.
In 2008, Dr. Levy co-founded the 
college’s shelter medicine program. Her research focuses on feline infectious 
disease and humane community cat 
management.
Now a 27-year-old rising senior at the 
college, Polly Weldon began her studies 
at Ross University in the Caribbean. She 
transferred to UF a year later because of 
its reputation.
“I knew a UF degree would really 
be an amazing thing for me to have if I 
could, and it is just an awesome hospital,” 
Weldon said. “They have some of the best 
experts in the world, and I just definitely 
wanted to be a part of the Gator nation for 
veterinary medicine.”
Weldon said her professors at the 
college are devoted to student research.
“They’re on the forefront of veterinary 
medicine, which is amazing to be involved 
in as a student,” she said.
While there is no official pre-veterinary 
program at UF, students can join either 
the Pre-Veterinary Medicine Club or the 
Minority Pre-Vet Students. Both clubs 
provide prospective veterinary students 
with support while they undergo the 
grueling veterinary school application process.
Ashley Ferrato, president of the Pre-
Veterinary Medicine Club and a 20-year-
old animal science senior, said growing up 
on a horse farm helped her become aware 
of her passion for helping animals.
“As soon as I started working in the 
field, actually touching people’s lives, 
both animals and humans, the reward for 
me is just so great,” Ferrato said.
Veterinary medicine is a stressful 
field, but it is not a very diverse one, said 
Daniela Vassolo, president of Minority 
Pre-Vet Students.
The 21-year-old animal biology senior 
hopes to become a veterinarian, but it 
can be difficult for minority students to 
succeed in the field. The club helps her 
feel less alone.
“We really try to give our members 
speakers that have diverse backgrounds so 
that they don’t feel so alone, and they can 
find their goals are more attainable and 
relatable because they’re meeting people 
who are like them,” Vassolo said.
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.orgUF College of Veterinary Medicine makes new advancements in research and patient care
The only college of veterinary medicine 
in Florida is ranked ninth in the U.S.MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE POTENTIAL TREATMENT 
IS ONE OF THE FIRST 
PERSONALIZED APPROACHES 
TO COMBAT AGE-RELATED 
COGNITIVE DECLINE
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
If presented with current models 
of electrical brain stimulation a de -
cade ago, Dr. Adam J. Woods would 
have thought of a science-fiction 
movie plot. Artificial intelligence now 
pulls the fantasy out of screens and 
into reality. 
When patients visit Woods in his 
lab, he applies two electrodes on their 
scalps and sends electric currents to 
their brains. After about sixty seconds 
of tingling and prickling, the sensa -
tion from the shock usually dwindles.
Woods’ laboratory has completed 
over 6,000 sessions of transcranial 
direct current stimulation, or tDCS, 
in the past five years. The procedure 
shows promise for improving cogni -
tive function in older adults, which 
may help prevent dementia later in 
life.
Paired with cognitive training and 
the help of AI, precision dosing treat -
ment in tDCS may pave the path to preventing dementia.
“It’s no longer science fiction,” he 
said. “It’s science.”
Dementia is one of the top health 
care problems both in the U.S. and 
worldwide, with over 50 million cases 
in the world today, Dr. Ruogu Fang, 
UF assistant professor of biomedical 
engineering, said.
Among the about 6.2 million 
Americans living with dementia, 
85-year-old Richard Irey’s first signs 
came about seven years ago when 
his daughter noticed he forgot rou -
tine driving directions and grocery list 
items.
Richard Irey is a retired UF me -
chanical engineering professor who 
spent most of his life teaching classes 
ranging from complex subjects like 
thermodynamics to sailing — one of 
his passions. 
“He’s very, very intelligent,” his 
daughter, Elizabeth Irey, said. “That’s 
part of what’s been so sad about 
this.”
UF researchers have been work -
ing to find noninvasive treatments to 
fight Alzheimer’s disease and other 
forms of dementia for years. 
However, tDCS efforts have long 
been hindered by a seemingly simple 
challenge: how to tailor the treatment 
to personal anatomical differences 
like skull thickness and the amount of age-related brain atrophy in each 
person.
“You walk into your doctor’s of -
fice for hypertension medication — 
they don’t give every single person 
exactly the same dose of the drug 
— they titrate that dose based on 
things like body mass index, height 
and weight,” Woods said, UF Clinical 
Health and Psychology associate pro -
fessor and Center for Cognitive Aging 
and Memory in the McKnight Brain 
Institute associate director.
With the aid of a $2.9 million grant 
from the National Institute on Aging, 
a solution seems to be on the way us -
ing artificial intelligence, which Fang 
said allows for rapid and holistic in -
terpretation of data that can outpower 
and exceed human performance.
“Using machine learning, it can 
make the previously impossible work 
because of the huge data set and high 
dimensional data possible today,” she 
said.
This new research marks an ad -
vancement from a crude one-size-fits-
all approach to a personalized treat -
ment that can be adapted to every 
patient, allowing different intensities 
and directions of brain electric cur -
rents to treat each case.
“Because every single dose isn’t 
going to be as effective in every single 
person,” Woods said.
In conventional tDCS, which ap -
plies a fixed dose of electrical stimu -
lation to every patient, an early trial 
showed moderate improvement in 
working memory in older adults. 
“We think we can enhance those 
effects significantly by titrating the 
dose just like you would with a phar -
maceutical,” Woods said.
UF has established itself as a na -
tional leader with a growing, interna -
tionally ranked AI Initiative.
“This project will enable us to 
generate one of the first personalized 
medicine approaches to combat age-
related cognitive decline,” Alejandro 
Albizu, a doctoral student in neuro -
science at the UF College of Medicine, 
said in a press release. 
Woods and Fang co-lead an over two-year collaboration on a pilot 
study between the College of Public 
Health and Health Professions and 
the College of Engineering. As the 
lead principal investigators for the 
project, they are working to combine 
artificial intelligence and neurosci -
ence research in a journey to prevent 
dementia.
Fang and the researchers are 
bridging data on tDCS with AI to dis -
entangle the mysteries behind where 
and how much of the electrical cur -
rent goes to each region of the brain.
AI technology analyzes over 6 bil -
lion brain MRI data points, Fang said, 
contributed by 360 study participants 
to find patterns in tDCS responsive -
ness. Pairing the patient’s unique 
anatomical makeup with information 
on whether the treatment caused im -
provements can inform personalized 
doses in future patients.
When a new patient supplies an 
MRI of their brain, researchers may 
then know where to place the elec -
trodes and the amount and direction 
of current to apply to make the treat -
ment effective for each person, Fang 
said.
Preliminary data found dosing 
may be customizable to turn treat -
ment nonresponders into responders, 
she said.
In theory, Woods said the gener -
alized AI framework can be applied 
across a variety of clinical conditions, 
such as depression and chronic pain, 
as well as other electrical brain stimu -
lation approaches.
For a growing and aging popula -
tion, he said dementia is an imminent 
public health concern. The number of 
people afflicted with Alzheimer’s will 
more than triple by 2050.
With dementia running in her 
family, Elizabeth Irey, 55, said she 
worries about suffering from the same 
disease as her dad. She hopes this 
new technology may allow younger 
patients to have access to more pre -
ventive treatments in the near future.
“There is a pressing public health 
concern that we need to find novel 
interventions that are accessible to reduce the incidence of dementia and 
Alzheimer’s disease,” Woods said. 
The projected national cost of pro -
viding care for people with dementia 
is $355 billion in 2021, with the cost 
rising as high as $1.1 trillion in 2050, 
according to the Alzheimer’s Associa -
tion.
“Simply put, our economic health 
care infrastructure is not built to ad -
dress that level of increase,” Woods 
said.
When faced with a dilemma and 
an unanswered question, he said the 
best part of the research is getting to 
find that answer.
Despite being long retired, Rich -
ard Irey’s mind still places him back 
in his youth during his teaching days 
at UF — reminiscence is a common 
experience for dementia patients who 
draw more easily from memories of 
the past than short-term memory.
“One of the things he’s saying cur -
rently is he’s got to go,” Elizabeth Irey 
said. “He’s got a class to teach.”
Back then, Richard Irey built a 25-
foot sailboat. He named it Vorticity, 
a technical term relating to the wind. 
His creations didn’t cease after 
that. When he was 65, he crafted his 
own home in the mountains of North 
Carolina.
Now, while he’s with his family 
and between bouts of sleep, Rich -
ard Irey still asks to go home, talking 
about what his wife of 65 years be -
lieves to be his lakeside North Caro -
lina house and boat. 
As his mind blurs the past with re -
ality, his family offers him pictures in 
hopes of the memories drifting back 
to his days of sailing.
The potential to make an impact 
on lives like Richard Irey’s motivates 
Woods, Fang and the researchers to 
continue studying dementia and im -
proving its treatments.
“For me, that’s the driving force 
behind this,” Woods said. “Because 
we get to go out and actually use our 
science to maybe help someone.”
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.org
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After over a year of virtual programming 
and social distancing, UF Student Government 
is taking $1.55 million from its reserve account 
to enhance the student experience as in-person 
activities return.
SG’s reserve fund is an account that holds 
about $4 million and collects leftover money 
at the end of each fiscal year to be used for 
one-time expenses. It was last used May 2020 
when Senate passed a bill allocating $500,000 
to provide students with rent relief because of 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
Now, as UF recovers from COVID-19, SG 
wants to welcome students back with an 
exciting year by adding $1.55 million onto 
the fiscal year budget. On July 13, Senate 
unanimously approved the second reading of 
the bill advocating for the transfer.
The transfer sets aside $750,000 for Student 
Government Productions and $250,000 for 
the Accent Speakers Bureau, which are 
SG agencies funded by student fees. It also allocates $500,000 for student organizations 
and $50,000 for the Student Government 
Cabinet. 
The bill was authored by Student Body 
President Cooper Brown and sponsored by 
Vice President Faith Maniti and Treasurer 
Giovanna Mompremier. 
SG administration recognizes its role in 
helping students create lifelong memories, 
Brown wrote in an email. 
“Students deserve a big year coming out 
of one and a half years of campus being shut 
down,” he wrote. 
Each year, 7% of the annual budget must 
go into the reserve account, according to SG 
codes. The last transfer from the account 
allowed students to receive up to $500 after 
applying for rent relief. 
Kevin Trejos, the president of the Hispanic 
Student Association, said it’s amazing SG is 
using some of its emergency money to help 
campus life. Trejos, who previously served 
as a business administration senator, said the 
money awarded from the reserve transfer will 
help ensure student organizations have enough 
funding for their events. “We’re able to use all that money that never 
got to be used to have an amazing year that 
should hopefully bring a lot more entertainment 
and a better experience for students,” he said. 
For HSA specifically, Trejos said it’s a 
shame how some of its third-year members 
don’t know what the organization’s events are 
really like. In the past, HSA collaborated with 
Accent to bring Hispanic guests, like Pitbull 
and Prince Royce, to speak on campus and 
virtually, he said. Trejos hopes the reserve 
transfer will allow them to host Hispanic and 
Latinx artists again. 
Radames Leyva, an 18-year-old UF 
finance freshman, said after a year affected 
by COVID-19, the money from the transfer 
will definitely enhance students’ experiences. 
For instance, the speakers can give students 
another perspective on life, he said. 
“It’s pretty nice to have something to do on 
campus,” he said. “You don’t necessarily have 
to go off campus or 40 miles to the springs to 
have fun.” 
However, not everyone agrees with the 
reserve transfer. Zachery Utt, who won the 
Murphree Area senator seat in Oct. 2020, said he was furious when he first saw the bill. 
In May 2020, the 20-year-old UF computer 
science, statistics and mathematics junior 
co-authored a bill that would have shipped 
students hotspots to help with internet issues 
as they navigated online classes. However, 
he said he was told it would be irresponsible 
spending. 
“We could’ve given 900 students WiFi,” 
he said. “We could have improved education 
for 900 needy students that struggled and had 
to claw their way for an education that they 
didn’t ask for. They didn’t sign up to go to a 
virtual school.” 
Last year, when another reserve transfer 
provided $500,000 in rent relief for students, 
Utt said they tried to double the amount to no 
avail. People needed investments when times 
were hard, not now when everything is fine, 
he said. He is supportive of spending reserve 
funds to enhance the student experience, but 
said it needs to be done logically and for the 
benefit of all Gators. 
“I think it’s hypocritical because when 
students needed us the most, we weren’t there 
for them,” he said. “The reserves over the 
Summer had $4.5 million in it. It’s ridiculous 
that we’re sitting on that kind of money.”
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org UF researchers fight dementia using AI technology to develop new treatment
Student Government will transfer $1.55 million from its reserves to improve student experience  Alex Brown / / Alligator Staff
The bill allocates money to Student Government 
Cabinet, SG agencies and student organizationsKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Tough as nails
Emily Heller’s journey from Babylon, New York, to Gainesville. 
Read more on pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
Emily Lube tells her origin story as dj 
smushyslugs with astounding simplicity.
She recounts her artistic beginnings as one 
would recount their weekend. 
After a few YouTube videos, all absorbed 
during the stagnant summer of 2020, the 
22-year-old UF botany graduate became a ris -
ing Gainesville staple in a matter of months.
“Over quarantine, I really wanted to learn 
more about it,” she said. “I was just watching 
so many videos.”
Lube’s inaugural performance as dj smush -
yslugs was at The How Bazar, a pop-up mar -
ket and emerging hub for local creatives. Lube 
reached out to the market in February and 
made her Gainesville debut.
“They let any creative person try it out, so 
that was my first thing,” Lube said. “It was re -
ally awesome.”
Rather than a club or concert, venues like 
these were Lube’s launchpad. Bigger bookings 
quickly followed — Swamp Records spring 
Showcase, UF Pride Awareness Month Queer 
Arts Market and Queer Prom and a semi-regu -lar gig at Arcade Bar.
The work of dj smushyslugs is an intense 
and dynamic display of EDM — bold, pulsing 
sets that exist in sharp contrast to Lube’s laid-
back nature. They don’t just demand attention. 
They  threaten to swallow the room whole.
Kick drums pound, and wobbling basslines 
reverberate under the mix, settling deep within 
the chest cavity. Synths stab and spike, snares 
snap, hi-hats hammer and menacing electronic 
nuances invade at random. They can vary from 
groovy to gritty, Lube said, but a dj smushy -
slugs mix is always a sweeping tidal wave that 
powers through all in its path.
With the way Lube is continuously crop -
ping up at some of Gainesville’s hotspots, the 
sound is becoming increasingly hard to miss.
Through her mainstay gig at The How Ba -
zar and other appearances, Lube has put the 
city on notice — not just in her ability, but in 
her identity. Gainesville’s DJ scene is largely 
devoid of women. Women of color are even 
rarer. And queer women of color are almost 
unheard of among the city’s DJs. 
The local DJ scene feels like an almost-im -
penetrable boys’ club, and it’s one Lube isn’t 
too interested in entering. She’d rather find 
other female artists to support and start a club of her own, but so far, she’s the sole member. 
Blazing this kind of trail isn’t without its 
challenges. Lube said. With no mentor or net -
work of fellow artists, Lube said the opportu -
nity to play even bigger venues feels out of 
reach.
“It’s hard to even get them to listen to your 
mix,” she said. 
Though people in these smaller spaces have 
been supportive, Lube said the pop-ups that 
got her started can only take her so far — when 
you’ve played one, she said, you’ve played 
them all. Though invaluable, these smaller 
shows exist in an endless loop: important but 
inescapable. 
But in these more intimate settings, Lube 
isn’t isolated. As dj smushyslugs continues 
to grace local lineups, Lube said she’s felt es -
pecially embraced by Gainesville’s LGBTQ 
community. Friends and strangers alike have 
enthusiastically supported smushyslugs, Lube 
said, approaching her amid her sets to express 
their appreciation.
“People will come up to me and be like, 
‘You’ve made my year,’” she said.
And with every new fan, there’s an old 
friend in her corner. Sophia Simmons, a 
21-year-old UF architecture graduate, has 
known Lube since their freshman year and 
said she’s seen more smushyslugs sets than 
she can count.
“She’s so natural and honestly just looks like such a badass when she’s performing,” 
Simmons said.
The soundscape of smushyslugs is so 
dominant that even Lube herself gets lost in 
it. Closing her eyes, nodding her head, sway -
ing along with the sweaty sea of bodies crash -
ing into each other from her place behind the 
table — Lube is transported to a world of her 
own design.
”It’s just like a high almost, it’s just crazy,” 
Lube said.
 
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.org
SUPERSTAR LEBRON JAMES IS FRONT 
AND CENTER IN THE SEQUEL TO 
THE 1996 CLASSIC  
By Joseph Henry
Sports Writer
He’s played for the Cleveland Cavaliers, Mi -
ami Heat and Los Angeles Lakers. Now, NBA 
superstar LeBron James is taking his talents to 
Tune World in “Space Jam: A New Legacy.” 
The film, directed by Malcolm D. Lee and 
penned by six writers, premiered in theaters 
and on HBO Max July 16. 
Serving as a sequel to 1996’s “Space Jam,” 
high expectations surrounded the new film’s 
release. At 30% on Rotten Tomatoes it is clear 
it buckled under that pressure. 
Scoring metrics from sites like Rotten To -
matoes and IMDb will bolster the idea that se -
quels rarely live up to the expectations of their 
predecessors. However, there are exceptions 
to the rule, “The Dark Knight”, “Star Wars Ep -
isode V: The Empire Strikes Back” and “Toy 
Story 2” being some of my favorite examples. 
Despite its 44% rating on Rotten Toma -
toes, the original “Space Jam” had an impres -
sive impact on kids born from the late 1990s 
to early 2000s. 
Falling into that range myself, the original 
film was a childhood staple. My love for it per -
severed into my college years. I may or may not still have a giant poster featuring Michael 
Jordan and Bugs Bunny on my wall. 
The 1996 film is pure nostalgia. The plot of 
space aliens stealing the talent of NBA players 
and then playing a high-stakes game against 
Jordan and the Looney Tunes is ridiculously 
entertaining. I wouldn’t want it any other way. 
Twenty-five years later, the Tune Squad is 
reuniting and teaming up with the best basket -
ball player of the 21st century, James.
In “Space Jam: A New Legacy” the four-
time NBA Champion, four-time NBA Most 
Valuable Player, 17-time All-Star and three-
time Olympian faces a new challenge, the big 
screen. 
The film opens with a young James at a 
basketball game in Akron, Ohio, in 1998. Fol -
lowing is a credits sequence showcasing his 
famed career. From there, the film jumps to 
the present day. 
Within just the first few minutes on screen, 
it is made very clear that James is not an ac -
tor. His performance makes Jordan’s acting 
chops in 1996 look like those of Robert De 
Niro. James spends most of the movie riffing 
off of animated characters, a tough task even 
for experienced actors. It is easy to cut the ath -
lete some slack, but his interaction with his 
sons Dom and Darius, played by Cedric Joe 
and Ceyair J. Wright, is unnatural.  
“Athletes acting, that never goes well,” 
quips James during an early scene when 
meeting with Warner Bros. executives. I think James is right on this one, and he proves the 
notion. 
While there are many small things to nit -
pick, I’d rather focus more on the overarching 
problems present in this sequel–the biggest 
being its ambition. 
The plot centers around James and Dom 
getting trapped in the Warner Bros. Server -
verse, a computerized realm that is the home 
to various Warner Bros. characters. Once 
sucked into the digital landscape, they meet 
the film’s antagonist, Al G. Rhythm, portrayed 
by Academy Award-nominated actor Don 
Cheadle. His performance, menacing at times, 
sparks the movie’s main plot. Rhythm kidnaps 
Dom and tells James the only way he will get 
his son back is to beat him in a basketball 
game with the whole world watching. 
James is sent to the Looney Tunes planet 
of the Serververse and, with the help of Bugs, 
searches for teammates. Once the film dives 
into this montage of movie references, the 
majority of which stem from R-rated films, 
the justification that this is meant for kids 
seems to get lost. Looney Tunes characters are 
thrown into the middle of scenes from “Mad 
Max: Fury Road”, “Austin Powers” and “The 
Matrix.” All of these segments are a couple 
of minutes long and aim to draw in the adult 
audience. Watching this chunk of the film 
brought me back to “Space Jam” and the ri -
diculous “Pulp Fiction” reference placed in the 
middle of the big game. If you understood it you got a laugh, but if you didn’t it was easy 
to move past. 
The idea of having easter eggs and cameos 
from other Warner Bros. properties is fine in 
principle, but when you pile so much on the 
audience, it becomes wildly distracting. Any 
adult viewer will pick up on the fact that this 
movie is a very convoluted HBO Max market -
ing scheme. 
“Space Jam: A New Legacy” is not all bad. 
The combination of live-action, hand-drawn 
and computer-generated animation looks 
quite impressive. A few jokes landed for me, 
mostly from the game commentary coming 
from Ernie Johnson Jr. and Lil Rel Howery.
The movie was entertaining enough, but 
the dialogue and performances didn’t pull me 
into the larger narrative of James attempting to 
get his son back. There is potential for younger 
generations to feel the same nostalgia I have 
for the original, but it’s hard to overlook the 
slew of other options when it comes to kid’s 
movies that nail the adult appeal. 
Mediocre acting, clunky writing and an 
overload of Warner Bros. IP make this movie 
fall flat on its face. Instead of leaving a new 
and distinct mark, like the title anticipates, 
“Space Jam: A New Legacy’’ tramples over 
one of the most beloved films of my child -
hood. I’m already subscribed to your stream -
ing service, I didn’t need to be convinced.  
Rate: 3/10
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.orgSnail trail: Gainesville DJ paves her own path
Film rate and review: ‘Space Jam: A New Legacy’
MUSICMUSIC
MOVIESMOVIESMingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Emily Lube, 22, a UF botany 
alumna, also known as DJ 
Smushyslugs, poses in front of 
Hippodrome Theater in Gainesville 
on Thursday, July 1, 2021.
One of Gainesville’ s only female DJs is finding 
her place in the city’ s crowded creative landscapeLUNES, 19 DE JULIO DE 2021
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones so El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.Plants in Space
UF studies plants in microgravity,  pg. 8El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un twet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
Por Isabella Barnet
Escritora del Caimán
3 ex alumnos de la Universidad 
de la Florida fueron recuperados e 
identificados de los escombros en 
el condominio Surfside Champlain 
Towers South después de que 
colapsó parcialmente el 24 de junio.
Nicole “Nicky” Langesfeld, 
la argentina de 26 años, y Luis 
Sadovnic, el venezolano de 28 años, 
fueron recuperados desde el sitio el 
7 de julio, exactamente 2 semanas después del colapso inicial. 
Langesfeld se graduó en mayo 
de 2016 y era una hermana del 
capítulo de UF de Alpha Omicron 
Pi antes de graduarse de la Escuela 
de Derecho de la Universidad 
de Miami en 2019. Conoció a 
Sadovnic durante su tiempo en UF, 
y se casaron recientemente este 
año después de una propuesta en 
la playa en diciembre frente a las 
torres Champlain que una vez tuvo 
12 pisos.
Una página de GoFundMe dedicada a la pareja ha recaudado 
casi $120.000. La página escribió 
que Nicky’s “presencia es más 
grande que la vida y su sentido de 
humor no tiene límites”.
Sadovnic se graduó de Santa Fe 
College en 2014 y después se graduó 
de UF en 2016 con una licenciatura 
en economía de los alimentos y los 
recursos. Sadovnic era un ávido 
jugador de golf y anteriormente 
jugó para el Vinotinto Sub-17, el 
equipo nacional venezolano de 
fútbol sub-17.
Su primo, Moises Rodan, 
también fue unos de los 
recuperados de los escombros de 
las Torres Champlain.
Los dos atendieron una escuela 
judía privada en Venezuela y eran 
miembros activos del Centro Judío 
Jabad de la UF.
Moises Rodan, ex alumno de 
la UF de 28 años, fue recuperado 
el 11 de julio junto a su primo 
Andres Levine, un ex alumno 
de la Universidad Internacional 
de Florida, que estaba con él en 
la unidad 403 cuando el edificio 
se derrumbó parcialmente. El 
venezolano se graduó recientemente 
en mayo con una licenciatura en 
ingeniería informática luego de 6 
años de escolaridad.
Stephanie Alvarez, de 25 
años, recuerda a Rodan como 
un individuo desinteresado y 
trabajador que aspiraba a ayudar 
a otros en su comunidad. Rodan 
a menudo iba al McDonald's en 
University Avenue y compraba 
docenas de hamburguesas, varias veces al mes, para las personas sin 
hogar cercanas.
"Lo hacía como tres veces al 
mes y no le decía a nadie", dijo 
Alvarez. “A veces me enteraba 
que lo había hecho, pero era algo 
que lo llenaba a él, era algo que le 
encantaba hacer”.
La pareja, originalmente de 
Caracas, se encontraron en Santa 
Fe College durante una clase de 
inglés. Alvarez lo conoció desde 
que el primero llegó a Gainesville 
en 2016, 2 años después de emigrar 
ella misma de Venezuela.
Alvarez planeaba mudarse 
temporalmente a Miami para estar 
con Rodan en las Torres Champlain 
al regresar de Gainesville, solo una 
semana después del colapso.
Quiere que otros sepan lo feliz que era Rodan por graduarse de la 
Universidad de Florida después de 
que no pudo terminar su título de 
ingeniero civil en su tierra natal.
“Si pueden ayudar en algo, den 
ese extra paso de ayudar, porque 
eso es algo que Moi nos enseñó a 
todos nosotros”, dijo Alvarez. “Su 
perseverancia no se rindió a sacar 
mal en un examen, o no hacer 
un código, o el profesor le decía 
algo malo… su logro más grande 
fue graduarse de UF y él estaba 
demasiado orgulloso de ser un 
Florida Gator”. 
El legado de Rodan sigue vivo a 
través del querido perro mascota de 
la pareja, Balu.
ibarnet@alligator.orgAlumnos de UF fueron identificados del Condominio Surfside Champlain Towers South
LUEGO DE LAS PROTESTAS DE 
LAS ÚLTIMAS SEMANAS QUE 
ESTALLARON EN CUBA, UN GRUPO 
DE ESTUDIANTES DE UF SE REUNIÓ 
EN EL CAMPUS PARA APOYAR LA 
LIBERTAD DE CUBA DESPUÉS DE 62 
AÑOS BAJO UN GOBIERNO OPRESIVO
Por Valeria Pagnani
Traductora de El Caimán
La esquina de West University Avenue y 
Northwest 13th Street se llenó de manifestan -
tes el viernes por la noche durante una mani -
festación contra la dictadura autoritaria de 
Cuba.
La manifestación #SOSCuba de Gainesville, 
organizada por estudiantes de UF de Take 
Action Florida, un grupo de activismo social, 
obtuvo el apoyo de unos 70 estudiantes y resi -
dentes de Gainesville que llamaron a la acción para cambiar las condiciones actuales en Cuba.
Las protestas son en respuesta a la escasez 
de alimentos y medicamentos, la inflación, los 
apagones en todo el país y un aumento en las 
muertes por COVID-19 en la isla. Miles de cu -
banos tanto en el condado como en los Estados 
Unidos se están manifestando para expresar 
sus frustraciones contra el gobierno actual.
El gobierno cubano detuvo a los manifes -
tantes mediante la movilización de unidades 
policiales y militares y sacó a los adolescentes 
de sus hogares para luchar junto al gobierno, 
a veces contra sus propias familias, según un 
artículo de CBS Miami.
"Son literalmente civiles contra militares 
en este momento", dijo Sayda Chinilio, una 
estudiante de 21 años en su último año de 
educación primaria de UF. "Los niños de mi 
edad están siendo sacados de sus hogares para 
luchar contra su propia gente".
El padrastro de Chinilio fue obligado a alis -
tarse en el ejército a los 15 años. Después de 
retrasar su servicio, fue encarcelado y enviado a un campo de trabajo donde cortó caña de 
azúcar. Años después, escapó a México y final -
mente llegó a Miami.
Hoy, Cuba está gobernada por Miguel 
Díaz-Canel Bermúdez, cuyo régimen fomenta 
la disponibilidad limitada de medicamentos y 
vacunas, lo que ha contribuido al aumento de 
la cifra de muertos por COVID-19 en el país.
La crisis económica de Cuba se debe en par -
te a la falta de turismo, una de sus principales 
fuentes de ingresos, por las restricciones a los 
viajes impuestas durante la pandemia de CO -
VID-19. Esto, junto con el sistema de raciona -
miento del gobierno, ha contribuido al aumen -
to de los precios y la escasez de alimentos que 
dejan a muchas personas en la isla muriendo 
de hambre, según el informe 2020 de Amnistía 
Internacional sobre Cuba.
Ahora, Chinilio dijo que la familia de su pa -
drastro está muriendo de hambre.
“No tenemos forma de comunicarnos con 
ellos”, dijo. “Me duele mucho ver lo que está 
pasando”.Chinilio no apoya la intervención de los Es -
tados Unidos, pero cree que es necesaria de -
bido a lo mal que está la situación en la isla.
Desde Miami hasta Chile han surgido pro -
testas de solidaridad con los manifestantes 
cubanos. La manifestación #SOSCuba fue la 
tercera protesta contra el gobierno cubano que 
ocurrió en Gainesville la semana pasada.
“La razón por la que la gente está protestan -
do en este momento no es una sola cosa, están 
protestando porque están cansados   de todo”, 
dijo Sophia Medina, una estudiante de 18 años 
en su  primer año exploratorio de UF. 
Durante más de dos horas, la multitud 
cantó "libertad".
Alexandra Quintana, cofundadora y vice -
presidenta de Take Action Florida, organizó la 
manifestación para crear un refugio para que 
las personas se expresen y sanen mientras de -
sarrollan empatía para crear conciencia sobre 
la crisis humanitaria en Cuba, dijo ella.
vpagnani@alligator.orgLa Comunidad de UF se une contra la dictadura autoritaria de Cuba95 víctimas han sido recuperadas y identificadas 
desde el sitio a partir del 17 de julio
Foto por Isabella Barnet
Nicole Langesfeld (izquierda) y Luis Sadovnic (derecha), dos ex 
alumnos de la UF que fallecieron en el colapso parcial del Condominio 
Champlain Towers South en Surfside, Florida. Su foto cuelga de una 
pared conmemorativa en Surfside el sábado 3 de julio de 2021.Cortesia al Caimán
Moises Rodan, un alumno de ingeniería informática que falleció 
en el colapso parcial del Condominio Champlain Towers South 
en Surfside, Florida.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer
While new freshmen settled 
into their second weekend in 
Gainesville and upperclassmen 
slept in after long nights of blazing 
through bars, three tubes with 
plants cultivated by researchers 
at UF hurdled through the sky 
into the solar system. 
On July 11, Anna-Lisa Paul 
and Robert Ferl’s research 
reached new heights when Virgin 
Galactic, a spaceflight company, 
launched a suborbital flight. The 
launch will allow UF to study 
gene expression changes in a 
particular plant species enduring 
microgravity, which is weaker 
gravity found in an orbiting 
spacecraft.
Paul’s been mesmerized by the 
science of plants since childhood. 
She said she would brave the 
sweltering South Florida heat in 
the summer and bike to her local 
library to learn more about the 
behavior of plants. 
“I remember I was in the third 
grade, and I got a book, a Time-
Life book that was just called 
‘Plants’ and started reading about how plants do photosynthesis,” 
she said. “It struck me even as 
a little kid that that was a pretty 
amazing thing — that all plants 
needed was light and air and 
water.”
The “Unity 22” project is 
operated by Sirisha Bandla, the 
Virgin Galactic vice president of 
government affairs and research 
operations and is in conjunction 
with Paul and Ferl’s research.
“We are plant molecular 
biologists who ask the question: 
How do plants respond to the 
novel environments of space at 
the molecular level?” Paul said. 
Paul’s floral infatuation 
ultimately led her to becoming a 
co-principal investigator with Ferl 
in UF’s space plants lab, which 
is a team of scientists focused on 
successfully cultivating plants in 
space. 
The team analyzes the patterns 
of gene expression exhibited by 
the plants while they travel and 
live in atmospheres with extreme 
conditions that mimic space, 
which Paul said are completely 
outside of their evolutionary 
experience. 
But the research aims to uncover more than the 
fundamentals of how plants grow 
and thrive. UF’s lab has its sights 
set on the solar system, and much 
of the efforts are invested into 
creating sustainable solutions to 
grow and maintain plants on the 
surface of celestial bodies like the 
moon and Mars. 
“In the future, astronauts may 
go back and forth between Earth, 
the moon and Mars and orbiting 
platforms like the International 
Space Station and the Gateway 
outpost orbiting the Moon,” 
Ferl said in a press release. 
“Understanding the changes 
that occur in cells during these 
missions will be important to 
maintaining their health.”
Natasha Haveman, a research 
assistant scientist in the lab, had a 
key role in preparing for the flight 
by helping with the development 
of hardware components and 
ensuring the plants were in 
proper condition. The 36-year-
old pursued her Ph.D. in UF’s 
space plants lab from 2012 to 
2018 before becoming a research 
scientist in March. 
“There’s so much that we’re 
trying to do right now to try and understand how plants respond 
to the spaceflight environment,” 
she said. “It is an ongoing process 
because there is so much to learn 
— so much to figure out in terms 
of trying to get to a point where 
you can successfully grow plants 
and feed the colony that’s going 
to go on Mars.”
Haveman said the colonization 
of the moon and Mars is not 
far in the future, but the only 
way for an established galactic 
community to thrive is if they 
can also grow food crops, which 
is why the current space plants 
research is vital.
“It would be really awesome 
if we could start establishing 
a colony outside of Earth,” 
she said. “Making spaceflight 
affordable for everybody would 
be even better because I would 
really like to go to space.”
UF’s lab works extensively 
with a plant called Arabidopsis 
thaliana, which is essentially 
a mustard weed, and it is the 
same plant currently in space in 
the Virgin Galactic flight. Jordan 
Callaham, the lab manager, said 
the Arabidopsis is the “white 
mouse of the plant science 
world.”
However, Callaham said UF’s 
colleagues around the world work with plants like tomatoes, salad 
greens, cucumbers and kale, 
which are considered candidate 
crops for long-term habitation 
away from Earth. 
“Sometimes they just grow 
things because that’s what people 
like to eat,” she said. “There are 
certain crops that researchers 
start liking to grow but maybe 
astronauts don’t necessarily want 
to eat, so we have to find the 
balance of that.” 
Plants are necessary for the 
expansion of the human race to 
other planets not only for survival 
but for sustained nutrition so 
astronauts don’t have to rely on 
protein bars, Callaham said. 
While it may be many years 
before animals can occupy 
extraterrestrial colonies, 
Callaham said the ability to 
bring and grow plants is a huge 
step for sustainable space travel, 
which was a feat once deemed 
impossible.
“Things that we think of as 
fiction are just where the science 
hasn’t reached yet,” she said. 
“All the magic that takes place, 
science will get there eventually.”
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgAPPLICATIONS WERE UP 30% 
COMPARED TO FALL 2019
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Initially disappointed to be joining 
PaCE her freshman year, Marium Abdul -
hussein was glad to learn her online class -
es would give her an advantage among 
her in-person peers in 2020.
“I think I got a little lucky because ev -
eryone was taking online classes when I 
was,” Abdulhussein, an 18-year-old pub -
lic relations sophomore, said. “So the way 
my classes were structured were actually 
a lot more put together than my friends 
who were in-person.”
In Fall 2021, UF Online will welcome 
its largest incoming class with applica -
tions leaping by 30% compared to Fall 
2019, Evangeline Cummings, assistant 
provost and director of UF Online, said. 
She said about 1,000 PaCE students also 
accepted the offer of admission by UF, 
which represents a cohort nearly 40% 
larger than Fall 2018. 
UF’s online bachelor’s program is 
ranked No. 3 in the country by U.S. News 
& World Report and has held a top-five 
ranking for the past three years. When 
the pandemic forced Fall 2020 classes to 
move online, associate provost for teach -
ing and technology William McCollough 
said UF Online hardly skipped a beat.
“There was some universities who did 
not have the kind of online experience we 
had that really had some difficulty as they 
tried to move from face-to-face to online,” McCollough said. “We weren’t ready for 
the pandemic but we made that major 
transition in a week essentially to bring 
everything online.”
Cummings said $5 million a year in 
appropriations and about $13 million in 
tuition is invested in UF’s academic core 
values through faculty positions and aca -
demic advisors for online students. 
The pandemic changed the way the 
college experience was once thought of 
for many incoming freshmen at the start 
of the 2020 school year, specifically how 
education was traditionally taught at UF. 
In-person classes moved to Zoom, stu -
dents chose to stay at home and forgo 
paying for residential housing and going 
out turned into continuous online chat -
ting. 
However, the pandemic also showed 
students and faculty alike of the beneficial 
qualities of e-learning.
“The pandemic really allowed us to get 
to know our students in a way that we 
feel really fortunate about,” said Emma 
Brady, assistant director of academic pro -
grams at UF Online.
UF Online has worked to build immer -
sive virtual labs, which handle dissec -
tions and data collection from a student’s 
home. Going forward, Brady said the uni -
versity plans to work on new programs, 
which hopefully include entomology. 
Brady has collaborated with the phys -
ics department to build kits to mail to on -
line students. 
“It’s difficult to take just one course 
anywhere,” Brady said. “So being able to 
do your labs online when it works well has allowed a lot of students to finish 
their degrees.”
Although she’s appreciative of UF’s on -
line program, Abdulhussein felt the main 
downside of being a fully online student 
was the lack of interaction between pro -
fessors and students. She remembers talk -
ing to other students rarely or not at all 
throughout her classes. 
After hearing about the need for an on -
line community, UF created the UF Online 
app September 2020 for students to foster 
connections with 4,000 online classmates.
Now on campus, Abdulhussein was 
surprised to see a lack of recorded lectures 
and online notes. She said her professors 
don’t entertain the idea of recording their 
classes and are strictly pro-in-person. 
“One of my teachers doesn’t do that. 
He doesn’t even put the PowerPoints up on Canvas because he says that you want 
students to come to class otherwise they’ll 
just skip and say, ‘Oh, I’ll read the Power -
Point,’” Abdulhussein said.
Both in-person and online students 
shared more similar experiences than one 
would think, Brady said.
“A lot of people who had that idea that 
the pandemic wouldn’t affect them, but 
it actually affected them just like every -
one else, in that, they had more responsi -
bilities as caregivers, they perhaps had to 
change their work positions,” Brady said. 
“And so we found that the pandemic al -
lowed us to sometimes lend our expertise 
for helping people who had to put their 
courses online really quickly.”
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.org
UF’s space plants lab scientists take another step toward sustainable space travel  UF Online set to welcome largest ever incoming class this Fall
Alex Brown / / Alligator Staff
A recent suborbital flight is one of many developments 
to send people and plants into the solar systemBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-12
13 Wanted
CASH for WAR RELICS and VINTAGE 
ELECTRONICS
WW1 AND WW2 US/German/Japanese 
swords, daggers, armaments. Also buy -
ing outdated Audio equipment (Amplifiers, 
Tuners, Speakers, Vacuum Tubes.)
Call Chris at 904 315-5208 I PAY FINDERS 
FEES!                                            7-19-9-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            8-15-21-13-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.  
8-1-21-9-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
11..    AAllllooccaattee,,  pprroommiissee
11..    PPiicckkeedd55..    WWaatteerriinngg  hhoollee,,  sspprriinngg  
22..    EErrrroorr  66..    SSmmookkee  ________
33..    SSeett  uupp,,  eessttaabblliisshh  77..    MMoonneeyy,,  rreessoouurrcceess  
44..    HHeeaattMMOOTTIIMMCC
EEHHOOCCNNSSIISSAAOOSS
AARRMMLLAA
IIAAEEMMSSKKTT
LLLLNNSSIIAATTTTAAWWHHEELL
WWMMAAHHRRTTAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--CCoommmmiitt    55AA--OOaassiiss    66AA--AAllaarrmm    77AA--WWeeaalltthh
11DD--CChhoosseenn    22DD--MMiissttaakkee    33DD--IInnssttaallll    44DD--WWaarrmmtthh    BB--SSaaiinntt  TThhoommaass77--1199--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  DDuuttcchh  WWeesstt  IInnddiiaa  CCoommppaannyy  eessttaabblliisshheedd  
aa  ppoosstt  oonn  ________  ________  iinn  11665577..BONUSDONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil -
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RV's 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          7-19-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-21-13-1413 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Paul Coulter
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/19/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/19/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, July 19, 2021
ACROSS
1 Smoothie 
superfruit
5 Chatter on and 
on
10 Daily paper 
fodder
14 “Scram, fly!”
15 Moray fisher
16 __ B’rith
17 Windshield glare 
reducer
18 Environs
19 Includes in the 
recipe
20 The Gulf Stream 
and others
23 “Heaven forbid!”
24 Running shoe 
brand
26 Hank Aaron’s 
2,297, briefly
29 Spring mo.
31 Eggy seasonal 
drink
33 Summer 
Olympics sport 
played on sand
38 Facial spots, 
maybe
39 “May I take  
your __?”: 
server’s offer
40 Suit to __
41 2010s HBO show 
set in Atlantic City
44 Yang partner
45 Handspeak.com 
subj.
46 All-purpose 
vehicles, for short
47 “Shane” star Alan
49 “Battle Cry” 
author Leon
52 Coastal vacation 
center, major 
elements of 
which are placed 
as they might 
look on a picture 
postcard
59 __ one’s nose 
into: meddle
61 Gymnast 
Comaneci
62 Operatic song
63 Like the Sahara
64 __ 99, Maxwell 
Smart’s 
co-worker
65 Annie Lennox, by 
birth
66 Lions’ homes
67 Prickly heath 
shrub
68 Bowler and 
boaterDOWN
1 Concerning
2 Fashionably 
smart
3 See 22-Down
4 Letter before 
kappa
5 Cobbler fruit
6 “Peanuts” comic 
strip these days, 
e.g.
7 Last Olds model
8 Drop of sadness, 
often
9 Gaelic language
10 Hoops cable 
channel
11 Produces no 
winner
12 Gum, after use
13 Female sib
21 On-the-run snack
22 With 3-Down, 
zero
25 Desktop Gold 
users
26 Shrink back in 
fear
27 Slippery slapstick 
prop
28 Cupcake 
decorator
29 Fashion model 
Wek
30 Dad in Dijon
32 Delight33 Newborn
34 Wedding 
exchange
35 Said aloud
36 “Bad” cholesterol, 
initially
37 Pres. Clinton, 
religiously
42 Arp’s art
43 Poet’s inspiration
48 Accomplishments
49 Organ with milk
50 Stagecoach 
driver’s controls51 About to explode
53 Unexpected issue
54 “Otello” baritone
55 Pageant 
adornment
56 Aptly named 
“Jaws” boat
57 Life-of-the-party 
type
58 Ink on skin
59 Low-tech note-
taking aid
60 Cal.’s northern 
neighbor
By Matt Skoczen
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/13/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/13/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, July 13, 2021
ACROSS
1 They’re what 
really happened
6 Garfield, e.g.
9 Eye wolfishly
13 Nunavut native
14 Kid’s comeback
15 Sit tight
16 1994 Collin Raye 
song (AR)
18 Sommer of “The 
Prize”
19 Pianist Gilels
20 __ Army: golfer 
Palmer’s fans
22 Gall
23 For all ages, 
filmwise
25 Most trifling
27 Spicy dip for chips
29 Pulpit talks: Abbr.
30 Cry of illumination
33 Wee
35 Songwriter 
Redding
38 Throb
40 Sunny-side-up 
feature
43 Accessory put 
through loops
44 Historic 
Jordanian city
46 Opposing vote
47 Key of Vivaldi’s 
“Spring 
Concerto”: Abbr.
50 Mazda MX-5, 
familiarly
52 “The Sound of 
Music” family 
name
55 Wild clashes
59 Pick, to a QB
60 Stage lighting 
hardware
62 Smithsonian, 
e.g.: Abbr.
63 MGM mascot
65 1959 Wilbert 
Harrison song 
(MO)
67 Premier League 
soccer anchor 
Rebecca
68 French articles
69 Scary kind of 
wave
70 Gunn of 
“Breaking Bad”
71 Old televangelist 
org.
72 Behind the timesDOWN
1 Taxpayer, e.g.
2 Jungian concept
3 Make the grade
4 Library names
5 Cards’ cap letters
6 “Don’t mess with 
me, bro!”
7 Computer 
acronym
8 Arcade coins
9 Be indebted to
10 1969 Glen 
Campbell song 
(TX)
11 Enjoys
12 Digital book 
format
14 Part of ETA: 
Abbr.
17 Aerie hatchling
21 Curt legal advice
24 Almanac info
26 “Iliad” setting
28 Ooze
30 PD alert
31 Color gradation
32 1982 Billy Joel 
song (PA)
34 Himalayan 
legend
36 Waterfront org.
37 Wild blue yonder39 Monthly acct. 
summary
41 Family nickname
42 Flight board info
45 Select, as a jury
48 Ongoing story 
line
49 Prepare for 
changing a flat 
tire
51 Keys on a piano?
52 Luxurious 
residence53 Gibson garnish
54 Garden growth
56 Authors Blyton 
and Bagnold
57 These, to  
Tomás
58 Hairdresser’s 
concern
61 Ed.’s backlog
64 PBS funder
66 Longtime 
NASCAR 
sponsor
07/12/2021Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"answers  on page 101. TELEVISION:  What were 
the first names of the "Gold -
en Girls" characters on the 
1980s sitcom?
2. MOVIES:  What was the 
name of the dance song in the 
movie "The Rocky Horror Pic -
ture Show"?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is 
the newest internationally rec -
ognized nation in the world?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE:  
How big is an Olympic swim -
ming pool?5. U.S. STATES:  What is the 
state animal of Nevada?
6. ASTRONOMY: What col -
or is the sunset on Mars?
7. HISTORY: When was the 
Emancipation Proclamation 
issued?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: 
What are the offspring of ci -
cadas called?
9. AD SLOGANS: Which 
auto is advertised as "the ulti -
mate driving machine"?
10. LITERATURE:  What is 
the setting for the novel "Anne 
of Green Gables"?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by FifiRodriguez
solution  on page 10DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
the 
independent 
florida
we inform. you decide.
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE: This newspaper assumes no re -
sponsibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate 
the sincerity of the advertiser before giv -
ing out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.answers  below1. On June 10, 1962, Major League Base -
ball teams set a modern-era record for total 
runs scored in a single day with how many?
2. Name the Basketball Hall of Famer who 
won the NBA's first two Defensive Player 
of the Year honors while playing for the 
Milwaukee Bucks in 1982-83 and 1983-84.
3. As of the 2020-21 season, who are the 
three quarterbacks to beat all 32 NFL 
teams during their careers?
4. Who won the Warren Spahn Award for 
Major League Baseball's best left-handed 
pitcher three straight seasons from 2007-
09? (Hint: He played for the Cleveland 
Indians, Milwaukee Brewers and New York 
Yankees during that span.)
5. What national soccer team won consecu -
tive UEFA European Championship tourna -
ments in 2008 and 2012?
6. What was the name of the NBA's offi -
cial minor league basketball organization 
when it was founded in 2001?
7. What does sportswriter and commentator 
Stephen A. Smith's middle initial stand for?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
Yard work/some light housekeeping. 
Student,P/T a few hours/week. Wanted by 
retired UF Grad. Close to UF, all equipment 
furnished. $10-$12/hr depending on exp. 
Reply with schedule/short resume include 
phone no. ghpolkgator@gmail.com.
8-16-21-4-14
Job Fair at Meridian
7.22.2021 9 a – 4 p
1565 SW Williston Rd, Gainesville
interviews on site or virtually
offers made on the spot
all career levels
bring photo ID/current resume
Preregister for prizes @
MeridianOpenHouse.Eventbrite.com
Visit mbhci.org/jobfair
17-19-21-1-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME.
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact:  fairoaks1879@aol.com   
8-30-21-8-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Join our team!
Hiring committed individuals for our
out of school program for girls ages 5-14.
Applicants must be available M-F.
Schedules vary during summer and
afternoons during the school year. 
Apply at: http://girlsplace.net/employment/
7-26-21-5-14
Leasing Consultant 
CMC is looking for full-time and part-time 
dedicated individuals to join our leasing 
team! The leasing consultant is responsible 
for general office duties, conducting tours of 
apartments & property amenities, qualifying 
prospects, and ensuring completion of lease 
agreements. Must be customer service and 
sales oriented, have excellent communica -
tion skills, be able to work weekends and 
must pass background and drug screen. 
CMC offers a benefits package including 
generous paid time off! Apply at cmcapt.com 
or email katie.castelli@cmcapt.com.   
7-19-21-4-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
get VACCINATED
TODAY!
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
Trivia Test  answers1. Rose, Blanche, Dorothy and Sophia
2. "Time Warp"
3. South Sudan (2011)
4. Fifty meters long, 25 meters wide 
and at least 2 meters deep5. Desert bighorn sheep
6. Blue
7. Jan. 1, 1863
8. Nymphs
9. BMW
10. Prince Edward Island, CanadaSports Quiz  answers1. 222.
2. Sidney Moncrief.
3. Drew Brees, Brett Favre and Peyton Manning.
4. CC Sabathia.
5. Spain.
6. National Basketball Development League (NBDL).
7. Anthony.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021
solution  below
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUND
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www. alligator .org/classifieds
(352)373- FIND
classified @alligator.org
Visit alligator.org/classifieds and submit your 
ad to one of the following categories today!
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
ATTENTION ALLIGATOR ADVERTISERS!
run date:
August 23, 2021
submit by:
August 16 
+
save 10%
: (352) 376-4482
: advertising @alligator.org
Contact your sales rep today and let incoming students know  
you’re ready for business in the Welcome Back Edition!
the
independent
florida
welcome back 
edition
 2021MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
MEN'S BASKETBALLTHE RISING JUNIOR SHARES HER 
JOURNEY TO GAINESVILLE
By Karina Wilson 
Sports Writer
Nerves ran through Emily Heller’s small 
frame as the fourth grader stepped onto the field. 
Twin sister beside her, Heller gripped a lacrosse 
stick for the first time. She didn’t know it then, 
but the turf would become her domain and take 
her from Babylon, New York, to Gainesville.
No. 9 began her lacrosse career at 9 years old 
alongside her twin, Hannah. 
“I always knew where she would be and she 
always knew where I would be,” Heller said. 
“We had a connection every time we’d play.” 
Heller, a rising junior on the Gators lacrosse 
team, credits her uncle with introducing the two 
to the sport after he accepted a coaching posi -
tion with the Duke University’s men’s lacrosse 
team.
The twins played together at West Babylon 
Senior High School and played travel lacrosse 
with the Long Island Top Guns.
Hannah said the two loved being competi -
tive with one another. They knew each other’s 
tendencies and their connection was best seen in action on the field. Hannah would assist Em -
ily’s goals and vice versa. 
The Hellers walked hand-in-hand in every 
aspect of life — from school to lacrosse to just 
relaxing at home.
“We always had someone who we knew 
and were comfortable with,” Hannah said. 
“Even when we’d go to tryouts, I would always 
be with Emily and be like ‘Okay this is good, I 
feel a little bit more confident.’”
The girls had been inseparable since birth, 
but the two took different paths once the college 
commitment process came around. They want -
ed to stick together at first, but Emily ended up 
at UF, while Hannah plays lacrosse at the Uni -
versity of Massachusetts.
“I honestly miss playing with her,” Emily 
said. “We both did a good job in pushing each 
other to be the best possible players we could 
be.”
Emily started every game for the Gators dur -
ing the shortened 2020 season. She said the 
2021 season meant a lot to her because it gave 
her another opportunity to play after her fresh -
man season was cut short. 
“Obviously the season was very different 
from my freshman season,” she said. “It was a 
tough season, but at the end, things opened up 
and got better and it was fun.” She finished the season with 12 goals and 
two assists, totaling 14 points over 21 games. 
Emily recorded a career-high three points 
against Cincinnati March 28, two caused turn -
overs in the AAC semifinals and six draw con -
trols versus Old Dominion April 25. The mid -
fielder boasted 42 draw controls, 22 ground 
balls and seven caused turnovers on the season. 
“Her athleticism just shows at every point on 
the field,” Florida head coach Amanda O’Leary 
said. “Offensively, defensively [and] through 
the midfield.” 
O’Leary said Emily embodies everything a 
UF athlete should be.
“I think she is tough as nails,” she said. 
“Probably one of the toughest kids I’ve ever 
coached.”
Emily saw herself in O’Leary, which she said 
drew her to commit to UF. 
“I went on my visit to Florida and I just com -
pared every school to it,” Emily said. “I feel like 
there’s no place like Florida, for lacrosse espe -
cially.” 
It takes 16 hours and 30 minutes to drive 
from Babylon to Gainesville. Luckily, Emily 
wasn’t alone in her transition from the Empire 
State to the Sunshine State, as fellow classmate 
Janine Suris joined her at UF.
The Hellers and Suris played travel lacrosse 
together for Top Gun, but Emily said her friend -
ship with Suris grew once they both committed 
to Florida. Suris said it was nice having some -
one she knew before college at UF with her. Em -
ily and Suris roomed together their first year at 
UF and still live together two years later.
“We’re always helping each other out,” Su -
ris said. “It’s so nice having her during practice 
to keep each other in check; we’re always on 
top of one another.”
The duo makes the trek home to New York 
together whenever they return, Suris said. She 
said they often stop at Emily’s cousin’s house 
in North Carolina to shoot arrows on the ranch 
before finishing the night off watching “The 
Bachelor.”
“She’s my best friend. We do everything 
together,” Suris said. “She means the world to 
me. I would do anything for her.”
Now, it’s the offseason. The Heller twins 
are participating in the Long Island Lacrosse 
Journal Women’s Collegiate Summer League 
to keep their stick skills sharp, Hannah said. She said it’s exciting to be able to finally play 
together again, but she knows her sister is eager 
to return to Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
The Florida lacrosse team lost a historic se -
nior class at the conclusion of the 2021 season. 
Emily said the team has big shoes to fill, but the 
opportunity doesn’t scare her.
“I’m excited for the whole team to step up 
and try our best to fill their spot,” she said.
O’Leary said she hopes to see Emily build 
upon what she’s already accomplished. 
“If you throw a ball out and it’s [Emily] and 
someone else, my money is on Emily,” O’Leary 
said. 
O’Leary, Suris and Hannah each spoke high -
ly of Emily’s character.
“I wouldn't say she's a vocal leader, because 
she doesn't have to,” O’Leary said. “She leads 
by example.”
As the 2021 season fades into the past and 
the 2022 season is on the horizon, Emily looks 
to persevere past the Elite Eight. 
“I just can't wait for another year to be like 
playing with those girls again,” she said.
@kk_rinaa
kwilson@alligator.org
ACTION KICKS OFF NOV. 9, 
IN GAINESVILLE AGAINST 
ELON UNIVERSITY
By Julianna Reichenbach
Sports Writer
Florida basketball released its 
2021-2022 non-conference schedule 
Thursday, as the Gators hope to 
improve upon their second-round 
NCAA tournament finish.
The team begins its season Nov. 
9 against Elon University. 
UF gets Florida State at home next, a team whom the Gators have 
not defeated since 2013. They were 
beating the Seminoles early last 
December until forward Keyontae 
Johnson collapsed. Johnson is 
currently with the team but not 
practicing while he awaits medical 
news. In the meantime, he prepares 
to host a basketball camp July 23-24 
via the new NIL rules. 
The team travels to the Fort Myers 
Tipoff on Nov. 22 and 24 to play two 
of California, Ohio State and Seton 
Hall in a four-team tournament.
Head coach Mike White and his squad sandwich this first trip 
of the season with contests against 
UW-Milwaukee Nov. 18 and Troy 
University Nov. 28.
Returning forward Colin Castleton 
and the Gators fly west on Dec. 1 to 
take on Oklahoma in their first game 
of their home-and home-series.
Two Sundays later, Florida plays 
the preseason 19th ranked  Maryland 
Terrapins in Brooklyn, New York.
The Gators make the trip south 
to play South Florida in Sunrise on 
Dec. 18.
Florida plays three home games in December: Texas Southern on 
Dec. 6, North Florida on Dec. 8 and 
Stony Brook on Dec. 22.
Florida concludes its non-
conference schedule against 
Oklahoma State as part of the 2022 
Big 12-SEC Showdown on Jan. 22, 
which features ten games between 
the two conferences.
The 2021-2022 season will be 
White’s seventh with the Gators. The 
squad features four new transfers, 
including former Penn State guard 
Myreon Jones, who averaged 15.3 
points a game a year ago. Rivals five-star signee Kowacie Reeves arrived 
on campus too and will begin his 
college career. 
Castleton, guard Tyree Appleby 
and forward Anthony Duruji return 
as three consistent starters. Scottie 
Lewis and Tre Mann declared for 
the NBA Draft while several others 
transferred. 
Stay tuned for coverage on 
Florida’s regular-season SEC 
schedule.
@Julianna_Reich
jreichenbach@alligator.org“Tough as nails”: Who is Emily Heller?
Florida basketball Releases non-conference scheduleKarina Wilson / / Alligator Staff
Emily Heller races down the field for Florida against Cincinnati on May 6.Courtesy to The Alligator
Emily and Hannah Heller during a game 
at West Babylon Senior High School.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021
TEAM USA
By Michael Hull
Sports Writer
This summer was 
supposed to be historic 
for former Florida guard 
Bradley Beal.
Beal should be 
preparing to fly to Tokyo, 
Japan, to represent the 
stars and stripes on 
the Olympic stage. He 
should be the first Gator 
to play for Team USA on 
the hardwood. Instead, 
the current Washington 
Wizard will not travel to 
Tokyo after being placed in 
health and safety protocols 
July 14.
The news came as a 
crushing blow to both Beal 
and Team USA head coach 
Gregg Popovich.
“I’m dying for him,” 
Popovich said. “We all 
are. Since he’s a little kid, 
this has been a dream of 
his. He was playing great. 
He was having fun, being 
a big part of us coming 
together chemistry-wise 
and as a family… So, we 
just feel horrible about it.”Beal had been a 
consistent option for the 
Americans in their first 
few exhibition games. He 
averaged 10.3 points per 
game and had his best 
game against Argentina 
July 13. He scored 17 
points and added six 
rebounds and three assists 
in the 108-80 victory.
The former Gator 
earned his stripes after a 
career year in the nation’s 
capital. Beal averaged 31.1 
points per game this past 
season. The three-time 
All-Star earned third-team 
All-NBA honors for his 
performance this year, 
his first appearance on 
an All-NBA team, and led 
Washington to its first 
playoff berth in three 
years. 
Prior to the news, Beal 
spoke about how honored 
he was to don the red, 
white and blue on the 
Olympic stage.
“You don’t take it for 
granted,” Beal said in 
an interview with NBC 
Sports. “You understand the history behind it, you 
understand the importance 
of how everybody wants 
to beat us... I’m definitely 
excited about it.”
Out of caution, Team 
USA also placed Detroit 
Pistons forward Jerami 
Grant in quarantine and 
canceled its scheduled 
exhibition against 
Australia July 16.
Team USA announced 
San Antonio Spurs forward 
Keldon Johnson will fill 
Beal’s spot on the roster. 
While Johnson takes Beal’s 
spot, Popovich made it 
clear it’s impossible to 
replace Beal.
“I don’t think we can 
replace, point-by-point, 
what Bradley did for us,” 
Popovich said. “All players 
are different. There’s no 
next Bradley Beal.”
The US is currently 
scheduled to travel to 
Tokyo July 19 before its 
first game against France 
July 25.
@Michael_Hull33
mhull@alligator.orgBradley Beal withdraws from Olympics
Courtesy of The Associated Press
Bradley Beal shoots over Argentina’s Marcos Delia in an exhibition game on July 13.
The former Gator was placed in health and safety protocols July 14