We Inform. Y ou Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperRTS adds buses
Additional buses are being added to some routes,  pg. 4
Shop local masks
Where to find face masks from local vendors in Gainesville,  pg. 6Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Women’s basketball drops fourth 
straight basketball game
After a strong first half, the G ators’ 
aggressive energy died down and Georgia 
bounced back , pg. 12  FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 16
Ashley Hicks & Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Photos documenting the COVID-19 pandemic at UF.
STUDENTS WILL BE CLEARED FOR CLASSES 
AFTER BEING TESTED, NOT AFTER TESTING 
NEGATIVE, ACCORDING TO COLLEGE OF 
LIBERAL ARTS AND SCIENCES 
DEAN DAVID RICHARDSON
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Days before thousands of students were 
scheduled to return to UF’s campus, some fac -
ulty learned that about 61% of students attend -
ing in-person classes would be tested for CO -
VID-19 by the first day of class, and students 
won’t need a negative test result to be cleared 
for campus.
Faculty had the option to move their first 
class online but learned they could face disci -
plinary action for moving in-person classes on -
line longer.
These were some of the concerns brought up 
by the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences fac -
ulty during a faculty town hall Jan. 9. The head 
of UF Health’s Screen, Test and Protect program 
Michael Lauzardo held the meeting with epide -
miologist Jerne Shapiro and CLAS Dean David 
Richardson to address in-person class guidelines and faculty questions.
Richardson sent an email to CLAS professors 
on Jan. 8 outlining how students are cleared 
to return to campus after being tested for CO -
VID-19, not after receiving a negative test result. 
If a student’s result comes back positive, their 
status will be changed to “not cleared.” About 
61% of students taking in-person classes would 
be tested by Jan. 11, and the remaining testing 
is anticipated to be mostly complete in the first 
week, Richardson wrote. 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando confirmed 
the guidelines outlined in Richardson’s email 
and the Jan. 9 meeting apply to all UF faculty 
teaching in-person classes.
Students will not be required to receive a 
negative test result before attending in-person 
classes because UF does not have the capacity 
to test all students in face-to-face classes at once, 
Lauzardo said in the town hall, and UF couldn’t 
force them to come back in time and wait for 
the results.
Richardson included in the email that profes -
sors with in-person sections could hold the first 
day of classes online but could face disciplinary 
action if they change the structure of their class -COMMENCEMENT PLANS 
WILL BE DETERMINED BY 
MARCH DEPENDING ON 
THE DISTRIBUTION OF 
COVID-19 VACCINATIONS
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After a year of waiting, the 
class of 2020 may finally get 
its in-person commencement 
ceremony. 
While many factors re -
main uncertain, the universi -
ty is making an effort to hold 
both Spring 2021 commence -
ment and 2020 makeup cer -
emonies in person at the end 
of the Spring semester, UF 
Director of Commencements 
Stephanie McBride said. Be -
cause of COVID-19, UF has 
held graduation ceremonies 
virtually since last Spring. “We’re planning for the 
unplannable and the un -
known, having never gone 
through a situation where 
you’re trying to plan for a 
year’s worth of makeup cer -
emonies,” McBride said.  
Although the venues are 
reserved, the decision to hold 
in-person commencement 
depends on the distribution 
of COVID-19 vaccines, Mc -
Bride said. The university 
will decide whether to pro -
ceed with its plans for in-
person ceremonies by March, 
so students and their guests 
can make arrangements, she 
said. If the vaccine has not 
been made available to the 
general public, the events 
will be further postponed and 
possibly changed to an alter -
nate format, she wrote.
However, it’s too early to 
know what measurement of vaccine availability will be 
used to determine if in-per -
son graduations are possible, 
McBride wrote in an email. 
It’s also possible that deter -
mining a vaccine threshold 
will fall onto the State Univer -
sity System since it was the 
agency that directed schools 
to have alternate formats for 
Fall 2020 commencement. 
As of now, Spring 2021 
University Wide Commence -
ment will be held in Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium from April 28 
to May 3. The individual col -
lege recognition ceremonies 
will occur at varying loca -
tions, including the Stephen 
C. O’Connell Center and the 
Phillips Center for Perform -
ing Arts, according to UF’s 
commencement website. 
Class of 2020 makeup 
ceremonies will take place in In-person class guidelines, COVID-19 testing results 
and vaccinations discussed at faculty meeting UF plans in-person Spring graduation 
and 2020 makeup ceremonies   
SEE CLAS,  PAGE 5SEE GRAD,  PAGE 5
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 16
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.com
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Kate McNamaraDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
Engagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, digital@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, engagement@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, editor@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgBIWEEKLY TESTING, CONTACT 
TRACING AND HYFLEX 
ALTERNATIVES SHAKE UP
 IN-PERSON STUDIES 
By Manny Rea and 
Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writers
Evan Smith is taking three in-
person classes this semester. Al -
though he’s been taking classes at 
UF since Summer 2020, this will be 
the 18-year-old UF political science 
freshman’s first time listening to his 
professors’ lecture from within the 
same rooms. 
“Seeing my teachers face-to-face, 
even if those faces have masks on, 
is just miles better than sitting in my 
room,” Smith said. “I really hope it 
lasts, and I really hope we don't 
have a spike in cases. I hope for it to 
last as long as it can.”
This Spring, 40% of undergradu -
ate students are preparing for a re -
turn to in-person classes. With 350 
available classrooms and 4,908 in-
person undergraduate classes for 
Spring, UF students and faculty are 
relying on protocols like mandatory 
testing, masking and social distanc -
ing to stay safe from COVID-19.
But what happens if someone in 
an in-person class tests positive for 
COVID-19?
In-person classes won’t be 
moved online, but individuals who 
test positive will join an online or 
HyFlex alternative while they wait 
for an OK on their One.UF “return 
to campus” status, UF Student Af -
fairs Director Sara Tanner wrote in 
an email. 
Individuals who test positive 
must self-isolate for 10 days from 
the onset of symptoms. Asymptom -
atic individuals self-isolate for 10 
days after their lab collection, ac -
cording to the Screen, Test & Protect 
hotline. They are also not required 
to be tested again for 90 days as any 
positive tests will come from the 
body shedding the virus.
Students in the class won’t be 
notified about someone in their 
class testing positive unless they 
have been in close contact with a 
COVID-19-positive student. Close 
contact is defined as a distance of 
6 feet for at least 15 minutes start -
ing from 48 hours before the start of 
symptoms until the time the person 
is isolated, Tanner wrote. 
In this case, public health of -
ficials will reach out to suspected 
or confirmed infections to recall 
whomever they may have infected 
and alert those contacts, according 
to UF Health’s Screen, Test & Pro -
tect initiative. Close-contact people 
will need to self-isolate for 14 days.
Faculty members will be able to 
access who has been cleared to at -
tend classes, but enforcement for 
staying out of class will come down 
to personal responsibility or school 
sanctions like suspension and ex -pulsion, Tanner wrote.
“Helping keep our community 
healthy is a shared responsibility,” 
she wrote. “It is the individual’s re -
sponsibility to follow policies and 
quarantine/isolate as appropriate.”
In the Fall, there were no in -
stances of classroom-based com -
munity spread, Tanner wrote. The 
Fall saw 35% in-person or hybrid 
classes across undergrad, graduate 
and professional course sections.
However, the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention released a 
report Jan. 8 stating that counties 
with universities that had in-person 
classes had a larger spread of CO -
VID-19 than universities with online 
classes. 
UF is also implementing biweek -
ly screening and testing through the 
One.UF portal. Any student who is 
residing or dining in a Greek com -
munity, living in an undergrad resi -
dence hall or attending in-person 
classes will need to be tested to at -
tend in-person classes.
Students do not need to test 
negative to be cleared for campus. 
As long as they have been tested, 
students can show instructors clear -
ance on their One.UF that they can 
attend classes.
If a student feels they have symp -
toms or may have been in contact 
with someone who did, they can 
schedule a test before the two-week 
mandate, Tanner wrote. 
A student is not cleared to return 
to class if they have tested positive 
or been in close contact with an in -
fected person. Some students and 
faculty are worried these protocols 
may not be enough.
UF English professor Malini Jo -
har Schueller asked what her chanc -
es of being infected were if a stu -
dent came to class with COVID-19 
at a faculty town hall Jan. 9. She 
was told it was low but she wasn’t 
given a specific number, something 
she said she found unacceptable.
“I have to go to work and in -
crease my chances of getting a 
deadly illness for no reason what -
soever,” she said. “I do not see any 
reason to increase people’s chances 
of getting ill.”
Schueller, who is teaching in 
person this semester, said she was 
concerned with the policies. 
“The classes went absolutely 
fine last semester on Zoom,” she 
said. “ It’s not as if we are abandon -
ing students or abandoning face-to-
face instruction, which all of us ab -
solutely love. It is just not the wisest 
thing to do right now.”
Sarisha Boodoo, a 20-year-old 
UF political science and sustainabil -
ity studies junior, said UF is being 
completely irresponsible. She opted 
out of taking in-person classes be -
cause of UF’s lack of accommoda -
tions and because vaccinations 
haven't been administered to most 
faculty or students. 
“This pandemic has really brought out that the university is 
incapable of handling these kinds 
of situations,” Boodoo said. “We’re 
not close to being over and right 
now I feel like the university is not 
at all doing it very thoughtfully.”
She mentioned many faculty 
members also have an issue with 
the return to in-person classes. UF 
professor of Latin American studies 
Emilio Bruna agrees. 
“Even though we’ve learned a 
lot about COVID and how to reduce 
the risk of transmission, it doesn’t 
make sense to me why we’re going 
back into this situation when things 
are far worse now than they were 
before,” Bruna said. 
UF’s rejection of 144 requests 
for accommodations through the 
Americans with Disabilities Act as 
of Nov. 19 has made many profes -
sors even more wary of returning to 
in-person teaching. 
Bruna said he was fortunate 
enough to teach a small class that 
only meets once a week but spoke 
up for his colleagues who are at a 
higher risk. 
“You’ve got to understand, I 
have it easy. I think I can teach my 
class reasonably safely,” he said. 
“My concern is not for me. It’s for 
my colleagues that are teaching 
much larger classes but feel like 
they're in a position where they 
can’t speak up and say these kinds 
of things.” 
Although the changes professors 
are being asked to implement to 
adapt to online and hybrid classes 
could be taken in stride under the 
best of circumstances, Bruna said, 
it’s been difficult with little time to 
prepare and stress from the pan -
demic. 
“We’re all just exhausted,” he 
said. “Everybody’s exhausted.”
 
Contact Sofia Echeverry at sech -
everry@alligator.org and follow 
her on Twitter @sofecheverry
 
Contact Manny Rea at mrea@
alligator.org and follow him on 
Twitter @ReaMannyWhat happens if my 
classmate has COVID-19? 
• Students only need to get 
tested for COVID-19 to be 
cleared for campus
• Students won’t be notified 
if their classmate tests positive 
for COVID-19 unless they are in 
close contact
• In-person classes will not be 
moved online in the case of a 
positive test resultMONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
New Mask.
To support you in practicing healthy behaviors, 
UF is providing a drawstring backpack complete 
with masks, hand sanitizer, a ﬁrst-aid kit and more.New Y ear.
Pick up a
Gator Care Kits will be available for in-person pick up on campus 
through the course of the spring semester. 
A face covering and UF ID are required for pick up.
GatorWell in the Reitz Union
Newell Hall
Southwest Recreation CenterWHERE TO GET YOUR GATOR CARE KIT
Learn more about how to pick up your Gator Care Kit
and about UF’s mask and physical distancing policies at
ufsa.u/f_l.edu/gatorcarekits4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
WITH THE POSSIBLE UPTICK IN SERVICES, RTS 
IS PREPARED TO PROVIDE A SAFE MODE OF 
TRANSPORTATION FOR STUDENTS
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Regional Transit System is preparing for a 
surge in bus services as more UF students return to campus 
for in-person classes this Spring.
There are nearly 5,000 in-person undergraduate class 
sections this Spring, which is only slightly fewer than last 
Spring. This means more students will use the bus system to 
get to campus. To accommodate for the projected uptick in 
services, RTS is adding four more buses to existing routes 12, 
13, 20 and 38. It’s also continuing safety guidelines from Fall, 
said RTS spokesperson Thomas Idoyaga.
The routes getting more buses are commonly used by 
students to go off campus to places like Butler Plaza Trans -
fer Station, Cottage Grove Apartments, Oaks Mall and 
Gainesville Place.
In the Fall, RTS pushed wearing masks by supplying dis -
posable masks, posting signs that encouraged riders to wear 
them and launching a social media campaign to encourage 
the practice. These practices were successful, said Idoyaga, 
and RTS will continue them in Spring.
Bus usage among students in Fall was below average 
because of COVID-19 and fewer in-person classes, Idoyaga 
said. He predicts usage this semester will likely remain below 
average, but expects it to be higher than in Fall.
“We’ve had a lot of good feedback,” he said. “We’re try -
ing to follow all the CDC guidelines and the Alachua County 
mandates and the state mandates.” 
Capacity will range from 20 to 30 people depending on 
the bus, because some buses have more seats than others, 
Idoyaga said. Buses are open for seating only — standing is 
not permitted.
If all the seats on one bus are taken, RTS drivers are re -
sponsible for calling headquarters to send another bus, he 
said.
In addition to a mask requirement and social distancing 
policy, Idoyaga said RTS has been cleaning the buses more 
often than during a normal year. In Fall, RTS buses were 
cleaned periodically throughout the day and again more 
thoroughly at the end of each day.
If a passenger refused to wear a mask, RTS would send a 
supervisor to the bus to give the passenger a mask. It’s easier 
to encourage safety among passengers because UF is setting 
a good example, Idoyaga added.
“When you have UF saying you have to wear a mask, 
that’s wonderful because now it’s not just us saying it, it’s 
UF saying it,” Idoyaga said. “When the city managers and 
leaders are saying it, it’s a partnership.” 
RTS also has measures to protect drivers, including plexi -
glass sneeze shields and mask requirements for the drivers as 
well as passengers. As a result, Idoyaga said drivers should 
feel confident they will be safe.
“Everybody’s heading into this semester pretty optimistic 
because this vaccine’s coming out,” he said. “We’re hoping that it gets better.”
Students who used the buses in the Fall are also feeling 
optimistic about Spring.
Leon Green, a 21-year-old telecommunication senior, rode 
RTS buses about once a week in Fall for an in-person class. 
In Spring, he plans to double his usage.
“I never felt unsafe on the bus,” Green said. “They have 
room, so everyone was spaced out, and everyone was wear -
ing a mask. It was just once or twice that a bus driver had it 
below their nose or took it off briefly, but I felt safe.”
Green said he thinks increasing the number of buses in 
the Spring should allow for more social distancing, which is 
why he supports adding more buses. But, Green thinks either 
way, students should feel safe.
Marian Azeem-Angel, a 23-year-old UF environmental sci -
ence senior, also used the buses in Fall and plans to use them 
in Spring. 
She used the bus in Fall to go to Plaza of the Americas for 
Krishna Lunch and a lab she worked at on campus. She felt 
safe because the drivers were always wearing masks behind 
plexiglass, and the passengers complied with guidelines, she 
said.“There was never more than, I think, six people, and ev -
eryone was always seated pretty distanced,” Azeem-Angel 
said. “The passengers were wearing masks.”
She likes that RTS provides masks and has spray sanitizer 
on the buses for wiping down surfaces, but she suggested 
adding hand sanitizer to buses, too.
However, unlike Green, she isn’t as confident that buses 
will be safe in Spring.
“I’m nervous, honestly, just because with the gravity of 
the virus and there’s still people that don’t care,” Azeem-
Angel said. 
Despite her concerns, she said she plans to use the buses 
more often in Spring for her in-person class and lab work. 
However, she’s also considering getting a parking pass to 
avoid the buses, depending on how many people use them.
“I guess we’ll see the safety measures and what’s happen -
ing, but I feel more nervous about passengers not complying 
than bus drivers,”  Azeem-Angel said.
Contact J.P. Oprison at joprison@alligator.org and follow 
him on Twitter @joprison
OFFICIALS ALSO 
VACCINATED A UF 
FACULTY MEMBER AND 
THE UF HEALTH CHIEF 
EPIDEMIOLOGIST
By Chasity Maynard and 
Manny Rea
Alligator Staff Writers
UF President Kent Fuchs was 
among the first of UF faculty to 
receive the Pfizer-BioNTech CO -
VID-19 vaccine the week before 
classes.
The injection came Jan. 5, in 
the first week of the initiative to 
vaccinate faculty older than 65, 
wrote UF Health spokesperson 
Ken Garcia. The program starts 
as UF braces for about 40% of undergraduates returning to cam -
pus.
On Dec. 9, 66 individuals on 
campus tested negative for CO -
VID-19 and 13 tested positive. In 
November, UF had the second-
highest number of positive cas -
es of the country’s universities 
at 5,185 cases since March 18. 
Fuchs said he was publicly vac -
cinated to promote confidence in 
the university’s effort to encour -
age other faculty to sign up.
“There are still people, even 
members of the University of 
Florida community, that are 
afraid of the vaccine itself,” Fuchs 
said. “And we know scientifically 
that it is a safe vaccine.”
Current UF vaccine eligibil -
ity aligns with state and federal guidelines to prioritize senior 
citizens. Individuals aged 65 and 
older made up 81% of the 258,600 
recorded COVID-19 deaths in the 
U.S. as of Jan. 10, according to 
CDC surveillance public use data 
of cases.
More than 1,100 UF employees 
are in the age range eligible to be 
vaccinated, but the vaccine is not 
yet available to younger faculty or 
UF students.
The vaccination will not be 
mandatory for students, but 
Fuchs said they should get vac -
cinated.
Other faculty have scheduled 
their vaccinations, and about 600 
people have received their first 
dose, Garcia wrote. Since Dec. 14, 
UF Health has administered more than 15,000 doses of the vaccine 
to its healthcare workers, starting 
at UF Health Jacksonville, wrote 
Garcia.
High-risk individuals will be 
the next group to be vaccinated. 
UF will get more vaccines when 
US President-elect Joe Biden is in -
augurated Jan. 20 because he will 
push vaccines that were saved 
as second doses forward for first 
doses. 
UF professor Mike Foley and 
UF Health chief epidemiologist 
Nicole Iovine were among those 
vaccinated at UF Health Shands 
Cancer Hospital Jan. 5.
 Foley, a UF alumnus and mas -
ter lecturer in journalism for more 
than 15 years, said teaching virtu -
ally has been hard. He’s eager to get back in the classroom.
Foley will begin teaching in 
person and the university will 
offer more than 8,000 in-person 
classes this week. Taking the 
vaccine will make reentering the 
classroom feel safer, he said.
“The hands-on, personal, in-
the-office experience with stu -
dents is what I live for,” Foley 
said. “I think this will make me 
much more confident about doing 
it.”
Contact Chasity Maynard at 
cmaynard@alligator.org and 
follow her on Twitter
@chasitymaynard0
Contact Manny Rea at 
mrea@alligator.org and follow 
him on Twitter @ReaMannyRTS adds more buses and keeps safety protocols in place this Spring 
UF president receives Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccineJulia Coin / / Alligator Staff
Lillie Rooney, a 20-year-old UF entomology senior, sits on RTS Bus 35 at the J. Wayne Reitz Union stop on 
campus Sunday, Jan. 10, 2021. RTS is adding more buses to existing routes 12, 13, 20 and 38, continuing mask 
mandates and keeping capacities low for buses this Spring.
MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center from May 6-9, 
and the ceremonies will 
be organized based on 
how many people regis -
ter for the event. 
Each college will be 
assigned to a specific 
day during the makeup 
weekend, McBride said. 
Depending on how 
many graduates from 
the colleges register, the 
ceremonies will be split 
into no more than three 
graduations each day, 
she said. Each ceremony 
will include no more 
than 1,000 graduates at a 
time, McBride said.  
The university cannot 
require attending gradu -
ates or guests to be vac -
cinated, McBride wrote 
in an email. Instead, the 
purpose of waiting on 
accessible vaccines is to 
give guests a chance to 
be vaccinated and in -
clude high-risk individu -
als who could not at -
tend otherwise, McBride 
wrote. 
As for what the 
events themselves will 
look like, McBride said 
she is unsure, and that 
it depends on how the 
Centers for Disease Con -
trol and Prevention’s 
guidelines change. 
Other large events 
at UF have been held before the vaccine had 
even been developed. 
The University Athletic 
Association allowed for 
limited in-person atten -
dance at Gators football 
games this season. The 
lack of public pushback 
from UF President Kent 
Fuchs sparked some 
backlash and criticism 
from recent graduates. 
Fans will also be able to 
watch this season’s bas -
ketball games in person 
at a capacity of 2,200 
people. 
Terry Derias, a 
21-year-old UF nutrition -
al sciences alumna, said 
the prerecorded Fall cer -
emony felt impersonal.
“I think that when 
you finish college, you’re 
closing a really impor -
tant chapter of your 
life,” Derias said. “With -
out a proper graduation, 
it doesn’t really feel like 
that chapter ever closes, 
and things just still kind 
of feel unfinished.” 
Derias, a Fall 2020 
graduate, said she will 
attend the makeup cer -
emony if it’s safe and if 
the general public has 
been vaccinated. For 
now, Derias plans to at -
tend the University of 
Miami’s Miller School 
of Medicine, which will 
keep her close enough to 
participate in the make -
up. 
Derias hopes to gain closure from attending 
the in-person makeup 
ceremony, she said.   
“I’d be most looking 
forward to just having 
my friends and family 
there with me and recog -
nizing my accomplish -
ments and everything I 
worked really hard for 
during college,” Derias 
said. 
Olivia Weippert, a 
22-year-old UF health 
science alumna, gradu -
ated in Spring 2020. She 
is currently attending 
Dragon Rises College 
of Oriental Medicine in 
Gainesville. 
Even though 
Weippert felt disappoint -
ed by the postponement 
of Spring commence -
ment, she does not plan 
to attend the makeup 
ceremony, she said. 
“I feel like it’s been 
a year now, and I don’t 
want to dwell in the fact 
of just walking across 
the stage,” Weippert 
said. “I already have my 
physical degree, and it’s 
hanging up all nice and 
pretty.”
 
Contact Julianna 
Ferrie at jferrie@
alligator.org and follow 
her on Twitter 
@juliana_f616es by temporarily or permanently holding face-to-face 
classes online or encouraging students to join online 
sections.
“Changing the scheduled modality of instruction in 
the plan of the syllabus, either temporarily or perma -
nently, is a violation of UF policy,” Richardson wrote 
in the email. “Actions that contravene these principles 
may result in a finding of misconduct and disciplinary 
action by the university in accordance with UF regula -
tions.”
Professors who notice uncleared students in their 
face-to-face classes should remind them in private to 
join online sections until they are clear, Richardson 
wrote. A student’s clearance status shouldn’t be dis -
closed to the classroom.
Students who are tested and symptomatic will not 
be cleared for campus, Lauzardo said in the meeting. 
Graduate students won’t be tested for the return to 
campus initiative because they’re a lower risk group, 
Shapiro said, but they will be tested biweekly with stu -
dents in in-person classes and students living in resi -
dence halls.
Graduate students behave differently than under -
graduate students, making them less of a risk, Lau -
zardo said. He did not explain how graduate students 
behave differently than undergraduate students.
“We have one mission, and that mission is to pro -
tect our colleagues and protect this campus as much 
as possible,” Lauzardo said. “And that’s what we’ve 
done, and we’ve done that as best we could.”
Additionally, students who have also been in 
contact with someone who tested positive and who 
haven’t participated in bi-weekly testing will not be 
cleared for campus. Class rosters will indicate who is 
and isn’t cleared for campus, Richardson wrote in the 
email to CLAS faculty.
“Your voices have been heard, and the folks at 
Screen, Test and Protect, like us, are doing all that is 
possible to mitigate the concerns and frustrations that 
you all have,” Richardson said during the meeting.
Professors who notice uncleared students in their 
face-to-face classes should remind them in private to 
join online sections until they are clear, Richardson wrote. A student’s clearance status shouldn’t be dis -
closed to the classroom.
To ensure only students who are cleared for campus 
attend in-person classes, students should show their 
professors before class that they are marked “cleared 
for campus” on One.UF, Shapiro suggested in the meet -
ing.
“I do not feel that the classroom setting is an un -
safe place with the proper precautions that are being 
taken,” Shapiro said.
If a student refuses to leave or refuses to wear a 
mask, professors can call University Police to have 
them removed, Lauzardo said.
“We’re focused on the data, we’re focused on the 
evidence,” Lauzardo said. “The data doesn’t support 
that the classroom is dangerous.”
However, the Centers for Disease Control and Pre -
vention released a report on Jan. 8 that university coun -
ties with in-person instruction had a larger spread of 
the virus than those with remote instruction.
Lauzardo also gave an update on vaccinations.
Vaccinations for faculty 65 years and older began 
the week of Jan. 4. Those who require accommoda -
tions will be offered vaccines soon, Lauzardo said. UF 
will get more vaccines when US President-elect Joe 
Biden is inaugurated on Jan. 20 because he will push 
vaccines that were saved as second doses forward for 
first doses, he said.
Vaccines will be available to high-risk groups in the 
coming week at Hull road, Lauzardo added. He said 
vaccines will be available to the general public in the 
near future, but there is no set date.
In the Fall, only four out of 1,100 professors tested 
positive for the virus, and those exposures were not 
from classroom settings, Lauzardo said. 
In the case of a COVID-19 spike, UF will focus on 
shutting down certain areas that are causing the cases, 
rather than the whole university, Lauzardo said. UF will 
also initiate a campus shutdown if UF Health Shands 
reaches capacity and is unable to care for patients.
Currently, UF Health Shands is within its capacity, 
Lauzardo said, and there are 20 patients in the inten -
sive care unit.
Contact Meghan McGlone at 
mmcglone@alligator.org and follow her on Twitter 
@meggmcgloneGRAD,  from pg. 1CLAS,  from pg. 1SINCE DEC. 30, LOCAL FIRST 
RESPONDERS HAVE RECEIVED THE 
MODERNA COVID-19 VACCINE
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
Local firefighters were among the first groups 
of first responders to receive the Moderna CO -
VID-19 vaccine in Alachua County.
Gainesville Fire Rescue and Alachua County 
Fire Rescue received their first shipments of the 
Moderna COVID-19 vaccine from the Alachua 
County Health Department Dec. 30. Since then, 
GFR has vaccinated more than 45 of its firefight -
ers, paramedics and EMTs, which make up al -
most half of its workforce, said Assistant Fire Chief Shawn Hillhouse.
Healthcare workers, first responders and 
high-risk residents in long-term care facilities 
have priority in receiving the vaccination, said 
Paul Myers, administrator of the ACHD. This 
group falls under the first of four phases of the 
vaccine distribution plan Myers presented to 
county commissioners in early December. Phase 
two covers essential workers, while phase three 
covers young adults, kids and general workers. 
The last phase covers the general public. 
Six months ago, Hillhouse and other mem -
bers of GFR became a few of the 30,000 volun -
teers who participated in the Moderna vaccine 
trials. Now, they’re seeing it being administered 
to others on their team and in the community.
“We had read pretty extensively about the sci -
ence behind the vaccine, so I felt very safe mov -ing forward with it,” said Hillhouse. “Actually, 
GFR reached out directly to the company that 
was performing the drug trials.”
The GFR team volunteered for the study hop -
ing to speed up the COVID-19 pandemic recovery 
process, Hillhouse said.
According to Moderna’s website, the volun -
teers were required to be in very good health to 
be eligible to participate in the trials. One of the 
reasons GFR participated in the trials was be -
cause they are a relatively healthy workforce that 
qualified to volunteer for the research, Hillhouse 
said.
“Now, we’re at a point where the vaccine 
trials were successful and the vaccine is being 
delivered,” Hillhouse said. “So that is a good feel -
ing.”
The Alachua County Fire Rescue also re -ceived its first shipment of the vaccine Dec. 30, 
according to Michael Vogel, assistant fire chief of 
the Emergency Medical Service Division.
ACFR is excited about receiving the vaccine, 
Vogel said. The department posted a photo of 
ACFR Fire Chief Harold Theus receiving the shot 
on Facebook the day the department began vac -
cinating its firefighters.
“A lot of people are still trying to see what 
the vaccination holds just because it’s something 
that’s new,” Vogel said. “But those who have 
been affected mostly by it are all on board; they 
understand the severity of it.”
Contact Jiselle Lee at jlee@alligator.org 
and follow her on Twitter at @jiselle_leeGainesville and Alachua County firefighters among the first to receive COVID-19 vaccineKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
New Face in Gainesville
Florida announced it hired Auburn defensive backs coach 
Wesley McGriff Saturday. McGriff’s role wasn’t disclosed, 
pg. 12LOCAL VENUES TO RECEIVE 
$15 BILLION IN AID
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
 
The Save Our Stages Act, a $15 billion fund -
ing package meant specifically for indepen -
dent venues, was signed by President Donald 
Trump on Dec. 27 as part of a $900 billion CO -
VID-19 stimulus bill. The act was drafted after 
months of lobbying from the National Indepen -
dent Venue Association, a coalition of more 
than 1,200 live music venues across the coun -
try — including Gainesville’s High Dive — that 
pushed for government assistance through the 
pandemic.
 The act allocates individual grants equal to 
45% of each independent venues’ gross rev -
enue from 2019, with a cap at $10 million to 
each establishment. Allowable expenses under 
the act include any costs of operating from 
March 1, 2020 to Dec. 31, 2021. According to 
a statement from NIVA, the funding will aid in 
payroll and benefits for venue employees, rent 
and mortgage, utilities, insurance and other 
business expenses.
For venues like High Dive, this kind of gov -
ernment assistance is the difference between 
surviving and shutting down for good. With 
little-to-no previous aid and more than six 
months of complete closure, Pat Lavery, facil -ity and events manager of High Dive, struggled 
to keep the business afloat.
“We are relieved to know that help is finally 
on the way,” he said.
Despite earlier assistance like the Paycheck 
Protection Program, funds from the act rep -
resent the first significant COVID-19 relief to 
independent venues. The PPP loans issued to 
small businesses from the federal government 
in June did little to alleviate the economic pit -
falls High Dive faced in the hiatus, Lavery said.
 “That was meant to last two-and-a-half 
months, but it really only lasted about a month 
for us,” he said.
Save Our Stages funds will be distributed 
as grants, whereas PPP funds were loaned to 
businesses. The funding will help venues not 
only continue to operate but also pay off loans 
that were dispensed as additional aid early in 
the closures.
In terms of aid, no one venue has fared 
exactly the same. High Dive received only the 
PPP loan and “a little bit” from Alachua Coun -
ty’s Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Se -
curity Act, Lavery said. Other establishments, 
like Ybor City’s Crowbar, received additional 
aid from both the federal and local govern -
ments.
 Tom DeGeorge, Crowbar owner and cap -
tain of the Florida precinct of NIVA, took a 
$150,000 Economic Injury Disaster Loan from 
the federal government to keep his venue alive. The loan, created by the U.S. Small Business 
Administration specifically for relief from the 
economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
sustained Crowbar in the short term.
 But with a lengthy 30-year maturity period 
and Crowbar still months away from business 
as usual, DeGeorge fears the loan will be im -
possible to pay back for his venue and others 
like it.
 “If we’re left with those loans, our busi -
nesses will not survive,” he said.
 The importance of the Save Our Stages Act 
comes from its specificity to live music venues. 
Unlike other small businesses, venues will not 
be able to immediately reopen at full capac -ity once the pandemic ends. Instead, they will 
need to wait until every part of the touring 
economy — artists and patrons as well as the 
venues themselves — is back in place to con -
tinue normal operations.
A return to normalcy is expected in the fall 
of 2021, Lavery said. The act will function as a 
cushion until then, covering some of the costs 
of being open while High Dive continues to 
host livestreams and distanced, limited-capac -
ity shows.
 “That’s the thing that’s really going to save 
our industry,” Lavery said.
Contact Heather Bushman at 
hbushman@alligator.org and follow her on 
Twitter at @hgrizzl 
STUDENTS CAN SHOP SMALL AS IN-PERSON 
CLASSES RESUME
By Kristin Bausch
Avenue Staff Writer
From sustainable mask designs to masks with matching ban -
danas for pets, Gainesville’s small businesses offer creative ways 
to stay safe this Spring.
Students looking beyond the generic blue and white surgi -
cal masks can protect their classmates and communities while 
shopping locally as they return to in-person classes. 
Redefined Goods
Mia Crisostomo said she waited until she had the perfect de -
sign to incorporate masks into her shop.
The 21-year-old UF marketing and sustainability studies se -
nior founded Redefined Goods, an upcycled, sustainable shop in 
2018. From tote bags to bucket hats to scrunchies, all items sold 
are created from secondhand goods.
Crisostomo said she originally made the masks just for her -
self. But, after working alongside her mom, she began adapting 
a design that would help protect wearers as much as other cloth 
masks would.
By folding the fabric a particular way, Crisostomo said they 
followed a design that could mold to the nose without adding 
any plastic material to the mask. 
“Like any other single-use plastic thing, the surgical masks 
can be very wasteful over time,” she said. “Using cloth masks is 
a really great way to reduce that waste while still being able to 
protect yourself and the people around you.” 
The masks are crafted from fabric scraps and ribbon is used for the earloops. Crisostomo is currently working on masks that 
have a filter or filter pocket for customers who want to add their 
own. 
Recently, Crisostomo got the idea to add silk to the masks 
currently in the Redefined Goods’ shop. She said silk is better 
for the skin, and the tightly knit fabric repels moisture, mak -
ing it safer and more breathable than materials other handmade 
masks are made out of. 
People can purchase masks from Redefined Goods on its 
website. Since the shop operates out of Gainesville, students in 
the area can choose to do in-person pickup for their order, which 
Crisostomo said is convenient and avoids shipping costs. She 
also sets up her shop at local Gainesville markets such as The 
Florida Vintage Market and the Bazar À La Carte.
“If you’re in the market for a cloth mask, there are a lot of 
cool options online, but Gainesville is just such a unique place 
with so many small businesses that there are also so many peo -
ple that make and sell them here,” Crisostomo said. 
The AUK Market
The AUK Market, located at 2031 NW Sixth St., is situated on 
the complex of local coffee shop Curia on The Drag. The AUK 
Market is an independently owned, curated market featuring lo -
cal artists who make and sell an array of pottery items, candles, 
jewelry and prints. The shop also sells vintage items such as 
furniture, glass and clothing. 
Sabrina Kaar, 35, a co-owner of the AUK Market who runs 
its vintage clothing section, said when it reopened in June, the 
staff was grateful but conscious about opening the doors during 
a pandemic. 
“We felt it was not only our responsibility to encourage social 
distancing and sanitizing efforts inside the store, but also to of -
fer the public the mechanism from which we all stay safer and healthier: properly fitted facial masks,” she said.
The AUK Market has two local makers in the store who craft 
masks together: Prairie Aura and Self Care Wares.
“No matter what your style, you can find a cute mask to not 
only elevate your wardrobe but also to stay safe and keep our 
community healthy,” Kaar said.
Kaar said the two creators have brought many styles of masks 
to the AUK Market such as vintage repurposed fabrics, modern 
aesthetic, boho and pinup girls.
The AUK Market is open every day from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
except Tuesdays. Patrons can shop in person or order a mask 
on its website.
Prim N’ Proper Paws
Brianne Bennett, 25, who co-owns Prim N’ Proper Paws, 
said the small business began selling masks in hope of providing 
customers with a way to stay safe and healthy without sacrific -
ing comfort. But the items sold at Prim N’ Proper Paws are not 
catered to only humans.
The business started out selling bandanas for customers’ fur -
ry friends. Bennett said there were growing requests for masks, 
so it only made sense to allow customers to purchase a set with 
a mask and a matching bandana for their pet.
“Pandemic fashion means matching your mask with your 
dog,” she said. 
Bennett described the masks as being made from 100% cot -
ton and easy to wash. She said all masks contain a hole to insert 
a filter if wanted, and all masks have elastic straps and size ad -
justers. 
Prim N’ Proper Paws items can be found on Instagram and 
Etsy.
Bennett is local, and the shop offers free shipping to 
Gainesville, High Springs and Alachua.
 
Contact Kristin Bausch at kbausch@alligator.org and 
follow her on Twitter @BauschKristinSave Our Stages Act passes with COVID-19 stimulus bill
Local vendors offer fashionable face masks 
COVID-19COVID-19
FASHIONFASHIONCourtesy to The Alligator
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
VALUE CHECKING account
visa®  platinum credit cardWe have better ways to help  
you manage your money!
Member owned. Community proud. ® Since 1954Take advantage of no monthly fee  and  
no minimum balance  requirement  in a checking   
account backed by friendly local service since 1954!
With an introductory rate of 0% APR* for 15 mos.** 
for balance transfers and new purchases ,  
get more purchasing power!
*APR = Annual Percentage Rate. **0% offer for Visa Reward, Visa Wave and Visa Rate card. Fresh 
Start, Business and HELOC not eligible for promotion. 0.00% Introductory APR for 15 monthly 
billing cycles following the issuance of the account. After that, your rate will be 12.90%-17.90%, 
depending on creditworthiness. This APR will vary with the market based on the Prime Rate. 
Promotion for new cards only, transfers and/or existing FCU cards or loans are not eligible. 
Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on purchases and balance transfers will be fully indexed APRs, 
which are currently the APRs set forth in the agreement here. Offer expires Mar. 31, 2021.
Federally insured by NCUA FCUMKVS0156-0121flcu.org | (352) 377-4141
Download the FREE 
TapRide App 
to Get a Ride!
or call 
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime 
Auxiliary Patrol
Greetings, students, and welcome to the start of the Spring semester.
I am incredibly excited to begin 2021 with you, the year when I believe the 
nation and world will finally overcome COVID-19.
To be sure, the pandemic today remains a real and present threat. Health 
and safety are our top priorities at UF, and I ask you to join me in starting the 
semester with a commitment to wearing a mask, watching our distance from others and 
washing our hands frequently. With the new and more contagious strain of the COVID-19 
virus present in Florida, we must be even more committed than last semester to following 
the UF Health guidelines. 
2021 will certainly be a year of significant change. After the terrible events in Washington 
D.C. last Wednesday, I am hopeful we will cherish and protect our democracy and our 
democratic institutions while working to overcome divisions.  I believe that we as a 
university have a solemn responsibility to create an environment locally and nationally 
where we approach our differences, problems and goals with empathy, respect and love 
for one another.  
With hope and optimism, I’m personally looking forward to these 21 things in 2021:
1. Asking the faculty to cancel classes for a day in celebration of everyone receiving 
a COVID-19 vaccination
2. Taking selfies with students I meet on campus (with a mask for now, but without 
a mask in a few months)
3. Listening to student concerts on the UF Carillon under the brilliant new orange 
and blue lights illuminating Century Tower
4. Guest teaching an in-person class 
5. Walking from the Dasburg House to Lake Alice and joining a crowd to watch 
more than 100,000 bats fly out of the bat houses at dusk6. Buying coffee for the students in front of me in the line at 
Starbucks 
7. In-person graduation ceremonies, hopefully in April and 
May if we are all vaccinated
8. Visiting UF’s incredible new Florida Ballpark and cheering 
as the Gators beat FSU 
9. Celebrating longtime employees, such as Registrar Steve 
Pritz, who this month marked his 50th year of serving UF students 
10. Taking our grandchildren to the Butterfly Rainforest at the 
Florida Museum of Natural History
11. Experiencing the roll-out of the university’s artificial intelligence initiative
12. Celebrating UF’s top five public research university ranking.  Would the faculty 
approve another day of canceled classes and celebrations when we achieve top five 
stature?
13. Attending a world-class performance at the Phillips Center
14. Hearing the cries of the sandhill cranes circling overhead as they head north 
this spring
15. Checking in on what’s happening at “r/ufl” on Reddit
16. Laughing at some of the “Swampy UF memes” on Facebook
17. Finding out who controls the “The Same Picture of Kent Fuchs Every Day” 
Facebook page and asking them to “Please stop!”
18. Greeting new faculty and staff
19. Taking in the exhibits at the Harn Museum of Art 
20. Making progress on visiting every UF/IFAS Extension office in all 67 counties 
21. Three words: April Fools’ Day
Again, now that we have turned 21 together, I am greatly looking forward to this 
semester, and calendar year, with you.
 We’re all turning 21 this yearColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
HERE’S WHAT TO KNOW 
ABOUT THE CITY OF 
GAINESVILLE AND UF STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT PLANS FOR THE 
NEW YEAR
By Jack Prator and 
Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer 
Moving past the challenges of 2020, 
Gainesville, Alachua County and UF 
Student Government elected officials 
have a positive outlook on what city 
and student life will look like this year.
Here are some issues to be watch -
ing for in 2021: 
City Commission
Handling mass COVID-19 vacci -
nation in Alachua County is the city 
and county commissions’ New Year’s 
resolution. 
Racial equity, living wage and 
youth development will also be dis -
cussed heavily in 2021. The city com -
mission is working to improve the 
public transportation, housing and 
parks of Gainesville. 
As of now, the commission has 
no concrete plans for a youth devel -
opment policy. Commissioner David 
Arreola hopes to change that through 
commission workshops with local 
youth to help create economic and so -
cial opportunities for them.
These workshops would be aimed 
at youth employment and engage -
ment while creating opportunities for 
Gainesville youth to get active in their 
community.
There are a number of agenda 
items from last year involving oppor -
tunities and equity for residents that 
the commission will continue working 
on, Arreola said. The Jan. 14 meeting 
will tackle setting a living wage re -quirement for employers.
Another ongoing priority of the 
commission is to address racial equity. 
In July, the commission begantook on 
racial equity training for city employ -
ees. Areola said the commission plans 
to continue working on its commit -
ment.
Elections for Gainesville City Com -
mission At-Large and District 1 seats 
will be held March 16.
County Commission
Alachua County’s priorities for 
the new year are affordable housing, 
rental properties and homelessness, 
said County Commissioner Anna Priz -
zia. The commission will discuss these 
topics in its budget meetings.
The county emergency radio, 
which needs upgrades, is a hot-button 
issue. Deciding how the cost of these 
upgrades will be shared between the 
city and county is controversial, Priz -
zia said.
The City of Gainesville manages 
the radio, which is used by all of 
Alachua County. The county pays 
Gainesville a monthly rate to lease the 
emergency radio. Who will bear the 
brunt of upgrade costs is still up for 
debate, Prizzia said.
The commission approved an ur -
ban forest management plan Jan. 7 
that had been in development since 
2016. The plan pledges to evaluate 
the county’s urban forest every five 
years, setting new goals to improve 
its diversity, health and benefit to the 
community.
Prizzia said she’s focused  on de -
veloping a program that incentivises 
residents to replace aging trees that 
pose a danger to homes during storms 
with new ones.
UF Student Body President
Student Body President Trevor 
Pope said he plans to maintain and 
prioritize his initial goals promised during his election in the Fall: build 
for the future, make UF more inclusive 
and improve the student experience.
“Everything we’ve done up to this 
point has been working towards those 
three major points,” he said. “To really 
just ensure that students are thriving, 
even as we live through this time of 
uncertainty and overcome so many 
barriers.”
Pope said he is proud of SG’s past 
projects, such as rent relief and free de -
livery from Bite Squad.
Following the campus shutdown 
in March, SG passed a rent relief bill 
allocating $500,000 of its $4 million re -
serve fund to help students struggling 
to pay rent. Out of about 2,000 UF stu -
dents that applied, half were awarded 
$500. 
Pope’s main project for Spring is 
Service Learning — an initiative to pro -
vide students with out-of-classroom 
experiences in every field by translat -
ing information taught in lecture halls 
into practical skills. With a budget of 
$150,000, the program will fund travel 
and supplies to prepare them for work, 
he said.
To get Service Learning ready, leg -
islation must be written and passed, 
Pope said. The project will be ready for 
implementation to the next SG admin -
istration, and will go into effect over 
the 2021-2022 school year.
UF SG Senate
SG rules and procedures changed 
significantly in Fall, including shorten -
ing the amount of time students have 
to sign up for public comment during 
Senate meetings and allowing only 
senators to write and sponsor legisla -
tion. 
However, Senate President Coo -
per Brown’s main goal for 2021 is to 
have more opportunities for Senators 
to meet their constituents and each 
other, as many of them have never 
stepped foot in the Senate chamber since the emergence of COVID-19, he 
wrote in an email.
“Class Cohorts” will separate sena -
tors by their year at UF and allow them 
to interact and work with other sena -
tors in the same class despite different 
party affiliations. Hopefully, this will 
lead to bipartisan legislation and proj -
ects, Brown wrote.
Senate meetings will remain virtual 
until March but will now feature guest 
appearances.
The first surprise guest will present 
Jan. 12 at 7:30 p.m. during Senate.
Inspire Party
One of the main topics in the Sen -
ate over Fall was a debate over online 
voting –– an effort rejected by the 
provost in September, but the Inspire 
Party is set on pushing for in Spring.
Students with health concerns who 
chose to take online classes from home 
are still part of the UF community and 
deserve the right to vote, even if not 
directly from campus, Minority Party 
Leader Brianne Seaberg said.
“We are really going to push for 
online voting so that we don’t disen -
franchise any students,” Seaberg said. 
Online voting has been subject to 
debate for years, but is particularly im -
portant during the COVID-19 pandem -
ic to ensure the safety of students and 
maximum participation in elections, 
Seaberg said.
During Fall elections, SG provided 
early voting and absentee ballots as ac -
commodations for students who could 
not go to the polls in person during the 
pandemic. However, some students 
did not receive their ballots in time for 
the election and student voter turnout 
decreased by a third compared to Fall 
2019.  
Inspire will push for more account -
ability from SG senators by demand -
ing that contact information for all 
senators is available to students on the 
SG website, Seaberg said.It also aims to make menstrual 
products available on campus, Stu -
dent Health Care Center services more 
widely accessible and UF transporta -
tion services safer, Seaberg said.
Seaberg said Inspire will begin 
to write legislation on all the above 
projects early this semester, hoping to 
get them approved and implemented 
soon. 
Gator Party
With a supermajority in the Sen -
ate, Gator party contested all efforts 
toward online voting made during 
Fall and approved amendments to its 
rules and procedures prohibiting non-
SG affiliated students from writing and 
sponsoring legislation.
Its platform for Fall focused on pro -
viding more student tickets for home 
football games and auditing UF build -
ings for environmental sustainabil -
ity.  The party also aimed to provide 
students with COVID-19 supplies and 
a technology that tests drinks for date-
rape drugs.
Gator Party’s platform also prom -
ised to provide legal advice and virtual 
counseling to international students.
Majority Party Leader Blake Robin -
son and Gator Party representative Ga -
briela Hernandez did not respond to 
emails from The Alligator over a span 
of four days. 
SG will hold elections for Student 
Body President, Vice President and 
Treasurer, as well as 50 senators to 
represent colleges at UF on Feb. 23.
Contact Carolina Ilvento at 
cilvento@alligator.org and follow 
her on Twitter @CarolinaIlvento
Contact Jack Prator at jprator@
alligator.org and follow him on 
Twitter @jack_prator
GAINESVILLE CITY COMMISSION 
APPROVES VACCINATION PLAN AT 
FIRST MEETING OF THE YEAR
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville is still a month or two away 
from the COVID-19 vaccine becoming widely 
available, but city leaders are making plans for 
when it is.
The Gainesville City Commission voted 
unanimously Jan. 7 to pass a four-part plan 
that will help the Alachua County Health 
Department mass administer COVID-19 
vaccinations.
The plan involves finding accessible sites, 
building teams with paramedics to administer 
the vaccine, registering residents and educating 
the community. The city government also 
agreed to coordinate with the health department 
to create a priority list of who gets vaccinated 
after the 65-and-older population. 
Alachua County ranked 13th in Florida for 
the number of COVID-19 vaccines administered 
as of Jan. 3, according to a vaccine report from 
the Florida Department of Health. There have 
been 443,616 vaccines administered in Florida 
–– most of which went to healthcare workers 
and first responders –– and 12,541 of those 
were administered in Alachua County as of 
Jan. 7. 
Community members over the age of 65 
and healthcare workers started to receive 
the vaccine first. The county, which is home 
to about 40,000 residents over 65, is sorting 
vaccination priority by date of birth with older 
residents ranking higher on the list, said Paul 
Myers, administrator of the Alachua County 
Health Department.
Vaccine Registration
Alachua County residents 65 or older are 
encouraged to sign up to receive a vaccine 
through the county’s online portal or by calling 
352-334-8810.Myers asked those registering online not 
to call the health department, as it clogs up 
the phone lines. He said residents should not 
sign up with both the health department and 
another healthcare provider.
Those at higher risk but under the age of 
65 are also encouraged to submit requests with 
their hospital or private medical provider, as 
hospitals have some discretion in whom they 
choose to vaccinate, City Commissioner David 
Arreola said.
Commissioners said essential workers 
might not receive the vaccine for at least one or 
two months, though they did not discuss who 
would be considered an essential worker.
Alachua County Health Department
The Alachua County Health Department 
is currently setting up eight clinics to support 
the vaccination operation, Myers said during a 
telephone town hall held on Jan. 6 for county 
leaders and health experts to discuss COVID-19 
vaccination plans and answer public concerns.
County Commissioner Ken Cornell said 
the health department had received 12,000 
vaccination requests from residents over the 
age of 65 by Jan. 4. That number climbed to 
20,000 by noon on Jan.5.
Most vaccines will be administered 
through UF Health Shands Hospital and North 
Florida Regional Medical Center following the 
instructions of Florida Governor Ron DeSantis 
that hospitals receive the vaccines, Cornell 
said. The county health department will work 
with private healthcare providers not affiliated 
with either hospital in administering shots.
“The good side of this is that when there are 
enough vaccines to put in people’s arms, we 
will have a local system,” Cornell said.
County Manager Michele Lieberman said 
she feels confident in the health department’s 
ability to perform a mass vaccination, as this 
has been done during flu season in the public 
school system for years.UF Health
As of Jan. 6, UF Health has vaccinated 
about 10,000 Gainesville residents, UF Health 
President David Nelson said. Second doses 
have been administered to 1,200 of those 
residents as they have been made available.
Over 700 members of UF’s 65 and older 
community have received vaccines as of Jan. 6, 
Nelson said, with a remaining 1,200 scheduled 
vaccinations to be conducted by Jan. 10. There 
are 11,300 pending vaccination requests sent 
to Gainesville residents covered by the UF 
insurance plan, he said.
UF Health expects more Pfizer-BioNTech 
vaccines to start rolling in alongside the 
second doses of the Moderna vaccines already 
administered, Nelson said. UF Health receives 
a one-day notice ahead of vaccine shipments.
Addressing safety concerns surrounding the 
vaccine was also a priority of city leaders at the Jan. 6 Town Hall.
Those given the vaccine are observed for 
15 minutes in case they start experiencing side 
effects, Nelson said. Out of the 10,000 people 
vaccinated by UF Health, 26 suffered adverse 
reactions, he added. Only three people reported 
more severe, rare symptoms including light-
headedness. 
“It appears to be unbelievably safe,” he said. 
“That’s why so many of us are so excited, but 
also so frustrated by why many people don’t 
want the vaccine.”
The Alachua County Commission will 
discuss further vaccination plans at its next 
meeting on Jan. 12.
Contact Jack Prator at jackprator@
alligator.org and follow him on Twitter
@jack_pratorAlachua County, Gainesville and Student Government elected officials new year plans roundup
Alachua County leaders outline COVID-19 vaccination plan
Julia Coin / / Alligator Staff
UF Health staff watch as Samuel Overly, a UF Health clinical leader, receives the first Pfizer-
BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at UF Health Shands Cancer Hospital on Dec. 16, 2020.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-14
Blake's Enterprise & Cleaning Service. 
Commercial and Residential Cleaning, Strip 
and Refinish Floors. Licensed and Insured. 
Call:  352-660-5912.                         1-11-9-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
1-11-21-15-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-13
14 Help Wanted
Sprightly Acupuncture Opening Soon
Put a spring in your step! Sprightly 
Acupuncture is owned and operated by Jenna 
Wilsey, Acupuncture Physician. This clinic 
offers gentle acupuncture, Chinese herbal 
medicine, and cupping therapy for health and 
wellness, pain relief, stress management, 
Women's issues, digestive complaints, men-
tal-emotional concerns, and much more. Visit 
www.sprightlyacu.com for more information.                        
1-11-21-1-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         2-15-21-6-141For Rent
furnished15 Services
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                      2-1-21-4-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. Immed oc -
cupancy. ABSOLUTELY HUGE! Gorgeous 
Wood Floors, cent AC/HT, dishwasher, laun -
dry room, fenced, pets OK $1,795 per month. 
352-665-8166                               1-26-20-6-2
HOUSES FOR RENT NEXT AUGUST
Quality homes walk or bike to campus.
See homes at WWW.gainesvillequalityrental -
homes.com call or text 352-339-2342 for appt.  
1-11-20-4-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
★★LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION ★★
2 bedroom houses & apartments 
all price ranges
pets arranged
text or call 352-359-2304
2-8-21-5-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-1213 Wanted
answers on pg 131. MOVIES: Who was the first African 
American to win the Academy Award 
for Best Actor?
2. ASTRONOMY: How many phases does 
the Moon go through each month?
3. MEDICAL: What are leukocytes?
4. TELEVISION: What are the names of 
the three animated "Powerpuff Girls"?
5. INVENTIONS: Who is credited with 
inventing the first battery?
6. GEOGRAPHY: What is the largest 
country in Africa in land area?
7. MEASUREMENTS: What does a Geiger 
counter measure?
8. LITERATURE: What item did the 
crocodile swallow in "Peter Pan"?
9. FOOD & DRINK: What is grenadine 
made from?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a baby 
goat called?
(c) 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/11/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/11/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, January 11, 2021
ACROSS
1 Story like “Roots”
5 K9 Advantix II 
targets
10 Dance that tells 
a story
14 Capturing device
15 Cuba __: rum 
cocktail
16 Former Lacoste 
partner in 
sportswear
17 Taj Mahal city
18 5,000 feet, 
roughly
20 Providing post-
bath garb to 
red-breasted 
singers?
22 Keep a roomie 
awake, maybe
23 Letters before an 
alias
24 Window sticker
28 Surg. areas
30 Chocolate-filled 
cookie
31 Doing poorly in 
baking class?
36 Became the 
champ
37 Farm bleaters
38 Like many 
SSA payment 
recipients
39 Growing dried 
grapes?
44 Mischievous 
doings
45 Jaguar XK-E, e.g.
46 Tomato 
concentrate
47 Hope/Crosby film 
destination
50 Make roar, as an 
engine
54 Recording easy 
putts?
57 “That’s slightly 
inaccurate”
60 Bluesy James
61 Put one __ on: 
fool
62 Gadget used on 
an apple
63 Ace, as a test
64 High roller’s rolls
65 The ones over 
there
66 Abound (with)
DOWN
1 Overhead 
twinklers
2 One of the noble 
gases
3 Actress Greta4 Two that match, 
as socks
5 Flier on a pole
6 Heavenly scales
7 Kindle download
8 Dutch-speaking 
Caribbean island
9 Alien-seeking org.
10 “And he ...  
HE __! ... The 
Grinch carved 
the roast-beast!”
11 Israeli weapon
12 Enthusiastic 
online “Ha-ha!”
13 Beverage suffix
19 “__ I don’t?”: 
challenging 
words
21 Foam-based ball
25 Piled-stones 
memorial
26 Authors Rice and 
Tyler
27 Suffered defeat
29 6-Down and 11 
others
30 Beethoven’s love
31 Polynesian 
Disney princess
32 Watts and volts
33 Rich holiday 
drink
34 Long-nosed fish
35 L.A. commuter 
org.36 Rolled-up 
sandwich
40 Paid tot minders
41 Mountaineer’s 
tool
42 Lee whom 
nobody doesn’t 
like
43 Sinner’s 
atonement 
words
47 Copier brand
48 MC’s opening 
words49 Looks untowardly 
toward
51 Curriculum __: 
résumé
52 Loosen, as a 
knot
53 Song of worship
55 Treaty
56 Spare in a Brit’s 
boot
57 Currently
58 Egg cells
59 Talking stuffed 
bear of film
By Ed Sessa
©2020 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/08/20Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/08/20ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, December 8, 2020
ACROSS
1 Pete Seeger’s 
instrument
6 Biblical song
11 Chocolate dog
14 Hunter in the 
night sky
15 Radio station, 
e.g.
16 Physicians’ gp.
17 Creator of unique 
gallery pieces
19 Jake Tapper’s 
channel
20 Adam’s first 
home
21 Neptune’s 
domain
22 “Amen”
24 “Louder, please”
27 Cry out loud
30 Make a choice
31 Ctrl+Z, in 
Windows
32 Ruin’s 
companion
34 Blonde or pale 
beverage
35 Slime
39 TV soap for 54 
years ... and a 
hint to the puzzle 
circles
43 Mug for a selfie
44 Nile viper
45 Race prelims
46 Behaves
48 One of two for a 
downhill run
50 Movie filming site
51 Free on request
56 Playground bully, 
e.g.
57 Butter square
58 Waikiki Beach 
location
62 “Little Birds” 
author Anaïs
63 Motorcyclist’s 
state-of-the-art 
gear
66 First day of 
spring, in Hanoi
67 Conical plains 
shelter
68 Car alarm sound
69 Biblical beast of 
burden
70 Scornful look
71 Modern storage 
units
DOWN
1 Tibia or humerus
2 Dry as a desert3 Naughty’s 
opposite, to 
Santa
4 First of 21 Popes
5 Number that’s its 
own square root
6 Mother or 
grandmother, 
e.g.
7 Occupy, as a 
desk
8 Phoenix MLB 
team, on 
scoreboards
9 Eased
10 “The Wind in 
the Willows” 
amphibian
11 Cagney’s TV 
partner
12 OB/GYN 
procedure
13 African language 
group
18 “Instantly!” letters
23 Irish accent
25 Pepsi rival
26 Main body of the 
Constitution?
27 Give and take
28 Thereabouts
29 Ones hanging 
out in caves
33 Ignores the rules
34 Dada co-founder36 Like some 
traditions
37 Not fooled by
38 Hissed “Over 
here!”
40 Guys in the 
fishing business, 
e.g.
41 Mount of Greek 
myth
42 Pizza crust order
47 Places for ribs
48 One doing axels
49 Kin’s partner51 Fruity soda 
brand
52 Village Voice 
awards
53 Littlest littermates
54 “Shop ’til you 
drop” affair
55 “Wowie!”
59 Amo, amas, __
60 “Take it!”
61 Tribe with a state 
named for it
64 Impersonate
65 Tidal flow
12/07/2020
solution on page 13
answers below1. What Canadian boxer, known for a 
powerful left-handed punch he called "The 
Smash," lost two heavyweight elimination 
bouts to Mike Tyson in 1991?
2. Renowned college basketball broadcaster 
Dick Vitale compiled a 34-60 record as head 
coach of what NBA team from 1978-79?
3. Italy's Armin Zoggeler won six medals 
at the Winter Olympics from 1994-2014 
competing in what sport?
4. What two New York Mets players reached 
the 30-30 club (30 home runs and 30 stolen 
bases) in the 1987 season?
5. What Los Angeles Sparks player was 
named both WNBA Rookie of the Year and 
MVP in 2008? 
6. NBA great Shaquille O'Neal played the 
character of Neon Boudeaux in what 1994 
basketball drama film starring Nick Nolte?
7. Name the Welsh golfer who won his lone 
major championship at the Masters in 1991.
(c) 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-15-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
11..    SSttaabbllee,,  ffiixxeedd
11..    ________  oovveerrllooookk55..    BBlluunnddeerr
22..    AAnnggeerreedd  66..    ________  BBrriittaaiinn  
33..    CClloouuddiieesstt,,  ddiimmmmeesstt77..    CCooppyy  ________
44..    SSwweeeett  lliiqquuiiddAAEEYYSSTTDD
IICCCCEESSNNRREEOORRRR
AATTEERRGG
NNEEDDGGEEAARR
TTSSDDKKAAEERRDDEEOOTTRRII
EEAANNTTRRCCAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SStteeaaddyy    55AA--EErrrroorr    66AA--GGrreeaatt    77AA--EEddiittoorr
11DD--SScceenniicc    22DD--EEnnrraaggeedd    33DD--DDaarrkkeesstt    44DD--NNeeccttaarr    BB--AAccccoorrddiioonn11--1111--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  mmuussiiccaall  iinnssttrruummeenntt  
ddaatteess  bbaacckk  ttoo  aabboouutt  11880000..
BONUS
Sports Quiz  answers1. Donovan "Razor" Ruddock.
2. The Detroit Pistons.
3. Luge.
4. Howard Johnson and Darryl Strawberry.
5. Candace Parker.
6. "Blue Chips."
7. Ian Woosnam.Trivia Test  answers1. Sidney Poitier, in 1964
2. Eight
3. White blood cells
4. Blossom, Buttercup and 
Bubbles
5. Alessandro Volta6. Algeria
7. Radiation
8. A clock
9. Pomegranates
10. A kid : PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
 alligatoralligator
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
Mega Maze solution
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida to play Mississippi Tuesday
The Gators (5-3) are scheduled to play Mississippi (6-4) at 7 p.m. and will 
be televised on the SEC Network. UF has lost two games in a row and is 
2-2 in SEC play.Colin Castleton was named 
Co-SEC Player of the Week 
after scoring 23 and 21 
points against Vanderbilt and 
LSU last week.MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
FEATURE
A STUDENT-ATHLETE WHOSE 
RELENTLESS PASSION TO 
LIVE LIFE TO ITS FULLEST IS 
SECOND ONLY TO HIS FAITH
By Christian Ortega
Sports Writer
Jacob Stanko’s frame fills any 
room he enters.
Six-feet-two-inches tall and a 
chiseled 230 pounds with thick dark 
brown hair that effortlessly frames 
his face and tumbles past his ears, 
it’s hard to ignore the self-described 
introvert.
Against his competition, he’s a 
giant among titans. But Jacob isn’t phased.
He takes a breath to collect his 
thoughts and recites a prayer to God. 
He’s practiced the throw a thousand 
times. Still, a conversation with God 
centers his mind toward his goal. 
Anxious thoughts are silenced by 
an overwhelming tide of tranquility. 
His body turned into a work of ki -
netic art.
He charges forward, with a once-
white, sweat-stained 800-gram jave -
lin cradled in his right hand. He cal -
culates each step to produce perfect 
rhythm and momentum.
Six steps forward seamlessly 
transitions into crossovers. His arms 
extend — the left to the sky while the right reaches back like a lever 
— to deliver each ounce of strength 
he generated. He lands his final step 
with his weight centered.
His eyes meet the horizon. His 
body snaps around. A burst of pow -
er travels from his hips to his shoul -
ders and up to his arm. The javelin 
becomes weightless as it glides out 
of his fingers and slices through the 
air. The rest is in God’s hands. 
"The people that perform the best 
are the people that, in a meet set -
ting, they can just completely shut 
off their brain and let their body do 
what their body knows what to do," 
Jacob said.
Few compete as collegiate ath -
letes. Fewer have the option to play 
two sports. 
Jacob has never taken his athleti -
cism for granted. Like most kids, he 
sampled many sports growing up in 
Manchester, New Hampshire. But 
no sport captivated him like football.
At Manchester Central High 
School, he captained the team as 
its quarterback. Jacob was ranked 
the 18th best quarterback in New 
Hampshire for the 2016 graduating 
class.
But football is a fall sport. As a 
sophomore with time at his disposal 
during the spring, he started throw -
ing in track and field. It was an op -
portunity to improve himself for 
future falls. Despite his remarkable 
athleticism,  he was raw and needed 
to iron out his mechanics to succeed 
in his new sport.“He had no clue what he was 
going to do,” said Misty Francis, Ja -
cob’s high school throwing coach, 
as she recalled his first experience 
with a javelin.
He didn’t mind the work. He 
never has. In time, he grew infatu -
ated with his new sport.
“He’s an easy kid to coach,” 
Francis said. “He listens, he applies 
and he always asks questions.”
Throwing also allowed him to 
spend time with his parents, Mark 
Stanko and Lisa Maille, who are di -
vorced.
Whenever Maille drives around 
town, memories replace reality as 
she thinks back to times her son 
was minutes, not miles, away. She 
misses watching him practice be -
tween errands. 
“I still have days where I drive by 
that field and I’m looking to see if I 
could see him,” Maille said.
As a single mother of three, it 
was challenging for her to keep up 
with her children’s schedules. But 
she always found herself at each of 
Jacob’s games and meets.
Mark said his father rarely at -
tended his own games, an aspect 
of his childhood that hurt him. He 
vowed that he wouldn’t make Jacob 
experience that same disappoint -
ment.
Mark allowed Jacob the freedom 
to follow his interests. All he wanted 
was to follow along and give his son 
a lifetime of memories. 
Growing up, Jacob fluctuated 
from sport to sport before settling 
on football and throwing in high 
school. Mark was always in the crowd, proudly cheering Jacob on at 
any meet or game.
Watching Jacob play football 
meant Mark was sequestered in 
the bleachers until the game ended. 
He cherished track meets. Between 
throws, he was afforded precious 
time with his son, whether in con -
versation over upcoming throws or 
silent reflection.
“As somebody who was a son 
whose father didn't participate, I 
think I provided him with some -
thing that I would have liked to have 
had,” Mark said.
What his parents wished was to 
watch their son flourish. It just hap -
pened sooner than expected when 
Jacob first threw a javelin.
Jacob broke the school’s record 
in his first meet. Months later, he 
was crowned state champion. He 
finished the New England Inter -
scholastic Outdoor Track and Field 
Championships as the runner-up in 
2016, coming in third the year be -
fore. Jacob still retains the javelin 
throw record he set as a state cham -
pion  more than four years ago.
Jacob’s success in both fields 
earned him a scholarship to the 
University of Maine as a dual-sport 
athlete. He spent a year there before 
transferring to UF.
But Jacob doesn’t pay too much 
attention to his accolades.
  
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/sports
Contact Christian Ortega at 
cortega@alligator.org and follow 
him on Twitter @unofficialchrisThe Curious Life of Jacob Stanko
Courtesy to The Alligator
Jacob Stanko throws a javelin at the Tom Jones Memorial Classic 
in 2019.
It wasn’t always pretty. It rarely is.
The Gators suffered a heartbreaking loss to Texas A&M earlier in the 
season. They were on the business end of a shocking upset at the paws of 
the LSU Tigers. They were bested by Alabama in the SEC Championship, 
and after a slew of opt-outs, were cooked in Arlington, Texas, in the Cot -
ton Bowl.
That’s not very pretty. But I’m not here to talk about all that. I’m here to talk 
about the circumstances.
The COVID-19 pandemic changed everything. The offseason was filled with 
Zoom meetings and shutdowns, and the Gators faced an outbreak of their own 
and had to reschedule its game with both LSU and Missouri. Like teams around 
the nation, UF had to face a shortened schedule, one that was made up of SEC games in 
what many consider to be the toughest conference in college football.
Even among the pandemic, the Gators finally bested the Georgia Bulldogs for the first 
time in four years. They beat eight SEC teams, and there was a player wearing orange and 
blue amid this year’s four Heisman Trophy finalists.
Linebacker Mohamoud Diabate said it best.
“It's a COVID year, no offseason, no spring together, having young players who didn't 
get to go through a spring,” Diabate said. “So, it's like we're proud that we made it to this 
point… when that scoreboard said 0:00 with no time left, we finished it.”
And yeah, the Gators aren’t alone in having to deal with the stress and uncertainty of the pandemic. Every team that finished the season went through many of 
the same things this team has gone through. The Gators proved until their last 
game that they were a top 10 team. 
The Sooners game was rough, but it also gave UF something else to look 
forward to — hope for the future.
Players like Emory Jones, Xzavier Henderson and Gervon Dexter could be 
the solid foundation of a successful team at Florida, and head coach Dan Mul -
len got to see them play against a  good football team at Jerry's World. Jones 
in particular played fairly well, netting a rushing touchdown in the Gators’ 
55-20 loss.
So, no. The Gators didn’t quite meet expectations, especially after Mullen 
finally got the best of Kirby Smart’s Georgia Bulldogs and made the SEC Championship 
game, where they played what appears to be a nigh-invincible Alabama team to the final 
seconds. They got a good look at what their team can do next year to cap off an extraor -
dinary season under extraordinary circumstances.
Through the pandemic, the shortened season and  the all-SEC schedule, this team gave 
it its all, made it to the national stage and produced a candidate for the Heisman.
The players are proud of what they accomplished. And Gators fans should be proud 
of them, too.
 
Contact River Wells at rwells@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @riverhwellsIt doesn’t matter how it ended. Florida football should be proudHells Wells
River Wells
rwells@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2021
FOOTBALL WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
THE FORMER OLE 
MISS DEFENSIVE 
COORDINATOR 
BRINGS 30 YEARS 
OF COACHING 
EXPERIENCE 
TO THE SWAMP
By Michael Hull
Sports Writer
Florida hired Wesley 
McGriff as an assistant 
defensive coach, head 
coach Dan Mullen an -
nounced Saturday.
McGriff, who served 
as Auburn’s defensive 
backs coach for the last 
two seasons, has 30 
years of coaching expe -
rience in both the SEC 
and the NFL. It has yet 
to be announced what 
role he will play at Flor -
ida.
“His track record of 
preparing players for 
the NFL and his suc -
cess coaching at every 
level speaks for itself,” 
Mullen said in a release. 
“His energy and tireless 
effort in recruiting will 
be an asset to our defen -
sive staff.”
Most recently, Mc -
Griff coached two NFL 
draft picks at Auburn: 
Dolphins cornerback 
Noah Igbinohene and 
Jaguars safety Dan -
iel Thomas, who were drafted in the first and 
fifth round, respectively 
He also helped develop 
current Titans safety 
Kenny Vaccaro dur -
ing his tenure with the 
New Orleans Saints and 
groomed pros like for -
mer Giants safety Kenny 
Phillips at Miami, for -
mer Patriots defensive 
back William Andrews 
at Baylor and former 
Cardinals first round 
draft pick Robert Nkem -
diche at Ole Miss.
When he arrived at 
Auburn in 2018, the Ti -
gers allowed 219 yards 
and 1.2 touchdowns 
per game through the 
air. In 2019, Auburn im -
proved in yards allowed 
per game, giving up 214 
yards per contest.
Last season, during 
an all-SEC schedule, Au -
burn had the third-best 
pass defense in the con -
ference allowing an av -
erage of 237.8 yards per 
game. According to SEC 
StatCat, Auburn was 
also third in the confer -
ence in stifling yards per 
pass, only allowing 6.19 
per attempt, 0.28 behind 
No. 1 Alabama. 
McGriff began his 
coaching career as a 
graduate assistant at 
his alma mater, Savan -
nah State, in 1990. After 
stops at Kentucky State 
and Eastern Kentucky, McGriff made his way 
to the SEC, coaching 
Kentucky’s secondary 
and running backs from 
2001-2002. Kentucky 
would be the first of five 
schools he coached in 
the conference.
After stints at Bay -
lor and Miami, McGriff 
returned to the SEC as 
Vanderbilt’s recruit -
ing coordinator and de -
fensive backs coach in 
2011. A year later, he 
became the co-defensive 
coordinator at Ole Miss. 
McGriff took his tal -
ents to the big leagues 
in 2013 and was hired as 
defensive backs coach 
for the  Saints. He spent 
three seasons in New 
Orleans before head -
ing back to the college 
sphere, coaching at Au -
burn in 2016 before re -
turning to Ole Miss as 
defensive coordinator 
through the 2018 sea -
son. 
McGriff’s experience 
coaching in the defen -
sive backfield will be 
welcomed as the Gator 
defense allowed 257 
yards per game through 
the air last season under 
former coaches Torrian 
Gray and Ron English.
 
Contact Michael Hull 
at mhull@alligator.
org and follow him on 
Twitter@michael_hull33FLORIDA FACED THE UNRANKED GEORGIA 
BULLDOGS IN A CLOSE AFTERNOON MATCH 
BUT LEFT EMPTY-HANDED
By Grethel Aguila
Sports Writer
After three losses in a row, the Gators arrived in 
Athens, Georgia, with an aggressive energy that al -
most gave them their first conference win.
Florida left empty-handed against the unranked 
Georgia Bulldogs in a close afternoon match, losing 
68-58. 
The game began with a series of turnovers that 
recycled Florida’s previous mistakes. But Gators 
guard Kiara Smith quickly found her groove offen -
sively, scoring free throws that opened a lead.
The advantage grew after a three from guard 
Kristina Moore, but two Georgia free throws created 
a 9-9 tie. Then, Gators guard Lavender Briggs made 
a jumper that retained the lead for the first quarter.
A bucket from forward Floor Toonders and five 
quick points from guard Nina Rickards proved that 
the Florida offense was heating up. Then, a Geor -
gia three-pointer cut Florida’s lead to four before a 
Moore layup. Bulldogs guard Mikayla Coombs made 
a bucket, the buzzer rang seconds later and the 
Gators maintained their four point edge.
At the start of the second quarter, Georgia tried 
knotting the score up but ultimately left Florida trail -
ing behind.
Briggs then made a second bucket, followed by 
a jumper from Gators forward Jordyn Merrit. The 
Bulldogs responded with an offensive flurry that put 
it on top before a jumper from Briggs.  
As a three from Bulldogs guard Gabby Connolly 
put Georgia up one before a quick response from 
Rickards, the lead see-sawed between the two teams.  
That’s when Florida’s nightmares began. 
Briggs, the Gators’ top scorer, picked up her third 
personal foul. With missed shots from Florida, a 
jumper from Moore couldn’t keep pace with the Bull -
dogs offense. Georgia guard Maya Caldwell scored a 
three, and the first half score tilted in Georgia’s favor.Moore has a high motor and is constantly im -
proving, coach Cam Newbauer said. At practices, 
she shows that she understands her angles and op -
portunities.
“She just plays so hard every day out,” New -
bauer said.
A slow start from the Gators in the third quarter 
allowed Georgia to take control of the ball game. 
Briggs, who was now back in the game, missed 
a three before making a layup and free throw. Rick -
ards’ three wasn’t a match for a string of shots from 
Bulldogs center Jenna Stati, who finished with 10 
points. 
After two early turnovers led to buckets from 
Georgia countered the Gators’ defense like during 
the Thursday game against Mississippi State. Gators 
forward Faith Dut was missing in action until her 
first bucket that cut Georgia’s lead to 10 points. 
Smith, swarmed by the Bulldogs, went for a la -
yup that ended the quarter at 59-46.
 The Gators entered  the final quarter wasting no 
time, cutting Georgia’s lead from 15 points to eight.
Smith scored a free throw, with Briggs later hus -
tling a rebound for a Smith basket. Two smooth 
buckets from Briggs paired with a steal and a layup 
from Smith. Still, it wasn’t enough to stop the Bull -
dogs’ early shots and assists.
A careless pass from Florida was the final nail in 
the coffin, giving Georgia possession during critical 
moments and preserving its 10-point advantage.
The team put pressure on the defense and was 
aggressive during the game, Newbauer said. They 
struggled because of foul trouble and careless turn -
overs, he said, adding that the players weren’t con -
nected.
“We became pretty individualized, and that’s not 
who we are on or off the court,” he said.
 The Gators will go head-to-head against the Ar -
kansas Razorbacks in Fayetteville, Arkansas, Thurs -
day. Tip-off is scheduled for 8 p.m. and will stream 
on SEC Network.
Contact Grethel Aguila at gaguila@alligator.
org and follow her on Twitter @GrethelAguilaGators add Wesley McGriff to coaching staff Bulldogs subdue Gators after strong UF start