We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -No confidence
Faculty Senate rebukes UF’s COVID-19 policies,  pg. 4
Transgender Day of Remembrance
A candlelight vigil was held at Bo Diddley Plaza Saturday,  pg. 7Family legacy fulfilled
4-star WR Jayden Gibson will wear orange 
and blue for the next four years — just as his 
father and uncle before him — as he looks to 
leave his own mark,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 14
No car? No problem.
Hitch oﬀers private and shared rides from Gainesville to Orlando, 
Jacksonville, Tampa, and more. 
First ride is FREE!* CODE: UFNEWS1 ridehitch.com *discount up to $50
FOOTBALL
HE HAD BEEN 
HEAD COACH SINCE 2018
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Dan Mullen has coached his final 
Florida football game.
The fourth-year coach who stood at 
the helm of the Gators program since 
the 2018 season was fired Sunday, first 
reported by On3 Sports’ Matt Zenitz 
and ESPN’s Chris Low.
Mullen finished his tenure with the 
Gators with a 34-15 overall record and a 
21-14 record against Southeastern Con -
ference opponents. Florida is currently 
5-6 for the 2021 season, including 2-6 
in the SEC, and Mullen lost nine of his 
final 11 games against Power Five op -
ponents.
The former Florida offensive coordi -
nator and quarterback coach won two 
championships with Florida in 2006 and 
2008, and his head coaching stint start -
ed with promise. He inherited a team, 
which went 4-7 and 3-5 in the SEC in 
2017 and led it to consecutive 10-win 
seasons. He finished 10-3 with a vic -
tory over Michigan in the Peach Bowl 
in his debut season, and he improved to 
11-2 with an Orange Bowl victory over 
Virginia in his second effort. Florida fin -
ished both seasons within the top seven 
on the final Associated Press rankings.
The early 2020 season appeared to 
be Mullen’s breakout. He won eight of 
his first nine games, reaching as high as 
No. 3 in the AP poll. He won the SEC 
East division in 2020 and came within 
six points of beating Alabama in the 
conference championship. Quarterback 
Kyle Trask finished as a Heisman final -
ist, and tight end Kyle Pitts became the 
highest player ever drafted at his posi -
tion when the Atlanta Falcons pulled 
him fourth overall in the 2021 NFL 
Draft.
Everything came undone for Mullen 
in 2021, however. After an early 31-29 
home loss to then-No. 1 Alabama, Flori -
da seemed again poised for a prominent 
season. The Gators promptly lost five of their final seven games, including a 
34-7 thrashing by No. 1 Georgia and un -
ranked conference road losses to Ken -
tucky, Louisiana State, South Carolina 
and Missouri.
Mullen lost three of his four career 
games to the Georgia Bulldogs and rival 
coach Kirby Smart.
Florida defensive coordinator Todd 
Grantham and offensive line coach 
John Hevesy were also fired Nov. 7 fol -
lowing the loss to South Carolina.
The final nail in the coffin seemed to 
be Saturday’s overtime loss to Missouri. 
Florida took the ball with about a min -
ute to play and roughly 40 yards from 
field-goal range, but ran the ball out to 
head to overtime.
Both teams scored a touchdown on 
their first overtime possessions, but 
Missouri went for two and converted to 
send the Gators packing.
Florida Athletic Director Scott Strick -
lin, who met with the media Sunday 
afternoon, said he came to the decision 
to fire Mullen when he woke up Sun -
day morning. Mullen turned down the 
chance to coach the Florida State game 
this weekend in order to not serve as 
a distraction. He didn’t, however, con -
sider waiting to fire Mullen until next 
week.
“Once you get that feeling, it’s time 
to do something different — you need 
to go ahead and do it,” Stricklin said.
Stricklin said he would start the pro -
cess of finding a new football coach im -
mediately.
Mullen released a statement on 
Twitter several hours after the news be -
came public, saying he was grateful for 
the chance to coach at Florida.
“The program has a bright future 
ahead with the young talent on the 
team,” Mullen said in the statement.
Despite Mullen’s termination, Flori -
da can still become bowl eligible with 
a victory over FSU, with running backs 
coach and special teams coordinator 
Greg Knox serving as the interim head 
coach.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgMullen out as Florida football coach
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida football coach Dan Mullen, pictured during a Nov. 13 game against Samford, was fired Sunday.
UF HAS UNTIL 
DEC. 2 TO RESPOND
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Amid UF’s decision to bar 
three political science professors 
from testifying, a congressional 
subcommittee announced an in -
vestigation into whether UF violat -
ed the first amendment Thursday.
Rep. Debbie Wasserman 
Schultz and Rep. Jamie Raskin 
sent a letter to UF President Kent 
Fuchs Thursday expressing their 
deep concern about the recent 
challenges to academic freedom 
at the university. The House Sub -
committee on Civil Rights and 
Civil Liberties will be investigating 
the extent UF has undermined the 
integrity of academic freedom, ac -
cording to the letter. 
“For a top-five public univer -
sity to not allow nationally and internationally renowned experts 
to use that expertise to help make 
public action better, it flies in the 
face of the mission of the public 
university,” Schultz said. 
In the letter, Schultz and 
Raskin requested documents and 
communications regarding the 
creation of UF’s conflicts-of-inter -
est policy and its denials of faculty 
requests to engage in outside ac -
tivities. They have requested this 
information be sent to the commit -
tee by Dec. 2. 
UF received the letter and is 
preparing a response to send back, 
UF spokesperson Hessy Fernan -
dez wrote in an email. 
UF also owes documents to its 
accrediting body around the same 
time to comply with its accredita -
tion investigation sparked by the 
same issues, said John Hardt, the 
vice president of the Southern As -
sociation of Colleges and Schools 
Commission on Colleges. “We are also concerned that, 
possibly due to pressure from 
trustees, politicians, or others, UF 
has adopted and enforced a con -
flicts policy that undermines the 
academic and free speech values 
that are essential to American 
higher education,” the Congress 
members wrote in a press release.
Schultz said their main con -
cern now is their suspicions of 
Gov. Ron DeSantis’ heavy hand 
over the university and its deci -
sions. This concern is the “driving 
force behind the need” to send 
this second letter and open an in -
vestigation, she said. 
Four out of the 13 board of 
trustees at UF have direct political 
ties to the governor. The school 
has also been taking heat for fol -
lowing the governor’s lead on con -
troversial COVID-19 policies. 
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgCongress plans to investigate UFT oday’s Weather
By Meghan McGlone and 
Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writers
After following the results 
closely from their respective 
watch parties, Gainesville City 
Commission candidates Cynthia 
Chestnut and Matt Howland 
are gearing up for their next 
challenge: a runoff election.
Following Chestnut’s lead 
of 5% in the City Commission 
special election to replace former 
Commissioner Gail Johnson, 
she and Howland will move 
forward to a runoff election Jan. 
25 because neither candidate 
surpassed 50% of the vote.
Voters who supported the other 
three candidates — Scherwin 
Henry, Patrick Ingle and Gabe 
Kaimowitz — are now tasked 
with making another choice. Both 
candidates have adapted their 
campaign styles to attract more 
voters. 
Howland, a first-time 
Gainesville City Commission 
candidate, said he was honored 
the voters chose him to continue 
his campaign. To adapt his 
campaign for the runoff, he plans 
to ramp up outreach efforts, 
knock on more doors and engage 
with voters.
“No one is going to match my 
energy and focus,” he said. “We 
are going to be in the field every 
day doing exactly what we did 
before, except this time we’re 
going to work twice as hard.”
He said his campaign 
focuses on his interactions with 
Gainesville residents one-on-one.
Howland believes his 
interactions with voters and 
door-knocking may have helped 
bolster turnout. The turnout for 
the election was 13%, better than 
the lower than 11% in the last 
city commission election. 
Now that the runoff race has 
whittled down to two candidates, 
Howland said the choice between 
him and Chestnut will show the 
future direction of Gainesville.
“The voters get it,” Howland 
said. “The voters know that this 
race is absolutely about a choice 
for the future.”Chestnut, a seasoned politician 
who represented Gainesville on 
its City Commission and as its 
first Black female mayor, won the 
most votes Tuesday.
“I am grateful to all of the 
people who voted for me to give 
us the first place victory,” she 
said. 
Despite the fact she wished for 
a win on the first ballot, Chestnut 
said she’s ready to move forward 
in preparing for the runoff.
She said her experience is 
what sets her apart from Howland 
in the runoff election.
“We both have new ideas 
of what to do and how to do it, 
but I am the one who has the 
experience of implementation,” 
she said. “We don't have time to 
wait around for someone to learn 
the job.”
Armando Grundy-Gomes, a 
40-year-old Gainesville resident, 
said he was a strong supporter 
of Scherwin Henry because 
of his past record on the City 
Commission and his views on 
equity. Henry served two terms 
from 2006 to 2012 representing 
District 1, which encompasses 
much of East Gainesville. 
However, Grundy-Gomes said he respects the voice of the voters 
who chose Howland and Chestnut 
for the runoff election.
“I supported Scherwin Henry 
unapologetically. I believed in 
him — still do,” Grundy-Gomes 
said. “But the voters thought 
differently. And that’s all we can 
do is move forward.”
Despite Henry not moving 
forward to the runoffs, 
Grundy-Gomes said he plans 
on researching Chestnut and 
Howland before voting in the Jan. 
25 election.
“We should take part in our 
government,” he said. “Not the 
minority, but the majority of us 
that live here … Local government 
affects us all.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the VOLUME 116 ISSUE 14
 Two candidates, Gainesville 
voters prepare for runoff election
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
Carolina Ilvento / / Alligator Staff
Matt Howland, Cynthia Chestnut will face off Jan. 25
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Cynthia Chestnut speaks during her watch party at Innovation Square 
on Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021. Jason Davis (left) helped campaign for 
Chestnut. "We have a strong leader before us tonight," Davis said.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
ALERT
Plasma is needed now. 
This is a call you can’t 
ignore. Because 
patients can’t wait.
New donors receive
up to $800 your
ﬁrst month.
Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th St
Gainesville
(352) 378-9431
*Must be 18-69 years of age, weigh at least 110 pounds and be in general good health to donate plasma. In addition to 
meeting center donation criteria, you must provide a valid photo ID, proof of current address, and proof of Social Security 
number or Border Crossing Card to donate. Valid for new donors at participating centers only. Management reserves all rights. 
Tel Aviv University Sackler School of Medicine
The Sackler School of Medicine-New York State/ American ProgramNew York State/American Program
Applications for the Class of 2026 are available on our websiteoffers an outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York and 
is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. One of 
these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one of the top 10 
hospitals around the world.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,000 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org provides extensive information about Sackler SOM. For further 
information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$15 Haircut with Student ID
5001 NW 34th Blvd
352-505-6644   •   africanunique.comGrocery, Beauty, Fashion, WellnessABOUT 150 PEOPLE 
GATHERED TO SEE 
40-FOOT TREE ILLUMINATE
By Serra Sowers
Alligator Contributing Writer
Celebration Pointe kicked off 
the holiday season with a tree 
lighting ceremony Friday evening. 
A 40-foot artificial tree 
decorated with ornaments, lights 
and a 4-foot star on top was the 
center of attention. The free event 
kicked off at 5:30 p.m. and lasted 
until 6:15 p.m.
The crowd of about 150 people 
gathered for the tree lighting, a 
performance excerpt of Cinderella 
by Danscompany of Gainesville 
and some opening remarks. 
Speakers included president 
of the Gainesville Chamber 
of Commerce Eric Godet, and 
Celebration Pointe marketing 
coordinator and event organizer 
Angela Chan.
Godet spoke to the crowd 
and encouraged them to explore 
Celebration Pointe and local 
businesses throughout the 
holidays. 
Haven Copeland, 17, who 
plays the role of Cinderella, took 
to the area in front of the tree with 
five other ballerinas to perform 
a variation from her dance 
company’s upcoming show. 
This was Copeland’s first 
holiday event of the season, and 
her family attended in support. 
One of her cousins even flew in 
from California to spend time 
with them.
“This celebration meant a 
lot to me to see the kids in the 
audience smile and being a part 
of the magic of the holidays,” 
Copeland said.
Dr. Brian Stover, a pediatric 
oncologist with UF Health Shands, and his patient “supergirl” 
Evelyn, 4, led the tree lighting 
with a countdown. When they 
reached the count of one, she 
flipped a lifesize light switch, 
turning on an array of lights and 
smiled with awe. From the tree 
to the surrounding decorations, 
Celebration Pointe came to light. 
Evelyn’s parents, Coco and 
Anthony Buscemi, were grateful 
to share the moment with their 
daughter. 
“We are just so happy to be 
able to come out and celebrate,” 
Anthony said. 
Following the tree lighting, 
ballerinas from Danscompany 
posed in a winter carriage float for 
pictures while Christmas music 
blasted from nearby speakers. 
The Prime Time band played at 
the Promenade stage until 9 p.m.
A night of festivities for 
families and people of all ages 
drew a crowd of about 200 at the 
restaurants and seating around the stage by 6:30 p.m. Children 
danced in the grassy areas as 
others posed for pictures with 
giant ornament decorations 
surrounding the plaza.
Sweet smells from Kilwins 
dessert shop mixed with the 
movie theater popcorn scent from 
patrons nearby. A soft glow came 
from the firepit in the center of 
the plaza, where people huddled 
to keep warm as the night grew 
colder.  
This was Celebration Pointe’s 
third annual tree lighting 
ceremony. Chan said this year 
was different, following the 
COVID-19 pandemic, but the 
intentions were still the same. 
“We want this to bring out 
hope for a lot of people in the 
community,” Chan said. “We 
want to show them that this 
holiday season can be great.”
Serra Sowers is a contributing 
writer for The Alligator.THE STANDARD CAN OPEN 
ITS RESIDENTIAL PARKING 
GARAGE TO THE PUBLIC
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
The Standard can now open 
public parking spots in its resi -
dential garage — but some stu -
dents are worried about the safety 
of the garage itself.
The Gainesville City Commis -
sion voted Thursday to allow 
The Standard, located at 1360 W 
University Ave, to open its resi -
dential parking lots to the public. 
The change comes amid an ef -
fort pioneered by Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos. The apart -
ment complex can choose wheth -
er to allow the public to use the 
parking garage, which previously 
wasn’t a permitted option.
Parking in Midtown and on 
campus is limited and The Stan -
dard has empty spaces, and 
Hayes-Santos said that is why he 
proposed the change. The Stan -
dard is the only apartment build -
ing in the area that had the park -
ing restricted against the public, 
he said.
The Standard has 1,146 spaces 
in the garage, with 684 spaces 
available for residents, according 
to a report from the Gainesville 
Sun. Another 462 spots are also 
set aside for nearby businesses — 
which could now be reallocated 
for public parking as well.
Hayes-Santos said he spoke 
with the owners of The Standard 
at Landmark Properties before 
bringing the proposal to the Com -
mission, and they are in support 
of the change. The Standard did 
not respond to requests for com -
ment in time for publication. “Parking in Midtown has been 
a continuing, worsening issue of 
being able to find available park -
ing,” he said. “So people who 
may be visiting their friends can 
park there or maybe going to the 
University of Florida. There’s just 
not really many places to park for 
the public in the Midtown area.”
Commissioner Reina Saco 
spoke in support of the change 
at the City Commission meeting 
Thursday, saying that street park -
ing is limited and oversold.
“I think opening it up to the 
general public is the best we can 
do since the space is already there 
and empty,” she said.
However, not all residents at 
The Standard are supportive of 
the potential change.
Joie Chitwood, a 20-year-old 
UF marketing junior, said the 
parking garage isn’t too crowded 
and there is space for public park -
ing. But he said he’s still wor -
ried about too many cars driving 
around in the garage with tight 
turns.
“I have almost gotten into a 
bunch of car accidents in the ga -
rage,” he said. “It’ll just become 
more dangerous.”
Melanie Moreno, a 19-year-old 
UF public health and psychol -
ogy sophomore, said she shares 
similar safety concerns. She parks 
her scooter in the garage and said 
people drive recklessly through 
the narrow lanes.
“It’s already scary enough, so 
I can’t imagine having a bunch 
of other people and more cars 
there,” Moreno said. “I feel like it 
would just be a risk for a lot of 
people.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgCelebration Pointe kicks off holiday season 
with tree lighting ceremony, live musicMore parking may be 
coming to Midtown
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Coco (middle), Anthony (right) and Evelyn Buscemi, 4, stand in 
front of Celebration Pointe’s Christmas tree after Evelyn turned 
on the lights on Friday, Nov. 19, 2021.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
SENATORS PASSED RESOLUTION 
70 TO 31 AND REQUESTED 
WRITTEN BALLOTS TO PROTECT 
VOTERS’ PRIVACY
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
 
UF Faculty Senators passed a resolution of 
‘no-confidence’ Thursday in UF President Kent 
Fuchs’ handling of the COVID-19 pandemic af -
ter three months of concerted effort. 
First drafted in August, the resolution de -
tailed UF faculty and staff’s dissatisfaction with 
the state’s and university administration’s CO -
VID-19 policies. Faculty concerns have ranged 
from in-person teaching requirements without 
social distancing or masking and vaccination 
requirements to the school’s lack of flexibility 
to accommodate at-risk faculty.
The resolution passed with a 70-31 vote. 
The vote does not determine if anyone in the 
administration is fired. It states that the faculty 
and staff have no confidence in UF’s leadership 
— a rare agreement among faculty to publicly 
scold the administration.  
The resolution was first introduced to the 
faculty senate as an item to vote on in a meet -
ing Oct. 21, but the senate voted to not pass it.
Prior to the vote, President Fuchs delivered 
a report explaining how the COVID-19 trans -
mission rate is low in the community and in 
Florida compared to other states across the 
country like California, Texas and New York.
As the faculty senate moved to address the 
‘no-confidence’ resolution, UF Faculty Senate 
Chair David Bloom said the Senate Steering 
Committee unanimously voted the ‘no-confi -
dence’ resolution down.
In addition to Bloom being the faculty sen -
ate chair, he also sits on the board of trustees 
making him part of the administration being 
scrutinized by the ‘no-confidence’ vote.
The Steering Committee, headed by Bloom, 
is an administrative body. It serves as the ex -
ecutive committee of the faculty senate, deter -mining the agenda for each senate meeting.
The committee determined the resolution 
was redundant and failed to provide a path for -
ward or solutions to improve the university’s 
policies, he said.
Bloom then opened the floor for the sena -
tors to discuss, where many expressed the 
necessity to pass the resolution to hold the ad -
ministration accountable.
“Maybe some language is redundant, but 
it’s not a redundant voice and yesterday we 
learned that,” a faculty member said. “We 
passed two resolutions yesterday, one was 
from the [Advisory Council of Faculty Senate] 
and one was from the faculty senate, so I be -
lieve this is our voice whether you support it 
or not.”
Hannah Vander Zanden, an assistant pro -
fessor in the Biology department at UF, then 
called for a motion to vote using paper ballots, 
which let senators vote anonymously. 
According to UF Faculty Senate’s bylaws, at 
least 20 senators need to vote in favor of the 
motion for it to pass. Over 30 faculty senators 
voted in favor of using signed written ballots. 
The faculty senate continued addressing the 
rest of the action and information items on the 
agenda as the votes were counted. Bloom inter -
rupted the meeting to state the resolution had 
passed before quickly returning to the meeting.
Mark Hostetler, a professor and extension 
specialist in the UF Wildlife Ecology and Con -
servation Department, said he has mixed feel -
ings about the vote. He is worried about how 
the university can move forward and prepare 
for a possible COVID-19 surge this year.
“With everything that’s happened over the 
last few months, faculty are very concerned 
about academic freedom and academic gover -
nance,” he said.
However, Hostetler said even though UF 
was hamstrung by politics, UF Health and the 
hundreds of people working on UF Screen Test 
and Protect, have done an amazing job to keep 
UF safe as possible.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in an 
email he agrees with Hostetler’s sentiment as UF Health employees and students have kept 
the university safe over the past 20 months. 
Orlando said the university will continue to 
follow state and federal mandates and laws re -
garding health policies and protocols and urges 
everyone to be fully vaccinated, including with 
the now-available booster shots.
Hostetler also said there is a prominent is -
sue with the process of how the UF Faculty 
Senate runs. 
“There is sadness in the faculty that this 
collegiality, this ability to speak our minds, 
whether you’re tenured or untenured is being 
stressed,” he said. “I’ve been here for 20 years, 
this is the highest point of stressors.”
The faculty senate met for an emergency 
meeting Wednesday regarding UF’s decision to 
bar professors from providing expert testimo -
ny. It voted on the academic freedom resolu -
tion, which asked UF for an outside investiga -tion into the matter. 
That resolution took two weeks to form and 
pass, whereas the ‘no-confidence’ resolution 
took almost three months.
Hostetler said he blames Bloom as he could 
have pushed for the resolution to be addressed 
earlier.
He said, as faculty, they should consider re -
moving the president, the provost and anyone 
in the general counsel from any of the commit -
tees. The reason being that some faculty are 
scared of retaliation from administration.
“To have them at our faculty meetings, in 
our Steering Committees, puts a chilling effect 
on people to speak their voice, and that’s un -
fortunate,” Hostetler said.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.org
MEDI-GATORS PROGRAM 
HELPS STUDENTS WITH 
THEIR CAREER 
DECISIONS AND GOALS
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
When the COVID-19 pandemic 
took opportunities away from pre-
health students, Alyson Moriarty 
created her own. 
Moriarty, student director and 
Medi-Gators co-founder, created 
the Medi-Gators Virtual Shadowing 
Program, which offers job shadow -
ing and mentorships to students. 
The program helps expose par -
ticipants to healthcare professions. 
Its virtual format on Zoom makes 
shadowing more accessible for un -
derprivileged students and parents 
providing for their families while 
fulfilling academic obligations.
Regardless of their background, 
Moriarty gave everyone studying 
medicine at UF the chance to not 
only discover their career goals but 
learn different perspectives and 
make an impact on healthcare. 
Students interact with profes -
sionals from the College of Medi -
cine and other hospitals. Faculty 
present case studies, show videos from the operating room, describe 
career paths and discuss topics like 
diseases and disorders. 
Moriarty said she coordinates 
faculty to give hour-long presenta -
tions. Two presentations are given 
three days a week. Most speakers 
are women, and nearly half are 
from minority backgrounds.
“We do that purposely so that 
students feel like they have some -
one that represents them in health -
care and they can see themselves 
there in the future,” Moriarty said.
The program is a free service 
compatible with any device with 
internet access, and participation 
doesn’t require a specific wardrobe 
or involve transportation challeng -
es.
Moriarty said she struggled to 
find shadowing last Fall as a pre-
med UF student because of pan -
demic restrictions. As a first-gen -
eration college student, she didn’t 
have connections to shadowing.
“It’s accessible for any student 
regardless of their background or 
where they come from,” Moriarty 
said.
While about 360 students par -
ticipated in Medi-Gators its first se -
mester last Fall, the program grew 
to welcome about 1,200 students over the second and third semes -
ters, Moriarty said. About 1,500 
registered this Fall. Moriarty esti -
mated more than 4,000 students 
have participated.
The executive team might work 
with UF to make Medi-Gators a 
required course for pre-health stu -
dents, Moriarty said, so they can 
make more-informed career de -
cisions and have more access to 
mentors and research. But tuition 
for the course would limit its ac -
cess. Medi-Gators might also allow 
students outside of UF to partici -
pate.
The program gave shadow -
ing access to Vanessa Ramos, a 
19-year-old UF nursing sophomore 
who broke her leg two months ago 
in an electric scooter accident. She 
said she wasn’t allowed in the hos -
pital for shadowing because of her 
injury, so the virtual program filled 
that void. 
While she was considering go -
ing into orthopedics before her in -
jury, after being a patient, she was 
set on it. Her surgeon was a col -
league of the orthopedic oncologist 
surgeon who was interviewed by 
Medi-Gators in the summer, giving 
her someone she could eventually 
shadow.“It gave me a really good back -
ground, and just in general some -
one to reach out to,” Ramos said. 
While Medi-Gators could later 
add an in-person format, Moriarty 
said its executive team is focus -
ing on ensuring the virtual aspect 
is accessible enough. If in-person 
experiences are offered, the virtual 
aspect will remain.
Even after in-person shadowing 
becomes more available, Moriarty 
said Medi-Gators will continue. 
Students shadow 30 and 40 faculty 
in six to seven weeks, which is 
nearly impossible to do in-person.
Dr. Pouya Ameli, Medi-Gators 
co-founder and assistant professor 
of neurology and neurosurgery in 
the Division of Neurocritical Care, 
said he discusses diagnoses in his 
field and his daily life. He empha -
sizes the importance of different 
roles coming together to care for 
patients.
“Finding — if you’re interested 
in a healthcare career —  the role 
that’s most suitable for your goals 
is really the core goal of Medi-Ga -
tors and the biggest motivation for 
any of the presentations,” Ameli 
said.
Medi-Gators is focused on en -
hancing access for underrepresent -ed and underprivileged students, 
Moriarty said. 
The program features faculty 
speakers from underrepresented 
backgrounds to increase repre -
sentation in healthcare and help 
students understand healthcare 
disparities, said Sionika Thayaga -
balu, an 18-year-old UF nutritional 
sciences freshman. Her time as 
outreach chair this Fall made her 
realize healthcare is an inclusive 
field, showing students have the 
potential to make change. 
Listening to speakers from dif -
ferent backgrounds and special -
ties makes students from minority 
backgrounds feel welcomed and 
gives students diverse perspec -
tives, Thayagabalu said. When 
they work in medicine, they’re 
more understanding of different 
views and can better cooperate 
with others in a diverse environ -
ment.
“Being able to do that is just in -
credibly rewarding,” Thayagabalu 
said. “It’s something that is really 
promising for the future of Shands 
and also Gainesville and local com -
munities.”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgUF Faculty Senate passes COVID-19 ‘no-confidence’ resolution as rebuke toward administration
Shadowing program gives pre-health students experience as pandemic restrictions remainAude Gagnon-Roberge / / Alligator Staff
David Bloom, UF Faculty Senate chair, distributes ballots after the senate decided 
to cast a secret vote on Thursday, Nov. 18, 2021.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
UF President Kent Fuchs, Provost Joe Glover, Dean Michael Perri and Dean Colleen 
Koch should resign immediately. Dan Mullen’s team giving up 52 points to Samford 
made for an unpleasant few hours, but the actions of Fuchs, Glover, Perri and Koch 
have permanently damaged the university’s reputation and abdicated its mission. 
Through extensive reporting and court filings, it is safe to conclude that Fuchs 
and Glover are more concerned about protecting Gov. DeSantis’ ego than they are about 
upholding the university’s mission to “share the benefits of its research and knowledge for 
the public good.” 
Fuchs and Glover banned expert testimony from three political science professors 
renowned for their work on voting behavior, two law school professors with over 60 years 
combined service to UF and a professor from the medical school with expertise in public 
health and pediatrics. 
And the cases in which Fuchs and Glover forbid them from providing testimony? Cases 
that sought to protect voting rights, uphold Florida’s constitutional amendment allowing 
those with felony convictions to vote (which two thirds of voters supported) and allow for 
interventions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The reason? This expert testimony would 
be “adverse to the university’s interests.” The definition of the university’s interests has yet 
to be provided. Instead, the only information we have learned is that UF has a Director of 
Crisis Communications and Assistant Vice President for Conflicts of I nterest on the payroll. 
The only response from Fuchs and Glover has been to set up a taskforce that is rife with 
conflicts of interest. Fuchs and Glover have attempted to turn the academic three-legged 
stool of teaching, research and service into a one-legged stool of satisfying the governor’s 
political desires. They have yet to realize this one-legged stool will always fall over, through accreditation investigations, poor faculty and student morale and a 
drop in the rankings. 
In doing so, Fuchs and Glover have not only ignored the university’s 
mission but have also tarnished the university’s reputation and violated 
faculty’s constitutional rights and collective bargaining agreement. 
Meanwhile, Perri and Koch enabled the fast-tracked hiring of 
Dr. Joseph Ladapo, something many suspected and something that 
we now know to be true thanks to reporting from the Tallahassee 
Democrat. Throughout this pandemic, Ladapo has repeatedly been on 
the opposite side of his new colleagues in medicine and public health, 
whether it was his support of hydroxychloroquine — a drug with risks but no benefits, 
according to clinical trials — his opposition to FDA approval of COVID-19 vaccines — which 
clinical trials have found to be safe and effective — or his participation in a press conference 
alongside Stella Immanuel who believes in the existence of “demon sperm” and “alien DNA.” 
The deans of the medical and public health colleges, respectively, should have not only 
considered Ladapo’s non-evidence-based beliefs and their impact on the health of Floridians, 
but also the integrity of the faculty hiring process. Instead, they were “closely involved in 
shepherding Ladapo through the hiring process.” 
Without the resignations of Fuchs, Glover, Perri and Koch, where does this end? Will 
medical students be taught that masks are not necessary in the operating room? Will faculty 
be forbidden from conducting research that is contrary to the governor’s beliefs? Will PhD 
students be prevented from publishing a dissertation on a topic that makes the governor 
uncomfortable? Will the university’s accreditation be revoked? 
It is time to salvage UF’s reputation and for the university community to focus on its 
mission. 
Mike Swain is a Ph.D. Candidate in the UF Department of EpidemiologyTime for UF to clean houseColumn
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
THANK YOU 
TO ALL OF THE PERSONNEL 
AT THE VA AND SHANDS
Nurses, Floor Staff, Maintenance, Doctors, Technicians, Food Service, 
Secretarial, and everyone else for saving my life this past stay and treatment.
All of you kicked in, and I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
You’re an awesome team, and thanks again for letting me still be here for a 
while longer.
—Tom
Mike Swain
opinions@alligator.org6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
ALMOST 2,000 PEOPLE 
PASSED THROUGH THE CADE 
MUSEUM FOR CREATIVITY & 
INNOVATION SATURDAY
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
The smells of wood smoke and 
freshly squeezed Hamlin oranges 
wafted through the festival air out -
side of the Cade Museum near De -
pot Park Saturday afternoon.
Meanwhile, a trio of string mu -
sicians played over the laughter of 
children trying out their lumberjack 
skills.
A team of children faced each 
other, gripping the handles of a 
two-man saw. Heaving back-and-
forth in a seesaw motion, the metal 
teeth carve through the bark of a 
thin tree log. To the beat of folk mu -
sic, the grinning duo triumphantly 
carries back the sliced log as a me -
mento for their family.
Local farmers taught almost 
2,000 members of their commu -
nity about Florida agriculture at the 
Farm Bureau Food and Agriculture 
Festival and the Cade Museum for 
Creativity & Invention. 
Hosted by The Alachua County 
Farm Bureau Young Farmers & Ranchers, 21 vendors sold products 
ranging from varieties of cheese to 
succulents. Food trucks supplied 
global cuisine spanning Cuba to 
Venezuela and back home with 
American hot dogs, barbecue and 
ice cream.
Kevin Korus, a Young Farmers 
& Ranchers board member, said he 
started the festival with a vision to 
promote education within Alachua 
County, bridging the disconnect 
between mindless grocery store 
trips and knowledge of where food 
comes from.
“To see their eyes light up,” Ko -
rus said. “We see people who don’t 
normally get out on the farm.”
Buying from local farms, Korus 
said, supports local economies, re -
duces shipping costs and protects 
the environment. It minimizes the 
ecological effects of shipping and 
makes sure food is fresh.
“You’re not shipping steaks 
across the U.S.,” Korus said. 
“You’re buying them local.”
The festival also creates an av -
enue for local farmers to expand 
their reach, he said. Having the 
Cade Museum open its doors for 
free is a big draw for the commu -
nity.
Kevin Lussier and his family begin milking their 80 jersey cows 
before sunrise at 5 a.m.
Amid this daily discipline, Lus -
sier, the owner of Hawthorne Creek 
Creamery, still made it out to the 
festival to show off the work of his 
small artisan dairy farm that pro -
duces cheese: gouda, Havarti, swiss 
and tomme.
After 60 days of aging, he said, 
the cheese makes its way to local 
restaurants and is soon to be on 
the shelves of Publix Super Markets 
and Winn-Dixie.
Lussier said when people drive 
by or pick up orders, they realize 
it’s a family operation. 
“It’s a passion of ours,” Lussier 
said. “We’re with those animals ev -
ery day. We’re making sure those 
animals are cared for.”
Lussier is also the chair of the 
Alachua County Farm Bureau 
Young Farmers & Ranchers and 
said this event is special to him. 
He’s happy to be back after the fes -
tival took a hiatus in 2020 due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
“They’re able to come here and 
get a view of what our world is,” 
Lussier said. “We’re trying to con -
nect a nonagricultural audience 
with the agriculture that’s in their 
backyards.”
Especially during the pandemic, 
Lussier has seen a lot of consolida -
tion in the agriculture industry and 
supply chain issues. The festival, 
he said, demonstrates how farmers 
across all industries have a passion 
for what they do and are working 
amid industry challenges.
“We’re proud to be able to feed 
this country,” he said. “It’s just nice 
to be able to make the cheese right 
there in Hawthorne.” 
Other attendees were drawn to 
a single glass case. Inside, they saw 
crawling swarms of honeybees. The 
worker bees scrambled over each 
other, caring for their queen and 
hive.
Tatiana Sanchez, donning silver 
bee earrings, said she wants people 
to gain an appreciation for the pol -
linators, working as the commer -cial horticulture agent for Alachua 
County and UF-IFAS Extension.
People should protect all pollina -
tors, she said, because they contrib -
ute to one-third of specialty crops, 
including fruits and vegetables.
“They are such an important 
part of agriculture,” Sanchez said. 
“Everybody needs to eat.”
Farther down the lines of tents 
stood a goat flocked by children. 
His mellow blue eyes and goatee 
are inviting, and the children hug 
his white fur and befriend him.
A farm goat at heart, Jack never 
left his home in Archer –– until Sat -
urday. It’s his debut in the big city, 
and he’s taking in all the sights and 
sounds. The 2-year-old Nigerian 
dwarf goat is typically a breed for 
meat goats. But Jack is just a pet.
“You’re a very lucky goat,” pass -
ersby told him.
“Baaah ,” the goat replied.
Jack belongs to Mary Lee Sale, 
who brought him onto her farm to 
teach her son about agriculture as 
he grows up.
“It makes them put something 
else before themselves,” Lee Sale 
said.
She helps children aged 5 to18 
work on projects ranging from ar -
eas like citizenship, communication and creative arts as part of the 4-H 
program. She teaches them leader -
ship, empathy and other life skills 
within the UF-IFAS and county 
partnership.
Lee Sale said she was glad to see 
all the families with young children 
at the festival.
“The cool thing is kids want to 
do that, they don’t shy away from 
it,” she said.
While the 4-H program has 
grown, she said its roots remain in 
agriculture.
“Everything that you’re wearing 
comes from agriculture,” Lee Sale 
said. “The roads that you drive on, 
the cars that you drive in — every -
thing has roots in agriculture.”
As a festival organizer, Korus 
said he hopes it grows to include 
more vendors that represent all of 
the local commodities, ranging from 
dairy, beef and goat to watermelon, 
strawberries and squash.
“Whatever you grow locally, we 
want you represented here at the 
event,” Korus said.
The Young Farmers & Ranchers 
plan to host another festival in the 
fall of 2022.
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgLocal farming festival raises community agriculture awareness
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
The SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket will take off 
on a resupply mission for the International 
Space Station Dec. 21. A small UF-made 
satellite, roughly the length and width of 
a Subway footlong sandwich, will venture 
into space along with it. 
The project is planned to test a coating 
called solar white and see if it’s possible 
for a spacecraft to withstand extreme 
temperatures. The approximately $520,000 
project was funded by the Launch Services 
Program, a branch of the NASA Kennedy 
Space Center, said Riccardo Bevilacqua, principal investigator on the project.
When a spacecraft gets too hot, fuel 
begins to boil off. The satellite, also known 
as a CubeSat, holds four coin-shaped 
metallic samples. Two samples use the 
standard coating for NASA spacecrafts and 
the other two use solar white, Bevilacqua 
said. If successful, the new coating will 
allow components of the spacecraft to 
passively cool, or regulate temperature 
with little to no energy consumption. 
UF began work in 2018 after receiving 
the contract from LSP. The project is also 
known as PATCOOL, or Passive Thermal 
Coating Observatory Operating in Low-
Earth Orbit.The team of astronauts aboard the ISS 
will eject it from the spacecraft in January, 
along with several other collegiate-made 
satellites, Bevilacqua said. 
Bevilacqua, a former UF professor, wrote 
and submitted the proposal. As someone 
who has studied and admired aircrafts 
for over a decade, he considers this the 
achievement of a lifetime of work. 
“I would like to be the one pushing it out 
from the ISS, but unfortunately, I cannot,” 
he said. “It’s very exciting.”
The number of students and consultants 
working on the project has fluctuated 
throughout the years. Michael Kennedy, 
a 23-year-old UF aerospace engineering master’s student, has worked on the 
satellite since 2019.
“I can’t believe they let kids do this,” 
Kennedy said. “But actually having it get 
turned over was an amazing feeling, that 
something that I actually had my hands on 
is going to go to space.”
After astronauts aboard the ISS eject 
the CubeSat, Bevilacqua, who now teaches 
Aerospace Engineering at Embry-Riddle 
Aeronautical University, and a couple of UF 
students will issue commands to activate it 
and begin collecting data from the samples.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgUF-made satellite headed to space late DecemberEsha Nair / / Alligator Staff
He Zheng pets a goat, one of the numerous farm animals at the Farm 
Bureau Food and Agriculture Festival on Saturday, Nov. 20, 2021.Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Celina Li, 20, UF biology junior, uses a machine that separates corn 
from the cob during the Farm Bureau Food and Agriculture Festival 
at the Cade Museum on Saturday, Nov. 20, 2021.
A satellite, or CubeSat, made by UF students and faculty will be conducting an experiment in spaceMONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
PAYMENTS WILL COME IN MONTHLY CHECKS
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
Community Spring fellows believe a criminal sentence 
shouldn’t impact lives after people serve their time.
The nonprofit organization, which is known for break -
ing down structural poverty and supporting low-income 
people through monetary support, is running Just Income 
GNV.
The privately funded pilot program, designed by for -
merly incarcerated individuals, assists formerly incarcer -
ated people to re-enter society with a guaranteed income.
Community Spring hires fellows, specifically those 
who have been impacted by poverty, to identify systemic 
forces that spur further economic difficulties. The 2020-
2021 fellowship class created the Just Income GNV pro -
gram.
The guaranteed income program is currently in the ap -
plication period, which ends Dec. 1. About a week later, 
a randomly selected group of 115 people will be selected 
to receive $7,600 in the next 12 months.
Kevin Scott, a 47-year-old Gainesville resident and 
project manager, has been involved with Community 
Spring since January 2020. To qualify, Scott said partici -
pants must be an Alachua County resident who has been 
released from a Florida state prison, a federal prison, a 
Florida county jail with a new felony conviction or began 
felony probation in Alachua County on or after June 1. 
“We know how difficult it is to come out and the strug -
gles that are so ubiquitous for people that have been in -
carcerated,” Scott said. “The odds are very much against 
you.” 
The guaranteed income disbursements start with a 
$1,000 payment for the first month in January 2022 and 
$600 for the next 11 months for the 115 randomized par -
ticipants.  Out of the group, five voluntary participants will be 
part of a storytelling cohort. Scott said they will share 
in-depth written or video experiences about their lives 
moving forward while receiving the payments and will 
become the faces and names of the program. 
The 2020-2021 class developed other programs that 
support formerly incarcerated people and low-income 
households, like Torchlighters Re-Entry Support and CS 
Direct. Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe helped spur the 
efforts to start the guaranteed income pilot program by 
joining Mayors for a Guaranteed Income, a nationwide 
network of mayors advocating for an income floor for all 
Americans. 
Just Income GNV is being independently evaluated 
and researched by the Center for Guaranteed Income Re -
search at the University of Pennsylvania and Dr. Lucius 
Couloute, a professor of sociology and criminal justice at 
Suffolk University. 
The researchers’ goal is to determine if a guaranteed 
income can mitigate societal barriers for formerly incar -
cerated people for a successful re-entry to society while 
unlocking the inherent potential within every person.
“The research will certainly have a huge role,” Scott 
said. “We’re hopeful, we think, from our own experience, 
that this will be a positive.”
Tequila McKnight, a 45-year-old Gainesville business 
owner, is serving as the participant coordinator. 
McKnight said she hopes the program will combat re -
cidivism, the tendency of a convicted criminal to reof -
fend. She believes a steady flow of income could change 
people’s lives.
“It’s going to show that people are being put in prison 
or jail because of what their wallet shows,” McKnight 
said. “It happened to me.”
She said she’s thankful for the research effort, and 
she’s ready to grow this program to help as many for -
merly incarcerated people as possible.
“I want it to go to whoever needs it because I went through that,” McKnight said. “I know how hard it is.”
The project’s main goal is to continue uplifting low-
income families and people in Gainesville while bringing 
more awareness to the difficulties of formerly incarcer -
ated individuals. 
“Will an income have an impact on how a person feels 
about themselves and their role in the community?” Scott 
said. “It’s about money, but it’s also about more than 
money.”
Scott and McKnight said they are reopening the ap -
plications again in January 2022 for the second group of 
lottery-style selected justice-impacted individuals. The 
payments for the next group will begin in March 2022.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgGuaranteed income program breaks down barriers for formerly incarceratedSEVERAL SPEAKERS, 
MANY OF WHOM ARE 
TRANSGENDER, DISCUSSED 
THEIR EXPERIENCE
By Erina Anwar
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville commemorated vic -
tims of transphobic violence at a 
candlelight vigil for International 
Transgender Day of Remembrance 
Saturday.
About 40 people came together to 
remember those who had lost their 
lives to transphobic violence world -wide. The annual vigil at Bo Diddley 
Plaza was hosted by TranQuility, Un -
spoken Treasure Society, UF LGBTQ 
Affairs, Pride Community Center of 
North Central Florida and UF Pride 
Student Union.
The day of remembrance is ob -
served Nov. 20. It was founded to 
remember Rita Hester, a transgender 
woman who was murdered in 1998. 
Hester’s death led to a movement to 
memorialize transgender victims of 
homicide around the world.
The vigil featured six guest speak -
ers and a recitation of the names of 
more than 400 transgender murder 
victims since the last TDOR. The youngest victim was 13-years-old.
Paige Mahogany Parks, founder 
and executive director of the Jack -
sonville Transgender Awareness 
Project, spoke Saturday about how 
Black transgender people are espe -
cially subject to violence and dis -
crimination.
“Black transgender women suf -
fer the most,” Parks said. “When 
it comes to jobs, when it comes to 
health care, when it comes to educa -
tion, when it comes to housing — we 
are always last for everything.”
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe at -
tended the event to issue a proclama -
tion to officiate Nov. 20 as a day to 
honor people who have died due to 
violence toward transgender people. 
“On the one hand I feel so grate -
ful to live in a city that honors and 
affirms ... our trans community,” 
Poe said. “But I’m also so incred -
ibly heartbroken that once again we 
will stand here, and we will listen 
to names of the slain out of hatred, 
meaning that our task is not yet com -
plete.”
TranQuility, a transgender com -
munity group in Gainesville, reached 
out to community members in 
Gainesville, especially the LGBTQ+ 
community, to attend the vigil.
Coach, president of TranQuility, 
described the organization as a safe 
space where transgender individuals 
can find a sense of community. Tran -
Quility meetings have poetry and 
spoken word performances, music 
and other social events.
“When you realize you’re trans and find out that there are people 
that are like you and are trying to 
help you, it is a wonderful feeling,” 
Coach said. “It’s like thinking that 
you’re alone in the world and then 
finding out you have a huge family.”
Other community groups were 
also present to advise and provide 
resources for the attendees.
Jianna D’Addario, president of 
UF Planned Parenthood Generation 
Action, spoke about the importance 
of understanding health disparities 
within the LGBTQ+ community. 
She mentioned how they’re often de -
nied access to proper health care and 
medical treatment.
“There’s a need for support and 
resources for the queer communities 
on campus,” D’Addario said. “Really 
understanding the barriers that exist 
for the queer community is important 
to make sure that the liberation that 
they deserve is upcoming, especially 
in regards to health care.”
Liam Heindl, 27, said he was vio -
lently assaulted earlier this year and 
was scared to seek treatment at an 
emergency room because he was a 
transgender man who had previously 
been denied medical treatment.
“I ended up needing emergency 
surgery [after the assault] due to the 
blood loss,” Heindl said.
PFLAG, a national LGBTQ+ out -
reach organization, was also present 
at the event. PFLAG has programs 
that advocate for LGBTQ+ rights, re -
cruits allies and provides counseling 
and support to families of LGBTQ+ 
people.Elizabeth Husband, a volunteer 
with PFLAG, also spoke of pro -
posed Florida legislation that would 
put more health barriers for the LG -
BTQ+ community. Husband spoke 
about the prejudice in HB 211, a bill 
that criminalizes gender-affirming 
surgeries for transgender youth. This 
bill will be proposed at the upcoming 
Florida legislative session in January.
Health care is not the only obsta -
cle the transgender community faces. 
Katie Zeile, Florida Guardian ad 
Litem’s community outreach direc -
tor, said LGBTQ+ youth, especially 
transgender youth, are overrepre -
sented in homeless youth or those 
placed in the child welfare system.
Guardian ad Litem is a Florida 
organization that provides resources 
and legal aid to children who are re -
moved from their caregivers due to 
abuse, neglect and abandonment. 
They work closely with LGBTQ+ 
youth to connect them with services 
for legal name changes, medical ser -
vices, legal assistance and other re -
sources.
The event concluded with an 
open mic, inviting the attendees to 
speak about their experiences.
Heindl addressed the transgender 
community with advice. 
“In the beginning it’s very rough, 
and the hardest thing is to not com -
pare your journey to others. Transi -
tioning is not an overnight miracle. It 
takes time. Have patience,” he said.
Erina Anwar is a contributing 
writer for The Alligator.Gainesville holds candlelight vigil for Transgender Day of Remembrance
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Karina A., TranQuility volunteer, lights a candle during a vigil 
for Transgender Day of Remembrance at Bo Diddley Plaza on 
Saturday, Nov. 20, 2021.
Manna Robertson / / Alligator Staff
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Gators great returns home
Caeleb Dressel, who took home five Olympic golds in Tokyo 
this summer, announced he’s returning to Gainesville to train 
with UF coach Anthony Nesty, pg. 11 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE ‘BETTER THAN BLACK FRIDAY’ MARKET 
TOOK PLACE AT 4TH AVE FOOD PARK FRIDAY  
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
Whether for better or worse, few sales can match the gran -
deur of Black Friday — a shopaholic fever dream characterized 
by long lines, sky-high discounts and stampedes of frantic shop -
pers. 
But as the annual sale inches closer, local artists, makers and 
curators are finding ways to make this complicated, capitalist 
legacy their own. 
Sitting Swan hosted its ninth community market at 4th Ave 
Food Park from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. Friday. More than 15 local ven -
dors gathered in the outdoor area, selling art and thrifted clothing 
alongside the park’s existing food vendors. 
Advertised as the “Better than Black Friday” market, the event 
aimed to challenge Black Friday’s corporate chaos.
“Every time you spend money, you cast a vote with your dol -
lar,” said Mia Crisostomo, marketing coordinator for Opus Coffee 
and 4th Ave Food Park. “If you’re going out and buying from 
these corporations, then that’s what you’re actively supporting.”
Crisostomo, 22, runs Sitting Swan with Alexa Cuk, who start -
ed the organization in October 2020 while working at a coffee 
shop in Orlando. When Cuk moved to Gainesville, Crisostomo 
joined her to showcase local businesses at 4th Ave Food Park. In 
February, the park hosted its first Sitting Swan market. 
Now that the holiday season is approaching, Crisostomo and 
Cuk wanted to give residents the opportunity to support local art -
ists while buying gifts for friends and family. 
Crisostomo said Black Friday is just a marketing tactic big 
businesses can afford to implement by taking advantage of 
planned obsolescence, or the intentional creation of a product to 
be temporary. 
“Instead of buying from these huge businesses that can afford to throw products at you, you actually get to come to a market 
and meet the people who made the stuff that you’re purchasing,” 
Crisostomo said. “It’s a much more meaningful way to spend 
your money.” 
Local markets like Sitting Swan break this cycle of consumer -
ism, she said. Community members purchase hand-crafted items 
and support local artists in the process. 
Minca Davis, a 20-year-old UF advertising junior, was one of 
the vendors at the Better than Black Friday market, where she 
sold stickers, collage prints and handmade notebooks. 
She started vending in October 2020 at the Bazar À La Carte 
vintage market and has participated in close to 15 more markets 
since, including every Sitting Swan market she’s been available 
for. 
Davis grew up in Gainesville, but she said she only recently 
noticed the rise of smaller local markets like Sitting Swan. Still, 
she said she’s found a strong sense of community among other 
local artists. 
Like Crisostomo, Davis said she found markets an effective 
way of battling consumerism. Especially among younger gen -
erations, she said, fast fashion is exacerbated by social media 
microtrends and inexpensive online retailers such as Shein and 
Fashion Nova. Markets make vintage clothing and art far more 
accessible, Davis said. 
Reginald Nelson, 38, sold products from his company, Daily 
Burn Candle Studio, at the Better than Black Friday market.
The company launched online in April, selling all-natural, 
eco-friendly candles made from vegan soy wax. A candle fanatic 
himself, Nelson said he was shocked to find that the chemicals 
released from candle burning can be toxic to pets and children, 
and overexposure to fumes has been linked to lung cancer. With 
his business, he said he’s trying to bring clean, safe fragrances 
into homes. 
“I have two kids and two dogs, so I want to make sure I’m 
protecting my family,” Nelson said.
As the owner of a small business, Nelson said that when people choose to shop local, they’re not only receiving a better 
quality product — they’re putting food on someone’s table. And 
as a Black business owner, he said he’s proud to promote clean 
living through candles, something he hasn’t seen many other 
Black male business owners do. 
Compared to a Black Friday sale, Nelson said markets offer a 
more personable experience. Often, he said, customers will tell 
him the nostalgia of scents remind them of a forgotten childhood 
memory or a lost loved one. 
More than anything, Nelson said, shopping at markets like -
such as Sitting Swan brings something to the table that a Black 
Friday sale alone cannot. 
“I think all of us local businesses are trying to show that we 
can produce the same, if not better quality, products,” he said.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.org
THE COFFEE AND KAVA SHOP HAS 
PLANS TO SPREAD AWARENESS 
ABOUT NON-PHARMACEUTICAL 
ALTERNATIVES TO ANXIETY
By Anushka Dakshit
Avenue Staff Writer
Lining the shelves of KavaGator are pastries 
inside a display case. 
The smell of sweet milk and coffee grounds 
fill the air. 
The chalkboard menu posted on the wall 
indicates that this is no ordinary coffee house. 
The business, located at 185 East University 
Ave., opened in September and has introduced 
Gainesville to a different kind of coffee shop. 
Julia Brensel, the owner of KavaGator Coffee 
Shop, describes the business as a “coffee shop 
that turns into a botanical bar.”
What makes KavaGator different from most 
coffee shops is it serves kava, kratom, blue lotus 
and other botanical substances with sedative ef -
fects in its teas and coffees.
Kava has been used for thousands of years 
in Polynesia, while kratom has been used in 
Southeast Asia, Brensel said. It recently came to the United States and is especially popular in 
South Florida.
She describes kava as “nature’s Xanax.” It is 
sold in health food shops and is often taken as a 
way to treat anxiety. 
According to Brensel, both kava and kratom 
are legal and can be used as an alternative to 
pharmaceutical medications.
At KavaGator, people can reap the benefits 
of these substances while enjoying it with dif -
ferent flavors or in beverages they already love, 
like kava-infused cold-brewed coffee. 
The kava, kratom and other botanical sub -
stances are brewed by Brensel’s personal brew -
er. From there, Brensel and her staff add other 
teas and flavorings to create different drinks. 
Brensel wanted to bring the business to 
Gainesville for people who are interested in in -
corporating botanical substances like kava into 
their lifestyle. As someone who doesn’t drink al -
cohol often, she wanted to find an alternative to 
an alcoholic bar where people could sit, have a 
good time and relax in an area steeped with the 
scent of tea leaves instead of the stench of beer. 
“We haven’t even been open for two 
months, but the response has been overwhelm -
ingly positive,” Brensel said. “There’s a lot of 
people who appreciate my vision.”
Brensel, who has a degree in restaurant and hotel management, has been heavily involved 
within the wellness industry. Before founding 
KavaGator, she was a personal trainer. After 
traveling throughout Europe and spending lots 
of time in different bars, she decided to start one 
of her own. 
Brensel describes KavaGator’s atmosphere 
as a fusion of the European chic style she was 
inspired by with the music and ambiance of 
South Beach Miami, which has been one of the 
more popular spots for kava in the U.S. 
KavaGator isn’t the only kava bar in down -
town Gainesville. Mai Kai Kava Bar, which has 
been in Gainesville for a few years, is another 
tea and coffee bar that sells kava and kratom. 
But Brensel doesn’t see the other bars as 
competition. 
“The more places like this that exist, the 
more the public knows about it,” Brensel said. 
“If we’re the only ones, then the whole burden 
of educating the public is just on my shoulders.”
Heather Casey, one of the owners of Mai 
Kai Kava Bar, expresses similar attitudes. For 
Casey, all kava bars have a uniqueness to them.
“Our business has not been affected at all. 
We have a huge following. We have some 
amazing regulars and products and we set the 
bar high,” Casey wrote in an email. “We look at 
it in a positive way that brings more awareness on kava and kratom.”
Unlike coffee, which most people already 
know about, Brensel said kava and kratom are 
things that people need to be introduced to and 
educated on.
Brensel tries to have extensive conversations 
with customers about the benefits of the botani -
cal substances she sells, which takes time. 
She said that while some things might be 
similar, KavaGator’s brewing techniques are 
different from the ones used at Mai Kai Kava 
Bar. 
KavaGator also differentiates itself from its 
neighbors by selling pastries and baked goods 
from local Gainesville vendors like Luke’s New 
York Bagels and Uppercrust Bakery. 
With plans to renovate and make KavaGa -
tor’s outside sitting area cozier and more mod -
ern, Brensel hopes to draw in more customers 
as time goes on. 
As KavaGator looks to gradually establish it -
self as a kava bar and coffee shop, Brensel said 
Gainesville can increasingly become more in -
volved in exploring the benefits of kava, kratom 
and other botanical substances.
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.orgMarket encourages customers to shop local this holiday season
New coffee shop, kava bar KavaGator opens in Gainesville 
SHOPPINGSHOPPING
FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINKLauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
4th Ave Food Park is seen on Sunday, Nov. 21, 2021.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
Online Public Auction
by the Order of the Bank
Fuel Transport and Logistic Carrier Fleet of 
Commercial Trucks and Trailers (Tampa, FL)
Bidding closes:
Mon, December 6th, 2021 at 10AM
Sale will consist of: Peterbilt, Freightliner and 
Mack Trucks; Fruehauf and Heil Fuel Tank 
Trailers; Fuel Tank Wagons; Power Tools and 
related inventory.
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com.
Pick-up/removal: Tampa, FL.
Preview: 12/03 by appointment.
Call for details (954) 252-2887 | 
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     11-22-1-101For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
Available for August 2022 Houses walking 
and biking distance to campus. See gaines-
villequalityrentalhouses.com Feel free to text 
or call 352-339-2342. For more information or 
appointments to view houses           1-18-22-5-2
5 Real Estate
Available for August 2022 Houses walking 
and biking distance to campus. See gaines-
villequalityrentalhouses.com Feel free to text 
or call 352-339-2342. For more information or 
appointments to view houses           1-18-22-5-2
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath-
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680        
1-10-22-4-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    TTyyppee  ooff  ssppoorrttss  ccooaatt
11..    MMrr..  MMoooonneeyy  wwaass  oonnee55..    BBuummpp,,  eellbbooww
22..    AAbbllee  ttoo  bbee  hheeaarrdd66..    DDiissmmaall
33..    HHyyddrrooggeenn,,  ffoorr  eexxaammppllee77..    RReessoollvvee
44..    PPrroobblleemm,,  ddiilleemmmmaa    ZZBBEERRAALL
AARREEBBNNKKEEGGNNDDUU
BBAAEEKKLL
AAIIEELLUUBBDD
NNLLEEMMEETTEETTSSEEEELLTT
CCIIEELLPPKKAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--BBllaazzeerr    55AA--NNuuddggee    66AA--BBlleeaakk    77AA--SSeettttllee
11DD--BBaannkkeerr    22DD--AAuuddiibbllee    33DD--EElleemmeenntt    44DD--PPiicckkllee    BB--CCllaarrkk  GGaabbllee1111--2222--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: WWhheenn  tthhiiss  aaccttoorr  wwaass  bboorrnn,,  hhee  wwaass  mmiissttaakkeennllyy  
lliisstteedd  aass  aa  ffeemmaallee  oonn  hhiiss  bbiirrtthh  cceerrttiiffiiccaattee..
BONUSPotted Christmas Trees
Red Cedar, AZ Cypress, tabletop to 8 ft. tall. 
Open weekends Nov. 20 - Dec.19 and Nov. 26 
10am - 6pm. Kettle corn popped onsite 4 sale. 
Free sugarcane with purchase. 20926 NW 75th 
ST Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-1885. 
12-6-21-4-10
11Motorcycles/Mopeds
2019 INDIAN FTR 1200
Call Steve 352-213-2462 
12-6-21-3-11
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-13
Freon Wanted: : We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient. 
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 or 
visit RefrigerantFinders.com        11-22-2-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-21-16-1310 For Sale 6 Furnishings
By Robert E. Lee Morris
(c)2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/22/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/22/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, November 22, 2021
ACROSS
1 The Grateful __: 
rock group
5 Odometer units
10 Ukr. and Lith., 
once
14 Wrinkly fruit
15 Arabian 
Peninsula 
resident
16 Scrape, in tot-ese
17 *Arkansas resort 
known for its 
geothermal 
waters
19 Great Smokies st.
20 Trolley sound, in 
an old song
21 Top of a wave
22 Ill will
25 On one’s way
28 SoCal NFL team
29 Put on television
30 Thor’s father
31 Dividing 
membranes
33 Letter between pi 
and sigma
36 Bath towel word
37 *FDR recovery 
program
39 Musical ability
40 Sound of 
contentment
41 Newspaper 
opinion pieces
42 “__! The Herald 
Angels Sing”
43 More than 
gratified
45 Garlicky shrimp 
dish
47 Film critic with a 
cameo in 1978’s 
“Superman”
49 Holmes’ friend 
and flatmate
50 Adorable one
51 Muslim religious 
leaders
53 Palo __, Calif.
54 Toy that can 
be either Mr. or 
Mrs. ... and what 
the first part of 
the answers to 
starred clues can 
literally be
59 Abound
60 Baking tray of 
cookies
61 Paris airport
62 Makes a mistake
63 Cropped up
64 The “P” in IPADOWN
1 “How silly of me!”
2 Freud’s “The __ 
and the Id”
3 Space bar 
neighbor
4 Sony audio 
product unveiled 
in 1984
5 Marshy tract
6 “You can count 
on me!”
7 Oscar winner 
Jessica
8 The “E” in ESL: 
Abbr.
9 Family nickname
10 “I totally agree”
11 *Affectionate 
bedtime words
12 Lather, __, repeat
13 In the mail
18 Professor in Clue
21 Reef material
22 Honolulu hello
23 1976 Olympic 
great Comaneci
24 *Silky-coated bird 
dog
26 Places where 
moms grab 
puppies when 
they pick them 
up27 Actress 
Hayworth
31 Stockholm native
32 Advanced 
teaching deg.
34 Silent Marx 
brother
35 Pest control 
biggie
37 __ Dame
38 Fencing tool
42 Milliner’s store
44 Algebraic givens45 Wrap snugly
46 Army garb, for 
short
47 Head of state
48 “Same here”
50 Actress 
Blanchett
52 Brits’ raincoats
54 Kegler’s org.
55 Dory propeller
56 MLB hurler’s stat
57 Every one
58 Salon coloring
By Sam Acker
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/16/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/16/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, November 16, 2021
ACROSS
1 Outer border
5 Soft “Hey, you!”
9 Type of bagel
15 “Wuthering 
Heights” setting
16 “I have a bad 
feeling about this”
17 Removed, as a 
pencil mark
18 Automatic time-
out near the end 
of each NFL half
21 Pay a call on
22 Auction offer
23 Medium-sized 
apple
24 Parts of an act
26 Dance named for 
a horse’s gait
28 Here-there 
in-between
29 Guided 
sightseeing event 
in the “Gilligan’s 
Island” theme
32 Biotech room
33 Paleozoic __
34 Knocks firmly
37 Food-dropped-
on-the-floor 
“policy”
43 Pulitzer author 
Jennifer
44 Reuben bread
45 LGBT History Mo.
47 1955 Marilyn 
Monroe film, with 
“The”
53 __-rock: music
56 Pricey watch
57 Pooch’s  
plaything
58 Nagano noodle
60 Worksheet line
61 Noodle shape
62 Large-audience 
schedule item 
... and what 
the four other 
longest answers 
comprise?
67 Anger to the max
68 Baker’s 
appliance
69 Golfer Aoki
70 Fenway team
71 Viral internet item
72 “bye 4 now”
DOWN
1 Defib expert
2 The “D” in DJIA
3 Succeed 
impressively4 Ferret’s cousin
5 Grounds for bad 
behavior, say
6 Close
7 Drunkard
8 Law exam, 
familiarly
9 Jet Ski rival
10 Drop a fly, e.g.
11 Did a number
12 Lai or Thai
13 __ Park: Edison 
lab site
14 Mystery writers’ 
award
19 “That makes 
sense”
20 Become limp
24 Mo. metropolis
25 Rub the wrong 
way
26 Chip dip, 
casually
27 Run smoothly, as 
an engine
30 Tram load
31 India-born author 
Santha Rama __
35 Story line 
surprise
36 Italian for “dry”
38 Mil. hospitals
39 Part of DOE: 
Abbr.
40 African antelope41 “Bill __ the 
Science Guy”: 
’90s TV show
42 When the story 
is due
46 “ ... hallowed be 
__ name”
48 Whirlpool
49 “The Time 
Machine” race
50 One raising her 
first child
51 Takes badly?
52 “Eureka!”53 In accordance 
with
54 Michaels of 
“SNL”
55 “Thelma & 
Louise” car
59 Amo, __, amat ...
61 S, Am, Ac, K 
or Er
63 It may be inflated
64 Ill-fated fruit eater
65 Vote of 
opposition
66 Score in fútbol
11/08/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
High Fliers
HIGH FLIERS by Jim Esposito.  High in the 
sky over Florida. Very high. Very funny novel 
about G-ville's bad old days by Alligator 
Alumni. Available on Amazon.com.
1-10-21-7-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND or 
email classified@alligator.org today!HOLIDAY DISCOUNT! 3 HRS ONLY $60!
Free quotes - N Gainesville to Alachua. 
Quality shrub, hedge, tree pruning & shear-
ing, chainsaw work, weed & overgrowth cut-
ting, yard & woods raking, blowing, hauling, 
gutter cleaning (1-story). 16 yrs exp. Ins. Satis 
guar. Call Richard Snyder 352-574-2656       
11-22-2-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- 
TRAIN ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096 . The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                      11-22-2-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts available. 
Call 888-460-2264                         11-22-2-15
DISCOUNT AIR TRAVEL. Call Flight 
Services for best pricing on domestic & 
international flights inside and from the 
US. Serving United, Delta, American & 
Southwest and many more airlines. Call for 
free quote now! Have travel dates ready! 
888-858-0128                                  11-22-2-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov-
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632                       11-22-2-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds.FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen        11-22-2-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-1815 Services 19 Connections 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Help Wanted Donut Connection
Baker needed experience preferred but will 
consider trainee, $15 per hr.  Also hiring 
counter/drive thru sales. Salary depends 
on experience. Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com     12-6-21-4-14
Yard work &/or light household duties. 5-6 
hrs a week, flex schedule, $10-$13 depend -
ing on experience, If interested please call 
352.278.8071                            11-22-21-7-14
Summer 2022 Positions Available
The Oak Hall School Summer & Auxiliary 
Program is hiring Program Director positions 
in Technology/Stem and Enrichment for the 
summer of 2022.  Visit www.oakhall.org for 
application and information on this great op-
portunity in Gainesville!               12-6-21-5-14
15 Services
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
MANY OF LIFE'S FAILURES ARE PEOPLE WHO DID NOT REALIZE HOW CLOSE THEY 
WERE TO SUCCESS WHEN THEY GAVE UP. — THOMAS A. EDISON
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
solution  below1. William Shakespeare
2. Two countries: The Vati -
can in Italy, San Marino 
also in Italy and Lesotho in 
South Africa
3. Revolutions per minute
4. A fear of being without 
your mobile phone
5. 1313 Mockingbird Lane
6. 293
7. Linda Lu
8. Six
9. "Ben-Hur"
10. ToyotaTrivia Test answersanswers below1. LITERATURE: Which author coined the phrase 
"green-eyed monster"?
2. GEOGRAPHY: How many countries have nations 
within their borders?
3. ACRONYMS: What does RPM stand for?
4. PSYCHOLOGY: What is the fear represented in 
the condition called "nomophobia"?
5. TELEVISION: What is the address of the home on 
"The Munsters" (1964-66)?
6. MATH: How many combinations of U.S. coins 
would add up to $1?
7. MUSIC: What was the woman's name in the 
Lynyrd Skynyrd song "Gimme Three Steps"?
8. MEASUREMENTS: How many ounces are in 
3/4 of a cup?
9. MOVIES: Which 1959 movie had the subtitle "A 
Tale of the Christ"?
10. AD SLOGANS: Which company had the advertis -
ing slogan, "Let's go places"?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving 
out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
SWIMMINGJAYDEN GIBSON WILL 
SUIT UP FOR THE SAME 
PROGRAM AS 
HIS FATHER AND UNCLE
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
 
A wide-eyed 9-year-old Jayden 
Gibson watched from the stadium 
as the Gators stormed the field.
Man, it’d be cool to be down there.  
He wouldn’t realize that eight 
years later, he would one day get 
a chance to rush onto the gridiron 
dressed in orange and blue. 
Jayden, now a 17-year-old 
4-star wide receiver recruit 
from West Orange High School 
in Winter Garden, Florida, 
committed to UF Oct. 13. His 
decision not only advanced his 
football career but also a family 
legacy. He will suit up for the 
same program as his father, 
Kelvin Gibson, and uncle Chris 
Gibson. 
Football tied his family 
together. They spent family 
weekends in the backyard 
throwing and playing flag 
football. Jayden’s mother, 
Kimberly Gibson, remembers 
how Jayden enjoyed every spare 
moment outdoors.
“Aside from school, church 
and our faith, we’ve had sports 
as a family connector,” she said. 
“It’s something that we all enjoy 
and are passionate about.”    
 The day Jayden was born, his 
father strolled into the hospital 
room with a football to place over the crib. 
At 6 months old, he was 
holding the ball. He could throw 
it by the time he could walk. 
It was always football for 
Gibson. 
“It’s been a dream since I was 
a kid to just make sure that I was 
doing everything right to be able 
to be in this position,” he said. 
And to achieve his goal, he 
didn’t solely rely on his talent. 
West Orange head coach Michael 
Granato noticed Jayden was 
always the first at meetings. 
“He doesn’t really believe in 
an offseason,” Granato said. “He 
works on his speed, strength, his 
route running, his technique day 
in and day out, 365 days a year.”    
Jayden often worked out by 
himself. People always told him 
he should pursue basketball 
because of his 6-foot-5-inch 
frame. He instead used that as 
motivation to prove he could be 
a good football player. 
When the pandemic 
temporarily halted sports, Jayden 
helped coordinate team workouts 
and practices for anyone able 
and willing to come out. His 
work ethic motivated the rest of 
the staff and team.
“For a young man to be able 
to do that at that age really 
speaks volumes to his desire to 
be great,” Granato said. “He’s 
got a knack for really bringing 
people together.” 
Gibson’s mix of hard work 
and talent earned him 39 offers 
across the country. Georgia, Auburn, Tennessee and Baylor 
are just some of the programs 
that vied for his attention before 
he pledged himself to the Gators. 
And Jayden plans to bring his 
hardworking reputation to his 
new team. The early enrollee 
believes he will be an asset for 
UF’s offense when he steps foot 
in Gainesville January 2022. 
When he stood on the sidelines 
of Florida’s game against 
Alabama Sept. 18, Jayden saw a 
glimpse of his future before his 
eyes. The fans’ energy is what he 
looks forward to the most in the 
Swamp. 
“First home game,” he said. 
“That’s what I can’t wait for.”
Despite the Gibson’s Florida 
football family history, they 
would have supported Jayden at 
whatever school he chose.
He was strongly considering 
Georgia and Miami but ultimately 
chose Florida because it feels like 
home due to his family legacy and 
trips to Gainesville. He couldn’t 
pass up UF due to its prestigious 
academic reputation and football 
coaches, including wide receivers 
coach Billy Gonzales.
“I’m overjoyed,” Kimberly 
said. “I can’t even put it into 
words. It’s something that you 
hope would happen, but you 
don’t quite know for sure that it 
will happen until it does.”  
Watching Jayden do what 
he loves over the years and 
seeing it all amount to the things 
he once dreamed about is an 
indescribable experience for Kimberly. But it all traces back 
to the first time she realized his 
aspirations would become more 
than a dream. 
Jayden ran an 80-yard 
touchdown — his first touchdown 
— in the second grade. Kimberly 
shed a few tears as she watched 
from the stands. 
“People probably thought 
it was just because it was a 
touchdown helping win the 
game,” she said. “It was so much 
deeper than that. At that moment, 
I knew this child was going to take it further than anybody in 
our family.”      
That’s when he grew from 
the boy who tuned into Saturday 
football for Florida games to a 
future highly sought recruit.
In a few months, Jayden will 
don his own jersey, lace up his 
cleats and storm the same field 
as the players he admired as a 
child.
Hey look, we made it.
@elenabarreraaa 
ebarrera@alligator.org
By Jackson Catellano
Sports Writer
After a dominant 2020 Tokyo Olympics 
which saw him earn five gold medals, 
Caeleb Dressel decided he will return to the 
University of Florida to continue his training 
under Gators head coach Anthony Nesty. 
The move means that Dressel will no 
longer be mentored by legendary swim 
coach Gregg Troy, who coached Dressel 
collegiately at UF. Troy left the Gators in 2018 to continue coaching a group of 
Olympians which included the former 
NCAA champion. 
“I feel whole knowing I will have Troy 
as a mentor, friend, and most importantly 
a role model forever in my life,”  Dressel 
said on Instagram. “This man has taught me 
more than he will ever know in and out of 
the water.” 
Nesty, who took charge of the Florida 
men’s swim program in 2018 and became 
the coach of both the men's and women’s programs this season, now has a large 
group of Olympians under his guidance. 
Dressel completes a four-headed monster 
of medal-winning American swimmers 
under Nesty’s tutelage, as he joins Gators 
Bobby Finke and Kieran Smith as well 
as Olympic legend Katie Ledecky, who 
announced her move to train under the 
esteemed coach in late September.
Beyond the group of U.S. Olympians, 
Nesty also coaches international Olympians 
Eric Friese and Amro Al-Wir. Nesty was nominated for the USA Swimming Coach of 
the Year award in October. 
“I am beyond grateful for this opportunity 
to be in this training environment with this 
very special, talented, and driven team,” 
Dressel said in his announcement. 
Time will tell, but Anthony Nesty has 
built a strong group of Olympians under his 
name for the 2024 Olympics in Paris.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgGators recruit carries on Florida family legacy
Caeleb Dressel joins Anthony Nesty’s growing Olympic treeCourtesy to The Alligator
West Orange’s Jayden Gibson pictured in his high school uniform.
The seven-time Olympic champion announced his move to train under the Gators head coach on Instagram12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2021
FOOTBALL
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Florida athletic director Scott 
Stricklin decided to part ways with 
former head coach Dan Mullen on 
Sunday afternoon after a 24-23 loss 
to Missouri in overtime. The choice 
came after the Gators fell to 5-6 in 
2021 and lost nine out of their last 11 
games versus Power Five opponents 
dating back to last season. 
How did it happen after three 
consecutive trips to New Year’s Six 
bowl games? 
It’s simple; football is the 
ultimate team sport. Florida failed to 
sustain success in all three phases 
of the game, a problem that plagued 
Mullen’s team back to the 2020 LSU 
loss.
The 2021 Florida season felt like 
a life-size game of Whac-A-Mole, 
where a new issue reared its head 
every week. 
In Week 3 versus Alabama, 
Florida’s defense surrendered 21 
points in the first quarter while the 
offense failed to get in gear. The 
slumbering start forced the Gators 
to play behind the whole game and, 
despite outscoring the Crimson Tide 
26-10 in the final three quarters, 
falling two points short.  Their defense stood firm two 
weeks later, allowing 224 yards of 
offense in a Week 5 game against 
Kentucky. However, Florida’s 
offense floundered against the 
Wildcats, with eight false start 
penalties and a blocked field goal 
attempt returned for a touchdown 
to lose 20-13. 
The Gators fell in a 49-42 Big 
12-style shootout to Louisiana State 
when they failed to overcome four 
turnovers from quarterbacks Emory 
Jones and Anthony Richardson. 
The defense also surrendered 
321 rushing yards to the fourth-
worst rushing offense at the time. 
Tigers running back Tyrion Davis-
Price shattered former Georgia 
running back Herschel Walker’s 
record for most single-game rushing 
yards against Florida with 287. 
The next week versus Georgia, 
Richardson coughed up three 
turnovers in the last 2:22 seconds 
before halftime, generating 21 
points for the Bulldogs. Once again, 
the defense rose to the occasion. 
UGA would have only won 13-7 
without those 142 seconds. 
Neither unit showed up versus 
South Carolina, as the Gamecocks 
whooped Mullen and Co. 40-17. The 
blowout led to the firing of defensive coordinator Todd Grantham and 
offensive line coach John Hevesy. 
Florida’s offense needed 70 
points and a career day from Jones 
to stave off the Samford Bulldogs. 
The defense still gave up 52 points, 
the most an SEC school ever 
allowed to a Football Championship 
Subdivision foe. 
Newly appointed defensive 
coordinator Christian Robinson and 
his unit rebounded quickly, keeping the SEC leading rusher, Tyler Badie, 
in check for 19 rushing yards in 
the first half. Florida’s offense only 
offered up six points in return. 
Badie eventually caught fire and 
finished with 27 carries for 146 
yards and a touchdown, which led 
to another Gators loss. 
The overtime loss served as the 
nail in the coffin for Mullen. It also 
means Florida will finish with a 2-6 
record in SEC play, its worst mark 
since the conference expanded in 1992 and  only finishing higher than 
Vanderbilt in the SEC East. 
The best teams in college football 
like Georgia, the Crimson Tide and 
Ohio State, found ways to win when 
one facet of their team slacked. 
Stricklin will start searching for a 
new head coach, but he needs to 
make sure the new leader of the 
program gets the Gators to play like 
a team.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgThe 2021 Florida football team didn’t play as a team
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Former Florida football coach Dan Mullen pictured during a game on Nov. 13.
Former coach Dan Mullen was relieved of his duties Sunday