SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperNot officially associated with the University of Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, www.alligator.org We Inform. You Decide.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 20Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Celebrating life
Gainesville resident celebrates 100th birthday, pg. 4
Black-owned restaurants
Where to eat and support Black-owned businesses, pg. 6Ready to Roll
When the Roller Rebels’ first bout in March was canceled due to the COV -
ID-19 pandemic, the t eam struggled to replace the void left behind and over -
come the challenges the pandemic presented., pg. 11FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
www.alligator.org We Inform. You Decide.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 20
By Abigail Hasebroock 
Alligator Staff Writer
Amid the dense foliage, an-
cient trees and rich soil that 
houses thousands of microbes in 
the McCarty Woods conservation 
area, Akito Kawahara sees it: a 
great purple hairstreak butterfly.
The Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History associate curator who 
studies butterflies said he had 
never seen the delicate creature 
– defined by a striking blue line 
on its wing – until the encounter on one of UF campus’ most cen-
trally located conservation areas. 
Though the moment was touch-
ing, he worries experiences like it 
will soon come to an end. 
In December, UF Board of 
Trustees approved a 2020-30 
Campus Master Plan that marked 
about 2 of the 2.9 acres of the Mc-
Carty Woods as a future construc-
tion site for research buildings, 
UF’s Director of Planning Linda 
Dixon wrote in an email. The de-
cision has been met with opposi-
tion from UF students, faculty and 
staff who have banded together 
to prevent the implementation of 
the proposal.
Future development sites are 
needed for various academic and 
research buildings, Dixon wrote. 
Development in the eastern third part of campus is required to fos-
ter a centralized, flexible learning 
environment.
“We need more buildings, and 
campus needs to grow,” Kawa-
hara said. “But campus can grow 
in a different way, and it doesn’t 
have to encroach on existing 
spaces. Natural areas like that 
should be perceived as a building 
in itself.” 
The conservation area is a 
crucial resource for immersive 
hands-on learning and an experi-
ence that’s impossible to replicate 
in the classroom, Kawahara said. 
He said students have approached 
him after a lab in the woods for an 
Invertebrate Field Biology course 
with plans to switch their majors 
to biology.UF students and faculty oppose  
proposal to build on McCarty WoodsPhoto by Chasity Maynard
Gwendolyn P. Hunt scoops earth into glass jars at a soil ceremony held Friday, Feb. 5, 2021 in honor of the 
Newberry Six, a group of African Americans lynched in Newberry more than 100 years ago. Hunt and her 
husband own the land where the murders occurred.By Manny Rea and Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writers
Brenda McCue started reading her new murder mystery novel 
while in line to get her first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. She 
guessed she might get through the first 100 pages before she left.
UF Health and the Alachua County Department of Health part-
nered to vaccinate 1,100 county residents at Ben Hill Griffin sta-
dium Jan.5. The free vaccinations were by appointment only for 
Alachua County residents over the age of 65 who previously signed 
up through the health department.
County residents sat in padded metal chairs while waiting in 
line at the stadium’s Touchdown Terrace event center. The large 
room became a temporary home to 15 vaccination stations that 
stretched across the center of the space. 
When their turn came, those in line sat down for their vaccina-
tions. After receiving it, each person moved to one of the chairs 
lining the back of the room to wait 15 minutes so they could be 
monitored for adverse reactions to the vaccine.
McCue – who scheduled her test the week after Christmas – said 
she received a text notification Jan. 4 from the health department 
that she could book her appointment at the UF stadium.
“I was wondering if they had forgotten me,” she said.
The texts are part of a new online vaccination portal launched 
by the county’s health department Jan. 30. The online system al-
lows people to schedule an appointment without the hassle of wait-
ing on a call from the health department, administrator Paul Myers 
said. 1,100 vaccinated at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
TOUCHDOWN TERRACE BECAME AN IMMUNIZATION 
SITE FOR THE FIRST ROUND OF APPOINTMENTS
SEE VACCINE,  PAGE 5
SEE MCCARTY,  PAGE 5 SEE MASKS,  PAGE 5THE ORDER WILL MIRROR A RECENT 
TAMPA BAY MASK MANDATE
By Jack Prator 
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville city commissioners voted to draft an emergency order 
Thursday evening to tighten mask requirements in bars and clubs. 
The order, which passed 4-3, comes after a monthlong debate about 
a possible shutdown in the city and county commissions as students 
returned to UF campus. While the emergency order passed, the policy 
itself is still under development. 
There were 105 new COVID-19 cases in Alachua County Friday, ac-
cording to the Florida Department of Health. As of Sunday night, there 
are 106 patients hospitalized in the county – a significant drop from 
the past few weeks. People between 15-24 currently have the highest 
infection rate in the county.
What exactly the new order will enforce remains unclear. While 
City Manager Lee Feldman said he is reviewing similar Florida mask 
orders, he did not say when he will begin finalizing the details of the Gainesville moves 
forward on emergency 
mask mandate UF BOARD OF 
TRUSTEES MARKED 
THE CONSERVATION 
AREA AS A POTENTIAL 
CONSTRUCTION SITET oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 20
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh, dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.org
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer
On Feb. 23 and 24, UF students 
will vote for a new Student Body 
president, vice president and trea-
surer, as well as 50 senators.
Students will vote on candidates 
from the Gator Party, the Change 
Party and the Keg Party.
Of all students slating, 180 inter-
viewed and are affiliated with Gator, 
77 with Change and three with Keg.
Gator announced its executive 
ticket for the Spring 2021 SG election 
Jan. 27. Current Senate President 
Cooper Brown is running for Student 
Body president, with Faith Maniti for 
vice president and Giovanna Mom-
premier for treasurer.
The candidates are “beyond 
ready to bring their first-hand expe-
rience, innovative vision, and im-
mense passion to create a better ex-
perience for all gators,” Gator wrote 
in a Facebook post.
SG needs proven leadership to 
advocate for student voices, espe-
cially as COVID-19 continues to be a 
challenge for students, Brown wrote 
in an email.
He has acted as the Senate presi-
dent, Senate pro-tempore, and bud-
get and appropriations chair over his 
three years in Senate.
“I hope that the student body has 
confidence in my ability to lead and 
will #CountOnCoop,” he wrote.
Change announced its executive 
ticket for the Spring 2021 SG election 
Feb. 1. Wynton White is running for 
the Student Body president position, 
along with Matthew Rodriguez as 
vice president and Amy Nicholas as 
treasurer.
In the Facebook post announcing 
its ticket, Change leaders wrote that 
the party was founded on pillars of 
equity and representation.“Change Party is committed to 
fighting for social justice and positive 
change for all UF Students in their 
student government,” according to 
the post.
The party’s campaign also estab-
lished opposition to Gator, the cur-
rent majority party, using slogans 
such as “Gator Party, we love the 
way you lie” and criticizing the party 
for unaccomplished promises in the 
Facebook video.
White previously held a position 
as Gator’s spokesperson and served 
as a senator for the former Impact 
Party before starting the Level Up 
Party, a short-lived party founded in 
Fall 2020.
Union joined Change Feb. 2. The 
decision to combine the parties grew 
out of a mutual aspiration to bring 
change to the current SG system, 
Change’s President Zoe Terner said.
“We realized the independent 
movement is always going to be the 
strongest when we are joining forces 
and not competing against one an-
other,” she said.
Terner will continue to act as the 
party’s president, but former Union 
officers will join Change’s executive 
board. 
“We’re saying that the issue of 
fighting for a Student Government 
that is truly representative of all stu-
dents is bigger for both parties than 
any one party or any one name,” she 
said.
The parties decided to merge af-
ter three minority parties ran in Fall, 
causing them to compete with each 
other rather than against Gator, said 
Ethan Lomio, former Union presi-
dent.
Gator currently holds a superma-
jority in Senate.
Lomio said he looks forward to 
developing a campaign that incor-
porates both parties’ plans and ideas 
to create a stronger platform than in past years.
“We stand for the welfare of the 
everyday student in their struggles 
with finances with their communi-
ties,” he said. “We fight so that the 
everyday student can sleep easy and 
succeed.”
Party officials said they are un-
sure when the parties’ platforms will 
be released.
For Keg, Michael Ackerman is 
running for the Student Body presi-
dent position, along with Braeden 
Allen and Benjamin Haut as vice 
president and treasurer, respec-
tively. The party has no registered 
candidates running for a seat in the 
Senate.
The Alligator sent Ackerman, 
Allen and Hunt three emails each 
asking about their hopes and goals 
in running for the executive ticket 
positions. Keg candidates did not re-
spond to requests for comment.
After five days of mostly virtual 
slating, a total of 261 students inter-
viewed with parties, according to 
Hayley Price, supervisor of elections. 
“I’m happy that over 260 students 
were able to slate,” Senate President 
Cooper Brown wrote in an email. 
“It’s great to see this many students 
engaged and wanting to be a part of 
Student Government.”
It is still unknown whether elec-
tion voting days will also incorporate 
social distancing alternatives, as on-
line voting is still declared uncon-
stitutional, and early voting has not 
been added to the Spring 2021 elec-
tion special rules. 
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgHere’s what you need 
to know about SG 
Spring ElectionsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021Michelle Holder 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Marion Broadaway has a hair appoint-
ment every week. This Friday afternoon, a 
pink and silver crown with the number 100 
bedazzled in rhinestones topped her freshly 
curled gray hair. 
Broadaway, a Gainesville resident, 
smiled as she took a bite of banana nut 
cake – her favorite flavor. Wearing a striped 
sweater and a pink and black birthday sash, 
she celebrated a century of life surrounded 
by friends and family. 
“It’s a very special day,” Broadaway 
said. “I feel like the day is special, not me.”
Broadaway’s family and friends gathered 
around and pushed her wheelchair toward 
a white outdoor tent set up at the Oak Ham-
mock Health Pavilion, the retirement com-
munity where she lives.
Pink and gold balloons filled the inside of 
the tent, and a big cake decorated with red 
and pink roses and shaped into the number 
100 sat on a table. 
“When I look back, I think I had a very 
exciting life. I enjoyed my life,” she said. 
Joining the world’s less than 1% cen-
tenarian population, Broadaway lived 
through World War II, the moon landing 
and, most recently, the COVID-19 pandem-
ic. She’s seen television, computers and the 
Internet advance, but her favorite innova-
tion is Zoom because she can call people 
anywhere in the world.
“It’s amazing that you can call some-
thing here and call all the way to Europe 
from Gainesville,” she said.The past year during the COVID-19 pan-
demic has been difficult on Broadaway and 
her family. Her daughter, 66-year-old Becky 
Adkins, said she didn’t see her mother in 
person for months.
“It’s been pretty tough. She doesn’t ver-
balize it so much,” Adkins said. “She’s just 
one of these people who takes things in 
stride.” 
Broadaway’s lifelong pastime was writ-
ing cards and letters. Growing up, she had 
penpals in Egypt and Japan, and she wrote 
to her husband every day during World War 
II. 
“She used to show me postcards she had 
from them, like the Egypt one, of course, 
had the pyramids,” Adkins said. “It was 
very much a part of her life. She wrote vo-
luminously in terms of corresponding with 
her family.”
Born Feb. 5, 1921, and raised in Massa-
chusetts with the maiden name Dempsey 
Broadaway is the second of six children. 
She attended Blue Mountain College, a 
women’s school in Mississippi, where she 
studied English and met her late husband 
Rufus Broadaway, a Mississippi native. 
“He was the romantic southerner that 
she was looking for,” Adkins said. 
Together they had three children, daugh-
ters Judith and Becky and son Dana. She is 
now a great-grandmother with four grand-
children and two great-grandsons.
Reflecting on her life, she said one of the 
hardest things she went through was the 
loss of her child. Broadaway’s daughter Ju-
dith died in a motorcycle accident shortly 
before she would have graduated from col-lege. 
Rufus, who died in 2016 at the age of 
95, was drafted into World War II where 
he served as a paratrooper. He jumped into 
Normandy on D-day, she said. After the war 
in 1945, Rufus reunited with Broadaway 
and Judith. 
Broadaway spent the majority of her 
adulthood living in Miami on an acre of 
property containing a big single-story ranch 
house. Her husband worked as a surgeon 
after he left the military. She spent her days 
taking care of her family and tending to the 
25 mango trees on their property. Adkins 
said her mother would often make mango 
chutney, a tangy and sweet sauce.
Broadaway is a talented musician and 
played the piano all her life. She has a baby 
grand piano with ivory keys. 
“My mom played beautifully. She loved 
to play Chopin and Debussy, really kind of 
the romantic, very just beautiful stuff,” Ad-
kins said. “She could tickle those ivories.”
Adkins, who now owns the piano, said she also played it in her youth and often 
used the piano to get out of doing chores. 
“My mom would say, you know, if you 
want to practice the piano, you don’t have 
[to] help with dinner,” she said. “I still play, 
not very often, but I think of my mom pretty 
much whenever I do play,” Adkins said.
After Miami, the family relocated to 
Highlands, North Carolina, for about 10 
years. In 2004, she and her husband moved 
to Gainesville’s Oak Hammock community. 
In her younger years, Broadaway and her 
husband enjoyed traveling. They walked 
across England and took memorable trips to 
the base camp of Mount Everest.
After Broadaway’s century of life, she 
said she urges younger generations to take 
advantage of anything that comes along.
“If everyone were like my mom, the 
world would be a much happier place,” 
Dana said.
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.orgGainesville Resident celebrates 
100th birthday and joins 
world’s centenarian population
Julia Cooper / Alligator Staff
Marion Broadaway smiles as she tells stories of her life to family members at 
her 100th birthday celebration on Friday, Feb. 5, 2021. 
Marion Broadaway has lived through World War II, the moon landing 
and technological advancements like television and computers
UF CONSIDERS THE 
SAFETY AND HEALTH 
OF STUDENTS, 
VOLUNTEERS AND 
EMPLOYEES AT TEST SITES
By Abigail Hasebroock 
Alligator Staff Writer
A hit pop track echoes in the 
distance. A lone plastic straw sits 
in the grass. Anxious students keep 
their heads down as they desper-
ately search for an isolated corner 
to begin spitting into a vial.
This isn’t the aftermath of a 
wild house party or a successful 
gameday – it’s a routine saliva CO-
VID-19 testing site on UF’s campus. 
UF implemented biweekly man-
datory COVID-19 screenings and 
saliva tests for students living on 
campus, involved in Greek life or 
enrolled in face-to-face sections. 
With the increased test administra-
tion this Spring, UF said it is taking 
the necessary measures to ensure the testing site volunteers, employ-
ees and thousands of students get-
ting tested every day feel safe.  
In a campus brief emailed to all 
faculty and staff Jan. 29, UF Health 
Screen, Test & Protect wrote that it 
“continues to perform more than 
2,000 PCR saliva tests per day, 
with a capacity for up to 3,200 tests 
daily -- more than three times the 
maximum number of daily tests ad-
ministered in the fall.”
Testing volunteers and em-
ployees are provided N-95 masks, 
and an infection control special-
ist pays a visit to each location to 
ensure protocols are being met, 
UF Health’s Screen, Test & Pro-
tect Associate Director for testing 
operations Meghan Froman said. 
Additionally, UF Health gave all 
employees and volunteers the op-
portunity to receive the COVID-19 
vaccine after its arrival to UF in 
December. 
“The volunteers and staff all 
know that we have their safety as 
number one,” Froman said. “We function as a team, so if they see 
something that might help with the 
processes or anything like that, we 
work as a team to make that work 
well.” 
Zachary Raad began volunteer-
ing to help administer tests in Sep-
tember before becoming a paid em-
ployee in January. 
“I just wanted to really see how 
I could help the local community 
during the pandemic,” the 21-year-
old Chinese and chemistry senior 
said. 
Raad doesn’t believe spending 
time at the test sites puts him at 
any greater risk of infection than a 
trip to the grocery store or taking 
a stroll outside. He said he is less 
anxious now that he received both 
doses of the vaccine, and his in-
volvement is good practice for his 
future in the medical field. 
“You definitely have to deal 
with similar situations in hospi-
tals,” he said. 
UF Health Screen, Test & Pro-
tect test site supervisor Leon Chen said the program streamlined the 
testing process this Spring to prop-
erly handle the increase in students 
coming to receive tests. Any con-
cerns presented by the volunteers 
are accounted for, Chen said. 
“If anyone doesn’t feel com-
fortable with doing their specific 
role, we would be happy to swap 
them out or give them something 
that they think is more safer,” the 
28-year-old UF alumnus said. “We 
don’t want our volunteers to feel 
anxiety doing what they do.”
The influx of students being 
tested this semester has raised con-
cerns over the safety of the testing 
sites, as volunteers and employees 
are protected only by their masks. 
Though the sites are decorated 
with bright markers on the ground 
measuring about six feet apart, stu-
dents still bump into each other as 
they try to hand off their vials of 
saliva as quickly as possible. 
“With the walk-ups, I think 
there is more of a risk of getting 
anything just because a few times that I went, there are a lot of peo-
ple there,” Amanda Bastos Feijo, a 
20-year-old UF economics and sus-
tainability junior, said. 
Despite the perceived risk of 
contracting the virus at the crowded 
walk-up testing sights, Bastos Feijo 
said she appreciates the efficiency 
and accessibility of COVID-19 test-
ing at UF. During her stay in Brazil 
over Winter Break, receiving a test 
to return to the United States was 
nearly impossible, she said. 
Unlike UF’s COVID-19 tests, 
Bastos Feijo said she had to pay 
for a test in Brazil, so she appreci-
ates the availability of testing sites 
on campus. She believes students 
should remain cautious, however.
“If you’re doing that in-person 
one, and everyone’s crowded in 
front of the stadium or wherever 
they are, you just gotta be mindful 
of who’s around you,” she said.
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgStudents and volunteers feel safe at UF COVID-19 testing sitesThe health department and UF 
Health are currently vaccinating 
about 1,000 people each day, Myers 
said, adding that the only limiting fac-
tor in the mass vaccination effort was 
the number of available doses.
“What you’re seeing here today is 
just, you know, a soft start to see and 
work out some of the kinks and make 
sure it’s as safe for everybody as pos-
sible,” he said.
The collaboration between UF 
Health and the county is a pilot test 
for the stadium’s regular use in future 
vaccinations, said Dr. Michael Lauzar-
do, head of UF Health’s Screen, Test & 
Protect program. The venue’s capac-
ity and significance as a Gainesville 
landmark make it the perfect location 
for large scale vaccinations, Lauzardo 
said.
As rollouts are dependent on how 
many vaccines the state brings in, no 
timeline is set for low-risk groups, in-
cluding UF students, he said. 
Julius Gylys, a UF clinical psychol-
ogy professor, took his mother-in-law 
to the stadium Friday to get her first 
shot. Gylys got his first dose of the 
vaccine a month ago.
“We feel so fortunate,” he said. 
“Until UF partnered with the health 
department, this wasn’t happening.”
Pamela Nolan, a Gainesville resi-
dent who registered for the vaccine 
in early January, said she is the first 
person she knows in the county to get 
vaccinated. Her son drove the short 
three miles from her home to the ap-
pointment at the stadium.
“I didn’t cry,” she said smiling as 
she got up from the seat where she 
was given the shot.
Twenty-eight UF pharmacy stu-
dent volunteers worked in three shifts 
throughout the day in preparing doses 
of the vaccine.
The students received a great pro-
fessional experience and co-curricular 
hours in UF’s pharmacy program, As-
sociate Dean Shauna Buring said.
“I make sure the students go out 
and see so they know how much it 
means to the patients,” Buring said.
Screen, Test & Protect workers di-
rected people with appointments to 
fill out consent forms and other loose 
ends. Sarah Weber, an STP worker, arrived at 7:30 a.m. to attend a brief-
ing before checking people in, filling 
out documentation and addressing 
medical concerns. 
But the preparation made the ex-
perience quick for the arrivals. 
“My appointment was at 4 p.m., 
and I’m already done,” 70-year-old 
Alachua city resident Linda Chapman 
said at about 2:30 p.m. She spent her 
post-vaccination wait reading a news-
paper.
She said she was getting the vac-
cine so she can travel to England in 
September.Evangelos Christou, a UF professor 
in the department of applied physiol-
ogy and kinesiology, said the vaccine 
made him feel liberated because he’s 
bringing his protection to the class-
room and his patients. Christou teach-
es an in-person intramuscular physi-
ology class and looks after patients 
with movement disorders.
“The whole setup has been really 
outstanding,” Christou said. “Every-
one has been gracious and helpful.”
 @ReaManny
@jack_pratorMONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
VACCINE,  from pg. 1
Photos by Grethel Aguila
1. A UF Health nurse prepares to administer a COVID-19 vaccine 
Friday, Feb.5, 2021.  
2. Alachua County residents wait in line to get the COVID-19 vaccine 
inside Touchdown Terrace in the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium Friday, 
Feb.5, 2021.   
3. A UF pharmacy student prepares the COVID-19 vaccine before it is 
administered Friday, Feb.5, 2021.
1
2 3city’s mandate. The commission suggested ideas such as police en-
forcing mask violations, fining businesses for COVID-19 violations 
and making masks mandatory in outdoor lines to enter businesses. 
Commissioners asked to model the order after Hillsborough 
County’s current mask mandate, which prohibits people from gath-
ering on dance floors, standing at bars to eat and requires cus-
tomers to be seated when eating or drinking. The commission also 
mentioned a recent Tampa order requiring masks in outdoor spaces 
in anticipation of Super Bowl festivities as something Gainesville 
should model its order after.it wants to model Gainesville’s order 
after.
“What we’re doing right now is making suggestions to the city 
manager,” Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe said. “Ultimately, he’ll 
have to decide what’s possible and what’s not.”
Poe voted against the order, explaining his worry that a capacity 
or dancefloor limitation might jeopardize the cooperation between 
local businesses and the city. He said he would rather wait to first 
start Healthy Gainesville Initiative, a recently approved marketing 
collaboration between the city and UF to encourage students to 
wear masks in bars. 
“I think that we can nudge positive behavior for when folks are 
gathering — whether it’s in a line or anywhere outside,” he said.
Despite opposing the preemptive nature of the order, Poe said 
he will sign it because Gainesville is in an emergency state due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Emergency orders require an executive 
signature from the mayor. Poe said he expected to meet with Feld-
man over the weekend to discuss the city’s options.
In September, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis signed an order pro-
hibiting local government restrictions on businesses enforcing CO-
VID-19 safety protocols. Another order issued in November requires 
local governments to report the economic impact of any proposed 
restrictions. The report would need to argue why public health ben-
efits outweigh the cost of the restrictions put in place. 
However, DeSantis’ order only stops local governments from 
collecting fines. Some cities, such as Miami, have found loopholes 
to issue mask citations with the intent of collecting the money after 
the governor’s order is lifted.
Commissioner Harvey Ward, who also voted against the order, 
said restricting people from gathering in public spaces will only 
force them to gather at houses and apartments.
“If we shut down bars, which we will effectively do if we say 
there will be no dancing, there will be no pool-shooting, there will 
be no dart-throwing, people are going to congregate anyway,” 
Ward said. “They’re just gonna do it in places where we can’t en-
force anything.” 
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos said by prohibiting indoor 
dancing, bars and clubs could just move activity outside.  
“I think these are reasonable steps and we have to take action 
and give other opportunities,” he said.
Hayes-Santos agreed with Poe that this order would be difficult 
to have police enforce, but said it gives the city the regulatory pow-
er to deal with college students who do not wear masks in packed 
public spaces.
“There are a few ones that are causing the most issues,” he said.
During the UF presentation of the Healthy Gainesville Initiative, 
presenters said education was the next best action in the absence 
of strict mask regulations, Hayes-Santos said. While he supports 
the initiative, he would also like to see the mandate accompany it.
“Education is great and I think it’s a part of it,” he said, “I per-
sonally don’t think it will make a significant difference.”
Hayes-Santos said he expected the Alachua County Commission 
to step up and create its own mask mandate.
“If we move forward on an order, I think the county will follow.”
At a Jan. 12 meeting, the Alachua County Commission asked 
city staff to compile health research and economic impact analysis 
to consider reducing capacity at bars and restaurants.
County Commissioner Anna Prizzia said she proposed the staff 
report so the commission would be prepared in the event that cases 
rise as students return to classes this Spring. 
Paul Myers, Administrator of the Alachua County Health Depart-
ment, said in January he did not believe the health benefits of a 
shutdown would outweigh the economic costs.
“Let’s hold the line in terms of what we are doing in the com-
munity,” he said.
Gainesville City Attorney Nicolle Shalley said she, Poe and Feld-
man would need to discuss what legal options they have in framing 
the mask mandate. 
Feldman did not comment on what actions he will take with the 
emergency order as of Thursday evening. He said only that he had 
a lot of thinking to do.
@jack_prator
jackprator@alligator.orgMASKS,  from pg. 1
“Those are the kinds of things that are, especial-
ly for the education component, essential,” he said. 
“And we’re going to lose that.”
Though thousands of students have benefitted 
from the space, Kawahara said UF does not under-
stand the area’s significance. Developers perceive it 
as an unused plot of land waiting to be built on, he 
said. 
“That 30 minutes of time that we spent in McCarty 
could potentially have that impact about their careers 
in the future,” he said. 
The current proposal would leave behind 1 acre of 
the woods, but students in The Wildlife Society at UF 
do not believe this is a sufficient solution. Savannah 
Cantrell, 21-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conser-
vation junior, said the remaining land would not be 
useful to the wildlife.
“That acre that is going to be leftover is going to 
be severely disturbed, and the animals that are left 
aren’t going to be as successful as they are now with 
the almost 3 acres that they have,” she said. 
Cantrell said she is insulted by UF’s refusal to ac-
knowledge the pleas of students and faculty. 
“We are the future of science,” she said. “If they don’t listen to their own scientists, then who are they 
really listening to?” 
UF Wildlife Society President Sierra Scauzillo host-
ed two information sessions over Zoom Monday to 
explain the campaign to prevent construction in fur-
ther detail. She said accurate evidence and facts will 
be instrumental in raising awareness about the issue. 
“I don’t want people using this platform to insult 
UF officials, to create a negative environment or say 
things that sound factual but just aren’t true,” the 
22-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conservation se-
nior said. 
The UF Board of Trustees is expected to make its 
final decision about the future of McCarty Woods 
mid-March, and a project report is expected to be 
completed and presented before then, Scauzillo said. 
“By the end of February, we should all start sweat-
ing,” she said. 
The group created an interest form, an Instagram 
and a Facebook for students looking to get involved 
in the movement. Their petition reached more than 
12,000 signatures as of Sunday. 
“Maybe if we win this, we’ll have a party, a social-
ly distanced party,” she said. “A party in McCarty.” 
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgMCCARTY,  from pg. 1Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Baseball
On their road to redemption, Florida will play in a new home for 
the first time since 1988, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
BLACK-OWNED RESTAURANTS 
TO SUPPORT IN GAINESVILLE
Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
Food, culture and community-building are 
indivisibly intertwined in Gainesville. In honor 
of Black History Month, the Avenue has com-
piled a list of some of the Black-owned restau-
rants, food trucks and cafés in Gainesville. 
Bone of my Bone BBQ 
When it comes to barbecue, Allen Craig 
lives by a single motto: “Good ribs don’t need 
sauce.”
Craig and his business partner, Akim Lett-
some, started the food truck Bone of my Bone 
BBQ LLC in 2017. With four years of experi-
ence serving barbecue to the Gainesville com-
munity, Craig said his goal is to pack the meat 
with enough flavor that customers are satisfied 
with the ribs alone. 
Following the onset of the COVID-19 pan-
demic, Craig said Bone of my Bone BBQ is 
slowly working back up to full-time service. 
While the food truck is currently more of a 
passion project than a full-time job, he said he 
would like to one day reach that point with the 
business. 
Even in work, family always comes first, 
Craig said. 
When Bone of my Bone BBQ pulls up to a 
brewery for the day, customers can expect to 
see the entire Craig family pitching in — his 
wife helping cook sides and his daughter hold-
ing up signs to attract passersby. Knowing his and Lettsome’s kids can watch their fathers 
cook and enjoy the experience, Craig said, is 
the most important part of the job. 
“At the end of the day, if we don’t have the 
support of our families, it’s not going to work 
at all,” Craig said.
Chef Empowerment’s  
Underground Kitchen
Carl Watts wasn’t always a chef. 
Watts began working as a Gang Interven-
tion Specialist with the Gainesville Police De-
partment’s Black on Black Crime Task Force 
in 2011, mentoring at-risk youth and adults for 
six years. Desiring a change, Watts later started 
his culinary career at Blue Gill Quality Food, 
working his way up from dishwasher to execu-
tive chef. 
In 2017, Watts established Chef Empower-
ment — a program that combined his love of 
food and mentorship by offering vocational 
training and employment to at-risk youth. 
In order to accumulate enough revenue 
to keep this program running, Watts has also 
managed Underground Kitchen, a dine-in res-
taurant at 1001 NW 5th Ave., since June 2020. 
A second location, also on Fifth Ave., is pre-
dicted to open for curbside service in about 
two weeks, Watts said. 
With both of his restaurants located on Fifth 
Avenue, Watts said he remains astounded by 
the support offered by residents and business-
es of the historically black community — and 
he’s determined to give back to those who em-
braced him. 
“Going into Black History Month, I’m re-
ally focusing on the art of giving,” Watts said. 
“We’re going to fulfill our commitment.” Watts said despite carrying a lot of pride 
in being a Black business owner, it isn’t easy. 
Still, considering the racial injustices that con-
tinue around the world, he said, he’s dedicated 
to doing his part and giving back to communi-
ties often considered “challenged.” 
“My business has a global agenda, but 
we’re going to fight that global agenda local-
ly,” Watts said. 
According to the World Food Programme, 
COVID-19 has pushed 270 million people 
across the world toward the brink of starva-tion. Watts said he wants to know he’s a part 
of the restaurants actively working to attack 
this statistic — all without leaving Gainesville. 
“Even 1% of that number is impossible for 
our small Black business,” Watts said. “But, 
at the end of the day, isn’t it a good feeling to 
know that we helped somebody out?”
Read more at alligator.org.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.orgCelebrate Black History Month on a full stomach
 FoodFood
Aubrey Bocalan
Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
Grab your game cards and all of your extra tickets – good, 
clean fun has officially arrived in Gainesville.
A new Dave & Buster’s opened Monday at the Celebration 
Pointe Mall, marking the ninth edition of the entertainment com-
plex in Florida. Gainesville’s location features a full restaurant 
and arcade and will follow rigid COVID-19 protocols for all em-
ployees and guests, according to a press release. 
The complex, located at 4949 Celebration Pointe Ave., is open 
from 11 a.m. to midnight Sunday through Thursday and 11-1 
a.m. Friday and Saturday. Specials include Happy Hour Monday 
through Friday from 4-7 p.m. and Late-Night Happy Hour Thurs-
day through Sunday from 9 p.m. to closing. Frontline pandemic 
workers and members of the armed forces will receive a 20% 
discount on food and games with a valid I.D.
The staples of Dave & Buster’s are all present in the new loca-
tion, including a full-service bar and restaurant with the 40-foot 
“WOW” Wall TV, the “Winner’s Circle” where guests can redeem 
their tickets for prizes and the “Million-Dollar Midway” featuring 
a number of arcade games.
Among the attractions in the Midway is a virtual reality ride 
with six different simulations, as well as classic games like Skee-
Ball, NBA Hoops and Dance Dance Revolution.
“It’s a little bit of everything,” said general manager Kend-
rick Smith. Smith, 42, was originally managing the Memphis location of 
Dave & Buster’s, but he made the move to Gainesville after tak-
ing the managerial position for the new location. He said Gaines-
ville’s promising future as a developing city inspired the choice 
for it to house Florida’s ninth Dave & Buster’s.
Families across the area are enthusiastic about the entertain-
ment complex, Smith said.
“A lot of people are extremely happy that we’re opening up,” 
he said.
Not only does the location offer a new excursion for Gainesville 
residents, but it also created jobs in the area. Applications and in-
terviews starting in early January resulted in a team of around 135 
employees working everywhere from the kitchen to the arcade.
Hannah Lester, a 22-year-old UF biology graduate, heard 
about the new Dave & Buster’s in December. After recounting her 
positive experience at the Orlando location, she said she decided 
to apply. She was hired to work in the Winner’s Circle, where she 
distributes prizes to guests. 
Employees were trained in the week leading up to the open-
ing, starting Monday and culminating in an early opening Thurs-
day for friends and family of staff to visit the location. The guests 
dined in the restaurant and played games in the Midway while 
employees got their first taste of a regular shift.
Gage Ellis, a 20-year-old Dave & Buster’s employee also work-
ing in the Winner’s Circle, said the hours of training have paid off.
“I think we’ve got this down pat now,” he said.
Read more at alligator.org.
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgGainesville location of Dave & Buster’s opens Monday
The Celebration Pointe complex marks 
the franchise’s ninth location in FloridaBy Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer
On the cold, cloudy Friday morning, more 
than 50 people gathered to pay tribute to the 
Newberry Six — victims of a 1916 lynching 
— in a soil collection ceremony held beneath 
an old tree’s twisting branches at a grassy lot 
in Newberry. 
The area is known as Lynch Hammock, 
where residents Jim Dennis, Bert Dennis, 
Mary Dennis, Stella Young, Andrew McHenry 
and Rev. Josh Baskins were reportedly mur-
dered more than 100 years ago.
The Concerned Citizens of Newberry, a 
community organization, worked with the 
Equal Justice Initiative (EJI) from Montgom-
ery, Alabama, the Alachua County Commu-
nity Remembrance Project and the Real Rose-
wood Foundation, an organization dedicated 
to keeping the memory of Rosewood, Florida, 
alive, to hold the service. 
Jackie Davis, a member of the county Re-
membrance Project, said the poured soil rep-
resents the labor of the victims and enslaved 
Africans who were brought to the United 
States. 
“Their blood, sweat and tears have be-
come part of our soil,” Davis said. “So we see 
the soil as a mute witness to these murders 
that occurred.”
Research on the Alachua County’s lynch-
ings from EJI and the county’s historical com-
mission led to the Truth and Reconciliation 
project the commission set in motion in 2018. 
The soil ceremony, originally planned for 
April 2020, is a step in the county’s path to 
address and reconcile with its history of racial 
violence. Lynchings are defined as unlawful 
murder, which includes hanging, drowning, 
shooting and burning sometimes as a public 
execution. 
Candle flames flickered in the drizzle but 
remained lit as they sat in front of 13 empty 
jars. Six of the jars will return to Montgomery, 
and the rest will remain in Newberry. One jar 
read “unknown” for the countless unnamed victims of lynching in the U.S. The others dis-
played the names of those murdered during 
the public lynching in front of 200 Alachua 
County residents. 
Pastor and Newberry-native Lewis King 
opened the service with a prayer.
“I just want you to imagine for a moment 
that right now, God is crying,” he said. “He’s 
weeping as a result of people coming together 
and saying that we will reconcile.”
The soil collection began after remarks 
from Newberry resident Brenda Whitfield and 
EJI representative Keiana West, a proclama-
tion from the mayor and a tribute to former 
UF adjunct professor Patricia Hilliard-Nunn 
– whose work on lynching history, speakers 
said, made the event possible.
Attendees, including county commission-
ers and Sheriff Clovis Watson, watched as 
descendants of the six and other volunteers 
filled the jars with soil. The sound of “Amaz-
ing Grace” momentarily drowned out the rain.
Sheriff Watson stood with the crowd, clad 
in a suit and shielded by a green umbrella. As 
someone whose role is to ensure everyone’s 
fair and equal protection, he said he felt it was 
important to stand on the historic land Friday.
“We still have more to do to get it right, 
but what you saw today is an effort and a 
heart and a willingness to get it right and 
come together,” Watson said. 
Newberry Mayor Jordan Marlowe said so-
ciety failed these families a century ago and 
proclaimed the lynching as the darkest mo-
ment in the community’s past.
“The city of Newberry recognizes that this 
soil ceremony will and should serve both as a 
reminder of the sins of the past and as a sym-
bol of the desire to move forward together in 
openness, honesty, truth and unity,” Marlowe 
said. 
Warren Lee, a descendant of one of the 
lynching victims, and Gwendolyn Hunt, the 
owner of the land housing the tree, were 
among those who poured the soil into the 
jars. Hunt and her husband have owned the 
land for about 40 years. Seated near the front of the tree in a bright 
red suit, Hunt said she felt God gave her and 
her husband the property for a reason. She 
was happy to see so many people gathered 
under the tree with love in their hearts. 
“We’ve come a long way, but we still have 
a ways to go,” she said. 
Stephanie Birch, board chair for the Real 
Rosewood Foundation, said the ceremony 
was a symbolic gesture, and more work needs 
to be done. “Two hundred people gathered here to 
murder several people on that day,” Birch 
said. “There were not 200 people here today. 
I don’t think there are enough people who 
are putting their bodies on the line to end the 
fight towards racial equity and justice, and we 
need to step it up.”
@LucilleLannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
352-226-5976      |      supremebeautyllc.com
Wigs, Eyelashes, Clothes    
a n d  M o r e !      Michelle Holder 
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County reported its first case 
of the U.K. COVID-19 variant last week. 
A 69-year-old person – who is possi-
bly a South Florida resident given their 
address history and 305 area code from 
a disconnected phone number – tested 
positive for the B.1.1.7 variant at a private 
pharmacy, according to Paul Myers, ad-
ministrator for the Alachua County Health 
Department. 
The strain spreads faster than other 
COVID-19 variants, and the health depart-
ment is investigating the situation, Myers 
said. 
Myers does not know if the person is 
still in the county. 
The health department knows this 
strain may be more contagious, he said. 
According to the CDC, it spreads faster 
than other variants and may be associated 
with an increased risk of death compared 
to other virus variants. However, the CDC 
reports more studies are needed to con-firm this finding.
The U.K. variant of the virus arrived 
in Florida at the end of 2020. Now, 5% of 
Florida’s COVID-19 cases are of the vari-
ant, the Miami Herald reported. 
Vaccines are still effective against this 
strain, though, Myers said. 
“Nothing changes in terms of the pro-
tective measures that we’ve taken,” he 
said. “Continue the mitigation practices 
that we’ve all been doing.”
In light of the new strain, City Com-
missioner Adrian Hayes-Santos said the 
city commission moved forward with a 
mask mandate and new restrictions for 
restaurants, bars and retail, which would 
emphasize social distancing. 
People should be cautious of the new 
strain and keep wearing masks and social 
distancing, Hayes-Santos said. 
“It doesn’t matter what strain we have 
here,” he said.  “The virus is still here, 
and it’s still very strong. We can’t let up 
our guard now.”
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.orgOne COVID-19 U.K. variant case 
confirmed in Alachua County
THE INFECTED PERSON IS 69-YEARS-OLD 
AND MAY BE FROM SOUTH FLORIDANewberry honors Lynching victims in soil collection ceremony
Alachua County organizations worked with the Equal 
Justice Initiation to pay tribute to the Newberry Six8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021
THE 40-MINUTE COURSE IS MEANT TO PROVIDE 
THE GROUNDWORK FOR STUDENTS AS A PART 
OF UF’S ONGOING ANTI-RACISM CAMPAIGN
By Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students received an email alerting them to a new assign-
ment. But it wasn’t classwork from any of their professors. 
“Hate, bias, discrimination, and racism have no place at the 
University of Florida,” the email read, inviting students to an on-
line diversity, equity and inclusion training course.
UF paid $34,000 to implement a diversity, equity and inclu-
sion training program for students and faculty as a part of its 
anti-racism initiatives. The 40-minute training is recommended 
for all students, faculty and staff and covers topics such as dis-
crimination, intersectionality, oppression, inclusion and identity. 
The course had a deadline of Jan. 31 for faculty and staff but is 
still accessible as a resource. Students have until April 1 to com-
plete the course.
The course is being offered through EVERFI, an interactive 
online training platform, which UF previously partnered with to 
offer the required sexual assault prevention and alcohol educa-
tion courses for students. 
“We view this course as a building block available to enhance 
students’ education and awareness of new and familiar topics 
centered on inclusion that may support their cultural competen-
cy while at UF and beyond,” Vice President for Student Affairs 
D’Andra Mull said.
The resurgence of the Black Lives Matter movement this Sum-
mer prompted UF to reconsider its role in perpetuating racism. 
The university discontinued the use of the “Gator Bait’’ chant, 
which was tied to the practice of using Black children as alligator 
bait in the South, and promised to review and remove historical 
monuments and building names that honor the Confederacy. UF 
also vowed to end its use of prison labor and officially severed its 
contracts Sep. 11.
However, Asian American Student Union co-Presidents Brit-
ney Rengert and Zachary Raad think the new course only works 
as a surface-level introduction for people who may not have ex-
posure to diversity and inclusion topics. 
“A lot of the material and information was familiar to us be-
cause it’s stuff that we talk about in terms of advocacy with our 
organization a lot,” Rengert said. “People often seek out the in-
formation if they’re interested in it. For people who have really 
no interest in diversity and inclusion, they’re not going to take a 
lot from it.”
Raad thought the course was an improvement from other in-
clusion efforts he’d seen from UF but felt it was still not specific 
or thorough enough to leave lasting impacts. 
“You can’t really undo long-standing beliefs and behaviors 
with a 40-minute training,” he said.
He also has taken issue with the way UF glossed over its own 
history of discrimination. 
Many students have also fought to rename the Reitz Union, 
named after J. Wayne Reitz, who had a history of actions against 
the Black and LGBTQ+ communities during his time as president 
of UF. So far, their efforts have not been successful.
Moving forward, Raad said he wishes to see more account-
ability from the university.
“If the institution wants to make progress, at some point it has 
to admit its own faults,” he said. 
The co-presidents agreed the resources UF used for the course 
would have been better spent on existing programs, such as the 
university’s ethnic and gender studies programs, the Counseling 
and Wellness Center, and the Disability Resource Center.
“What is the school doing to make sure that our ethnic studies 
programs or our gender studies programs is getting the support 
it needs?” Raad asked. “How are we making sure that the Coun-
seling and Wellness Center have staff and counselors who are 
equipped to deal with students of all backgrounds?” 
@sofecheverry
 secheverry@alligator.orgUF launches new 
diversity, equity and 
inclusion training
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer
Cody Ko, Noel Miller and David 
Dobrik brought laughter and bright 
smiles to UF students Wednesday 
night, providing some unfiltered 
advice and insight on their lives be-
hind the screen.
Accent Speakers Bureau, a UF 
Student Government agency funded 
by student fees, hosted the trio in a 
free event to UF students and facul-
ty over Zoom. During the $120,000 
show, they spoke about their expe-
rience with YouTube and what is to 
come in their futures.
More than 1,900 people attended 
Ko and Miller’s event, and more 
than 2,200 attended Dobrik’s, Ac-
cent Chair Steven Wolf wrote in an 
email. The cap for both events was 
set at 3,000.
The night began with a 45-min-
ute conversation with the comedic 
duo Ko and Miller, known for their 
YouTube series “That’s Cringe” and 
Tiny Meat Gang podcast, moder-
ated by UF public relations profes-
sor Natalie Asorey. She asked the 
pair about the biggest risks they’ve 
taken and their creative process.
Ko and Miller said their biggest 
risk was taking all of their podcast 
money to invest in GameStop and 
Dogecoin, a cryptocurrency that re-
cently spiked in the stock market. 
Ko said he saw Elon Musk tweet 
about Dogecoin and immediately 
bought stocks when it was at its 
peak. Within hours, they lost it all. 
They didn’t specify how much mon-
ey they invested.
“This was the stupidest thing I 
have ever done,” Ko said. 
The duo stayed true to their 
YouTube personas, answering all 
questions with witty and sarcastic 
humor.
When Asorey asked if they are 
more left or right-brained, Miller 
immediately said: “Is that like a political question?” and Ko sarcasti-
cally followed up: “Yeah, and also, 
what’s your opinion on religion, 
Noel?”
The duo also joked about settling 
creative conflicts with fistfights and 
appealing to all generations’ sense 
of humor through fart jokes. 
“Everyone thinks farts are fun-
ny,” Ko said.
During the 15-minute student 
Q&A, students asked Miller and Ko 
if they would have been friends in 
college and about the evolution of 
professionalism with newer genera-
tions.
“I don’t think I could afford 
Duke,” Miller joked, referencing 
Ko’s time at Duke University. “I 
mean, I don’t think we could devel-
op what we have if we didn’t match 
in some way.”
The duo also said the concept of 
presentability has changed over the 
past decade is evolving and moved 
on to joke about how they ensure 
professionalism at Tiny Meat Gang 
(TMG), their comedy podcast. 
Ko joked that their employees 
must read the bible and are not 
allowed to have tattoos, drink or 
smoke.
“The Man of God is actually what 
TMG stands for,” Miller added.
David Dobrik entered the Zoom 
call at 8 p.m. accompanied by his 
close friend and assistant Natalie 
Mariduena, both dressed in Gator 
hoodies. Journalism professor Har-
rison Hove moderated a 45-minute 
conversation with the pair, asking 
about Dobrik’s thoughts on college 
education and creative content cre-
ation.
Dobrik dropped out of Duke be-
cause it wasn’t for him, he said. 
Instead, he moved to Los Angeles 
to work in food service and soon 
started his career in entertainment 
through Vine. However, he told stu-
dents that getting a college educa-
tion and meeting the right group of people is still important.
“I don’t think you should drop 
out of school,” he said. “Just be-
cause you are deciding that school 
is not for you, you gotta f---ing work 
harder than anybody else now.”
Dobrik said that at the peak 
of his YouTube career, he made 
$270,000 per month posting three 
to five vlogs a week. 
He said YouTube stopped mon-
etizing his videos due to inappro-
priate content a couple of years 
ago, and he hasn’t profited off of 
the platform since. With five times 
as many views on YouTube, he 
said he’d be making $1 million per 
month if monetized.
During the 15-minute student 
Q&A, students asked Dobrik for his 
favorite piece of advice. 
“If you turn face to sunshine, all 
the shadows fall behind you,” he 
answered.
Jenna Williams, an 18-year-old 
UF business freshman, said she has 
been watching the YouTubers for 
years and was excited to see them 
live.
“It was really cool to see them 
having a normal conversation just 
about their lives, their goals and 
their futures,” she said. “They kind 
of just make me forget about all the 
stresses that are going on in my 
life.”
Williams said she enjoyed the 
distraction.  Her favorite part of 
the show was learning about the 
behind-the-scenes of their videos.
Kaylinn Escobar, an 18-year old 
UF public health freshman, said 
she’s a fan of all three YouTubers 
and was stoked to hear that UF 
would be hosting them for the Ac-
cent event.
“I really enjoyed the night,” she 
said. “I was able to forget about my 
calculus homework for just a little 
bit.”
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgCody Ko, Noel Miller and David Dobrik 
distract students with humor
Over 1,900 students attended Cody Ko and Noel Miller’s 
show, and more than 2,200 watched David Dobrik’s
Ashley Hicks / The Alligator BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
Looking for driver to drive kids after school to 
activities and home. Must have clean drivers li-
cense record and insurance. Text 352 359-4199                               
2-15-21-2-14
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Envir.
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training available
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501
3-1-21-5-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         4-19-21-15-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
We are seeking current 4-40 & 2-20 licensed 
insurance producers for a new Property and 
Casualty Agency opening soon in the Ocala and 
Gainesville areas. Must have license before hire. 
Flexible schedule, competitive pay, base wage 
plus commission and bonuses. If interested 
please email amandamree@gmail.com with 
your contact information to set up an interview.
3-8-21-8-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-14BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
solution on page 10● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 
or visit RefrigerantFinders.com 
2-8-2-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-13
14 Help Wanted
Ahern Rentals is expanding
within the Florida Market!
In this ever-growing industry,
we strive to find qualified
candidates to join our Ahern
team & continue to
the Ahern Family traditions
as we aim for success in new & innovative ways.
WE ARE HIRING FOR (bold)
-Outside Sales Reps
-Sales Manager 
-Field Service Tech
-Class A & B CDL Drivers 
-Service Manager
-Rental Counter/Dispatch
-Class A & B Mechanics
-Parts Supervisor
-Wash rack/Yard Personnel
-Shops Mechanic
-Parts Clerk
TOP PAY & BENEFITS OFFERED
Please e-mail your resume to: 
shawnoc@ahern.com
Cell: 916-335-9308
2-8-1-141For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
★★LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION ★★
2 bedroom houses & apartments 
all price ranges
pets arranged
text or call 352-359-2304
2-8-21-5-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
3 Sublease
Sublease in LynCourt Square 1st Floor, fur -
nished 2br/2ba, W/D, Male, Individual lease 
required. $475/month 1blk from UF SW 
3rd Ave & SW 12th St. Call 407-234-7438.      
2-15-21-3-3
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
Split Oak Firewood
Great for bonfires & fireplaces $75 for 1/4 of 
a cord stacked and delivered. Or you pick 
up in Ocala $60 for 1/4 of a cord. Call Mike 
352-572-1261.                             3-1-21-5-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-10
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"12 Autos
answers on page 101. What Seattle Se -
ahawks defender scored 
a safety 12 seconds 
into Super Bowl XLVIII 
when he tackled Denver 
Broncos running back 
Knowshon Moreno in the 
end zone?
2. The "Blake Street Bombers" -- Larry 
Walker, Andres Galarraga, Dante Bichette 
and Vinny Castilla -- were members of what 
MLB team in the mid-1990s?
3. What club did astronaut Alan B. Shepard 
use to hit golf balls on the moon during the 
Apollo 14 mission in 1971?
4. Who was knocked out by Muhammad 
Ali's controversial "phantom punch" in the 
first round of a May 1965 heavyweight box -
ing championship rematch?
5. What style of cheese do competitors 
chase down a hill in England's famous Coo -
per's Hill Cheese-Rolling and Wake event?
6. Montreal Canadiens goaltender Gump 
Worsley suffered a concussion in a 1967 
road game against the New York Rangers 
after being hit in the head by what?
7. In 1938, what American tennis player 
won the Grand Slam -- all four major tour -
naments -- in a single calendar year?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
By Jared Goudsmit
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/08/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/08/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 8, 2021
ACROSS
1 Swedish pop 
group with the hit 
“Chiquitita”
5 Top dog
10 Trojan War hero
14 Stroller, in 
Sheffield
15 Give up, 
informally
16 Serenity “before 
the storm”
17 Foamy tubful for 
unwinding
19 Excessive 
publicity
20 Needlelike 
engraving tools
21 Mae __, first 
Black woman in 
space
23 Airer of Tyler 
Perry’s “The Oval”
24 Harmonic
25 “Last Week 
Tonight” network
27 Lumber on a 
diamond
33 Deli sandwich, 
initially
34 Nobelist Wiesel
35 Use the exit
36 On the __: 
quarreling
38 Inn offering a 
morning meal, 
briefly ... or a 
hint to six puzzle 
answers
41 Whole heap
42 Turns to soup, as 
ice cream
44 Mystical vibe
46 Jest
47 Bryan Cranston 
crime drama
50 Investigative 
journalist Nellie
51 “Check it out for 
yourself!”
52 Bird in Liberty 
Mutual ads
54 Ali of “Love Story”
57 Artist’s board
61 Loafing around
62 Fish-and-chips 
coating
64 Old Russian ruler
65 Hosp. trauma pro
66 Caramel-filled 
candy
67 Shift and Tab
68 Praises highly
69 Small billsDOWN
1 Police dept. 
alerts
2 Very dry, as 
Champagne
3 Infant’s source of 
nourishment
4 Easygoing pace
5 Help a robber, 
say
6 Experiment sites
7 Links org.
8 Assassin’s 
assignment
9 Greek goddess 
of wisdom
10 Trojan War hero
11 Blue birds
12 Purina rival
13 Marvel-ous 
heroes?
18 Do not disturb
22 Retail complex
24 Like many first-
time workers
25 Cold War threat
26 Clearer, as a sky
28 Priest’s robe
29 One-named 
“Chandelier” 
singer
30 Icon with a left-
facing arrow
31 Be of use to32 Bear in a kid’s 
bed
37 Walks drunkenly
39 Name, as a 
knight
40 Bikini top
43 Toffee candy bar
45 Journalist __ 
Rogers St. Johns
48 Author Allende
49 Period “ushered 
in”
53 Paris subway54 Rocking  
Jagger
55 Axlike tool
56 Potter’s  
material
57 Jab
58 Elementary 
lesson
59 Marketing prefix
60 Greek 
matchmaker
63 Tulane URL 
ending
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/02/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/02/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 2, 2021
ACROSS
1 Morse code 
component
5 John Wick, for 
one
11 Wedding 
reception VIPs
14 Puerto Rico, por 
ejemplo
15 Blueprint
16 Legendary bird 
of prey
17 *Carpe diem
19 Rap sheet letters
20 “Zip your lip!”
21 Lust or greed
22 “And how!”
23 *Be the first to 
begin
27 Hug
29 Mom’s mom
30 Extended pd. 
away from work
31 Notable period
33 Commercial 
charge
37 U.K. network
38 *Party gifts 
container
41 Coffee dispenser
42 Invite for
44 Aggregate
45 Container cover
46 Escape clauses
49 Letters in 
alphabet soup
52 *Act in 
desperation
56 Retinal cells
57 Fannie or Ginnie 
follower
58 Silently 
understood
61 Dismissal 
metaphor, with 
“the”
62 Familiar slogan 
... and what each 
answer to a 
starred clue is?
65 A-lister
66 Wind instruments
67 Biter on a pooch
68 Nonetheless
69 Corporate jet 
maker
70 Hide partner
DOWN
1 Frisbee, for one
2 Befuddled
3 Shoe with a 
strap that nearly 
encircles the ankle4 More smoke-
filled
5 FDR’s  
successor
6 German pronoun 
found in half of 
Munich?
7 What we have 
here
8 Highway divider
9 Actress Seales of 
“Insecure”
10 Opposing vote
11 Emmy category
12 Phoenix’s 2019 
Best Actor role
13 Few and far 
between
18 “At Last” singer 
James
22 Hardly any
24 Taiwanese PC 
maker
25 Queen of 
Olympus
26 Reel trouble
27 Napoleon’s 1814 
place of exile
28 Unruly crowds
32 Tummy muscles
34 Comprehensive
35 Shallowest Great 
Lake
36 Goals38 Rise, as prices
39 Batter’s job in a 
squeeze play
40 Eros, in Rome
43 Discard
47 Husk-wrapped 
cantina food
48 Something 
to update on 
Facebook
50 Solemn vow
51 “Whistle While 
You Work” septet52 Turkey topper
53 “Chicago” 
showgirl Hart
54 Highly skilled
55 Splinter  
groups
59 Understanding 
words
60 Hardwood tree
62 Ozone-depleting 
chemical
63 Farm layer
64 Free TV spot
02/01/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org16 Health Services 20 Entertainment
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
11..    ________  ssttoorrmm
11..    AAssppiirreedd  55..    GGiivvee  ooffff  lliigghhtt
22..    ________  oonnee66..    SSttoocckkppiillee
33..    BBrriilllliiaanntt  ggrreeeenn77..    MMeerrcchhaanntt,,  ddeeaalleerr
44..    TTyyppee  ooff  mmeettaall  wwoorrkkeerr  WWEENNRRTTII
EEDDIIHHSSWWNNEESSIIHH
HHRRAADDOO
EEHHEETTNNIIRR
AAEEMMDDLLEERRDDEETTAARRRR
DDEERRWWLLEEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--WWiinntteerr    55AA--SShhiinnee    66AA--HHooaarrdd    77AA--TTrraaddeerr
11DD--WWiisshheedd    22DD--NNeeiitthheerr    33DD--EEmmeerraalldd    44DD--WWeellddeerr    BB--EEiisseennhhoowweerr22--88--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  ppoolliittiiccaall  aanndd  mmiilliittaarryy  lleeaaddeerr  sseerrvveedd  aass  pprreessiiddeenntt  
ooff  CCoolluummbbiiaa  UUnniivveerrssiittyy  bbeettwweeeenn  11994488  aanndd  11995500..
BONUS
Sports Quiz  answers1. Cliff Avril. 
2. The Colorado Rockies.
3. A modified Wilson 6-iron.
4. Sonny Liston.5. Double Gloucester.
6. An egg thrown from the 
upper deck.
7. Don Budge.: PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
 alligatoralligator
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021
CrytpoQuote  answerThe path to my fixed
purpose is laid with iron
rails, whereon my soul is
grooved to run.
—Herman Melville
pleaseplease   recyclerecycle
 this newspaper. this newspaper.
thank you.thank you.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
24 Pets
FROZEN RAW BEEF
In Bulk For Your Pets.
$1.50/lb. Call Mike, 334-414-7297.
2-8-2-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsAnother postponement
Florida will have to wait to visit Tennessee as the game scheduled for Feb. 10 was postponed 
due to COVID-19 protocols. No make-up date has been determined at this time. Start your 
Tuesdays with the 
alligatorSports 
newsletter. Subscribe 
at alligator.org.FEATURE
ROLLER REBELS ARE ANXIOUS TO SKATE AGAIN
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Marilee Griffin walked into the Martin Luther King Jr. 
Multipurpose Center on Oct. 5, 2019, sat on the creaky blue 
bleachers and buckled her shiny, dark red skateboard helmet.
The helmet matches everything about Griffin — mirroring 
her retro red lipstick and fiery-colored hair. 
She then strapped on her black-and-red-outlined knee pads 
and wrist guards, slid on her rose-colored knee-high socks and 
then her quad black skates with red laces. 
On the track, she’s night and day from the nine other skat-
ers zipping around the 88-foot, oval-shaped roller derby. Most-
ly because she pairs her red accessories with her grass-colored 
Swamp City Sirens jersey. 
That’s why the Gainesville Roller Rebels call Griffin the 
“Red Daring.” Her derby name is a play on the literary fallacy 
— red herring. 
For many Roller Rebels, roller derby is an aspect of who 
they are. 
Many of them formed long-lasting relationships through 
the team. President Chelsea “Queen Slayer” Tobias has met 
some of her closest friends like Griffin — and even her partner 
through the Roller Rebels. 
When their first bout in March was canceled due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, they struggled to replace the void left 
behind and overcome the challenges the pandemic presented.
But for now, let’s recount when times were simpler. The 
Oct. 5, 2019 bout.
The Gold Coast Derby Grrls and the Roller Rebels’ affiliate 
team, the Sirens, were about to clash as Griffin hit the track.
She and the team weren't confident her squad would 
emerge from the battle victorious because the Derby Grrls, a 
team repping Broward County, was undefeated. 
“We were all kind of intimidated,” Griffin said. “We weren’t 
expecting to win this game.”
Swamp City stayed within striking distance through the 
first 50 minutes of the bout, trailing by only a handful on the 
scoreboard. That’s when Griffin and her team started to be-
lieve in themselves. 
The Roller Rebels finally generated enough momentum 
through a massive run from their jammer, Lily Jane Wood-
ward, tilting the seesaw in their favor with 10 minutes left on 
the game clock. 
Woodward weaved through opposing defenders one by 
one, like navigating a crowded bar scene. She lapped the five 
Derby Grrls four times for a total of 20 points in a two-minute 
jam session. 
Woodward’s impeccable run catapulted Swamp City to its 
first lead. The Sirens never glanced in their rearview mirror. 
In the midst of the commotion, Griffin felt as if she were in 
a sports movie like “Hoosiers.” Swamp City was accomplish-
ing the unthinkable. 
The crowd of 150 Sirens fans went into a frenzy when they 
realized their team pulled off the upset while the game clock 
slowly trickled to triple zeroes like sand in an hourglass. 
“They started stomping on the bleachers that I could feel it 
(on the track),” she said. 
The buzzer sound filled the rink, and the Sirens knocked off 
the Derby Grrls 147-138. Griffin immediately started jumping 
with her teammates and hugged each of them as if they won a 
world championship. 
 •   •   •
Then, the new year came and March skated by. The Roller 
Rebels were geared up for the 700-mile trek to Virginia Beach, 
Virginia, for their first bout of the season. 
It was one of the rare occasions where the team left the 
Sunshine State for a game. 
Training since January, they felt ready to make leaps on the track and build off their 8-2 record from the year before. 
But as March 21 got closer, so did a tidal wave surging off 
the coasts of the U.S. After a few sparse COVID-19 cases earlier 
in the year, the U.S. had a full-blown pandemic on its hands by 
the start of the month. 
Griffin became the captain several months after the bout 
against the Derby Grrls. Tobias, the Roller Rebels’ board of 
directors and she were glued to the local and national news 
channels trying to reach a decision about whether their bout 
was feasible. 
Despite no confirmed cases in Alachua County, they still 
made the decision to cancel the match because of how many 
cases popped up throughout the state. 
Devastation spread throughout the team like a wildfire. But 
they all understood it was the right decision. 
To Griffin, it was a hard pill to swallow.
“It’s like you don’t know what you’re gonna do with your 
time,” she said. “We had invested an incredible amount of 
energy and time into getting prepared for our season.”
The three months’ worth of blood, sweat and tears evolved 
into pain over a season that never happened.
The Roller Rebels are an official member of the Women’s 
Flat Track Derby Association. The association has been more 
proactive and conservative in its approach to resume play 
compared to other leagues. Teams’ cities must meet a low CO-
VID-19 positivity rate before they can return to normal playing 
conditions without fans. 
At first glance, not many would guess that Cat “Bootyvi-
cious” Clifford, an aggressive blocker who usually flaunts her 
faded black eyeshadow and goth-like lipstick, is a nurse man-
ager at North Florida Regional Medical Center. 
Despite her rugged exterior, her tattoos tell a kinder story. 
She has a nightingale on her right arm to represent her passion 
for nursing and a larger one on her left arm with double mean-
ing: it shows her appreciation for space and constellations and 
being the mother to her two children.
Cat witnessed first-hand how deadly the pandemic was day 
in and day out. It’s why coming to terms with the season’s 
termination came easily. 
Her husband, Thomas “Mr. Vicious” Clifford, is also on the 
frontlines of the pandemic in the Alachua County 911 Call Cen-
ter. The league’s decision to close until positivity rates were 
low was a good one, he said, because they have manned the 
pandemic’s battlefront. 
For the Roller Rebels to conduct an outdoor practice, the 
14-day positive infection rate in Alachua County needs to dip 
below 5%. In that no-contact practice, only five players are 
allowed and social distancing must be respected. The county 
currently has a 5.3% rate as of Feb. 3. 
While the Roller Rebels hope they can return to the track 
soon, Griffin and Tobias urged the team to stay active by skat-
ing in their neighborhood or a nearby park. They also used 
Zoom and social media like Florida teams did this offseason. 
As captain of the squad, Griffin sent players workouts to 
complete. The Roller Rebels shared what they call “sweaty 
selfies,” drenched in sweat as if they just went swimming. 
They use it as pressure, encouraging teammates to stay in 
shape until whenever practices resume. 
They analyzed old roller derby championships on You-
Tube. Their captains stopped the tape like a professor in class 
to emphasize a lesson. They also relaxed completing Zoom 
yoga and belted out their favorite songs on karaoke night like 
performing a concert. 
At the height of the shutdown, the team picked up a staple 
in Gainesville — a college-style drinking game. 
They started “icing” each other. A team member would 
drive to another player’s home and drop off a cold bottle of 
Smirnoff Ice....
Read more at alligator.orgGainesville Roller Rebels stay afloat amid pandemic
To say that UF’s defense 
wasn’t great last year would 
be too kind.
The Gators ranked 83rd 
nationally in yards per 
game allowed and 72nd in third 
down conversion percentage. With 
a dynamic offense led by quarter-
back and Heisman candidate Kyle 
Trask and a slew of weapons like 
former tight end Kyle Pitts and for-
mer wide receiver Kadarius Toney, even a slightly better 
defense could have possibly propelled them past teams like 
Alabama  — and almost certainly would have propelled 
them over teams like Texas A&M and LSU.
This offseason, Florida made some moves to fix it. They 
ditched safeties coach Ron English and cornerbacks coach 
Torrian Gray and replaced them with former Auburn de-
fensive backs coach Wesley McGriff and former USF cor-
nerbacks coach Jules Montinar. Both are experienced hires 
who should fill in for the expunged staff nicely.
But there is an elephant in the room. After this recent 
round of hirings and firings, it’s still taking up space: Todd 
Grantham.
Grantham has had an interesting career. Prior to Florida, 
he had not lasted more than three years as a defensive co-
ordinator anywhere he had held the position, including the 
Cleveland Browns, Georgia Bulldogs and Louisville Cardi-
nals. In fact, he hasn’t lasted more than four years at any 
coaching job he’s ever had.
And there’s a reason for that. 
Grantham’s Cleveland Browns struggled massively on 
the defensive side of the ball, managing a tenure-best 16th 
ranked team in total defense in 2005 before sliding to 27th 
and then 30th in the next two years. 
Grantham’s first three years at Georgia saw the Bulldogs 
stay within the top 40 in total defense with a high of 18th 
in 2012. The team then slid to a miserable 89th during his 
last year. 
He was most successful in Louisville, with his highest 
ranking coming in at 25th his first year there and staying 
within the top 40 for the rest of his tenure.
This will be Grantham’s fifth year with head coach Dan 
Mullen after following Mullen from  Mississippi State. With 
a shaky resume and a relative lack of success, why did Mul-
len decide to stick with the man in charge of Florida’s flail-
ing defense?
To put it simply, Mullen has trouble firing coordinators 
he hires.
In the 12 years Mullen has been a head coach in the SEC, 
he has only fired a single coordinator — Peter Sirmon, who 
he fired in favor of Grantham. Mullen is loyal to those at the 
helm of his offenses and defenses, and he appears reluctant 
to fire someone who is quite literally his neighbor.
In this case, allowing Grantham to lead the defensive 
unit is only delaying the Gators from making it to a national 
championship with every year he commands the unit. 
There’s a reason Grantham doesn’t typically last with 
teams. Until Mullen finally decides to let him go, every off-
season change on the defensive coaching staff will likely be 
the wrong one.Florida made defensive 
changes, but not the 
right oneHell's Wells
River Wells
twitter: @riverhwells
email: rwells@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2021
BASEBALL
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
If you ask the Florida Gators baseball 
team how they expect their new ballpark to 
play, you’ll get one answer — big.
Dead center measures 400 feet, outdis-
tancing 4 MLB stadiums, and the walls in 
the right-center and left-center gaps each sit 
380 feet from home plate, head coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said.
“You’ve got to make a lot of hard contact 
to get the ball out of the yard,” he said.
However, the differences the players 
wanted to highlight expanded beyond how 
far the outfielders have to run to get to the 
warning track. The project wasn’t just the 
construction of a diamond and some seats. 
It was an investment into the entire base-
ball program, and the team is reaping the 
benefits.
The ballpark comes equipped with a new 
pitching lab along the third-base side, right-
handed pitcher Tommy Mace said. Some 
new technology is also available for pitchers 
to hone their craft, including a Yakkertech.
A Yakkertech is a stereo imaging system 
that uses a camera to instantly measure 
data from a pitch. It aims to provide accu-
rate, immediate data from ball tracking to 
player motion and provide pitchers a deeper 
look into their throws. 
The Yakkertech measures a pitch’s veloc-
ity, pitch location and movement through 
the air. It also calculates the ball’s spin rate, 
which affects the direction the ball moves 
through the air and the impression the bat-ter has as the ball flies toward home plate. 
The camera also measures the ball’s 
observed spin axis, the measure of direc-
tion the ball is spinning in the air from the 
pitcher’s perspective, and spin efficiency, 
the ball’s useful spin (the amount of spin 
on the ball that contributes to in-air move-
ment) divided by total spin. All of these cal-
culations factor into how pitchers can opti-
mize every move they make and every pitch 
they throw. 
Equipment like a Yakkertech can show 
pitchers like Mace things about the way 
they throw that are invisible to the naked eye. If Florida’s pitchers have direct access 
to information like spin rate and spin effi-
ciency and improve upon those numbers, 
they can add velocity and movement to 
their pitches, a thought that shouldn’t ex-
cite opposing batters.
The new pitching lab has a camera that 
shows pitch designs. While Mace said it 
hasn’t been a primary bullpen for the team, 
it’s been instrumental for Gators to explore 
new pitches and sharpen their skills.
Another novel feature installed this off-
season along Hull Road was the turf in-
field behind the right-field foul pole, which O’Sullivan and third baseman Kirby McMul-
len both praised.
“We’ve been putting that to good use 
already, and I think it’s going to be really 
good here come during the spring too,” Mc-
Mullen said.
The new infield allows the team to get 
more work done fielding and baserunning 
in the same amount of time, O’Sullivan said. 
Other top teams in the SEC East have turf 
infields of their own. The new addition will 
allow the Gators to better compete against 
divisional opponents like Vanderbilt, Ten-
nessee, Kentucky and Missouri.
“Obviously, your first goal as a program 
is to win the East,” O’Sullivan said. “That 
gives you an opportunity to obviously win 
an SEC Championship.”
However, all the shiny new toys and 
sparkling amenities haven’t lessened the 
memories of Alfred A. McKethan Stadium, 
the Gators’ old home of more than 30 years. 
O’Sullivan said his son rewatched his 
favorite Florida moment last week: Austin 
Langworthy’s 11th-inning walk-off against 
Auburn that sent the orange and blue to the 
College World Series in 2018 — a moment 
cemented in Gator lore for all time.
No matter how much weight nostalgia 
carries, it always gives way to progress. 
While the seats of Florida Ballpark don’t 
hold decades of history, what’s held within 
the walls sets the Gators up to etch even 
more.
Contact Ryan Haley at rhaley@alligator.
org or follow him on Twitter @ryan_dhaleyGators enjoying new Florida Ballpark and facilities in first offseason
Ryan Haley/ /The Alligator 
Florida’s baseball team is anxious to restart after last season’s unceremonious ending.
