We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperEastside High School
Eastside High School founded an alumni association,  pg. 4
Gainesville won’t “Free the Nipple”
The proposal to de-gender toplessness died in a City 
Commission vote,  pg. 3Stick it
What happens when a gymnast nails a landing? 
In Florida’s case, gymna sts earn more than a 
higher rating, as athletes who stick their landings 
get to celebrate in style , pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 21
ABOUT 80 STUDENTS 
ATTENDED THE THIRD 
ANNIVERSARY VIGIL 
IN PERSON 
By Valeriya Antonshchuk 
and Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writers
Anisha Saripalli’s face 
glowed in the light of 17 candles 
representing her former Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School 
students and staff members. She 
read their names out loud in a 
solemn voice.
“Alyssa Alhadeff. Scott Beigel. 
Martin Duque Anguiano ,” she 
began.
For many people from 
Parkland, Florida, Valentine’s Day 
is no longer defined by chocolate 
hearts and roses. Instead, it marks 
the anniversary of a mass shooting 
at Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School that killed 17 people. 
“Nicholas Dworet. Aaron 
Feis. Jaime Guttenberg ,” Saripalli 
continued. 
About 80 students gathered 
in Plaza of the Americas on the 
evening of Feb. 14 to observe the 
third anniversary of the shooting. 
March for Our Lives Gainesville, 
a local branch of the national 
organization formed immediately 
following the tragedy to advocate 
for gun reform, honors this 
anniversary each year with a vigil 
at Plaza of the Americas. 
Due to COVID-19, the MSD 
Anniversary Vigil took place in 
a hybrid format this year, giving 
people the option to attend in-
person or through Zoom. About an 
additional 30 participants joined 
virtually.
Nearly all in-person participants 
lit candles as event organizers 
reminded participants to maintain 
social distancing. Somber students 
sought comfort in each other, 
embracing during the emotional 
speeches that followed.
Chris Hixon. Luke Hoyer. Cara 
Loughran.
More than 20 people stood in 
the crowd when UF President 
Kent Fuchs talked about Carmen 
Schentrup, a 16-year-old MSD 
senior who was admitted to the UF 
Honors program just days before 
she was killed in the shooting. 
Carmen had dreams of becoming 
a medical scientist and developing 
cures for diseases like ALS.
Carmen was excited to become 
a Gator but didn’t live long enough to claim her place in the 
UF community, Fuchs said.
“I grieve for Carmen, I grieve 
for her classmates and for all of 
you here who indeed will have 
a lifelong connection to this 
unspeakable tragedy,” he said. 
Gina Montalto. Joaquin ‘Guac’ 
Oliver. Alaina Petty.
Alyson Moriarty, co-president 
of March for Our Lives Gainesville, 
spoke about the importance of the 
annual vigil.
“It gives people a space to 
reunite and find that community 
they had back in high school,” 
the 22-year-old UF behavioral 
and cognitive neuroscience senior 
said. “I think that’s a huge part 
of the vigils is providing that 
community.”
Students in March for Our Lives 
Gainesville feel a responsibility to 
keep the event going after they 
graduate to provide a platform, 
Moriarty said.
“We’re doing this whether 
they’re here or not because we’re 
not gonna forget,” she said.
Saripalli, current co-
president of March for Our Lives 
Gainesville, is set to replace 
Moriarty next year as president. 
Bringing the community together 
for this anniversary was especially 
important during the loneliness 
many community members felt 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, 
she said.
“This is kind of like a bittersweet 
reunion among the MSD kids 
and people from South Florida,” 
a 19-year-old UF biomedical 
engineering junior, said.
After her speech, Saripalli lit 
17 candles to honor the victims 
of the shooting and then held a 
19 second moment of silence to 
honor the two students who died 
of suicide in the year following 
the shooting. She read the victims’ 
names aloud as she lit the candles.
Meadow Pollack. Helena 
Ramsay.
Maia Hebron, vice president of 
March for Our Lives Gainesville, 
was a senior at MSD when the 
shooting happened and said she 
felt nervous knowing Sunday was 
its third anniversary.
“I came to UF with a few of my 
close friends from home. It was 
definitely a comforting feeling to 
know I was coming with people 
who understood what I’ve been 
through because we went through 
it together,” said Hebron, a 
21-year-old UF communication UF WILL COLLABORATE WITH FDOT, 
THE CITY, AND UPD TO ENACT 
TRAFFIC SAFETY MEASURES 
By Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writer
A month after Kailey Kiss’ Kappa Kappa Gamma 
sorority sister, Maggie Paxton, died in a hit-and-run on 
West University Avenue, she witnessed the crash that 
killed UF first-year Sophia Lambert on the same stretch 
of road.
Now, she wants to make sure it never happens 
again.
Kiss created Florida Not One More, a student-run 
organization that advocates for traffic safety on and 
around UF’s campus and gives students a platform 
to voice traffic-related concerns, two weeks after 
witnessing the crash. 
Florida Not One More teamed up with Gainesville 
Citizens for Active Transportation, a non-profit 
organization dedicated to making transportation safe 
and accessible for all people, to ask UF to take decisive 
action and lay out several demands.
Both organizations are advocating to reduce the 
speed limit on University Avenue and Southwest 13th 
Street from 30 mph to 20 mph and add more pedestrian 
crosswalks on University Avenue. 
The Florida Department of Transportation plans to lower the speed limit on University Avenue to 25 
mph by this summer after installing temporary speed 
tables — speed bumps with flat tops — between 
Gale Lemerand Drive and Northwest 19th Street, and 
between Northwest 14th Street and Northwest 19th 
Street. The main campus roads have a posted speed 
limit of 20 mph.
UF and FDOT will also collaborate on the creation 
of two crosswalks at the intersections of University 
Avenue with Northwest 16th Street and Northwest 19th 
Street set to begin this Fall, according to a UF email sent 
Feb. 3.
These crossings are meant to lower speeds on 
University Avenue by increasing the number of times 
cars have to stop at intersections, FDOT Communications 
Specialist Troy Roberts wrote in an email.
Florida Not One More and GCAT also want UPD to 
have a more active presence on University Avenue and 
enforce traffic laws through the GatorSTEP program 
until more permanent changes can be made. Florida Not 
One More has documented the lack of police presence 
on University Avenue.
Kiss said she and her organization want to work with 
UF to solve this problem and won’t stop until something 
gets done. She said its goal is to stop traffic dangers from 
causing more tragedies.
“In the words of Tom Petty, we’re not backing 
down,” she said. “And we will fight ’till the end to make Gainesville remembers Parkland shooting victims
Preventing tragedy: New safety 
measures on University Avenue
SEE TRAFFIC,  PAGE 5 SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 5
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Two people light each other’s candles during an event on Sunday, Feb. 14, 2021 to 
honor those killed during a school shooting in Parkland, Florida three years ago.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 21
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:MORE THAN 20 CATS AND 
DOGS WERE ADOPTED 
DURING THE 
WEEKLONG EVENT
By Amy Dunn
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Nathaly Barrantes and 
Tyson Torchia arrived at the 
Alachua County Animal Services 
building Friday to play with a 
5-month-old kitten they saw 
online, it was love at first sight. 
The couple was pleasantly 
surprised to pay less than $15 in 
adoption fees when they took him 
home later that day.
“We saw him and were like, 
‘He’s so cute. We have to get him,’” 
said Barrantes, a 19-year-old Santa 
Fe College biology freshman.
The shelter, located at 3400 
NE 53rd Ave., held its Valentine’s 
Day adoption event from Feb. 
9  to Feb. 13, said Nikki Healy, 
administrative coordinator at 
Animal Services. Though adoption 
fees are normally $20 for cats and 
$40 for dogs, all fees were $14 for both animals during the weeklong 
event. 
The shelter reduced the fees to 
encourage more people to adopt, 
she said. 
So far, there have been 46 
adoptions in February and about 20 
during the weeklong event, Healy 
said. The shelter has seen about an 
even number of adoptions for dogs 
and cats.
“Hopefully, this weekend will 
be like a big bang,” Healy said.
On Jan. 12, the shelter had 
about 70 dogs and 40 to 50 cats up 
for adoption, Healy said. Alachua 
County Animal Services is an open-
admissions shelter, which means it 
accepts any dog or cat that needs 
a home.
Barrantes said for the past few 
months, she and her boyfriend 
were looking to get a cat and finally 
decided to go to the shelter after 
seeing the kitten on the shelter’s 
website. The couple was unaware 
of the Valentine’s Day promotion. 
“As soon as he saw us, he 
was purring, and he instantly 
started playing with us,” Torchia, 
a 20-year-old Gainesville resident, said. 
The kitten, a barnyard tabby, 
was named Finch by the shelter, 
but the couple renamed him Silas. 
They plan for him to live as an 
indoor cat at their Gainesville 
apartment along with their Shih 
Tzu, Leo. 
The shelter holds events and 
promotions as often as it can, 
Healy said. This past winter, it 
held a Grinch-themed event with 
free adoptions. 
However, the shelter 
discourages giving animals as gifts 
and hope all future owners will 
come in and interact with their 
animals before choosing to adopt, 
she said.352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgValentine’s Day adoptions were $14 
at Alachua County Animal Services
Amy Dunn / / Alligator Contributing Writer
Tyson Torchia and Nathaly Barrantes hold their new kitten, Silas, at 
Alachua County Animal Services.Amy Dunn / / Alligator Contributing Writer
Photo wall of 12 of the 70 adoptable dogs at the Alachua County Animal Services.
CORRECTIONS:
• UF Health and the 
Alachua County Health 
Department administered 
vaccines at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium on Feb. 5 and 
Brenda McCue received 
a text message about her 
appointment on Feb. 4. 
That Alligator reported 
otherwise in the Feb. 8 
print issue
• A photo caption in the 
Feb. 8 issue incorrectly 
identified Gwendolyn P. 
Hunt in the photo.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
THE CITY COMMISSION 
WILL BEGIN DRAFTING 
LANGUAGE CHANGES TO 
DEGENDER CITY CODES 
By Michelle Holder 
Alligator Staff Writer 
In a nail-biting vote, the 
Gainesville City Commission reject -
ed a proposal that would allow fe -
male toplessness in public. 
The commission voted 3-3 against 
the proposal at a Feb. 11 meeting, 
halting the “Free the Nipple’’ move -
ment in Gainesville but passing 
a plan to begin drafting language 
changes to degender city codes.
Mayor Lauren Poe and Commis -
sioners Adrian Hayes-Santos and 
Reina Saco voted in favor of both 
proposals. Commissioners Gigi Sim -
mons, Gail Johnson and Harvey 
Ward voted against the topless pro -
posal for varying reasons including 
wanting to prioritize other issues in 
the community such as racial justice 
and safety concerns about public nu -
dity.
Commissioner David Arreola, 
who would have broken the tie, was 
absent from the meeting. 
Johnson said she voted for mak -
ing the city’s codes, laws and ordi -
nances gender-neutral by replacing 
words like “him” and “her” with 
gender-neutral pronouns like “they” 
and “them,” but she didn’t agree 
with allowing those with breasts to 
be topless in public for fear of sexual 
assault. 
Johnson wrote in a Facebook 
post she was livid and insulted, and 
the policy “reeks of patriarchy and 
privilege.” As a woman and mother 
of an 11-year-old daughter, the dis -
cussion about female anatomy felt 
dehumanizing and disrespectful, she wrote.
During the meeting, Johnson said 
she felt offended as a Black woman.
“I can say with complete confi -
dence that after all these conversa -
tions that I’ve had this week, I’m 
positive that public nudity is not in 
the top 20 challenges that women 
are facing and something that de -
serves our attention right now,” 
Johnson said.
The initial proposal, introduced 
by Hayes-Santos Jan. 28, included 
an initiative to replace gendered pro -
nouns like “fireman” and “police -
woman,” with neutral ones, such as 
“firefighter” and “police officer,” in 
city policy and legislation. The pro -
posal was intended to stop discrimi -
nation on the basis of gender in writ -
ten laws and codes. It also included 
a proposal to allow all toplessness in 
the city. 
Following a heated public com -
ment session, the commission 
unanimously decided to break up 
the proposal for the city Equity and 
Inclusion Committee and city attor -
ney’s office to begin analyzing pro -
noun changes but not those relating 
to public nudity laws, as the com -
mission will review them later. 
In the U.S., only three states have 
explicit laws against showing female 
breasts in public, including Utah, 
Tennessee and Indiana. Fourteen 
states have ambiguous laws on fe -
male public nudity, such as Florida, 
which has normalized nudist beach -
es in certain areas but retains poli -
cies outlawing female toplessness in 
others.
Gainesville’s current public nu -
dity standard only applies to those 
with female anatomy, where it is il -
legal to expose their breasts.  
Commissioner Saco, who voted 
to allow toplessness, said it’s impor -tant everyone in the community not 
only feels valued and included but 
also protected.
“It’s just more open, more empa -
thetic and reflects the society we live 
in,” Saco said. “We try to be as open 
and inclusive of everyone who could 
live here.”
Gainesville art curator and event 
director Rüts Duplantis said they 
think the city laws should reflect the 
whole spectrum of people who exist.
“It helps harbor the parameters of 
safe space within our city,” Duplan -
tis, who is gender-fluid, said. “I think 
that is a safety that applies to me. It’s 
so easy to change words on paper 
and for it to mean that much more to 
the people that it pertains to.” 
They said this proposal would 
help the city view everyone as equal 
in the eyes of the law. 
“When you’re able to feel more 
true and solidified in your identity, 
you’re more solidified in who you 
are overall,” they said. “That flows 
into progress and productivity and 
community and communication and 
every aspect of your life I feel.”
Hannah Hill, a 24-year-old own -
er of Flow Space yoga studio in 
Gainesville, said she first introduced 
the idea of gender-fluid terms to the 
Gainesville city commission about a 
year ago. 
Hill said society is no longer a 
two-gendered system, and individu -
als who identify as transgender, non-
binary or another gender find them -
selves no longer fitting into the laws 
and codes.
An estimated 0.6% of adults, or 
about 1.4 million, identify as trans -
gender in the U.S., according to a 
2016 study at the UCLA Williams In -
stitute of Law. In the state of Florida, 
0.66% of the population identifies as 
transgender. It is important to note the study relied on self-reported 
data, so it may not reflect everyone 
who identifies as transgender. 
“They find themselves being 
questioned of, what is this law mean 
to me? Where do I fit in the gray area 
of this?” Hill said. 
The root of the issues is the sexu -
alization of the female body, Hill 
said. Breastfeeding mothers, who 
often must hide in bathrooms or 
private places to feed their children, 
will be affected by the legalization of 
toplessness.
It is legal in Florida to breastfeed 
in public, but outright topless nu -
dity is not legal in municipalities, 
according to the Gainesville policy 
program’s preliminary research and 
analysis.
“Why is it that the male nipple 
can be seen in public and the female 
nipple cannot?” she said. “We’re 
talking about women who are doing 
the job of what a woman is naturally 
supposed to do, and somehow in 
our culture, we have sexualized it so 
horribly.”
Trysh Travis, a 56-year-old UF 
associate professor at the Center for 
Gender, Sexualities and Women’s Studies, said she believes the pro -
posal is a gesture toward inclusivity.
But while she said she’d love to 
be able to go topless in the summer, 
it’s not at the top of her priorities.
“I would prefer that my elected 
officials focus on other more conse -
quential aspects of gender inequal -
ity,” she said. “For example, the 
income inequality, that I mentioned 
before, ongoing problems of violence 
against women and girls, lack of ac -
cess to affordable housing, lack of 
access to good education.”
Travis said the taboo of naked 
breasts is the result of the general 
policing of women and people with 
breasts’ sexuality. She mentioned 
Berkley, California’s annual naked 
parade, which emphasizes the ex -
pression of bodily pleasure. 
“Are they for babies to get nutri -
tion? Or, are they for men to get vi -
sual pleasure?” she asked. “We have 
a strange double understanding of 
what women’s breasts are in this 
country.”
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.orgGainesville won’t ‘free the nipple’ following proposal to de-gender toplessness 
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021FACULTY LISTED FIVE DEMANDS OF 
THE UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
UF professor Stephen Mulkey said he 
wouldn’t be surprised if he lost his job for 
criticizing the university administration’s 
COVID-19 response. 
But, that didn’t stop Mulkey and other 
faculty from sharing their complaints about 
UF’s in-person class requirement at a faculty 
union, United Faculty of Florida-UF, news 
conference Feb. 3.
The perception of safety has been lost at 
UF, Mulkey said. 
“Because of the mandates handed down, 
the UF workplace has become dangerous,” 
he said. “Many of my colleagues agree.” 
UFF held the meeting to lay out five de -
mands aimed at university administration. 
The requests center around in-person teach -
ing and how it endangers faculty at a time 
when COVID-19 cases are still high, a more 
contagious variant of the disease is in town 
and students still flock to bars and clubs on 
the weekends. 
The demands included immediately vac -
cinating all faculty members who teach 
in-person courses, expansion of accommo -
dations for faculty who request ADA ac -
commodations, more flexibility for staff to 
organize courses, prioritizing the use of the 
GatorSAFE app for safety of staff and stu -
dents. 
The union also wants to see UF uphold its 
promise of shared governance with faculty, 
which is in the school’s constitution.
After UF invited about 40% of undergrad -
uates back on campus for Spring semester, 
faculty feel they should have been given a 
bigger say in whether their courses are on -
line or face-to-face. The GatorSAFE app 
caused controversy earlier in the semester 
because of a feature that allowed students to 
report professors for not teaching in-person. 
UFF demanded the app be used for safety 
concerns only. 
UFF has been vocal about its opposition 
to the university’s handling of the COVID-19 
pandemic. It has demanded UF reverse its 
reopening plans several times in addition to 
requesting the university accept ADA accom -
modations. The union filed a chapter griev -ance against UF’s Spring 2021 face-to-face 
teaching regulations and UF’s rejection of 
ADA accommodations requests.
UF spokesperson Hessy Fernandez wrote 
in an email there is no evidence of COVID-19 
transmission in classrooms, so far, due to the 
implementation of UF Health’s advice and 
CDC guidelines.
UF Health is distributing vaccines based 
on the governor’s executive order, which pri -
oritizes seniors 65 and older for vaccination, 
Fernandez wrote.
Fernandez did not directly respond to 
questions asking whether UF will be meet -
ing any of UFF’s demands and that UF plans 
to continue the semester with the current 
guidelines in place. 
Mulkey, a lecturer at UF’s School of Natu -
ral Resources and Environment, talked about 
the distrust present among faculty during the 
meeting.
After sending UF an ADA accommodation 
request and proof that he is a current stage 4 
cancer patient, Mulkey waited to hear back. 
He said the university did not respond to 
him until the week of the deadline to receive 
an accommodation, and he was told there 
wouldn’t be a plan in place for weeks to ac -
commodate his ADA request.
“Since this was the week of the final 
deadline to hear about the accommodations, 
I was extremely alarmed,” Mulkey said.
He eventually got the accommodation a 
week after the deadline passed, but only af -
ter persistently pursuing UF, Mulkey said.
Some professors weren’t lucky enough 
to get the same accommodations Mulkey re -
ceived, but many fear losing their jobs if they 
speak up, he said. UF denied 144 requests 
from professors to teach online in the Spring.
Mulkey is not currently tenured and said 
UF could choose to not renew his teaching 
contract for speaking out against university 
policies. 
UFF-UF president Paul Ortiz said fears of 
speaking out among faculty are common not 
just at UF but in all of higher education.
The lack of faculty representation in de -
cision-making was also a big issue on the 
mind of Danielle Hawk, a Gainesville activist 
who runs a Facebook group protesting UF’s 
in-person classes.
“UF should be giving them a seat at the 
table and allowing them to have a say in 
what’s happening,” Hawk said. “Not just a 
symbolic seat at the table, but actually con -sidering the consequences to the commu -
nity.”
Staff at UF has been forced to write open 
letters, start petitions and engage in protests 
instead of having an open conversation with 
the decision-makers at UF, Hawk said.
That same Facebook group put a card -
board tombstone display on the corner of 
University Avenue and SW 13th Street last 
week to protest UF’s reopening policies.
“UF is making decisions that deeply affect 
our community, and they are not our elected 
officials,” Hawk said. “We need to hold them 
accountable.”
UF’s rushed reopening plans not only put 
faculty and students in danger, but also the 
community at large, Gainesville City Com -
missioner Reina Saco said during the meet -
ing. UF has a responsibility to Gainesville to 
meet the demands, she said.
“The demands made today are reasonable 
and thought out for all, not just for UF,” Saco 
said at the conference. “It makes UF a good 
neighbor, and I hope UF listens to those de -
mands.”
Students are more directly affected by 
the university’s policies, and some students spoke out at the news conference.
Jacob Giner, a 19-year-old UF anthropol -
ogy sophomore, said during the meeting 
that hundreds of people party just outside 
his apartment in Midtown every night, and 
these same people may be attending classes 
in person at UF.
The fact that students aren’t notified if 
a classmate tests positive unless they come 
into close contact with them is troubling and 
distracts from the learning environment, 
Giner said during the meeting.
“The HyFlex model has been nothing but 
detrimental to my education,” he said at the 
meeting.
The conference ended with a speech from 
Becky Pringle, president of the National Edu -
cation Association. She applauded the cour -
age the faculty showed at the news confer -
ence and denounced UF’s decision making.
“It doesn’t have to be this way,” Pringle 
said during the meeting. “Our most vulner -
able educators must be given accommoda -
tions.”
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.org
MEMBERS HOPE TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE 
AND SCHOLARSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
Tarcha Rentz believes in creating long lasting change. 
That’s why she helped found a new alumni association at her 
alma mater to engage with her community year-round and up -
lift Black voices.
The 48-year-old East Gainesville native is the president of 
the Eastside High School Alumni Association, which filed to 
become a nonprofit but is still pending state approval. The or -
ganization was formed to commemorate the 50th anniversary 
of the school’s opening. 
Rentz said the goal of the alumni association is to men -
tor current students while also funding school programs and 
scholarships. She said the group is one of the few high school 
alumni associations in the Alachua County Public School sys -
tem. 
“We see this as an opportunity for students to connect with 
students that look like themselves and have similar experienc -
es,” she said. “We come from different cultural and economic 
backgrounds. But we’re all Eastside.”
About 74% of Eastside’s student body are minorities, and 58% of its students are economically disadvantaged, according 
to the U.S. News and World Report.
Rentz said the COVID-19 pandemic makes it easier to en -
gage with residents who no longer live in the city. She hopes 
to show current students the success of Eastside alumni, and 
how success can take many forms.
Cathy Norman, an alumna of Eastside’s class of 1983 who 
works at the school as an attendance clerk, was the first to 
propose the idea in May on an alumni Facebook page. The 
post only garnered a few likes, but Norman said it helped the 
idea gain momentum. 
She said she loves being a part of “Ram Nation,” a refer -
ence to the school’s mascot.
“I wanted them to know that we care about our fellow 
Rams and that we’re there for them,” Norman, 55, said. 
Alishia McDonald, a 47-year-old Gainesville lawyer and 
secretary of the alumni association, said the effort will give 
students much-needed guidance, especially to those who hope 
to become first-generation college students. 
As former student body president of the class of 1991, Mc -
Donald said she wanted to help give back to the school.
“It would have been extremely beneficial to me as a student 
at that time to develop mentor relationships with individuals 
interested in my profession,” McDonald said. “Sometimes it 
can be something as simple as filling out FAFSA, or asking: 
‘How do I get funding to go to school?’”Eastside, which is widely known for its International Bac -
calaureate program, was desegregated in 1969. But some ineq -
uities persist today, such as having more economically disad -
vantaged students than schools Buchholz High School in West 
Gainesville. 
Dana Self Powers, a 60-year old Gainesville resident and 
alumni association treasurer, graduated from Eastside in 1978. 
Powers didn’t go to college, so she said she wants to help 
students realize that attending a university isn’t the only way to 
have a successful career. While the  school emphasizes magnet 
and college preparatory programs like International Baccalau -
reate, many successful alumni have technical careers, such as 
the owners of Brittany’s Fine Jewelry and Quality Plumbing of 
Gainesville, she said.
“Sometimes I think those students who go to Eastside that 
aren’t in IB are forgotten,” Powers said. “We have a ton of 
alumni out there who were successful before IB.”
Ultimately, the alumni association hopes to help students 
with fewer resources reach their full potential, regardless of 
their current circumstances.
“There are plenty of children that deserve to be recog -
nized,” Powers said. “We needed to step up and be a model.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgFaculty union elevates concerned voices over UF COVID-19 protocols
Eastside High School Alumni Association to mentor current studentsJulia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
A collection of tombstone shaped signs and a banner calling for the end of in-person 
classes at the University of Florida was set-up on the corner of 13th Street and 
University Avenue on Thursday, Feb. 4, 2021.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
sure that they follow through with their plans 
and take immediate action to make University 
Avenue safe.”
University Avenue
Among the long-term solutions proposed by 
UF is a Complete Streets study and safety audit 
of University Avenue and Southwest 13th Street 
conducted by UF, university spokesperson 
Cynthia Roldan wrote in an email. Complete 
Streets studies have been conducted around the 
US to improve the accessibility of roadways. 
To become a Complete Street, a roadway 
must be accessible to all travelers and 
commuters, regardless of age, ability or 
mode of transportation, according to the U.S. 
Department of Transportation. 
The university’s other three short-term 
projects involve new infrastructure: lighted message boards that monitor speed, “stop for 
pedestrians at crosswalk” signs on University 
Avenue and Gale Lemerand Drive and repainted 
crosswalks on University Avenue, according to 
UF’s email Feb. 3. 
UF Transportation Institute Director and 
civil engineering professor Lily Elefteriadou 
said seemingly lighter traffic due to COVID-19 
may cause drivers to increase their speed. This, 
combined with pedestrian and bicycle traffic, 
may have led to the recent increase in crashes, 
she said. 
However, Elefteriadou said UF’s efforts 
are good first steps in making the university 
campus and surrounding community safer. 
These additions will help alert drivers to the 
presence of cyclists and pedestrians. Long-term 
changes will also help decrease crashes on and 
around campus, she said.
“Anything that we can do to reinforce that 
message for drivers will absolutely have a 
positive effect,” she said.Roads intersecting University Avenue 
The state department increased the amount 
of times motorists will have to stop on 
University Avenue between Northwest 15th 
Street and Northwest 22nd Street by adjusting 
signal timing, according to FDOT’s Feb. 11 
press release.
FDOT installed new signs with reflectors 
for better visibility at locations around campus, 
according to the Feb. 4 press release from the 
department. This includes “Use Crosswalk” 
signs for pedestrians at the intersections of 
University Avenue with 34th Street, Northwest 
20th Terrace and 13th Street. For motorists, the 
intersections of University Avenue with 34th 
Street and Gale Lemerand Drive have new 
“Turning Vehicles Stop for Pedestrians” signs.
Traffic turning from Northwest 14th 
Street onto University Avenue will now see a 
“One Way” sign cautioning right turns only, 
according to the release. The state department 
also straightened a previously crooked 
crosswalk at the intersection of Southwest 13th 
Street and University Avenue.FDOT and the city are also researching 
technology to improve pedestrian experiences 
at many locations along University Avenue, 
according to the release.
This includes passive pedestrian detection. 
Sensors located at curbsides or crosswalks will 
bypass pedestrians’ need to push a button to 
cross the road by detecting them once they reach 
a curbside or pedestrian crossing area, Roberts 
wrote in an email. The passive pedestrian 
detection will be installed at the intersections 
of Gale Lemerand Drive, Northwest 17th Street 
and 13th Street.
Illuminated crosswalk buttons will be 
installed at all three intersections and Northwest 
18th Street for greater visibility with audible 
pedestrian signals to indicate a crossing, 
according to the release. 
Traffic safety on and around UF’s campus 
is seeing improvements as local, university and 
state officials join forces.
 
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.orgsciences junior.
On the day of the shooting, Hebron just finished 
her astronomy class and was headed to the restroom 
when she heard the fire alarm go off. She continues 
to think about the traumatic events that followed 
every day.
“It’s really hard to remember what everyone has 
been through,” Hebron said. “Even though it’s been 
three years, it doesn’t change the amount of people 
that have been impacted.” 
Alex Schachter, Carmen Schentrup and Peter 
Wang.
Jiselle Lee contributed 
to this story.
@Vantonshchuk
vantonshchuk@alligator.org
@AlexLugo67
alugo@alligator.org
TRAFFIC,  from pg. 5VIGIL,  from pg. 5
“We’re not backing down”“A space to reunite”
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
A woman checks in before a vigil held 
Sunday, Feb. 14, 2021 on Plaza of the 
Americas. Organizers said attendees 
were required to check in as a 
COVID-19 safety precaution.Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
A group of women hold candles together Sunday, 
Feb. 14, 2021 on Plaza of the Americas before a vigil 
in recognition of the three year anniversary of the 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting.Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
A candle illuminates the face of an onlooker 
on Sunday, Feb. 14, 2021 during a vigil in 
remembrance of those killed at the Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School shooting 
three years ago.Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Two women embrace and listen to 
speakers during a vigil held Sunday, 
Feb. 14, 2021 on Plaza of the Americas 
in honor of the three year anniversary 
of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School shooting.
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Candles flicker along the front of Library West on Sunday, 
Feb. 14, 2021. They  accompanied 17 luminaries honor -
ing the people killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School three years ago.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
GAINESVILLE’S LONGEST-
RUNNING CONCERT SERIES 
PRESENTS A THREE-SHOW 
VIRTUAL SEQUENCE 
FEATURING REGIONAL 
BLACK ARTISTS
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
 
Gainesville’s longest-running 
concert series may not congregate 
on Bo Diddley Community Plaza 
this year, but that won’t stop it 
from showcasing local Black art -
ists.
To celebrate Black History 
Month, the “Gainesville Live!” con -
cert series will present three online 
shows highlighting Black artists 
from the region. The artists will 
stream their sets from Facebook 
and perform original material and 
selections from Black composers.
The “Gainesville Live!” series 
usually takes place on Bo Diddley 
Plaza from May to October, pre -
senting 26 shows total every Friday 
featuring local and regional musi -cians. When the 2020 season was 
canceled due to the onset of the CO -
VID-19 pandemic, the artists slated 
to perform shifted to livestreaming 
their sets remotely. 
David Ballard, the events coor -
dinator for the city of Gainesville, 
said the format turned out to be a 
great success, so the city decided to 
employ it to celebrate Black History 
Month.
“Gainesville Live!” will consist 
of three different performances 
from artists spanning across the 
genre spectrum. The first show, 
which took place Feb. 12, fea -
tured renowned Tallahassee trum -
pet player Longineu Parsons and 
pianist Joanna Sobkowska, known 
together as Duo Paloma, perform -
ing a selection of classical and jazz 
pieces from Black composers. The 
second show is Feb. 19 featuring 
Faith & Majesty, a local sister duo 
specializing in original indie-folk 
compositions, and the final show 
Feb. 26 will feature Decyo McDuff -
ie, a jazz vocalist and UF student.
“We wanted a really good sam -
pling of different styles and differ -ent genres,” Ballard said.
The artists were booked with 
the focus of highlighting local tal -
ent, Ballard said. With artists like 
Faith & Majesty performing origi -
nal selections and Decyo McDuffie 
introducing jazz standards to a 
younger generation, Ballard said 
the acts represent promising up-
and-comers in the local scene.
“That’s new Black voices right 
there,” he said.
McDuffie, a 21-year-old UF en -
tomology senior, will close the se -
ries, livestreaming his performance 
with a two-piece backing band. His 
set will consist of songs from clas -
sic jazz artists like Ella Fitzgerald 
and Louis Armstrong.
“It’ll be a tribute to my favorite 
Black jazz artists that have inspired 
me not only as a vocalist, but just 
as a Black male in America,” he 
said. 
After growing up singing in 
church choirs and listening to clas -
sic R&B artists such as Al Green 
and Diana Ross, McDuffie said he 
fell in love with older music. His 
passion for jazz, however, didn’t arrive until high school when he 
discovered musical theater. He said 
those selections were heavily influ -
enced by jazz standards, which led 
him to research more into the genre 
and its history.
 Jazz, McDuffie said, is Black 
art form at its core and important 
to showcase during Black History 
Month. He said the genre not only 
highlights the talent of the perform -
ers but also the struggle and tur -
moil the Black community faced at 
the time of jazz’s inception.
 “Jazz is a way for Black musi -
cians to express their culture and 
express the sounds of what was 
going on in that time,” he said. “I 
think I would be remiss to be a jazz 
musician and not push that same 
agenda.”
 In bringing jazz to the concert 
series, McDuffie said he hopes 
to spotlight the lengthy history of 
Black jazz musicians in America 
and highlight their contributions to 
music and Black history.
 “We’ve had wonderful Black 
musicians and artists that have 
pushed along this music that we still listen to today and revere to -
day,” he said.
The series will be streamed via 
Facebook on both the Free Fridays 
page and the artists’ pages. Keep -
ing with Free Fridays tradition, 
viewers can stream “Gainesville 
Live!” at no cost.
 
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.org
Returning vets
Tommy Mace and Jack Leftwich didn’t expect to take the mound 
when they toured Florida’s new ballpark last year. But because 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, they were afforded an opportunity 
to return and open the new park, pg. 11Scan to listen to the Avenue podcast on Spotify
Scan to listen to 
pre-2000s jams by Black 
artists.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
THE SISTER-MUSICIAN DUO 
RELEASED QUARANTINE 
ANTHEM “PREMISE” FEB. 13
 By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
Faith and Majesty Smith know the power 
of music bringing people together.  
Both sisters were interested in music growing up, Majesty said, with Majesty writ -
ing “cheesy” songs to perform for her family 
and Faith appreciating the art. Despite this 
shared interest, it wasn’t until 2016, when 
they started songwriting together, that Maj -
esty said the two truly “became friends.” 
After discovering this shared music taste, 
Faith and Majesty began performing covers 
and original songs at open mics in South Flor -
ida. In January 2019, they performed at a So -
far Sounds event in Gainesville. Majesty said 
they were encouraged by the friendly, warm 
energy radiated by the audience and support 
of musicians they met on the trip to perma -
nently move to Gainesville that summer.  
The duo signed to student-run record label 
Swamp Records in November. Faith & Maj -
esty’s first single of the year, “Premise,” came 
out Feb. 12, their first release since joining 
the label.
“Premise” was written over the course of 
the past year, Majesty said, so the sister duo 
has come to refer to it as their “quarantine 
song” — a compilation of the doubts, fears 
and nostalgia experienced throughout 2020. 
These pandemic-era thoughts and realiza -
tions are expressed in the song through sym -
bolism and heavier lyrics that came surpris -
ingly naturally to the sisters, Majesty said. 
“Last year was full of so much introspec -
tion, self-reflection — having to look yourself 
in the mirror,” she said. “Being socially dis -tanced and having a lot of alone time led to 
getting to know ourselves better.” 
Themes of past, present and future are 
also central to the song’s message. In 2020, 
Majesty said she spent a lot of time either fix -
ating on the past or focusing on hopes and 
dreams for the future. For 2021, she said her 
goal is to stay mindful of living in the present 
moment. 
“It’s so important to be able to accept 
where you’re at, even if it’s not the best 
place, even if it’s not ideal,” Majesty said. 
“You’re still here.” 
Songwriting and performing are not full-
time jobs for Faith and Majesty, who both 
work as nurses — Faith as a hospice nurse at 
Haven Hospice and Majesty in the cardiology 
office at UF Health. Especially during the pan -
demic, working full time in such a multifac -
eted career influences their art, Majesty said.
Majesty also said she and Faith use song -
writing as a way to recuperate at the end of 
the day, finally releasing all the ideas and lyr -
ics that build up while on the clock. 
“Ideally, I’d love to be a full-time artist, 
but in the meantime, I appreciate having a 
job where I get to help other people,” Majesty 
said. “It makes those moments where I do get 
to write and sing a lot sweeter.”
On Tuesday, Faith & Majesty announced 
their signing to Swamp Records. The sister 
duo is excited to finally be gaining a team of peers and supporters — something they’ve 
long been waiting for, Majesty said. 
Reagan de la Cruz, a 19-year-old event 
management freshman, is on the Faith & Maj -
esty team at Swamp Records. Since joining 
the organization, she has been involved in 
marketing campaigns for the sister duo. 
“They have a very unique sound, and 
their lyrics really help tell their story,” de la 
Cruz said. 
De la Cruz also said she wants to see Faith 
& Majesty’s social media presence grow fol -
lowing their signing with Swamp Records. 
The sisters gained more than 70,000 views 
on a video they posted to social video app 
TikTok.  
Majesty said, at one point last year, mu -
sic began to feel daunting in the face of CO -
VID-19 and work responsibilities. However, 
she said she used this writer’s block as a well-
needed break and is grateful to be releasing 
more music and doing more shows this year. 
“I guess that’s what we’d want to say,” 
Majesty said. “Thank you, Gainesville. Thank 
you, friends. Thank you, Swamp.”
“Premise” is now available on all music 
streaming platforms.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.org‘Gainesville Live!’ Concert Series celebrates Black History Month
Faith & Majesty release first single under Swamp Records 
CULTURECULTURE
MUSICMUSIC
Courtesy of Majesty Smith
Sister-musician duo Faith & Majesty 
Smith moved to Gainesville in 2019 
and recently signed to local music 
label Swamp Records.
LUNES, 15 DE FEBRERO DE 2021
www.alligator.org/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones so El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/elcaimanFree Insulin
Grace pharmacy administering $600,000 worth of free insulin, pg. 8El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un twet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
The Sackler School of Medicine-New York State/ American Program offers an 
outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York 
and is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. 
One of these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one 
of the top 10 hospitals around the world.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,000 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org  provides extensive information about Sackler SOM. For further 
information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
Applications for the Class of 2025 are available on our website 
Escrito por Kristine Villaroel y 
Isabella Barnet
Escritoras de Caimán
 En la esquina de la cuarta avenida y la 
segunda calle del suroeste del centro de la 
ciudad se encuentran unas escaleras que 
suben a una casita amarilla. 
Steven Lara, el dueño de Cafe Sabroso en 
el centro de Gainesville, creó este pequeño 
café a finales del año pasado en octubre de 
2020. Lara abrió su negocio en medio de la 
pandemia del COVID-19 pero ha llamado la 
atención de muchos jóvenes latinoamerica -
nos a pesar de las circunstancias en que se 
abrió el lugar. 
“Definitivamente fue difícil abrir du -
rante el coronavirus, pero la gente está res -
petando el concepto de lo que es el café de 
estilo latino”, dijo Lara. “Nosotros traemos 
un ambiente familiar y representamos la 
manera tradicional de hacer café latino en 
vez de sentir que estás en un lugar comer -
cializado”. 
Al entrar al negocio, el sentido de casa te 
envuelve instantáneamente. El olor a café 
te invita a quedarte sentado para que dis -
frutes la comida en uno de los tantos sofás 
debajo de la iluminación sombría que Lara 
eligió específicamente para Cafe Sabroso. 
Su negocio es uno de muchos negocios lati -
nos que están escondidos en el corazón de Gainesville.
Cafe Sabroso agregó waffles a su menú 
para complementar sus diversos estilos de 
café que incluye el café cubano y el café 
puertorriqueño por solo 5 dólares.
“Ser criado en una familia latina, siem -
pre me sentía en paz cuando mi mamá 
hacía café en mi casa y por eso quería crear 
algo con decoración para nuestros clientes 
para que no se sientan apurados”. 
Más allá de Cafe Sabroso hay restauran -
tes como Latin Food Blessing, Tinker, y La 
Cocina de Abuela que también ofrecen un 
ambiente personal para personas que bus -
can algo más familiar en Gainesville. 
Latin Food Blessing ofrece comida salu -
dable genuinamente Peruana. Originaria de 
la cultura Quechua, Sarita Tito Cutimanco 
comenzó Latin Food Blessing en enero de 
2021 luego de ver la falta de conocimiento 
sobre su cultura natal dentro de la comuni -
dad de Gainesville. El restaurante familiar 
tuvo sus orígenes en los mercados de agri -
cultores. 
Al igual que Lara, Cutimanco también 
fundó este restaurante en plena pandemia 
del COVID-19. 
“No es fácil todavía, estamos con este 
temor de cómo nos irá. Es un desafío”, dijo 
Cutimanco. 
Dentro de las metas principales de Cuti -
manco ha sido proveer comida que refleja uno de los valores principales de su cultura: 
la comida es medicina. Hecha al momen -
to con ingredientes de la mejor calidad, la 
comida de Latin Food Blessing es rica en 
vitaminas y minerales. 
“Aquí hacemos la chicha morada, que es 
natural y que tiene hierro, y le ponemos un 
poquito de limón para que tenga vitamina 
C”, dijo Cutimanco. “También hacemos 
una sopa que se llama sopa de mote que 
lleva maíz y carne. Es una sopa que comían 
nuestros abuelos, nuestros ancestros los In -
cas”. 
La comida que se ofrece en Latin Food 
Blessing es el resultado de múltiples genera -
ciones cultivando y preservando la cultura 
de su comunidad andina indigena. 
“Yo soy de un pueblo con una cultura en 
la que solo hablamos quechua. Tengo a mi 
madre y mi abuela que me han enseñado 
que nuestra comida es nuestra medicina, y 
que con eso puedes curar cualquier enfer -
medad. Es la mejor medicina”, agregó Cuti -
manco. 
Aparte de la comida única de la cultura 
quechua, Latin Food Blessing también of -
rece platos mexicanos, guatemaltecos y cen -
troamericanos. 
“Lo que más me pone contenta a mi 
es que la gente se vaya satisfecha con la 
comida que coma, que es sobre todo una 
comida saludable, una comida que hace que 
la gente se sienta bien y que alimenta bien”, 
comentó Cutimanco. 
Tinker, un restaurante bien establecido 
venezolano en Gainesville, es otra gran op -ción para disfrutar comida hispana. Desde 
sus comienzos como un camión de comida 
en Archer Road desde mayo de 2019, Tin -
ker ha crecido en popularidad y demanda, 
por lo que recientemente abrió un estab -
lecimiento físico donde sus clientes pueden 
disfrutar de la misma comida en un espacio 
agradable.
La Cocina de Abuela es otro clásico de la 
comida latina en Gainesville. Fundada por 
Sara Puyana, quien también es copropietar -
ia de Flaco's Cuban Bakery, La Cocina de 
Abuela ofrece hogareños sabores colombia -
nos. Puyana es una figura activa en la co -
munidad latina en Gainesville, representan -
do la cocina de dos países latinoamericanos 
para el público culinario de la ciudad. 
Para aquellos que prefieren quedarse en 
casa e intentar replicar los sabores latinos 
por sí mismos, el mercado La Aurora tiene 
todos los ingredientes que puedan necesi -
tar. El mercado ubicado en 3721 West Uni -
versity Avenue ofrece un amplio rango de 
productos perfectos para cocinar distintos 
platos de origen latino. El mercado ha es -
tado trayendo productos desde Miami por 
16 años con la meta de hacer que los latinos 
en Gainesville se sientan en casa, según su 
sitio web. 
Que disfrutes con un poco de sazón para 
tu corazón en estos restaurantes que están 
abiertos al público y podrás gozar de la 
comida mas sabrosa en cualquier momento.
kvillaroel@alligator.org
ibarnet@alligator.orgSazón para tu corazón8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021
THE TRAILBLAZING UF 
ALUMNUS DIED OF 
CANCER JANUARY 26
By Ben Crosbie
Alligator Contributing Writer
To many, Stephan P. Mickle 
may be remembered as a pioneer, 
an inspiration and a giant among 
UF alumni. But to his neighbor and 
friend Deacon James Turk, Mickle 
was the man with whom he spent 
Christmas Eve eating raccoon, as 
was their tradition for years.
“We walked down Southeast 
12th Avenue at night eating ‘coon 
and drinking straight, straight…” 
Turk paused and smirked, “Iced 
tea.”
Although Mickle’s illustrious life 
and career were full of accomplish -
ments, awards and honors, what 
mattered most during his memorial 
service Feb. 13 was what he meant 
to those closest to him. 
Clad in face coverings and dark, 
formal clothing, about 60 friends, 
family and former colleagues of 
Mickle gathered at the Curtis M. Phillips Center 
at noon for the 
private ser -
vice. Mickle, 
the first Black 
student to earn 
an undergrad -
uate degree 
from UF, died 
of cancer Jan. 26 at 76 years old.
Pushing past oppressive racism 
and discrimination, he was nomi -
nated by President Bill Clinton in 
1998 to become a District Court 
Judge in the Northern District of 
Florida, the first African-American 
to hold the position. Mickle was 
also a founding member and the 
first president of the UF Association 
of Black Alumni (ABA). 
Inside the auditorium, attendees 
sat scattered in a social distanced 
seating arrangement, while onstage 
two portraits of Mickle flanked a 
large screen with an image of him 
smiling in dignified judge’s robes. 
An ornate bouquet of orange and 
white flowers sat in front of a lone 
lectern.
Speakers at the service included UF president Kent Fuchs, Levin 
College of Law Dean Laura Rosen -
bury and family members such as 
Mickle’s brother, Darryl Mickle, and 
nephew, Cotie Jones. 
Though the speakers received 
explicit instructions from the priest 
to keep their speeches between two 
and three minutes, it soon became 
clear that none would be able to 
compress all they wanted to say 
about Mickle into that amount of 
time.
Laura Rosenbury, the dean of the 
UF Levin College of Law, described 
his leadership and emphasized he 
will continue to be an inspiration 
after his death.
“Judge Mickle broke down bar -
riers not for his own benefit, but for 
the benefit of people he would never 
meet,” she said. “Thousands of Af -
rican-American students have real -
ized their dreams at the University 
of Florida because of Judge Mickle’s 
strength.”
Some speakers highlighted the 
admirable qualities of Mickle’s per -
sonality, such as Chief U.S. District 
Judge Mark Walker, who served alongside Mickle.
Walker mentioned Mickle’s bril -
liance but noted this alone wasn’t 
what made him a great judge.
“Every party, every lawyer who 
ever appeared before Judge Mickle, 
every judge who served with him, 
will tell you that Judge Mickle had 
a wise and understanding heart,” he 
said.
Following the speeches, a projec -
tor played a slideshow behind the 
stage as the soulful sounds of Anita 
Baker’s “Giving You the Best That I 
Got” filled an otherwise silent audi -
torium. Images of Mickle during his 
childhood, college years, his wed -
ding, awards ceremonies and family 
pictures flashed across the screen.
The Rev. R.B. Holmes gave an 
impassioned speech afterward about 
the importance of family and lead -
ing an honorable life — two things 
Mickle never lost sight of. 
“Judge Mickle was an outstand -
ing husband; he loved Evelyn. 
Judge Mickle was a faithful father; 
he loved his children. Judge Mickle 
was a loving son, who made his par -
ents extremely proud of his accom -plishments,” Holmes praised. 
The ceremony concluded with a 
procession of Mickle’s family mem -
bers walking slowly through the 
aisles and out of the building accom -
panied by the iconic voice of Aretha 
Franklin. Some exchanged quick 
words with people they walked past. 
Once outside, they watched a 
21-gun salute from the parking lot, 
where seven uniformed officers 
pierced the quiet, overcast afternoon 
with three shots each into the air. A 
rendition of “Taps,” the solemn bu -
gle call characteristic of military fu -
nerals and ceremonies, followed the 
gunshots from the bell of a trumpet.
Moments before, Holmes ended 
his speech by imagining Mickle’s 
soul entering heaven.   
“My spirit can hear the ageless 
saying: ‘All rise!’ Here comes the 
judge, to meet the righteous judge!” 
Holmes thundered. “Home at last! 
Ever, ever, ever, ever to rejoice liv -
ing an honorable life!”
@benHcrosbie
bcrosbie@ufl.edu
THE FREE INSULIN WILL LAST 
UNTIL SUPPLIES RUN OUT
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
Walter Littles eagerly waited first in line 
at Grace Pharmacy in Gainesville to receive 
a free six-month supply of the insulin he 
depends on.
The pharmacy, located at the GRACE 
Marketplace homeless shelter, started filling 
free prescriptions about three years ago and 
giving away $600,000 worth of insulin to the 
public Jan. 29. The free insulin will last until 
supplies run out, pharmacy manager Tim 
Rogers said.
Littles, 64, was diagnosed with Type 2 
diabetes in 1997. For a while, he used his 
wife’s insurance, which lowered the cost. But 
since he left her coverage, he’s struggled to 
afford insulin.
Before Grace, Littles received his insulin 
supply from Walmart for $25 a vial but 
said it got expensive when he needed both 
Humulin-N – a slower acting and longer-
lasting insulin – and Humulin-R – which 
is used to lower the blood sugar of people 
who need more than 200 units of insulin per 
day. Littles, who lives on a fixed income as 
a retiree, said he spent about $100 a month 
on insulin. 
“So, I jumped at the opportunity when 
I found out that they were giving away 
insulin,” he said.
The insulin was donated to the pharmacy 
in preparation for a hurricane at the end of 
2019, Rogers said. The pharmacy didn’t use 
much of it at the time and wanted to give 
away the leftover medication. 
Insulin is a hormone that helps the body 
use sugar and prevents dangerously high 
levels of blood sugar. People with diabetes 
are unable to produce enough insulin and 
many are dependent on prescription insulin to maintain their blood sugar. Insulin prices 
in the United States continue to rise and 
patients struggle to afford the expensive drug, 
which can average up to $5,000 a year in the 
U.S., Tampa Bay Times reported in 2020.
The insulin at Grace is distributed as 
10 ml vials of Humulin-N and Humulin-R, 
Rogers said. Those with either a prescription 
or proof of need can come to Grace Pharmacy 
located in GRACE Marketplace at 3055 NE 
28th Drive. 
Rogers said the pharmacy usually requires 
a prescription to pick up medication, but 
because Humulin-N and Humulin-R do 
not require a prescription to dispense, the 
pharmacy is allowing people to pick up 
without one.
However, people can’t just walk in and 
pick up the insulin – they must know whether 
they’re using Humulin-N or Humulin-R, 
Rogers said.
Rogers said he has donated prescription 
drugs to those in need for the last 20 years. 
Traveling to Haiti, Chile, Nicaragua and 
the Dominican Republic, he works with 
other pharmacists and doctors to give away 
medications. He said he and a partner saw 
the need for a clinic that filled prescriptions 
for free in Alachua County, which inspired 
them to open the Grace Pharmacy three years 
ago.
“We don’t even have a cash register 
here,” Rogers said. “It’s an absolutely free 
pharmacy.”
Normally, the pharmacy doesn’t carry 
insulin due to the cost and short shelf life, 
he said, but some of the pharmacy’s current 
supply expires at the end of July, and the rest 
in December. 
Mary Brinkley, a pharmacist at Grace, 
said this is one of the largest donations the 
pharmacy has received. The first day the 
insulin was available, almost 50 people 
formed a line outside as she pulled up to 
work, which is unusual, Brinkley said. She handed out about 250 vials of insulin that 
day.
The general attitude of everyone in line 
was extremely grateful, she said. Older 
patients with lapsed insurance or patients 
with extreme uncontrolled diabetes who were 
likely paying $200 a month for medication 
stood in the line Friday.“There was definitely a larger need than I 
had anticipated,” she said.
Brinkley said she hopes to see more 
people take advantage of this opportunity to 
get free insulin.
@LucilleLannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgJudge Stephan Mickle Honored in Memorial Service
Grace Pharmacy is giving away $600,000 worth of insulin to the public
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Photo of GRACE Marketplace sign at 3055 NE 28th Ave. in Gainesville, FL.
Mickle
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
Part Time Asst needed for Fraternity 
Management. We handle finances, opera-
tions, and properties for Fraternities at UF.
Must be able to multi-task and have good 
attitude. Must know Microsoft and have reli-
able transportation.
Office exp. and/or Greek Life a plus but not 
req. Office hours are M-F 9-5. Approx 15hrs/
week. Start at $9.50/hr. Email resume to 
info@fratmanagement.com    
3-1-21-3-14
Ahern Rentals is expanding
within the Florida Market!
In this ever-growing industry,
we strive to find qualified
candidates to join our Ahern
team & continue to
the Ahern Family traditions
as we aim for success in new & innovative ways.
WE ARE HIRING FOR (bold)
-Outside Sales Reps
-Sales Manager 
-Field Service Tech
-Class A & B CDL Drivers 
-Service Manager
-Rental Counter/Dispatch
-Class A & B Mechanics
-Parts Supervisor
-Wash rack/Yard Personnel
-Shops Mechanic
-Parts Clerk
TOP PAY & BENEFITS OFFERED
Please e-mail your resume to: 
shawnoc@ahern.com
Cell: 916-335-9308
2-8-1-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
Looking for driver to drive kids after school to 
activities and home. Must have clean drivers li-
cense record and insurance. Text 352 359-4199                               
2-15-21-2-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED NOW!  Easy 
Commission Work!  Customers Asked To Be 
Contacted, Paid Daily! Choose Your Hours! 
Email:  Jessica@rent2ownservices.com    
3-8-21-4-14 
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Envir.
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training available
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501
3-1-21-5-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         4-19-21-15-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
solution on page 10Timed Online Auction 
Bidding closes:
Mon, Feb 22, 2021 at 10AM
Sale will consist of: vehicles (work trucks, box 
truck), dump trailer, office equipment, ware -
house equipment, small appliances, construc -
tion equipment, networking equipment and 
more. Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Cases:
Freedom Steel Building Corporation Case No. 
2020-CA-014407-XXXXMB
Providian Construction Group, Inc. Case No. 
CACE-20-021633
Cinium Holdings, LLC. Case No. 2020-014355-
CA-01 (24)
Pick-up/removal: Fort Lauderdale and Pompano 
Beach, FL.
Preview: 02/18 by appointment.
Call for details (954) 252-2887 
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin
2-15-1-10
• Antique 3-cushion sofa, newly reuphol -
stered, decorative solid wood. 
• Canon printer PIXMA TX 3122, operates. 
• White French blue wool rug. 
Best offer 352-665-3367    
2-15-21-1-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 
or visit RefrigerantFinders.com 
2-8-2-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-131For Rent
furnished13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
3 Sublease
Sublease in LynCourt Square 1st Floor, fur -
nished 2br/2ba, W/D, Male, Individual lease 
required. $475/month 1blk from UF SW 
3rd Ave & SW 12th St. Call 407-234-7438.      
2-15-21-3-3
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
Timed Online Auction 
Allan Spear Construction, LLC.
Bidding closes: 
Thurs, Feb 25, 2021 at 10AM
Sale will consist of: Construction equipment, 
Mack trucks, ski steers, mast climbing work 
platforms,scissor lift, power tools, concrete mixers, 
gas fuel tanks, crane hoist, block saws, concrete 
pour buckets, shipping containers, fork lift and 
related items. Registration, catalog, photos and 
terms available at www.moeckerauctions.com.
Pick-up/removal: Gainesville, FL.
Preview: 02/17 by appointment. Call for details 
(954) 252-2887 (800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin
2-15-1-10
Split Oak Firewood
Great for bonfires & fireplaces $75 for 1/4 of 
a cord stacked and delivered. Or you pick 
up in Ocala $60 for 1/4 of a cord. Call Mike 
352-572-1261.                             3-1-21-5-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-1010 For Sale
By Stella Zawistowski
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/15/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/15/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 15, 2021
ACROSS
1 Impertinent talk
5 Man __: 1920 
Horse of the Year
9 Avoid failing
13 Sunburn-soothing 
balm
14 Earring holder
15 __ God: 
earthquake, e.g.
17 *Test of hand 
strength
19 Danger
20 “It’s the __ I can 
do”
21 Grown-up
22 Take place
25 Refine, as skills
27 Drink with a polar 
bear mascot
28 Gave voice to
29 *Ski resort 
purchase
31 Diagram for Web 
navigation
33 “Game of 
Thrones” channel
34 At some future 
point
35 It’s given in 
the form of a 
question on 
“Jeopardy!”
40 Soccer official
42 “Goosebumps” 
series author
43 *Accidentally call 
without touching 
one’s cellphone
48 Contributes
49 Ohio border lake
50 Pungent flavor
51 Brittany port city
52 Give in (to)
54 Patronized, as a 
diner
56 Circle or polygon
57 Express lack of 
interest on Tinder 
... or a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
61 Downy duck
62 Compress, with 
“down”
63 Idris of “The Wire”
64 Fix, as socks
65 Salon selections
66 Lose traction
DOWN
1 Maple-syrup-
to-be2 “Baby Cobra” 
comic Wong
3 Jaden, to Will 
Smith
4 Peacefully 
hidden, as a 
retreat
5 Lingerie brand
6 Bow down to, 
perhaps
7 Not very much
8 Sales agent
9 Daddy
10 Acid type found 
in vinegar
11 Found in 
abundance, 
as oil
12 Evening party
16 Group of ships
18 Billy Joel’s “Tell 
__ About It”
21 NYC museum’s 
fundraising gala
22 Bone, in Bologna
23 Biblical brother
24 Make mention of
26 High math 
degree
29 Baby shower gift
30 Charged 
particles
32 Female in a 
stable36 Takes by surprise
37 Double-__ trailer
38 What means 
may justify
39 “Don’t play” 
symbol, in music
41 Med-approving 
agcy.
42 Scott Joplin’s 
music
43 “__ porridge  
hot ... ”
44 Corsage flower45 Loud insect
46 Lighthouse 
guardian
47 Sort of
51 Modern honey
53 Laura who won 
an Oscar for 
“Marriage Story”
55 Omar of “House”
57 Part of EST: Abbr.
58 Rockies bugler
59 DOJ division
60 Wee amount
By Michael A. Macdonald
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/09/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/09/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 9, 2021
ACROSS
1 One of the Three 
Bears
5 Pro concerned 
with Apr. 15
8 Like one liable 
for libel
14 Tons
15 The Boston 
Bruins retired his 
#4 in 1979
16 Like mosaic 
stones
17 Ilk
18 *Nostalgic place 
for a walk
20 Patella
22 Sign of summer
23 D.C. figure
24 Alabama march 
city
25 Porcine sounds
27 *Place to pursue 
pleasure
33 Brought back 
to its original 
condition
36 Song for a diva
37 Sturdy tree
38 Some shower 
components
42 Overnight option
43 Plumbing 
concern
45 Fixed, as old 
shoes
47 *Place with no 
options
51 Relaxed
52 Trivial, as issues
56 Have debts
59 Without end, to 
the Bard
60 Cry of approval ... 
and what the end 
of each answer to 
a starred clue is
62 *Evidence in 
white-collar crime
65 Dunkable cookie
66 Aphrodite’s love
67 Web address
68 Measure of 
versatility
69 Renter
70 Map part
71 Measure of 
proficiency
DOWN
1 Batman and 
Robin wore them2 Without help
3 Type of 
mushroom
4 NFL passing  
stat
5 Robin Cook’s 
breakout 1977 
novel
6 Pre-cooking job
7 Limb on a rest
8 Fire alerts
9 Break up, as a 
bovine team
10 Without 
exception
11 Ewe sounds
12 One drawn in the 
sand
13 First home
19 Potpourri
21 Pool shot
25 Said, “I’ll have 
the lobster,” say
26 Health resort
28 Rage
29 Bumped into
30 Seed cover
31 Diner sticker
32 Round of 
applause
33 Went in a taxi
34 Merit
35 Icy street risk39 “__ the  
ramparts ... ”
40 P-like Greek 
letter
41 Sordid
44 Author of 
macabre tales
46 Remove from 
text
48 Spenser’s “The 
__ Queene”
49 Fly to avoid
50 Bonn mister53 Like Odin and 
Loki
54 Curved moldings
55 Fowl pole
56 Australian gem
57 Walk in the 
shallows
58 Grand-scale 
poetry
60 Line with a plug
61 One on your side
63 Sunny pair?
64 Arctic diving bird
02/08/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
We are seeking current 4-40 & 2-20 licensed 
insurance producers for a new Property and 
Casualty Agency opening soon in the Ocala and 
Gainesville areas. Must have license before hire. 
Flexible schedule, competitive pay, base wage 
plus commission and bonuses. If interested 
please email amandamree@gmail.com with 
your contact information to set up an interview.
3-8-21-8-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-14
16 Health Services
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
11..    BBrraasshh
11..    CCooaarrssee  ffaabbrriicc  55..    CCoommppeettiinngg  
22..    OOppppoossiinngg66..    AAggee,,  ddeevveelloopp  
33..    SSoollaarr  ________77..    ________  sshhoowweerr
44..    ________  oorr  llaatteerrAANNEEBBZZRR
RRLLBBPPAAUULLAARRVVII
RREENNIIPP
DDAASSVVRREEEE
PPLLIIEESSEECCOOEEMMTTEERR
OONNOOSSRREEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--BBrraazzeenn    55AA--RRiivvaall    66AA--RRiippeenn    77AA--MMeetteeoorr
11DD--BBuurrllaapp    22DD--AAddvveerrssee    33DD--EEcclliippssee    44DD--SSoooonneerr    BB--NNoobbeell  PPrriizzee22--1155--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: AAss  ooff  22002211,,  ffoouurr  ppeeooppllee  hhaavvee  rreecceeiivveedd  
mmoorree  tthhaann  oonnee  ________  ________..
BONUS
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
alligatoralligator
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021
CrytpoQuote  answerA rumor will travel
fastest to the place
where it will cause
the greatest harm.
—Gustavo AgraitNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
If you find something, you can place a FREE 
FOUND AD in our lost & found section. 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
"Stick chain"
Trinity Thomas highlighted the No. 1 Gators’ 198.15-198.05 victory over 
No. 2 LSU, Feb.  12 with a perfect 10.0 on the floor. It’s her fifth collegiate 
perfect score, pg.12AlligatorSports is reviving 
its podcast. Search for The 
AlligatorSports Podcast on 
your favorite streaming service 
starting Wednesday. Episodes 
will be launched weekly.BASEBALL
TWO OF FLORIDA’S BEST 
PITCHERS ARE BACK FOR 
ONE MORE SEASON
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Most people didn’t expect 
Tommy Mace or Jack Leftwich 
to return to Gainesville for the 
2021 season. 
Leftwich certainly didn’t. 
The pitcher remembered tour -
ing the team’s new ballpark dur -
ing construction last year, con -
fident he would never step onto 
the brand new mound. 
“Me and Tommy (Mace) were 
walking around here, and we 
were like ‘Dang, this will be cool 
to come watch games.’” Left -
wich said.
When head coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan called a team meeting 
at McKethan Stadium to share 
the news that the COVID-19 pan -
demic would permanently halt 
the 2020 season, Leftwich had 
been at the pool. The team had 
the day off.
When the players heard the 
news, Leftwich said they shared 
tears and hugs, especially him 
and Mace. The two pitchers be -
lieved their Florida careers dis -
appeared into the spring air in 
front of their eyes.
“We were sitting in McKethan 
in the dugout, and we were cry -
ing because we thought that was 
for sure the last time we were 
gonna play there,” Leftwich said.
The two star pitchers had ev -ery reason to believe their time 
at Florida ended. Mace and Left -
wich, the 69th and 145th ranked 
prospects, according to MLB.
com, seemed destined for the 
professional ranks. 
However, the MLB announced 
May 8 that the draft would be 
limited to five rounds, leaving 
only 160 potential selections. A 
major league contract suddenly 
appeared to be much less of a 
foregone conclusion. 
At first, Leftwich wasn’t con -
cerned because he still thought 
he could throw in bullpens in 
front of scouts before the June 
10 draft, but those sessions were 
soon canceled, too. 
But his draft stock wasn’t at 
the forefront of his mind.
“My biggest concern was 
just if we’d get that extra year 
of eligibility (from the NCAA),” 
Leftwich said. “I was like 50-50 
on whether I wanted to leave or 
come back once they gave us 
that extra year.”
Once the 2020 season ended, 
Leftwich said he knew his evalu -
ation would be based on his four 
2020 starts and 2019 tape. 
For a touted prospect like 
Leftwich, his 2019 resume left 
room for improvement. His 
sophomore campaign included a 
complete-game shutout against 
Missouri, but a WHIP of 1.37, 
opposing batting average of .273 
and an ERA of 5.31. Not undraft -
able numbers, but all were high -
er the year before.
As the draft drew closer, Left -
wich’s heart grew deeper roots to the Florida program. An ad -
ditional year gave Leftwich an -
other opportunity — a degree 
he wouldn’t have gotten had he 
heard his name called last June.
“Once it got closer, I was 
leaning towards coming back to 
school anyway,” Leftwich said. 
“So, it was going to take a good 
offer for me to leave to go pro.”
A good enough offer didn’t 
come, and now Leftwich is 
ready to tackle a new stadium 
and the weight of a unanimous 
preseason No. 1 ranking. 
He may not be working his 
way through the minor leagues, 
but he is confident he made the 
right call.
“Some people are ready after 
their junior year,” Leftwich said. 
“But now, looking back, I want -
ed to mature, and I felt like we 
had unfinished business.”
“I’m 100% positive I made 
the right decision.”
Mace echoed this sentiment 
and explained that he has got -
ten more experience returning to 
Gainesville rather than being in 
a major league farm system.
“A lot of guys in pro ball are 
not playing right now, and I’ve 
already thrown 25 innings in 
fall,” Mace said.
Minor League Baseball can -
celed its season in 2020, another 
victim of the pandemic. Spring 
training in 2021 is delayed for 
players in Double-A or below 
until players in the majors and 
Triple-A have completed their 
springs. 
With the first MLB teams not 
reporting until Feb. 16, Mace 
and Leftwich will already have 
weekend starts by the time 2020 
draftees begin preparing for their 
rookie season.
“I’m actually very happy with 
my decision and what I did,” 
Mace said.
With one final season laid 
out in front of them, Mace and 
Leftwich are ready to ride off 
into the sunset, hoping to have 
a little more hardware in their 
trophy case come June.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgAfter a shortened draft, two star arms 
return for another year on the moundFew coaches can 
claim a long-
standing legacy 
at a university. 
Fewer can say 
they’ve been there 
since the very begin -
ning. 
Twenty-seven  
years ago, Becky Bur -
leigh signed to coach 
the newly founded UF soccer 
program. She had previously 
coached for five years at Berry 
College in Rome, Georgia, where 
she posted an 82-23-4 record and 
won an NAIA National Champi -
onship twice. Burleigh came to a 
school with a renowned athletic 
pedigree and brought its brand 
new program up to par — at just 
26 years old.
It didn’t take her long to reach 
that goal. From the moment she 
signed as head coach to the day 
she announced her retirement, 
Burleigh has been a major force 
in maintaining those winning 
ways.
In fact, it only took her four 
years to win a national champion -
ship at Florida after luring sports 
legend Abby Wambach from top 
programs at the time like North 
Carolina and UCLA and convinc -
ing her to join a Gators team that 
only existed for three years. 
Burleigh has made the NCAA 
tournament on 22 separate oc -
casions, won the SEC 14 times 
and emerged victorious in the 
SEC Championship 12 times. 
Burleigh’s current career record 
of 507-152-43 (a .753 winning 
percentage) puts her at No. 2 all-
time for wins among active Divi -
sion I women’s soccer coaches 
and No. 3 among all Division I 
coaches. 
I could talk about Burleigh’s 
accomplishments for ages. I could 
talk about how she’s a five-time 
SEC Coach of the Year or how 
she’s coached 22 All-Americans 
and 51 All-SEC soccer players. I 
could talk about her devotion to 
her players and how I still see her 
wish former players she hasn’t 
coached for years a happy birth -
day on Twitter.
But I’d like to talk about what 
Becky Burleigh helped do for me 
— a sophomore at UF who only 
liked a single sport when I was 
sent to cover the Gators’ soccer team.
I came to The Al -
ligator in 2017, and I 
was strictly an Ameri -
can football fan. One of 
my least favorite sports 
was soccer, and I had 
often joked that soccer 
was “the game where 
nothing happens.” In 
2018, though, I was 
tasked with covering the UF soc -
cer team with no knowledge of 
the sport.
One of my best friends, Sam 
Campisano, was a huge soccer 
fan, and he ended up being my 
beat partner for soccer at the Alli -
gator. I tried my best to learn the 
sport to cover it to the best of my 
ability, but I ended up finding a 
new love out of that assignment.
It didn’t take long for Becky 
Burleigh and her soccer team to 
enthrall me. 
It wasn’t her best year — the 
team finished 7-10-4 — but I fell 
in love with the game, the speed 
on the pitch, the electric shots 
and saves, the team’s personali -
ties and the intensity of the fans. 
There were plenty of prob -
lems to tackle during the season 
I covered the soccer team, but 
Burleigh was always blunt about 
them. She always held herself 
accountable and took steps to 
explain how she planned to fix 
those things, though: I witnessed 
it whenever I journeyed to the 
Donald R. Dizney stadium for 
midweek media. I saw it pay off 
in the SEC Tournament at the end 
of the year. 
Burleigh took that 7-10-4 team 
to the tournament semifinals.
That team gave me a com -
plete 180 on how I view soccer. It 
pushed me to watch the Premier 
League where I chose to follow 
Everton, a team that I now hold 
very near and dear to my heart. 
And among the teams I have 
covered — and I have covered a 
lot as a writer for 10 semesters 
— that soccer team is among my 
favorites. Without her and her 
team, I would have never found 
such an affinity for The Beautiful 
Game.
So here’s to Becky Burleigh. 
For being a Gator legend, for 
spotlighting women’s sports at 
UF and for introducing me to a 
passion I’ll never let go.An ode to Becky BurleighHells Wells
River Wells
Twitter: riverhwells
Email: rwells@alligator.org
Alligator File Photos
Pitchers Tommy Mace (left) and Jack Leftwich (right) are ready 
for another season playing baseball for Florida after imagining 
watching the team as fans.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2021
GYMNASTICS
STUCK LANDINGS CAN OFTEN 
BE THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A 
GOOD SCORE AND A GREAT ONE
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
The Miami Hurricanes ignited a college 
football revolution Sept. 2, 2017 against Bet -
hune-Cookman: turnover props.
Late in the fourth quarter, Wildcats quar -
terback Larry Brihm Jr. heaved a pass to the endzone, but no Bethune-Cookman receiver 
was there to catch it. Miami defensive back 
Malek Young intercepted the pass and raced 
up the field 20 yards. 
Young sprinted to the Hurricanes’ sideline 
when the play ended. He huddled around his 
teammates and was crowned with a golden 
chain studded with orange and green stones, 
making up their logo. It was the birth of the 
famously dubbed “turnover chain.”
Its creation sparked a wave across college 
football. Teams took the idea and made it their 
own:  Tennessee created the turnover trash can, FSU donned the turnover backpack and 
Akron sported the turnover pencil.
Now, these props have transferred from 
the gridiron to the powder-covered mats. The 
Gators gymnastics team debuted its own ver -
sion — a glittery “stick chain”— in a blowout 
victory over Missouri Jan. 29.
Florida gymnasts are given a necklace with 
an orange-and-blue crested “F” when they 
achieve a perfect landing during a routine. The 
new tradition paid off for coach Jenny Row -
land, as her team tallied the third-highest score 
in the nation of 197.850 versus the Tigers.
Senior Megan Skaggs was the first Florida 
gymnast to sport the shiny pendant after post -
ing a career-high 9.95 on the uneven bars. She 
dismounted from the top bar, flipped twice 
through the air and landed with no bobble. 
Her teammates swarmed in celebration. 
Rowland then walked over from the side -
line, placing the necklace on her neck as she 
screamed with excitement. 
Rowland has concentrated on ensuring the 
team sticks its landings. Perfect landings are 
instrumental in a routine because a tenth can 
be added or deducted based on a landing’s 
success. 
Since Florida holds four of the top 10 scores 
in the country, it has the luxury to work on 
little details like landings. 
Junior Nya Reed and her stepfather created 
the stick chain. Pulling the bling out after the 
Arkansas meet on Jan. 22 was the right time, 
she said, because details held the Gators back. 
To Reed, it made practice more fun. 
“Practice gets really competitive,” she said. “It’s something that we love because it liter -
ally transferred over (to the meet against Mis -
souri.)”
The “F” is carved out of wood and painted 
orange and blue, Reed said. As a finishing 
touch, they covered the block “F” in light blue 
glitter and jewels.
Reed brought the chain first to Rowland 
and Rowland introduced it to her squad in 
practice after Florida’s victory over the Razor -
backs. 
They split up in two teams during practices 
and compete for the most stuck landings for 
bragging rights — and the necklace. To Row -
land, a team can only go so far if only the 
coaches push them. That’s why she encour -
ages her squad to generate organic ideas, like 
the stick chain, for motivation. 
“It has put a little bit of competition be -
tween all of us because we want the stick 
chain,” freshman Gabrielle Gallentine said. 
“Everyone wants it. It has put a little bit of 
pressure on us in practice and competition to 
stick our landings more.”
It was fun to watch teammates wear the 
chain after their bars exercise, junior Savan -
nah Schoenherr said. The stuck landings were 
contagious against the Tigers, and it pushed 
them to keep the ball rolling. 
“That is like the best thing ever,” she said 
about wearing the chain. “There’s literally 
nothing like getting that stick.”
The stick chain encourages her to land per -
fectly after every routine, Schoenherr said. All 
in the hopes of sporting it again.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.org“Stick chain” gives Florida extra edge  
Courtesy of Tiffany Franco
Senior Megan Skaggs was the first Florida gymnast to sport the shiny pendant after 
she posted a career-high 9.95 on the uneven bars.
