We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Low voter turnout
Gainesville looks to ramp up voting,  pg. 5
Academic freedom
Students,  faculty protested amid UF controversy, pg. 6Mike White finally surpasses Seminoles
Florida men’s basketball took down the No. 
20 Seminoles for its first ranked win of the 
season,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 13
No car? No problem.
Hitch oﬀers private and shared rides from Gainesville to Orlando, 
Jacksonville, Tampa, and more. 
First ride is FREE!* CODE: UFNEWS1 ridehitch.com *discount up to $50
MOTHER OF FORMER 
PLAYER COREY STAPLES 
SHARED CONCERNS 
ABOUT PROGRAM’S TOXIC 
ENVIRONMENT IN 2019
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
A Florida women’s basketball 
player once wondered if she should 
slam the ball down in the middle 
of a game, walk off the court, turn 
to head coach Cam Newbauer and 
say:
No more.
That player ran through the sce -
nario with B.B. Staples, the mother 
of former Gators player Corey Sta -
ples. 
Would that get Athletic Director 
Scott Stricklin’s attention?
“My response was, I have no 
idea,” B.B Staples wrote in an email 
to Stricklin. “Because truthfully at 
this point I don’t know what it is go -
ing to take for you to truly consider 
this as something real and danger -
ous.”
Staples sent five emails to Strick -
lin and Executive Associate Athlet -
ics Director Lynda Tealer between 
January and March 2019 about the 
toxic culture within the women’s 
basketball program. Her daughter 
played for Florida through the 2017-
2019 seasons.
Several former players detailed a 
toxic environment under Newbau -
er, which included verbal abuse, 
racist comments and throwing bas -
ketballs at players. Stricklin took re -
sponsibility for Newbauer’s behav -
ior a day after The Alligator’s Sept. 
27 report.
In the statement, Stricklin said 
he received reports about Newbau -
er’s behavior during his first two 
seasons. He said the reports stopped after UF responded by “putting 
more structure” around the coach.
The reports did not come to a 
halt, however. 
Newbauer hasn’t responded 
to seven requests for comment 
through phone calls, texts and 
voicemails. University Athletic As -
sociation spokesperson Steve Mc -
Clain forwarded statements Strick -
lin made Sept. 27 and 28.
“I no longer can watch and sit 
silent because if something happens 
to ANY of these girls the blood will 
be on my hands and that makes me 
no better than the other adults that 
watch out of fear,” B.B. wrote in the 
first email, sent Jan. 1, 2019.
She asked Stricklin to protect the 
student-athletes from the toxic en -
vironment and compared the situa -
tion to domestic violence. 
Newbauer scolded her daughter 
for not standing and cheering on the 
team. Corey had torn her left ACL 
Oct. 3, 2017, the first day of prac -
tice. He told Corey, who was a pre -
ferred walk-on, that he brought her 
on to change the culture and threat -
ened to kick her off the team.
“Excuse me!!! What? She was 
in pain,” B.B. wrote. “She was de -
pressed, she lost 15 pounds and she 
wasn’t cheering enough for him?”
She wrote that Newbauer told 
the team he was untouchable. 
She likened the situation to that of 
Maryland football coach D.J. Dur -
kin, who was in charge when of -
fensive lineman Jordan McNair died 
following a heat stroke during foot -
ball workouts. 
Corey qualified for a medical 
redshirt year, and Florida listed her 
on the official roster as a redshirt ju -
nior in the 2018-2019 season. 
But Newbauer didn’t. He told Emails show Stricklin acknowledged Newbauer’s abuse
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Out of all the empty seats at 
the Reitz Union food court, he 
decided to sit at the table across 
from her.
The sophomore smiled back 
cautiously as she has countless 
times at strangers who make 
small pleasantries. But she knew 
something wasn’t right. 
Peering across the room, she 
noticed the seating arrangement 
she had so carefully chosen when she entered the Reitz Union Oct. 
23 at 3:30 p.m. The booth faces 
Pollo Tropical, but the walls hug 
it, making it the perfect semi-
hidden study space. 
“He smiled at me. He made 
eye contact,” the 19-year-old 
female sociology UF sophomore 
said. “He kept checking around 
the corner.”
At around 5:50 p.m., the 
man sat down and repositioned 
his chair so that he was directly 
diagonal to her in the corner 
table. Her stomach dropped, and her smile faded. 
“When I did look over he was 
jerking himself off,”  she said. “I 
really didn’t know what to do.”
She realized she had two 
choices: wait until he left or see 
if he chooses to lunge at her 
when trying to leave. She knew 
she could make enough noise to 
alert others in the food court if it 
happened.
“Worst comes to worst, he 
would grab me and potentially 
sexually assault me,” she said. 
Her saving grace arrived in the 
form of another student.UF sophomore details sexual assault at Reitz Union  Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida Athletic Director Scott Stricklin, photographed during Florida’s football game against 
Alabama on Sept. 18, received several emails from a player’s mother further detailing the abuse 
of women’s basketball coach Cameron Newbauer early in 2019.
SEE NEWBAUER,  PAGE 4SEE REITZ ASSAULT,  PAGE 4Man publicly masturbated in front of herT oday’s Weather
ROBERT LIGHTNER, 72, WAS 
SOLD TO HIS 
ADOPTIVE PARENTS 
FOR $200 IN 1949
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
Robert Lightner ached to learn 
more about his mother’s side of 
the family. 
Nervous about the outcome, 
his aunt, Mary Gull, wrote 
him a letter in 1993 revealing 
something kept from him for 44 
years: Lightner was adopted.
Decades later, Lightner 
signed up for Ancestry.com and 
23andMe, websites used to track 
genealogy and family history. He 
signed up for the programs in the 
early 2000s, and 28 years after 
he started his search, he finally 
found his biological family.
Lightner, a 72-year-old 
Gainesville resident, united with 
his half-sister Linda Crosby, a 
77-year-old Flagler Beach native, 
for the first time Nov. 3.
“Relieved, excited, elated,” 
Lightner said. “There’s not 
enough words to adequately 
describe the feeling.”
Lightner uncovered more than 
just his birth family. He also 
learned he was illegally sold to 
his adoptive parents James and 
Cecil Mae Lightner for $200 just 
hours after his birth in Miami 
on Aug. 25, 1949. His biological 
mother Flora Mary Gavagni sold 
him because he was born out of 
wedlock.In 1956, his adoptive parents 
read newspaper articles about 
Dr. Katherine Cole in Miami, who 
illegally sold babies for profit. 
Cole allegedly sold more than 
1,000 babies, most birthed from 
unwed mothers. The Lightners 
had purchased him from her 
seven years before. 
His adoptive parents sent him 
to boarding school in England, 
where he learned to fence and 
play cricket. He came back to the 
US in 1966 and attended UF from 
1969 to 1972. 
Lightner discovered his first 
DNA match — his aunt Mary 
Longo Gavagni — on Ancestry.
com around early October. 
Gavagni had sent in her DNA 
sample after receiving the 
package as a Christmas present 
in 2020. She hoped to learn more 
about her family history. 
The maiden name Gavagni 
became a starting point in 
Lightner’s journey.
With the help of search 
angels, volunteers who specialize 
in investigating adoptees’ family 
roots, Lightner found half-sister 
Crosby in September.
As soon as he did, he sent her 
a letter. But it almost didn’t make 
it to Crosby’s home. She was 
about to throw it away because 
it had been sent to the wrong 
house.
One word on the envelope 
caught her eye: Ann. Nobody 
uses her middle name.
She waved over her daughter-
in-law for a second opinion. It wasn’t a prank. 
“I could only read a sentence 
or a paragraph-and-a-half before 
I started to cry,” Crosby said. 
“I can’t imagine being alone all 
your life.”
She read the words of the man 
she now knows to be her half-
brother.
“I am NOT looking for any 
legal or financial claim or gain 
from anyone,” he wrote. “What 
I desire at this point is to simply 
know more about my Gavagni 
heritage and possibly meet a 
family member from that side of 
my family.”
They talked back and forth via 
text and email for a few weeks.
Then, the day came. Crosby 
made her way up to Gainesville to 
meet her half-brother in person.
The pair sat on Lightner’s 
couch and sifted through pages 
filled with photos, addresses and 
phone numbers of their relatives. 
Crosby hopes to assemble a 
similar book for Lightner.
Tears slid down their faces 
when they embraced for the first 
time.
“I was nervous,” she said. 
“But as soon as I met him and his 
hug went around me, it was all 
over.”
The siblings analyzed 
Lightner’s Ancestry.com family 
tree before eating lunch at 
Piesanos Stone Fired Pizza.
When it came time for Crosby 
to leave Gainesville, Lightner 
turned to his half-sister and told 
her he wasn’t ready for her to 
leave.
I just don’t want to let you go .
Lightner finally knew where 
he came from. The revelation has 
left his head spinning.
He and Crosby will reunite 
soon. She invited him to 
her Flagler Beach home for 
Thanksgiving where he will meet 
at least 25 family members.
“I’m so thankful for God for 
giving me this chance,” Crosby 
said. “Make it up to Robert for all 
the years he’s lost.”
Lightner believed his family 
only included his wife and son, 
which is a whole lot less than the 
people he will meet over turkey 
at Crosby’s Thanksgiving — 
giving the family a new reason to 
be thankful.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 13
 Gainesville resident finds biological 
family after 28-year search
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
Courtesy to The Alligator
Linda Crosby (left) and Robert Lightner (right) look at a family 
photo and address book on Nov. 3, 2021. Crosby assembled the 
book throughout the years.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
ALERT
Plasma is needed now. 
This is a call you can’t 
ignore. Because 
patients can’t wait.
New donors receive
up to $800 your
ﬁrst month.
Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th St
Gainesville
(352) 378-9431
*Must be 18-69 years of age, weigh at least 110 pounds and be in general good health to donate plasma. In addition to 
meeting center donation criteria, you must provide a valid photo ID, proof of current address, and proof of Social Security 
number or Border Crossing Card to donate. Valid for new donors at participating centers only. Management reserves all rights. 
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
The sapphire and green stained-glass win -
dow wraps 92-year-old Peggy Weigle in sun -
light and warmth. Weigle is not in church, but 
her mind is still finding salvation in melodies. 
In a small room in her retirement commu -
nity, she snuggles her orange-and-blue Gators 
blanket. Her drowsy head dips, heavy eyelids 
framed by wiry glasses.
Meanwhile, Dean Martin croons the lyrics, 
“Memories are made of this,” over two laptop 
speakers. Music becomes a key as it starts to 
wedge into Weigle’s past.  
Martin’s rich baritone transports her back 
to the 1950s. Her feet come alive, padded socks 
tapping against her wheelchair footrests with a 
precise rhythm. The corners of her eyes crin -
kle, and her lips curl upward. 
The movements are slight. If you blink, you 
might miss them, but they’re there just as her 
memories are — you just have to search hard 
enough.
To honor National Alzheimer’s Awareness 
Month, Oak Hammock Retirement Community 
at UF hosted a Music & Memory event Nov. 5. 
The organization uses music to help residents 
recall specific memories linked to songs that 
span across every era and genre.
The digital library includes every top 10 
song from 1930 to 1970. Research suggests that cognitive function can improve when listening 
to familiar music.
Once an elementary school music teacher, 
Weigle’s rhythm and zest for life persist de -
cades later. 
Her daughter Diane sat beside her, remem -
bering when Weigle played piano and sang her 
to sleep. Weigle loves music from all around 
the world. At her first teaching job, she taught 
special education students English from across 
the border of Juárez, Mexico.
For many memories, Weigle’s forehead fur -
rows as she struggles to recall the major details 
of her life. But then, Frank Sinatra’s “Strangers 
in the Night” lulls over the speakers.
Love was just a glance away, a warm 
embracing dance away ...
Weigle knows she once danced to this 
song. Back then, there was no wheelchair, and 
she felt safe in the arms of a man who knew 
he would marry her from the moment the two 
first locked eyes.
Lovers at first sight, in love forever.
This was their song — her late husband she 
shared 55 years with. Her eyes widened.
“George,” Weigle said. 
Working intently on a laptop, resident Phil -
lip Morrison is the DJ of memories. The volun -
teer of five years sometimes dresses the part, 
donning a black cowboy hat and a bandana 
around his neck for those who love country 
music.“It’s like a scavenger hunt to try to find out 
what music gets a positive response,” Morri -
son said. “To see the smiles or the enjoyment 
that comes, it’s just so fulfilling.”
Morrison said he knows how much the 
little moments of respite and joy matter. His 
mother had Alzheimer’s disease and several of 
his family members lived in nursing homes.
“I saw the joy that music could bring to 
people who don’t have that much control,” he 
said. “That’s something I want to do.”
As he travels back to residents’ youth with 
the playlist, he encounters a wide spectrum of 
responses. But for one married couple, the mu -
sic is particularly effective.
Although her husband is in the memory 
care unit, when Morrison hit play on R&B song 
“Jim Dandy,” the husband playfully wagged 
his finger. He broke out in dance and twirled 
his wife around, singing to her.
“That’s how they first met,” Morrison said. 
“She saw him dancing, and she says, ‘I want 
to dance with that man.’ So that led to 57 years 
of marriage together.”
Another resident had been completely un -
responsive. She required pulmonary therapy, 
which Morrison said was uncomfortable. She 
had no family with her. She resisted the treat -
ment, and so Morrison set out to find the right 
musical prescription.
After compiling her personalized playl -
ist, the resident powered through her therapy 
when her aide played the music before and 
during the session, Morrison said.
“Music has benefits to our wellbeing,” Mor -
rison said. “It should be viewed as a medicine 
or tool.” 
Music & Memory is helping seniors across 
the world.
The overarching goal of Music & Memory 
is to promote the proactive use of therapeutic 
music until it becomes a standard in health 
care, said Justin Russo, program director.
The right music, especially from someone’s 
formative years, can retrieve memories by acti -
vating their cognition for a brief period of time, 
Russo said.
“Music is irrevocably part of both our con -
scious brains and our unconscious brains,” he 
said. 
This concept becomes important when 
brain function starts to decline during the ag -
ing process, particularly for people living with 
dementia. Music embeds itself in more areas of 
the brain during formative years, or at about 13 
to 25 years of age, Russo said.
Those areas are the last to be touched by 
even late-stage dementia, he said. Studies show personalized music reduces 
anxiety and agitation. Some people with de -
mentia struggle to chew and swallow. Listen -
ing to their favorite songs can help people with 
nutrition issues follow cues to chew and swal -
low, Russo said.
Repeated exposure to familiar music has 
been shown to benefit cognitive performance 
in Alzheimer’s disease patients as well. Recent 
research investigated the brain mechanisms 
behind this improvement, according to the 
Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease.
If someone is played music from their for -
mative years, it generates the most reaction in 
terms of neuroplasticity — the brain’s ability 
to respond to external stimuli, such as music, 
Russo said.
After MRI scans, researchers found partici -
pants responded more and displayed signs of 
neural connectivity. Musicians responded even 
better, Russo said.
“It puts them in a better position to have 
their cognition activated, to converse, to social -
ize, and ultimately, to be present,” Russo said. 
“It underscores the importance of music-based 
interventions like Music & Memory.”
The largest ever study conducted on the ef -
fects of Music & Memory measured reductions 
in the amount of antipsychotic medication tak -
en by nursing home residents and declines in 
distress, Russo said.
Music & Memory was associated with re -
ductions in psychotropic medication use, in -
cluding antianxiety, antidepressant and anti -
psychotic medication. Aggressive behaviors, 
depressive symptoms, pain, and falls declined 
significantly over time, according to a study in 
the Journal for Post-Aacute and Long-Tterm 
Care Medicine.
“When you see that face light up when 
you get the right music, it makes all that effort 
worthwhile,” Russo said. “We’re really just 
scratching the surface of what’s possible with 
music.” 
Over the speakers at Oak Hammock, Martin 
emphasizes the memories you keep: of love, 
grief and joy, and of wedding bells, homes and 
kids.
“Stir carefully through the days, see how 
the flavor stays,” Martin sings. “These are the 
dreams you will savor.”
Music & Memory offers a free guide on 
how to create a personalized music playlist for 
loved ones at home.
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgMusic & Memory program unlocks elders’ pasts at retirement community
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Rhoda Swerlick listens to music from her childhood at Oak Hammock on Nov. 5, 2021. 
Swerlick participated in a Music & Memory program workshop at Oak Hammock. She 
was given listening devices that allow her to play her personalized playlist at her leisure.
New research further explores how cognitive functioning can improve when listening to familiar music4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021her he considered her a senior and 
it would be her last season with the 
program. 
Corey emailed her eligibility co -
ordinator, Daniel Siegel, to appeal 
for another year. Newbauer found 
out about the email and humiliated 
her during a practice. 
“HE IS THE CULTURE and it is 
VERY TOXIC,” B.B. wrote. “YOU 
have given him free reign to run our 
girls and their confidence into the 
ground.”
B.B. detailed an incident where 
an international player walked off 
the court two hours before a game 
due to Newbauer’s screaming. As -
sistant coaches and players looked 
for her. Newbauer yelled at the 
team and said the player left be -
cause of them. 
“NO she left because of HIM,” 
she wrote. “Now I ask you. What if 
she had been distraught enough to 
walk out in traffic? She is thousands 
of miles away from home and no 
one cares. NO ONE.”
She urged Stricklin to take ac -
tion, reminding him that the players 
were also people’s daughters.
“Now the blood is no longer on 
my hands if something happens to 
one of these girls and nothing is 
done about it,” she wrote. “Now it 
is on yours.”
Stricklin emailed B.B. back a day 
later. His response looked similar to 
the one he sent Sydney Morang’s 
parents when they shared concerns 
about Newbauer in 2018.
“I wanted to let you know that 
I received your note and appreciate 
you reaching out,” he wrote. “I un -
derstand that this was difficult for 
you to do. Please know that I take 
your concerns seriously and will as -
sess where we can improve for the 
benefit of our student-athletes.”
B.B. wrote another email to 
Stricklin and Tealer Jan. 25, 2019, 
after she saw a Facebook comment claiming parents and two players 
on the 2017-2018 team sent letters 
to Stricklin detailing Newbauer’s 
abuse. 
She told Stricklin about the time 
Newbauer hurled basketballs to -
ward players. One of them hit her 
daughter’s injured knee. 
A source close to UF’s inves -
tigation told ESPN they found no 
evidence Newbauer threw basket -
balls at players. Corey however, 
said Newbauer showed no remorse 
when he threw the basketball that 
hit her injured knee.
“They didn’t even try to investi -
gate it,” she said. “All of our prac -
tices are recorded, and so we’re not 
just making that up.”
B.B. followed up Feb. 4, 2019, 
after Stricklin didn’t respond to her 
previous email. 
“How many young woman are 
you going to keep sending to him?” 
she wrote. “These parents are trust -
ing OUR school and administrators 
to protect their children away from 
home.”
Stricklin returned her email two 
days later. 
“I am writing to confirm that I 
have received and considered your 
emails,” he wrote. “The experi -
ence of all Gator student athletes is 
important to me and everyone on 
our staff. This is reinforced by the 
myriad options students have to 
personally talk about their experi -
ences or challenges with folks in -
side and outside of their particular 
sport...The goal is to be present and 
available for student athletes of all 
teams, women’s basketball includ -
ed.”
B.B. wrote back the same day 
and told Stricklin he missed the 
point: Players are afraid of seeking 
help because of fear of retaliation. 
She added that some had gone to 
their advisers, counselors and train -
ers. In each case, the reports got 
back to Newbauer, and he humili -
ated them for it. In her first email, she wrote that 
Newbauer found out about the let -
ter the Morangs sent to Stricklin and 
UF President Kent Fuchs. She said 
it wasn’t a coincidence that Sydney 
wasn’t allowed near the basketball 
facility or her teammates after medi -
cally retiring due to concussions.
“What you don’t seem to un -
derstand is when a person has 
been psychologically  and verbal 
abused enough, they don’t believe 
they have the right to protect them -
selves,” she wrote. “They believe 
they somehow caused this.”
She sent a fourth email Feb. 12, 
2019, to thank Stricklin and Tealer 
after he assigned Jay Jacobs, the ex -
ecutive associate athletics director 
for external affairs, to watch over 
Newbauer. 
“This man didn’t care about us, 
either,” Corey said. “There’s noth -
ing that’s going to be changed here. 
They don’t care about us.”
Corey Staples remembered see -
ing a player walk out of a meeting 
with Jacobs and Newbauer crying 
right before a home game. Newbau -
er and Jacobs left the room seconds 
later, giggling and laughing. 
“He was there to be his buddy,” 
she said. “He was just eating our 
food and, you know, traveling with 
us and having a good time.”
B.B. thought Newbauer cleaned 
up his behavior during the time Ja -
cobs overlooked the program. How -
ever, she then sent a final furious 
email to Stricklin, Tealer and Jacobs 
March 2, 2019.  
She wrote Newbauer shoved her 
daughter onto the court in a game 
versus Georgia Feb. 28, 2019. As 
a mother, she wrote it took every -
thing in her to not jump onto the 
court and protect her child. 
“I am angry and embarrassed 
that this is the coach that you have 
offered up to these girls,” she said. 
“As a human, I am mortified that 
my daughter was treated like a pet.”
After the game, a women’s bas -
ketball booster approached B.B. 
The booster told her the way New -
bauer spoke to Corey was bad but him shoving her was a new low. 
Boosters would sit behind the 
bench so they could hear how New -
bauer spoke to his players.
Sharlene Byrd-Childs, who 
played for Florida through the 1982-
1986 seasons, contacted Tealer re -
garding Newbauer Jan. 7, 2019. 
“On another note, I am a little 
disturb about Newbauer denigrat -
ing comments to his players in the 
presence of others - spectators, for -
mer Lady Gators( not only basket -
ball),” she wrote.
At a game Byrd-Childs attended, 
Newbauer turned to the bench and 
yelled to his coaches after a player’s 
pass was deflected for a turnover. 
This is why I don’t play her!
Emer Nichols, who played at 
Florida through the 2018-2019 sea -
son, was frustrated by Stricklin’s 
statement after the abuse allega -
tions went public. 
“One allegation, two allegations 
is enough and should be enough for 
them,” she said. 
Several players went to Strick -
lin about Newbauer, Nichols said. 
She said she was also transparent 
when Florida required players to fill 
out evaluations about the coaching 
staff, but they never called the team 
in to speak about what Newbauer 
did. 
In an email statement sent by 
McClain, Stricklin said if he had 
known about the depth of New -
bauer’s behavior, he wouldn’t have 
extended Newbauer’s contract in 
June.
“I thought things were moving in 
a certain direction,” Stricklin said. 
“Obviously, we weren’t. We didn’t 
pick up signs and clues and we’ve 
got to figure out going forward how 
to get better at that and make sure 
we know what’s going on.”
However, Nichols believes all of 
the assistant coaches under New -
bauer were complicit, including 
now interim coach Kelly Rae Finley. 
Finley, Nichols said, tried to jus -
tify Newbauer’s behavior and at -
titude. Cydnee Kinslow, a former 
player on the 2020-2021 team, ac -cused Finley of doing damage con -
trol for Newbauer. 
Finley and assistant coach Erika 
Lang-Montgomery confided in Nich -
ols and other teammates and shared 
remorse for how they let Newbauer 
treat them, Nichols said. 
Corey Staples, however, feels 
conflicted about Finley’s role.
“I do think complicit is the best 
word to describe it,” she said. “I 
remember like practices and not 
even practices, just like when we’re 
around her, she would always jus -
tify what he’s doing.”
Current players don’t agree with 
former teammates. Guard Lavender 
Briggs accused Kinslow of making 
false accusations about Finley. 
“She’s speaking on things that 
aren’t even her experience, and 
if those players wanted to speak 
on those experiences, they would 
have, they still will, but I’m pretty 
sure they don’t, which is why they 
haven’t been spoken about,” Briggs 
said. 
However, Kinslow said she only 
spoke about her own experiences at 
Florida. 
“What I went through was 100% 
what I went through,” she said. “I 
wouldn’t put that on anyone else, 
and I would never wish that upon 
anybody.”
While at Florida, Nichols said 
she developed several health con -
ditions that led to her being diag -
nosed with lupus, an auto-immune 
disorder that attacks the body’s tis -
sues and organs. She believes the 
toxic environment under Newbauer 
caused her condition to arise. 
“It was very hard on me,” she 
said. “I was always very hard on 
myself because I never wanted to 
get yelled at.”
Since leaving the team, she 
hasn’t had a flare-up. 
The player with whom B.B. 
spoke to never slammed the ball 
down in the middle of a game, and 
Newbauer went on to coach two 
more seasons before resigning.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgDo you mind watching my stuff while I 
use the restroom? 
Shaken out of her trance, she looked up 
to see Rachel Nattis, a 19-year-old health 
science UF sophomore  —  a student she 
had never met before. Nattis’ backpack and 
books were scattered across a booth on the 
opposite end of the room. 
“She was sitting in a corner, so when I 
first walked up to her I didn’t see anyone 
else,” Nattis said. “As I went to turn around 
because she said yes, I saw this individual 
sitting there who just did not look like he 
belonged at all.”
Making eye contact with the victim the 
whole time, Nattis said: “Actually, I’m 
going to go get my things.” 
The victim said she snapped out of her 
panic after Nattis spoke. Then, she asked Nattis to come over to the table. Agreeing 
and walking over, Nattis noticed the man 
adjusting his pants and quickly leaving the 
food court. 
That’s when Nattis saw the victim break 
down in tears.
Retelling the story to Nattis, they both 
decided to contact the University Police 
Department’s non-emergency line. On the 
phone, the victim was asked: “Are you 
calling us to let us know so we can keep 
an eye out?”
The victim said yes, but the question was 
odd to her at the time. Later, she decided 
to call her parents. Her father, who retired 
from the military and police, was upset and 
called UPD. He was told that his daughter 
didn’t want to open an investigation. 
“I was never asked that,” she said. “But 
because I didn’t specify that, they used that 
as an excuse to not have to open up that 
kind of paperwork.”
She had to call UPD again and clarify 
she wanted an investigation opened. Later 
that week, she went into the UPD office to watch the video footage.
“They only had one camera image,” she 
said. “The only image they have of him 
is one of him walking in and one of him 
leaving and it’s black and white, grainy.”
A couple of weeks earlier, she noticed 
there were no cameras in the seating area 
adjacent to UF’s bookstore and across from 
Pollo Tropical. She could only spot one 
security camera near the walkway. 
The victim said the detective on the 
case was surprised at the lack of cameras 
in the food court. The building was last 
renovated in 2016. She said the detective 
told her the Reitz Union had no cameras in 
the entrances or exits.
UPD didn’t respond to requests for 
comment until Sunday morning and didn’t 
return a call with information. Also, UF 
didn’t provide comment before publication 
on the incident or lack of cameras at the 
Reitz Union.
“I feel like there are so many other things 
that could have happened that there would 
have been no cameras for,” the victim said. UPD released a notice with the man’s 
photo on Oct. 29 — about six days after 
the incident.
“The University of Florida Police is 
seeking to identify the shown individual 
who may be related to an indecent exposure 
incident that occurred on October 23,” the 
bulletin wrote. 
UPD is asking anyone who has 
information regarding the man to contact 
UPD or submit a tip to its silent witness 
portal. The victim encourages others to use 
their best judgment.
“I was the victim, but I should have 
trusted my gut when it said something was 
off,” the victim said. “This is something 
that can happen because genuinely I didn’t 
even think of it as in the realm of possibility 
for something that could happen.”
This is a developing story. 
Check alligator.org for updates
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.org
NEWBAUER , from pg. 1REITZ ASSAULT , from pg. 1
Stricklin complicitNever askedMONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE MUSEUM CLOSED DUE TO 
COVID-19 AND A PIVOTAL MEMBER 
DIED SHORTLY AFTER
By Zachary Carnell 
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Cotton Club Museum and Cultural 
Center reopened its doors with a celebratory 
reception Sunday after being closed for 
more than a year due to the COVID-19 
pandemic.
More than 100 people attended the event, 
which lasted from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. State 
Sen. Keith Perry made a brief appearance, 
and Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe made a 
short, two-minute speech.
“It just feels right, doesn’t it?” Poe said. “Because we’re all back together sharing 
in fellowship … From the beginning, this 
center wasn’t just about the past. You 
certainly want to preserve the past and 
put a flag in the ground for all the history 
that came through this place and also the 
community around it, but it was always 
about building that bridge to the future.”
Music, refreshments, raffle prizes and 
a video presentation were featured at the 
in-person event. While the CCMCC put 
on several virtual events over the course 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, Evelyn Foxx 
was ready to resume normal museum 
operations.
Foxx, the president of the local NAACP 
chapter and a CCMCC board member, said 
the board didn’t want to close the museum but needed to ensure the safety of the 
community. 
“This is wonderful. Isn’t this a beautiful 
place?” Foxx said. “We’re ready to have 
people come in and enjoy it like they did 
prior to COVID.” 
The event also featured artwork from UF 
psychologist Anthony Greene, and Patricia 
Hilliard-Nunn, a prominent member of the 
CCMCC who died in 2020. The event was 
almost as much a celebration of her life as 
it was of the museum’s reopening. 
Among being a professor at UF, an 
artist, a dancer and an outspoken activist, 
Hilliard-Nunn helped the CCMCC from the 
very beginning to raise funds, write grant 
proposals and organize events, her husband 
Kenneth Nunn said. He attended the event 
and volunteered her art for it, knowing how 
invested she was in the museum’s mission. 
“Tricia came in with both feet and got 
really excited about it, and I was a skeptic,” 
he said. “I was like, ‘You’re wasting your 
time raising this money and doing all this 
work. I’m really glad to see it, but I just 
don’t think that building is going to get 
together.’”
Back in the mid-‘90s, the museum 
wasn’t a museum. The building was run 
down and in desperate need of repair, 
according to a presentation at the event. 
Vivian Filer, the CCMCC founder and chair, 
said it was previously a part of a military 
base in World War II before it was a movie 
theater. Then, it turned into a Big Band’s 
club, featuring performers like James 
Brown, B.B. King and Bo Diddley, before 
becoming a warehouse. 
That’s when Filer and her church bought 
the building and began transforming it into 
the Cotton Club museum. 
Filer is a strong believer in the influence 
the museum has, and she encouraged 
Hilliard-Nunn to get involved, Kenneth 
said. Attendees like Nathaniel Courtney, 39, 
particularly appreciated both Filer and 
Hilliard-Nunn’s work ethic and vibrance.
“I remember being a child … and she 
would come and read stories to different 
schools here,” Courtney said. “Such a 
beautiful spirit. Just a testament to what we 
can do as a community, especially when we 
have impactful leaders like Ms. Filer and 
like Dr. Hilliard-Nunn.”
He said he appreciates Hilliard-Nunn’s 
legacy. 
“Her spirit is alive and well today,” 
Courtney said. “It just speaks to the close-
knit community that Gainesville is and then 
the impact that she had on this community, 
particularly her ability to help bring back 
this museum to life.”
Zachary Carnell is a contributing writer.
LOCAL POLITICAL LEADERS 
WEIGH IN ON 
HOW TO BOLSTER 
STUDENT PARTICIPATION
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
As Gainesville nears a 
special election to replace a city 
commissioner, candidates and 
students are working to remedy 
record turnout lows from the spring.
Voter turnout during city elections 
is low, with less than 11% of eligible 
voters participating in the election 
where former Commissioner Gail 
Johnson and Commissioner Desmon 
Duncan-Walker earned their seats 
on the commission. The county 
decided to combine future city and 
county elections to increase turnout. 
As of Sunday, almost 8,000 
ballots have been cast, which 
represents 8.8% of eligible voters 
in Gainesville, according to the 
Supervisor of Elections Office. More 
than 6,000 of the ballots have been 
mailed in.
College-aged students turn out 
to vote at lower rates, according to 
the Campus Vote Project. Although 
rates have increased for presidential elections, Campus Vote Project 
reports that college students are less 
likely to vote because they move 
frequently and are less likely to be 
contacted by political campaigns.
Members of the Gainesville and 
UF community have made it their 
mission to involve UF students in 
the city’s upcoming election Nov. 
16. Whoever is elected will replace 
Johnson and serve until 2024.
Anton Kernohan, a 22-year-old 
UF political science and sustainability 
senior, worked as City Commission 
candidate Cynthia Chestnut’s 
campaign manager when she first 
launched her campaign in August.
Being a young campaign manager 
allowed Kernohan to get other UF 
students involved with political 
processes and campaigns. He said 
he encourages UF students to vote 
because city commissioners can 
make decisions that impact them.
Students also need to educate 
themselves on local issues because 
if all UF students were to vote, they 
could disproportionately affect the 
votes of other Gainesville residents, 
Kernohan said. 
“You are going to be residing in 
this community for the next four 
years and you should be contributing 
to it politically if you can,” Kernohan said. “You should be voting in your 
local elections here.”
Bringing voter registration and 
digital campaigning to students can 
help get them involved, Kernohan 
said. He said bringing the campaign 
to campus, such as passing out flyers 
in Plaza of the Americas, can help 
meet students in the middle.
“Young people really have an 
opportunity to change the shape 
of politics if they’re willing to be 
informed and willing to be educated 
about issues and willing to get 
involved,” he said.
Student organizations are 
also involved in getting students 
interested in elections. Brian Marra, 
a 20-year-old UF history and English 
junior, is the political director of 
UF College Democrats. He helped 
organize a candidate Q&A on 
campus for students.
The organization is working to 
get students registered to vote and 
advertising the election to help get 
students informed, he said.
Getting involved in local politics 
may seem mundane, Marra said, 
especially for a race happening 
during a non-election year. But 
because the politics and decisions 
are local, they have the greatest 
impact on the local community.Gainesville and UF shouldn’t be 
separate entities, he said. Due to 
low voter turnout in city elections, 
students who vote will find that 
their votes have more power than in 
larger elections, but students’ votes 
always matter.
“I just don’t think that students 
should be limited based on whether 
they’re from a place or not,” Marra 
said. “They should be getting 
involved in local politics because 
they’re there currently and they 
should have an opinion and a voice 
in what goes on in the city that 
they’re in.”
City Commission candidate 
Matt Howland said it’s integral for 
UF students to get engaged in local 
politics.
Local government has the greatest 
impact on people’s day-to-day lives, 
Howland said. 
UF students live in Gainesville 
for years and often settle down in 
the area. Whether students choose 
to stay long-term in Gainesville or 
elsewhere, creating new policies can 
make Gainesville a role model for 
other cities they may live in down 
the line.
“If younger generations want 
to have a say in the future of this 
country, then they need to start by getting active right now locally,” 
Howland said.
To get students involved in his 
own campaign, Howland said he 
engaged with student organizations 
like UF College Democrats to offer 
jobs on his campaign trail that pay 
$20 per hour. He has four student 
volunteers working with his 
campaign now, and he helps them 
with their own career goals as well.
“You have to be prepared to 
invest in that student and make 
sure they get the experience out of 
it that they’re looking for,” Howland 
said. “That’s the only way that we 
can continue to grow and build this 
democratic process.”
Residents are also unengaged in 
local elections, which is why both 
local governments and residents 
need to do their part in education on 
local issues, Howland said. He said 
his goal is to knock on 5,000 doors 
— he has visited about 4,952 houses 
— before Election Day to ask citizens 
about issues important to them.
“I’ve walked over 400 miles since 
the campaign began, but that’s what 
it takes to try to get the voters to go 
to the polls,” Howland said.
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgCotton Club Museum and Cultural Center celebrates reopening
Gainesville aims to combat historic voter turnout lowsRuihan Zhang / / Alligator Staff
Attendees listen to a speech during the Cotton Club Museum and Cultural 
Center’s re-opening reception on Sunday, Nov. 14, 2021.Ruihan Zhang / / Alligator Staff
Deloris Rentz, Cotton Club Museum 
and Cultural Center board member, 
speaks at the re-opening reception on 
Sunday, Nov. 14, 2021.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021
UF COMMUNITY GATHERED TO 
SHOW ITS UNITED STANCE AGAINST 
UF’S DECISION TO BAR PROFESSORS 
FROM TESTIFYING AGAINST STATE
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Robert Hatch recalls the 
institution to which he has devoted 30 
years of his life, he feels ashamed. 
“I am ashamed that our university has 
sunk to the level it has,” the UF College of 
Medicine professor said. 
Ever since UF denied three political 
science professors the ability to testify 
against the state, many have expressed their 
dismay toward the university. The events 
led roughly 40 protesters to band together 
Friday on the corner of West University 
Avenue and Northwest 13th Street. They 
gathered with colorful, handmade posters 
and their voices for a common goal: to hold UF accountable for its actions. 
Despite UF reversing its decision Nov. 
5, which allowed the three professors to 
testify as expert witnesses, many believe 
there’s still a battle to fight. 
“We don’t care that they reversed their 
decision,” said Rachel Wolfrey, UF College 
Democrats spokesperson. “We don’t think 
that that’s enough by any means.”
The event was put together by UFCD, 
Young Democratic Socialists of America, 
United Faculty of Florida and Graduate 
Assistants United. The groups are hoping 
their efforts will ensure this will not 
happen again in the future, Wolfrey said.
During the hour-long demonstration, 
five people presented prepared speeches, 
including a statement from Sean Trainor, a 
UFF member and lecturer in the Warrington 
College of Business. 
Each speaker expressed disapproval for 
how UF’s administration and President 
Kent Fuchs handled the situation. They highlighted the importance of standing up 
for academic freedom and the consequences 
that would arise if they did not. 
“What right does UF have to tell us 
what we can and can’t do when we are not 
on the clock?” Trainor said. 
Trainor argued if they didn’t stand 
against UF now, what would stop the 
university from dictating what professors 
teach and what students learn.
He also believes UF is incapable of 
investigating its own wrongdoings. An 
outside body with no loyalties to the state, 
the American Association of Universities 
or the American Association of University 
Professors should lead the investigation.
Protest leaders publicly vocalized the 
opinions many of the faculty and students 
have yet to share. 
“It was definitely very disheartening as 
a brand new student to have to see that 
my university is doing these actions,” said 
Amelia Packham, an 18-year-old political science freshman. 
It’s important the student body speaks 
out to stand behind the faculty and show 
it cares just as much as the faculty does, 
she said. Packham was excited to come 
to UF because she thought it was a place 
that encouraged learning and finding your 
voice, but the current events have let her 
down.
Similarly, UF’s prestige and respected 
name is what enticed Hatch to seek 
employment at the university. For decades 
he considered himself to be very fortunate 
to work for the university, but that has 
since changed, he said. 
The institution, Hatch said, has 
increasingly leaned in the direction 
of limited academic freedom, so the 
administration’s decision was not shocking 
to him.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.org
THE TASK FORCE PLANS TO 
BEGIN DRAFTING POLICY 
RECOMMENDATIONS IN ITS 
NEXT MEETING NOV. 15
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
President Fuchs’ Task Force 
on Outside Activities had its first 
two meetings last week following 
heavy scrutiny on UF’s decision 
to limit eight professors from 
testifying in lawsuits against the 
state.
The task force had its first 
meeting Tuesday and created a 
plan to address issues with UF’s 
written policies on disclosure of 
outside activities and conflict of 
interest by Nov. 29.
Members agreed to divide the 
investigation into two phases 
to present recommendations 
to President Fuchs before his proposed deadline of Nov. 29.
TheyMembers of the task 
force decided to first analyze the 
problems with expert witnesses 
and litigation. With the second 
phase, they plan on examining 
the processes professors must 
go through when requesting to 
participate in outside activities, 
such as testifying as an expert 
witness and examining who 
decides to allow the professors to 
participate and how the decision 
gets communicated transparently.
The group also agreed on 
inviting someone to help the 
members with the medical context 
for situations where a UF medic or 
doctor is needed to deliver expert 
testimony against another doctor 
or the state.
Additionally, the task force 
agreed to hold seven virtual 
meetings before the Nov. 29 
deadline.In its second meeting Friday, 
the task force met for about an 
hour to begin discussing the 
legalities of participating in 
outside activities and academic 
freedom.
Along with all members of the 
task force, Randall Jenkins, UF 
Health senior vice president and 
general counsel, attended the 
meeting. He was invited by the 
group to answer any questions 
and provide suggestions on the 
medical perspective of the issue 
with university doctors being 
expert witnesses.
Clay Calvert, UF law and 
journalism professor, and Laura 
Rosenbury, UF Levin College 
of Law dean, also led the task 
force through discussions on 
First Amendment rights for UF 
employees.
Both Calvert and Rosenbury 
brought up the need to address what defines a conflict of 
interest according to the 
university’s policy. Rosenbury 
said it is currently defined as an 
interference with the performance 
of the professors or employees’ 
job duties.
“I would love to hear more 
about why testifying in a case 
where the university or a 
university employee is a party 
would necessarily interfere with 
the performance of the experts’ 
job duties,” Rosenbury said.
Calvert and Rosenbury also 
asked to examine what the 
interest of the university and 
the individual is and how the 
university’s interests can be 
harmed by professors, if at all.
One of the last things the team 
agreed on is drafting its discussions 
into policy recommendations they 
would present to the president in 
late November.However, members of the 
task force also raised questions 
of transparency with the 
university’s faculty and staff as 
they start considering possible 
recommendations.
“As someone on the faculty, I 
guess, I just would hope that there 
would be some transparency with 
these decisions,” said Katie Vogel 
Anderson, UF clinical associate 
professor for the College of 
Pharmacy and task force member. 
At the end of the Friday 
meeting, the task force agreed to 
analyze the process the university 
uses to receive outside activity 
requests for expert witness 
testimony in the next meeting 
Nov. 15. Terra DuBois, UF’s chief 
compliance, ethics and privacy 
officer, will lead the conversation.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgStudents, faculty unite to protest amid academic freedom controversy
Recap: First week of UF’s conflict of interest task forceElena Barrera / / Alligator Staff
Protestors stand together to advocate for academic freedom on the corner of 
West University Avenue and Northwest 13th Street on Friday, Nov. 12, 2021.Elena Barrera / / Alligator Staff
Students protest against UF for initially denying three professors the ability 
to testify in a case against the state on Friday, Nov. 12, 2021 on the corner of 
West University Avenue and Northwest 13th Street.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
EL CAIMÁN
Escrito por Camila Pereira
Escritora de El Caimán
Traducido por Saira Gonzalez
Escritora de El Caimán
El Grupo de Trabajo sobre 
Actividades Exteriores del 
presidente Fuchs celebró sus dos 
primeras reuniones la semana 
pasada luego de un intenso 
escrutinio sobre la decisión de 
UF de limitar a ocho profesores 
a testificar en juicios contra el 
estado.
El grupo de trabajo tuvo 
su primera reunión el martes 
y creó un plan para abordar 
los problemas con las políticas 
escritas de UF sobre la divulgación 
de actividades externas y 
conflictos de intereses para el 29 
de noviembre.
Los miembros acordaron 
dividir la investigación en dos fases 
para presentar recomendaciones 
al presidente Fuchs antes de la 
fecha límite propuesta del 29 de 
noviembre.Los miembros del grupo 
de trabajo decidieron analizar 
primero los problemas con los 
testigos expertos y el litigio. 
Con la segunda fase, planean 
examinar los procesos por los que 
deben pasar los profesores cuando 
solicitan participar en actividades 
externas, como testificar como 
expertos y examinar quién decide 
permitir la participación de los 
profesores y cómo se comunica la 
decisión de manera transparente.
El grupo también acordó 
invitar a alguien para ayudar a 
los miembros con el contexto 
médico en situaciones en las 
que se necesita un médico de 
UF o un médico para brindar un 
testimonio experto contra otro 
médico o el estado.
Además, el grupo de trabajo 
acordó realizar siete reuniones 
virtuales antes de la fecha límite 
del 29 de noviembre.
En su segunda reunión del 
viernes, el grupo de trabajo se 
reunió durante aproximadamente una hora para comenzar a discutir 
las legalidades de participar en 
actividades externas y la libertad 
académica.
Junto con todos los miembros 
del grupo de trabajo, Randall 
Jenkins, vicepresidente senior y 
consejero general de UF Health, 
asistió a la reunión. El grupo 
lo invitó a responder cualquier 
pregunta y brindar sugerencias 
sobre la perspectiva médica 
del tema, siendo los médicos 
universitarios testigos expertos.
Clay Calvert, profesor de 
derecho y periodismo de UF, y 
Laura Rosenbury, decana del 
colegio Levin de Derechos de 
UF, también dirigieron el grupo 
de trabajo a través de debates 
sobre los derechos de la Primera 
Enmienda para los empleados de 
UF.
Tanto Calvert como Rosenbury 
plantearon la necesidad de 
abordar lo que define un conflicto 
de intereses de acuerdo con 
la política de la universidad. Rosenbury dijo que actualmente 
se define como una interferencia 
con el desempeño de los deberes 
laborales de los profesores o 
empleados.
“Me encantaría saber más 
acerca de por qué testificar en 
un caso en el que la universidad 
o un empleado de la universidad 
es una de las partes interferiría 
necesariamente con el desempeño 
de las funciones laborales de los 
expertos”, dijo Rosenbury.
Calvert y Rosenbury también 
pidieron examinar cuál es el 
interés de la universidad y del 
individuo y cómo los profesores 
pueden dañar los intereses de la 
universidad, si es que lo hacen.
Una de las últimas cosas en las 
que el equipo estuvo de acuerdo 
es en convertir sus discusiones en 
recomendaciones de política que 
presentarán al presidente a fines 
de noviembre.
Sin embargo, los miembros 
del grupo de trabajo también 
plantearon cuestiones de transparencia con la facultad 
y el personal de la universidad 
a medida que comienzan 
a considerar posibles 
recomendaciones.
“Como miembro de la facultad, 
supongo, solo espero que haya 
algo de transparencia con estas 
decisiones”, dijo Katie Vogel 
Anderson, profesora asociada 
clínica de UF de la Facultad de 
Farmacia y miembro del grupo de 
trabajo.
Al final de la reunión del 
viernes, el grupo de trabajo 
acordó analizar el proceso 
que utiliza la universidad para 
recibir solicitudes de actividades 
externas para el testimonio de 
testigos expertos en la próxima 
reunión del 15 de noviembre. 
Terra DuBois, director de 
cumplimiento, ética y privacidad 
de UF, dirigirá la conversación.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.org
sgonzalez@alligator.orgResumen: primera semana del grupo de trabajo sobre conflictos de intereses de UFFINALIZED PLAN TO BE PRESENTED TO 
THE CITY AFTER 11-MONTH PROCESS
By Bryce Brown
Alligator Staff Writer 
A new city plan focuses on improving 
housing, business, entertainment and safe -
ty in downtown Gainesville.
The Downtown Gainesville Strategic 
Plan process began last fall when city man -
agement and elected officials met to create 
ways to improve the city.
It proposes a wide range of ideas in -
cluding increased street lighting to ensure 
safety, additional residential opportunities, 
new gathering places for community enter -
tainment and the introduction of new retail 
businesses. 
The project officially kickstarted in 
June, and organizers estimate a draft to be 
ready by April to show the City Commis -
sion in early summer. 
Economic Development and Innovation 
Director Erik Bredfeldt said it’s integral in 
the early stages to make sure each vision 
can actually be implemented. 
City architect Sarit Sela said community 
members have been enthusiastic through -
out the process. The Downtown Gainesville 
Strategic Plan website has a survey that 
asks respondents about their experiences 
in downtown Gainesville and what they 
would suggest for improvements. She said 
there are roughly 500 respondents so far. 
“We’re seeing redevelopment and fur -
ther development coming around down -
town and into downtown,” Sela said. “It 
will really be good to have a unified vi -
sion for what we want to see in the coming 
years.”
Sela said there are 15 focus groups that 
discuss different aspects of downtown, from businesses and social services to arts 
and culture. A community meeting was 
held Oct. 27 which attracted about 100 
participants.
She said in addition to providing a 
wider variety of activities and attracting a 
larger audience, current activities and as -
sets have the potential to be improved and 
used even more.
Sela said a primary goal of the plan is to 
have something for everyone. 
“We want people to feel welcome, to 
feel safe,” she said. “To enjoy what they 
see; to be excited and curious about down -
town.” 
Matt Howland, a resident in downtown 
Gainesville and a board member of the 
strategic plan Neighbor Advisory Group, 
said the purpose of the advisory group is 
to provide feedback on the planning and 
help articulate the positions of the city and 
business community. He’s also running for 
the open seat on the City Commission with 
goals to improve business and transporta -
tion.
“We all have an invested interest in try -
ing to build a downtown area that not only 
we love and are proud of, but we think 
would be attractive and well received by 
the rest of the Gainesville community,” he 
said. 
Howland said the plan is critical right 
now because the city is in a period of 
growth and development. He said every 
neighborhood should feel like a respected 
part of the process. 
He hopes the city can prioritize con -
versations with business owners to ensure 
that the new services align with the goals 
and needs of the community. 
Bob Karp, a member of the Board of 
Directors of the Gainesville Citizens for 
Active Transportation, said downtown Gainesville needs proper care for it to 
thrive in the coming years. 
“Downtown is the heart of any city,” he 
said. “You want to take special care to de -
velop and nurture it.”
He attended the community event that 
was held Oct. 27 and joined the hundreds 
of other Gainesville residents in sharing his 
opinion on what should change. 
Karp wants to see traffic on University 
Avenue calm down, and said he believes 
the high speeds of passing cars hurt busi -
nesses and also make it an unsafe environ -
ment for walking. He said a lane reduction 
may be one option to achieve this goal. 
Additionally, Karp said he would like to 
see efforts to make downtown a more pe -
destrian-friendly space by widening side -
walks, and he would like to see a diverse array of new housing complexes. 
Developments catered to different in -
come levels will attract more people who 
can support businesses and create liveli -
ness for the shops and restaurants, he said. 
Sela said she hopes to have an engage -
ment summary outlining the various efforts 
that have been made since the project’s in -
ception in the coming month and draft rec -
ommendations shortly after the New Year.   
On the plan’s website, there’s a com -
ment wall and an online survey for citizens 
to share their thoughts. The feedback will 
be included in the engagement summary 
which will define the next steps of the stra -
tegic plan.
@brycebrownnn
bbrown@alligator.orgCity plan outlines new future for downtown Gainesville
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Southeast First Street is seen on Nov. 4, 2021. The Downtown Gainesville 
Strategic Plan will focus on improving safety and lifestyle in the area with more 
stop lights, better housing, wider sidewalks and more community events.
El grupo de trabajo planea comenzar a redactar recomendaciones de políticas en su próxima reunión el 15 de noviembreThe state of affordable 
housing in Alachua Coun -
ty continues to deterio -
rate. Tenants across the 
board are being crushed 
by rising rent prices. 
Residents of one Gainesville 
low-income apartment complex 
received blanket notices to vacate 
their homes this July. Graduate 
students at UF are losing 40% of 
their affordable housing on campus. The 
Alachua County Labor Coalition recently 
protested discrimination by The Collier 
Companies against tenants attempting to 
pay rent with housing vouchers or Emer -
gency Rental Assistance Program funds.
We are in an affordable housing crisis.
Even with COVID-19 rental assistance 
and anti-discrimination laws, not enough 
is being done to keep our communities 
housed. The force of the blow is felt most 
bluntly by low-income, disabled, veteran 
and Black and Brown residents and stu -
dents — historically and currently margin -
alized folks.
Who do we blame? As with any crisis, 
it’s both simple and complicated.
We blame corporate landlords. We blame 
sprawling firms that have transformed the 
home into an asset and have taken the ma -
jority of the rental housing stock captive.
Corporate housing companies like The 
Collier Companies, Trimark, Landmark, 
etc., don’t care about a tenant’s quality of 
life. They just want maximized returns on 
their investments. The Collier Companies, 
for example, has filed 25% of the county’s 
eviction cases since the end of the federal 
eviction moratorium and has served non-
renewals to low-income tenants receiving 
housing assistance.
High finance has destroyed housing be -
fore. During the 2000s subprime mortgage 
bubble, high finance firms extended high-
risk mortgages to marginalized folks, seek -
ing returns on high interest rates. Profit-hun -
gry speculation led to widespread mortgage 
defaults, foreclosures and homelessness, 
culminating in the Great Recession.
Corporate landlords see no reason to be 
a good community member. In theory, we 
can turn to the law for protection, but in 
practice, it’s not enough.
We blame our government. We blame 
a legal system that lacks affordable hous -
ing and adequate tenants rights protections 
as well as the teeth to proactively enforce 
the protections that do exist. We also blame 
our elected officials for not doing enough to 
combat these issues.
In Gainesville, while Housing Ordinance 
#190814 protects against discrimination 
based on source of income, we’ve yet to see 
the protection enforced. The Collier Com -
panies, for example, still circumvents ac -
cepting housing vouchers because of their 
internal policy to “not sign third-party pa -perwork.” The city of Gainesville 
has done nothing to respond 
broadly to this blatant discrimi -
nation.
Tenant protections are mostly 
reactive, not proactive. When ten -
ants get served lease non-renew -
als, or when they have eviction 
cases filed against them, the bur -
den rests on the tenant to prove 
unlawful landlord behavior. In 
court, landlords have the advantage: While 
landlords can pay up for lawyers, tenants 
usually represent themselves because coun -
sel is unaffordable.
As well, Gainesville and Alachua County 
have not mandated legal requirements for 
inclusionary zoning. Inclusionary zoning, 
in general, provides for a certain amount 
of housing in each new development that’s 
affordable to residents with an income be -
low the area median. A critical problem in 
Gainesville and across the country is not the 
lack of housing but the lack of affordable 
housing.
So what can we do to get out of this cri -
sis? We have to assert our rights to housing, 
both for ourselves and for our communities.
We can learn and use our rights.  The 
City recently mandated that landlords dis -
tribute a brochure describing tenants rights 
to each renter. We need to teach ourselves 
both what we can assert and the channels 
we can assert them through. On campus, 
Student Legal Services provides free legal 
representation for landlord and tenant cas -
es. Off campus, Three Rivers Legal Services 
provides similar services for eligible com -
munity members.
But we also need to play offense.
We can organize for tenant power. 
Whether we’re here for a short time or a 
long time, students and marginalized neigh -
bors can organize to grow power within our 
communities.
Even if we don’t own, we can build for 
community control of our housing. We can 
build alternatives to eviction like Pinellas 
County’s eviction diversion program, which 
mediates tenant-landlord relationships out -
side of court. 
We can organize to mandate legal repre -
sentation for low-income tenants in eviction 
cases like the state of Washington. We can 
organize to create inclusionary zoning or -
dinances while preserving Black neighbor -
hoods. We can organize unions to protect 
our rights like tenants in St. Petersburg and 
Miami. We can invest in community owner -
ship models to facilitate low-income tenants 
owning their own homes.
There’s a bullhorn waiting for us to 
speak into it, we just have to know our 
words. In the end, we have to assert: Hous -
ing is a human right.
Renz Torres is an Alachua County 
Labor Coalition Coordinator.A nationwide housing crisis hits locally“Housing is a human right”
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.MONDAY,  
NOVEMBER 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/
section/opinionsMONDAY,  
NOVEMBER 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/
section/the_avenue
WORTHWICH SCHOOL OF 
WIZARDRY LED WORKSHOP AT 
BIVENS ARM NATURE PARK, WHERE 
STUDENTS WERE TRAINED IN THE 
CRAFT OF WAND MAKING
 By Luigi Bencosme
Avenue Staff Writer
 
Every year, children across the world 
count down the seconds until they turn 11 
years old. They anxiously look at the clock 
and cross out every boxed-in calendar day 
that marks the long-awaited passing of time 
until they’re finally old enough to attend Hog -
warts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
And then — nothing.
These children disappointedly never re -
ceive their letter of acceptance into the mythi -
cal school of Hogwarts. Then they grow up 
and lose the magical spark that existed within 
as they grapple with the real world.
The Worthwich School of Wizardry, how -
ever, aims to change that.
The self-proclaimed home for misfit wiz -
ards made their way into Bivens Arm Nature 
Park Nov. 14 for a wand-making workshop, 
where participants were taken through a 
crash course on wands before learning how 
to make one.
Maiko Mushanokoji, founder and co-own -
er of the company, said there are four basic 
elements that all wandmakers use: materials, 
size, design and core.
Much has changed since their initial 
class in 2016, such as the variety of woods 
which has grown extensively, but these four 
elements have remained the exact same 
throughout.   
While each element is significant, Musha -
nokoji said the core is the most important 
component in finalizing the wand. The core is 
what connects the user to the wand, and they 
suggest picking something that is personally 
magical to the user, such as someone’s piece 
of hair or a guitar string.
After explaining this to the class, Worth -
wich headmaster and wand master Mushano -
koji instructed the participants to pick a piece 
of wood from their various options along with 
a stem for the handle of the wand.
“We collect and harvest and process all of 
our own wood,” said Faye Fearless, the oth -
er co-owner and founder. “At the very first 
classes, I think we only had maybe five kinds 
of wood. Now in each class, we do at least 
10 varieties. Sometimes we have closer to 15 
varieties of wood to each class.”
As explained, each type of wood has dif -
ferent properties for different people. Each 
person must find the wood which matches 
their personality best. 
“Elm wands prefer owners with presence, 
magical dexterity, and a certain native digni -
ty,” the notecard read, placed next to the pile 
of elm sticks.
After the participants sifted through no -
tecards and decided on their perfect wood 
match, they proceeded to sand the ends of the wood until it fit in the handle snugly. Before 
the wand designs were finished with a final 
glaze, the illustrious core was placed on the 
wand.
Five years, various cities and thousands 
of wands later, Fearless, the asserted potions 
master at Worthwich, is still amazed at how 
people conjure up such unique designs for 
their wands.
While it may seem like a children’s event, 
Fearless said this is far from the truth. 
“All of our events are designed especially 
for adults,” she said. “It’s a place for adults 
to play …  you can play pretend and you can 
imagine, even go all crazy and no one’s going 
to judge you because that’s what kids do.”
At the end of the workshop, Fearless and 
Mushanokoji led a dedication ceremony 
where students get their wands ready for 
magical use.
Along with workshops, the pair of owners 
also host a three-day event every year called 
Wizarding Weekend, where a group of stu -
dents are fully immersed in the Worthwich 
experience. While on school grounds, stu -
dents lodge in cabins and take a full curricu -
lum of magical arts classes, such as potions 
and divinations.
In part, what makes this community of 
misfits so welcoming is that they’re complete -
ly immersive. As Fearless said, this magical 
world they’ve created allows people to make 
friends and form bonds that have extended 
well beyond the scopes of Worthwich.  
“That was kind of the idea behind it,” she 
said. “It’s just a place for people to come and 
hang out with other people who like magic 
and not be judged for that.”
lbencosme@alligator.comAustin-based school of wizardry brings 
magic to Gainesville community
ARTS & CRAFTSARTS & CRAFTS
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Finished wands are seen during a 
wand-making workshop at Bivens 
Arm Nature Park on Sunday, Nov. 
14, 2021. The workshop, hosted 
by Worthwich School of Wizardry, 
was started by Maiko Mushanokoji 
in Austin, Texas in 2016.
Renz T orres
opinions@alligator.org
A mother’s return
Florida tight end Kemore Gamble’s two-touchdown breakout became even more 
special with his mom in attendance after a two-month ICU stint, pg. 11BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
Potted Christmas Trees
Red Cedar, AZ Cypress, tabletop to 8 ft. tall. 
Open weekends Nov. 20 - Dec.19 and Nov. 26 
10am - 6pm. Kettle corn popped onsite 4 sale. 
Free sugarcane with purchase. 20926 NW 75th 
ST Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-1885. 
12-6-21-4-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
11Motorcycles/Mopeds
2010 INDIAN FTR 1200
Call Steve 352-213-2462 
11-29-21-3-11
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
Walk to Campus-House for Rent-avail Aug '22
Beautifully updated 5 bedroom/ 2 bath home, 
located 7 blocks from The Swamp. Huge 
floorplan, central A/C, wood floors, ceiling 
fans, washer and dryer, dishwasher, micro-
wave. Private backyard. Available August 
'22. 1815 NW 7th Ave. $2375. Shown by ap-
pointment only. (352) 256-2574.   
11-15-21-1-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    ________  nnuummbbeerr
11..    CCaaggeeyy55..    PPaayy  ________
22..    MMoovviiee::  ““________  AArriizzoonnaa””66..    HHoommee  ttoo  BBooiissee
33..    TThhee  AA  iinn  GGPPAA77..    CCoonnccuurrrreedd  
44..    OOvveerrsseeaass  AALLEERRSSII
HHRRWWDDSSEEEEAASSIIRR
DDIIAAOOHH
AAIINNIIRRSSGG
RRAAVVAAEEGGEERRGGDDAAEEEE
BBDDAAAAOORRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSeerriiaall    55AA--RRaaiissee    66AA--IIddaahhoo    77AA--AAggrreeeedd
11DD--SShhrreewwdd    22DD--RRaaiissiinngg    33DD--AAvveerraaggee    44DD--AAbbrrooaadd    BB--DDeellaawwaarree1111--1155--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: OOnnee  ooff  tthhiiss  UU..SS..  ssttaattee’’ss  nniicckknnaammeess  
iiss  ““TThhee  BBlluuee  HHeenn  SSttaattee..””
BONUSThe surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-21-16-13
GET VACCINATED TODAY!13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Catherine Cetta
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/15/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/15/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, November 15, 2021
ACROSS
1 Coarse file
5 Separated
10 Places to relax
14 Prefix for an 
eight-armed 
creature
15 One who prefers 
their own 
company
16 Causes of some 
head scratching
17 “Sorry to say ... ”
18 Tubelike pasta
19 Fairy tale 
beginning
20 Wacky
22 “Ciao” cousin
23 Ring ref’s 
decisions
24 “Good grief!”
26 Top often with a 
slogan
28 Maternal “Holy 
moly!”
30 “By all means!”
32 Cappuccino 
feature
33 Interwoven 
strands of hair
35 Conical abode
37 Unreturnable 
serve
38 Enjoy the rink
43 Put away money 
for the future
46 Clapton who 
sang “Layla”
47 Duplicitous
51 Response to  
“Am not!”
53 Intrepid
54 Leaky faucet 
sounds
55 GPS  
suggestions
56 One with a 
password
59 Gas grill place
62 Sacred bird of 
ancient Egypt
63 With 65-Across, 
chore on a winter 
to-do list ... and 
what appears 
in each set of 
circles
65 See 63-Across
66 Run out of steam
67 Lets up
68 Pisa’s river
69 Cafeteria carrier
70 __ naked
71 Wine bottle 
numberDOWN
1 Horse coat color
2 Rights org. since 
1920
3 Many a U.S. 
atlas page
4 Like much sports 
analysis
5 Swiss peak
6 Dickinson and 
Keats
7 Tolstoy’s 
Karenina
8 Monopoly 
payment
9 Took to dinner, 
say
10 “Three-toed” 
critters
11 Little finger
12 Honda sedan
13 Takes care of
21 Thanksgiving 
tuber
25 Tiny bit, as of 
cream
27 Impudence
28 Bard’s 
“frequently”
29 Garden tool
30 Walked back 
and forth
31 In __ of: replacing
34 Enthusiastic 
review36 Actor Morales
39 Another name 
for Monkey in the 
Middle
40 Paint seller
41 Spanish uncle
42 Green prefix
44 Points a finger at
45 Birdie plus one
47 Careful cash 
management
48 Home 
mixologist’s 
dream49 Tater Tots  
maker
50 Primate studier 
Dian
52 Fabric fault
54 More arid
57 Tiff
58 “Frozen” queen
60 College named 
for a Scottish 
island
61 Scent
64 “You shouldn’t  
do that”
By Michael Wiesenberg and Andrea Carla Michaels
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/09/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/09/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, November 9, 2021
ACROSS
1 “__: Ragnarok”: 
2017 superhero 
film
5 Mob boss
9 Popular pudding 
brand
14 Fit for harvesting
15 Six-sided state
16 Be of use to
17 Suitable for all __: 
game rating
18 Actress Petty
19 Event site
20 December 
holiday mailing
23 “__ do it”: “Sorry”
24 Arthur with two 
Emmys and a 
Tony
25 CO winter hrs.
28 Orca
33 Indian music style 
adopted by the 
Beatles
37 “All in favor” vote
38 Undercover cops 
may wear them
39 Flowerlike sea 
creature
41 Airport kiosk 
printout
43 Prefix with state 
or net
44 __ Kippur
45 Former fast fliers: 
Abbr.
46 Significant other
50 Overnight option
51 Pence and 
Harris: Abbr.
52 Letter after beta
57 Salad crudités ... 
and a hint to each 
row of circled 
letters
62 “Piece of cake,” 
e.g.
64 Diner sign 
element
65 Actor Guinness
66 Patient no  
longer
67 Tyne of “Judging 
Amy”
68 Fascinated by
69 Luge vehicles
70 Mex. miss
71 Tree house
DOWN
1 “Baywatch” 
actress Bingham
2 Note for a 
soprano3 Rossini work
4 Varnish 
component
5 Like many 
midnight  
movies
6 Quark place
7 Sunday school 
story
8 “Yes, it’s clear 
now”
9 Morning cup
10 At any point
11 Big Ben and the 
Golden Gate 
Bridge, e.g.
12 Greater N.Y. 
school
13 Bullring “Bravo!”
21 NASDAQ buy
22 Jeep or Jetta
26 Dangerous 
precipitation
27 What the doctor 
ordered
29 Golf 
commentator __ 
Baker-Finch
30 Bleaching agent
31 1910s conflict, 
briefly
32 Minute Maid 
drinks
33 Spider-Man films 
director34 Kofi of the U.N.
35 Pick a lock, say
36 “__ to that!”
40 Surg. areas
41 Want-ad letters
42 Harvey Levin’s 
online tabloid
44 Sighed 
agreement
47 Home shopper’s 
channel
48 Flips
49 Silly Putty  
holder53 “Let’s take it from 
the top”
54 Pooh creator
55 Runs into
56 Knotted 
neckwear
58 Overly bright, 
fashionwise
59 Rascals
60 Battery unit
61 Irish New Ager
62 They aren’t sure 
things
63 Ctrl-Alt-__
11/08/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
High Fliers
HIGH FLIERS by Jim Esposito.  High in the 
sky over Florida. Very high. Very funny novel 
about G-ville's bad old days by Alligator 
Alumni. Available on Amazon.com.
1-10-21-7-21
the 
independent  
florida
we inform. you decide.
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND or 
email classified@alligator.org today!BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts available. 
Call 888-460-2264                         11-8-3-15
DISCOUNT AIR TRAVEL. Call Flight 
Services for best pricing on domestic & 
international flights inside and from the 
US. Serving United, Delta, American & 
Southwest and many more airlines. Call for 
free quote now! Have travel dates ready! 
888-858-0128                                  11-15-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov-
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632      11-15-1-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds.FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen        11-15-1-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-2015 Services 21 Entertainment 13 Wanted
Freon Wanted: : We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient. 
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 or 
visit RefrigerantFinders.com        11-15-1-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Help Wanted Donut Connection
Baker needed experience preferred but will 
consider trainee, $15 per hr.  Also hiring 
counter/drive thru sales. Salary depends 
on experience. Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com     12-6-21-4-14
Yard work &/or light household duties. 5-6 
hrs a week, flex schedule, $10-$13 depend -
ing on experience, If interested please call 
352.278.8071                            11-22-21-7-14
Summer 2022 Positions Available
The Oak Hall School Summer & Auxiliary 
Program is hiring Program Director positions 
in Technology/Stem and Enrichment for the 
summer of 2022.  Visit www.oakhall.org for 
application and information on this great op-
portunity in Gainesville!               12-6-21-5-14
15 Services
NOVEMBER DISCOUNT- 3 HRS ONLY 
$75! Free quotes - N Gainesville to Alachua. 
Quality shrub, hedge, tree pruning & shear-
ing, chainsaw work, weed & overgrowth cut-
ting, yard & woods raking, blowing, hauling, 
gutter cleaning (1-story). 16 yrs exp. Ins. Satis 
guar. Call Richard Snyder 352-574-2656   
11-22-22-15 
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- 
TRAIN ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096 . The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                      11-15-1-15
CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
NEVER LIMIT YOURSELF BECAUSE OF OTHERS' LIMITED IMAGINATION; NEVER LIMIT 
OTHERS BEACUSE OF YOUR OWN LIMITED IMAGINATION. — MAE JEMISON
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021
solution  below1. Eight
2. Liberty Island
3. Johann Strauss II
4. A triangle
5. Syzygy
6. Five
7. Haddonfield, Illinois
8. Frequency modula -
tion
9. "Anna Karenina"
10. WhiteTrivia Test answersanswers below1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
dry quarts are in a peck?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What's the name 
of the island where the Statue of Lib -
erty stands?
3. MUSIC: Which composer is 
known as "The Waltz King"?
4. GEOMETRY: What is a three-sid -
ed polygon called?
5. ASTRONOMY: What is it called 
when three celestial bodies are ar -
ranged in a straight line?
6. TELEVISION: How many 
Huxtable children were in the 
long-running "The Cosby Show"?
7. MOVIES: What's the name of 
the town in the "Halloween" horror 
movie series?
8. SCIENCE: What does the acro -
nym FM stand for?
9. LITERATURE: Which famous novel 
begins with the line, "Happy families 
are all alike; every unhappy family 
is unhappy in its own way"?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
color is alabaster?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving 
out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLBy Michael Hull
Sports Writer
Florida tight end Kemore Gamble 
sprinted down the seam, his 6-foot-4, 
214-pound frame uncovered as quarterback 
Emory Jones fired in his direction. Gamble 
hauled in the pass and broke a few tackles 
before multiple Samford defenders finally 
dragged him down inside the 10-yard line.
The redshirt senior tight end broke out 
with a career game Saturday, finishing 
with six receptions for 122 yards and two 
touchdowns. The stud performance carried 
extra meaning for Gamble, as his mom was 
in The Swamp to watch her son play for 
the first time since her recent health scare.
Gamble’s mother, Keiva Rodriguez, has 
been in the Intensive Care Unit for the last 
two months, the tight end said after the 
game.
“It’s been hard trying to ignore it,” 
Gamble said after Florida’s 70-52 win. “Knowing that she’s not going to be able to 
watch the games and stuff like that. I was 
just focusing on football and just talking 
to my stepdad and my dad, my real dad, 
and my uncle and auntie all been out here 
trying to motivate me, coming to games 
and stuff like that.”
Gamble credited his teammates for 
keeping his mind focused on football with 
everything going on in his personal life.
“They haven’t been trying to bring it up, 
trying to keep my mind away from stuff,” 
Gamble said. “They want me to hang out 
with them more often now.”
While he does his best to distract 
himself, Gamble said he still talks with 
his family every day, whether by text or 
over the phone. His mom used to come 
to almost all of his games. In fact, prior 
to 2021, Rodriguez saw her son play in 
every one of his games except for Florida-
Georgia. She finally made that trip for the 
2020 rendition, where she conquered her fear of bridges to watch her son score a 
touchdown in Jacksonville.
This season, other family members 
have assumed Rodriguez’s dutiful role of 
cheering on Gamble as she recovered.
“My oldest brother will come, depends 
on the game,” Gamble said. “If not him, 
my auntie will come to games down here… 
also my uncle.”
The tight end is quietly stringing 
together his best season as a Gator: He 
ranks third on the team in receptions (24) 
and yards (286) and tied for second in 
receiving touchdowns (three). 
Gamble and the Gators need to win 
one of their next two games to gain bowl 
eligibility. They’ll attempt to earn it next 
week in Columbia, Missouri, against the 
Mizzou Tigers, before returning to The 
Swamp for their regular season finale 
against the Florida State Seminoles.
@Michael_Hull33
mhull@alligator.org
THE GATORS ENDED A SEVEN-
GAME LOSING STREAK TO 
THE SEMINOLES SUNDAY
By Joseph Henry
Sports writer
Florida senior guard Myreon 
Jones stole a pass with 1:12 to play 
— the energy in the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center felt symbiotic from 
the floor to the stands. The Gators retained possession 
the rest of the game with two more 
offensive rebounds, the last of their 
17 throughout the game. As the clock 
dwindled towards zeros, the bench, 
led by forward Keyontae Johnson, 
brought all of the Gators faithful in 
attenced to their feet. 
When the final buzzer sounded, 
Johnson, who collapsed on the floor 
during Florida’s trip to Tallahassee 
a season ago, embraced head coach 
Mike White as the roars of victory rang in the air. 
The Gators upset No. 20 Florida 
State 71-55 Sunday, ending a seven-
game losing streak in the rivalry and 
moving Florida to 2-0 for the young 
season. 
Forward Colin Castleton proved 
himself as the cornerstone of this 
year’s team. The senior got it done 
at both ends of the floor, recording 
his fourth career double-double 
with 15 points and a career-high 16 
rebounds. Castleton added six blocks 
to his standout statline. 
“When we are on defense, I feel 
like that’s my rim,” Castleton said. 
Right out of the gate, Florida 
looked hungry. Senior forward 
Anthony Duruji set the tone, scoring 
the Gators’ first six points, highlighted 
by a thunderous alley-oop dunk 
assisted by graduate transfer guard 
Phlandrous Fleming Jr. 
As play progressed, Florida State’s 
length began to give Florida fits. The 
Gators got into foul trouble with the 
half coming to a close, as both Duruji 
and senior guard Tyree Appleby 
picked up two personal fouls and 
left for the bench. Seminoles forward 
Malik Osbourne ended the first 20 
minutes with a team-leading 12 
points, five coming in the last two 
minutes. 
The first half was an intense 
display of defense from both sides, and baskets were hard to come by. 
The Seminoles shot 44.0% from the 
field, while the Gators shot 34.4%. 
Florida did carry the advantage on 
the glass, out-rebounding Florida 
State 21-19. The Gators eventually 
lost the early lead, but they entered 
the half trailing by only two, 30-28. 
In the second half, Florida blew 
open the scoring with 43 points, 12 
of which came from the free throw 
line. 
Castleton began the half with four 
straight points, including a dunk, 
getting the Rowdy Reptiles right 
back into the game. Guard Brandon 
McKissic, Jones and Fleming all sank 
3-pointers as the rivals traded blows. 
The opening eight and a half 
minutes of the second half crawled 
by, and Florida outscored the 
Seminoles 15-12 despite FSU guard 
Wyatt Wilkes’ five points. 
Florida State reclaimed a 44-43 
lead, its last of the game, after a 
jumper by guard Matthew Cleveland 
with just over 11 minutes to play. 
From there, the Gators took off. 
Jones started the action with a 
steal, driving coast-to-coast. He was 
unable to lay it in, but Castleton 
appeared to clean up. Next time 
down the floor, Appleby floated in 
the air for an acrobatic finish. 
McKissic wanted in on the 
fun, and the Missouri-Kansas City graduate transfer buried his second 
three of the game. Florida pulled 
away, eventually with a 13-0 run. 
The Seminoles never recovered, 
and the offensive explosion only 
further fed the Gators’ defensive 
intensity for the rest of the game. 
Duruji scored six of Florida’s 
final 13 points, including another 
emphatic dunk to salt the game 
away. The senior tied the team 
lead with 15 points and 36 minutes 
played. The frontcourt duo of him 
and Castleton, which combined for 
30 points, offers a solid foundation 
and gives the Gators high aspirations 
for March. 
“Iron sharpens iron, we make 
each other better,” Duruji said. 
The top-25 win, White’s first 
victory over Florida State and head 
coach Leonard Hamilton, could be 
an early signal of what is to come for 
the Gators in the 2021-22 season. 
“I’m sure that we all had fun,” 
White said. “But, we’ve all got a lot 
to get better at. We’ve got a chance 
to be good, but it’s just so early. 
We’ve got a lot to learn.” 
The Gators’ non-conference 
schedule continues Nov. 18 when 
Florida hosts the Milwaukee 
Panthers.
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.orgGamble shines in mother’s return to the stands
Castleton’s double-double leads Florida to upset No. 20 Florida StateSamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida tight end Kemore Gamble fights 
off Samford safety Midnight Steward 
during the Gators 70-52 win over the 
Bulldogs on Nov. 13.
Catherine McCarthy / / Alligator Staff
Florida's Colin Castleton dribbles the ball and fends off a Florida State 
defender during the Gators win over the Seminoles on Nov. 14.
The tight end’ s mother, Keiva Rodriguez, had been in the ICU for the last two months12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021
FOOTBALL
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Florida quarterback Emory 
Jones worked his way to the locker 
room for halftime at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium Saturday, his team 
trudging toward the south end zone. 
The redshirt junior completed 13 of 
16 passes for 226 yards and scored 
three total touchdowns through two 
quarters.
It’s probably uncommon for a quarterback with such a statline 
to hear boos filter from his home 
crowd.
Jones rose from the ashes of his 
early struggles and Florida’s defense 
to author a historic afternoon for 
the Gators Saturday during a 72-50 
victory over Samford. The raging 
defensive fire, however, might 
leave too much damage in its wake.
Before the Bulldogs (no, not 
those Bulldogs) came to town this weekend, Jones’ first season 
under center crumbled slightly 
under the fire of pressure. The 
mercurial starter had thrown 10 
interceptions in his nine starts and 
multiple picks in three games, and 
he had thrown almost as many 
picks as touchdowns through the 
end of October. After his second 
interception was returned for a 
touchdown against Louisiana State 
on Oct. 16, he rode the bench in 
favor of redshirt freshman Anthony 
Richardson.
Jones’ early struggles did not 
come without their criticisms, as 
fans clamored for Richardson to 
take his job all season. The fourth-
year quarterback’s teammates 
praised his reaction to the outside 
noise, however.
“He’s fighting back, he’s grown 
a lot,” tight end Kemore Gamble 
said after the game. “You hear all 
the noise outside, fans and stuff, 
people bashing you, messages in 
your DMs. I know it’s hard because 
I get it sometimes and I think he’s 
handled it well.”
Like a phoenix emerging from 
the remains of a blaze, that growth 
went on full display against Samford 
with a record-breaking statline. 
Jones threw six touchdowns and added another with his legs, 
breaking Heisman winner Tim 
Tebow’s program record for most 
yards of total offense with 550, 
464 through the air and 86 on the 
ground. He completed 28 of his 34 
passes, didn’t turn the ball over and 
completed six passes longer than 20 
yards.
So how was Jones’ emergence 
not the primary takeaway of the 
game?
A phoenix may rise from ashes, 
but no bird can fly if it’s locked 
within a burning house, and the 
Florida defense could prevent any 
quarterback’s growth from truly 
mattering.
Even before Saturday’s shootout, 
Samford’s offense impressed on 
paper despite its lowly Southern 
Conference competition. The 
Bulldogs averaged more than 36 
points per game before Saturday 
and scored 40 or more points five 
times.
Those numbers don’t explain 
why the Football Championship 
Subdivision members hung 42 
points on Florida in two quarters.
The Bulldogs scored 52 points 
Saturday, more than they had in 
any game this season in a schedule 
including foes like Western 
Carolina, Mercer, Wofford and the 
Virginia Military Institute.The more concerning part of the 
offensive onslaught from the FCS 
foe is how typical it appears for 
Florida. The Gators surrendered an 
average of 43.75 points and 449.25 
yards over their last four games 
with an FCS opponent and teams 
ranked 71st, 11th and 100th in the 
country in scoring offense. 
The last four quarterbacks to 
play against Florida, made up of two 
backups, a third-string FCS transfer 
and an FCS quarterback, combined 
for 869 yards, nine touchdowns, 
three interceptions and 7.3 yards 
per attempt. 
In those same four games, 
Florida surrendered 912 rushing 
yards and nine touchdowns on 
the ground. The three Power 5 
opponents currently slot 114th, 26th 
and 99th in the nation in rushing 
offense.
The Gators parted ways with 
defensive coordinator Todd 
Grantham last weekend, but his 
absence fanned no flames on the 
back end through one week.
Time will tell if Jones emerged 
from his personal fiery trials against 
Samford, but his rebirth could be 
swallowed by a larger inferno if left 
unchecked.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgJones rises from ashes, defensive dumpster fire could prove suffocating
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Emory Jones drops back to pass against 
Samford during the Gators’ 70-52 win on Nov. 13.
Redshirt junior’ s historic day overshadowed by defensive disaster