We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperA TOTAL OF 38 PEDESTRIANS 
AND BICYCLISTS WERE HIT 
IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS
By Juliana Ferrie
Alligator Staff Writer 
High speeds on Waldo Road in 
Gainesville turn crossing four lanes 
into a treacherous journey.
Twenty-one pedestrians and 17 
bicyclists were hit on the state road 
from January 2016 to March 2021, ac -
cording to data from the Gainesville 
Police Department. Three additional 
pedestrians were hit in the parking 
lot of the Circle K at 20 NE Waldo 
Road during the same time frame. 
Eight pedestrians and bicyclists 
died in the crashes. Seven more suf -
fered incapacitating injuries — inju -
ries that kept them from doing nor -
mal activities. 
The road poses a specific threat to 
Gainesville’s homeless population.
Executive Director Jon DeCar -
mine leads GRACE Marketplace, a 
homeless resource center near the 
intersection of Waldo and 39th Ave -
nue offering shelter, meals, job train -
ing and other services.
“Homeless people spend most of 
the time that they’re actually home -
less as pedestrians,” DeCarmine 
said. “Anytime you see an issue with 
pedestrian safety or dangerous traf -
fic, that’s going to affect people who 
are on their feet or on bicycles more 
than it is other folks.” 
Ten pedestrian and bicyclist vic -
tims listed GRACE Marketplace as 
their address in GPD Florida Traffic 
Crash Reports. Fran Birch, a 70-year-old GRACE 
resident, said she just wants the 
road to be safe. Around a year ago, 
a friend of Birch’s was hit and killed 
on Waldo while crossing the street, 
she said. 
“We don’t need anybody else be -
ing hit by a car,” Birch said. 
Rose McDonald-Loston, known 
as “Granny” by the Gainesville 
community, was one of the road’s 
victims. In 2020, she was killed in 
a hit-and-run on Waldo Road at 64 
years old. 
GRACE residents witness danger -
ous driving on Waldo Road every 
day. 
Russell Lee, a 57-year-old GRACE 
resident, said people run red lights, 
change lanes carelessly and don’t 
stop for ambulances.
He said the Gainesville City Com -
mission’s ban on standing in narrow 
medians, which went into effect Feb. 
8, keeps him and others safe. A simi -
lar countywide ordinance passed 
March 9.
Waldo is not the only road threat -
ening pedestrians. 
This year, University Avenue 
drew attention after cars hit and 
killed two UF students — Margaret 
“Maggie” Paxton and Sophia Lam -
bert — within about a month of each 
other on the road. In January 2020, 
UF student Denise Griffiths was hit 
at a crosswalk on East University Av -
enue near Cone Park Branch Library. 
She later died from her injuries.
Following pressure from parents 
and students, the city made the road 
safer by installing four temporary 
Santa Fe College to ditch masks
New COVID-19 policies follow UF in making face coverings 
optional,  pg. 4
Payments for former prisoners
Mayor Poe is working on a guaranteed income system for 
formerly incarcerated people,  pg. 4Not a bad week
Junior Sam Riffice took home the individual 
singles national title Friday after his Gators 
won the team championshiop May 22. 
Read this story on pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperTUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 34
Sam Schaffer / / Alligator Staff
Josh Ketterer, 29, attempts a skate trick called a “50/50” at the Gentleman’s Club, a DIY skate park 
in Gainesville, Florida on Sunday, May 30, 2021. The skate park was built by skaters on private 
property and the city has ordered it to be torn down by June 20. Read this story on page 8.
By Isabella Douglas & 
Phong Huynh
Alligator Staff Writers
After several pedestrian deaths in the last 
year, West University Avenue traffic is slowing 
down with new safety measures. 
Nearly a year after three deadly accidents 
took place on West University Avenue, the city 
of Gainesville is working with UF and the Flor -
ida Department of Transportation to address 
traffic safety near campus. Efforts include de -
creased speed limits, license plate readers, LED 
message boards, increased police patrols, signal 
retiming and crosswalk enhancements. On May 24, FDOT decreased the street’s 
speed limit from 30 to 25 mph and installed 
speed tables earlier this month. The deaths of 
two UF students only a month apart sparked 
calls for reform from various advocacy groups.  
The Landscape Master Plan included con -
structing a pedestrian walkway at Newell’s 
Gateway, Linda Dixon, UF’s director of plan -
ning, said. The walkway will be used by pedes -
trians coming to and from campus and will be 
located at the intersection of Newell Drive and 
West University Avenue. 
According to a UF update, construction will 
begin in August. 
Some students view the progress on West 
University Avenue as a step in the right direc -tion for pedestrian safety.
“Little things like that are gonna go a long 
way in terms of safety measures for West Uni -
versity and making it more safe for pedestrians 
to walk by,” Kelly Young, a 23-year-old Santa Fe 
political science student, said.
Young anticipates more progress for future 
traffic developments, and he thinks people 
should resort to more sustainable options of 
transportation, expanding RTS routes and mak -
ing the city more bike-friendly. 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe hosted “Bike 
with the Mayor” on May 1, where Poe and 
about 20 community members biked 3.15 miles 
through the city to discuss infrastructure chang -
es and pedestrian safety. Ewen Thomson, a 71-year-old Gainesville 
Citizens for Active Transportation board of 
directors member and participant of the bike 
event, said he believes sustained advocacy from 
the community will bring positive change in the 
future. 
“If people can get in there with a unified 
message and just get the word out there, things 
happen,” he said.
At the end of the ride, the mayor empha -
sized the need for collaboration between orga -
nizations and the community to effect change.
“It’s not enough to say Gainesville or Ala -
chua County; they [FDOT] are the ones that are 
going to have to do it,” Poe said. “The state-
level needs to hear. It’s not just a few groups 
but a movement.”
In connection with GCAT and Florida Not 
One More, a student advocacy group, UF presi -West University Avenue changes prioritize pedestrian safety
SEE TRAFFIC,  PAGE 5SEE WALDO,  PAGE 5Waldo Road poses threat to 
Gainesville’s homeless pedestrians  
Changes made by FDOT included a speed limit decrease, license 
plate readers, increased police patrols and crosswalk enhancementsT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 34
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
HYBRID COMMUNITY TRANSPORTATION MEETING 
June 21, 2021 at 5:00 p.m. 
On-Site - John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium, Alachua County Administration Building 
12 SE 1st Street, Gainesville, Florida 
Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, Facebook and the Alachua County Video on Demand Website [link below]
https://alachuacounty.us/Pages/AlachuaCounty.aspx
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when prompted use code 670 965 3024 
Live Broadcast Public Commen t Call-In - Call 1.800.876.7516 
PURPOSE: The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area has 
scheduled a public meeting to receive input concerni ng the proposed Transportation Improvement Program 
for Fiscal Years 2021-22 to 2025-26.  The Transporta tion Improvement Program is a staged implementation 
program of transportation projects consistent, to th e maximum extent feasible, with the Alachua County and 
City of Gainesville comprehensive plans.  
Projects in the proposed Transportation Improvement Program are also consistent with the Gainesville Metropolitan Area Year 204 5 Long-
Range Transportation Plan. This plan identifies transportation system modifications expected to be needed to serve projected vo lumes and 
patterns of traffic through the Year 2045.  A final decision regarding all projects contained in the Transportation Improvement  Program will 
be forwarded to the Florida Department of Transportation by the adoption of this Transportation Improvement Program document.
Public notice of public involvement activities and time established for public review and comme nts on the Transportation Improv ement
Program will satisfy the Program of Projects. 
The Federal Obligations Reports are included in Appendix B of th e Transportation Improvement Program.  These Reports show the 
expenditure of federal funds within the Gainesville Metropolitan Area from Oc tober 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020. 
This map only shows some of the transportation projects schedule d during the next five years.  The proposed Transportation Impr ovement 
Program includes transportation projects such as: bicycle; pede strian; project development and en vironmental studies; resurfaci ng/ 
repaving; school safety concern; transportation alternatives; and transit projects, including tr ansportation disadvantaged proj ects. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization 
for the Gainesville Urbanized Area will meet both on-site and virtually on June 21, 2021 at 5:00 p.m. 
Copies of the meeting agenda and more detailed information concer ning the Federal Obligations Report and proposed Transportatio n
Improvement Program can be obtained by writing to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urb anized 
Area, c/o North Central Florida Regional Planning Council, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653, at the www.ncfrpc.or g/mtpo 
website, or by calling 352.955.2200.   Copies of the meeting agenda will also be po sted at the above address.  All persons are a dvised that, 
if they decide to contest any de cision made at this public meeting, they will need a record of the proceedings and, for such pu rpose, they 
may need to ensure that a verbatim record of the proceedings is made, which record includes the testimony and evidence upon whi ch it is 
to be based.  All interested persons are invited to attend and be  heard.  Public participation is solicited without regard to r ace, color, 
national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, religious status, disability, familial status or gender identity .  Persons who 
require special accommodations under the American with Disabilities Act, or persons who require translation services (free of c harge), 
should contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extensio n 114, at least 48 hours before the public meeting. 
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area consists of the Gainesville City Commi ssion, the 
Alachua County Commission and nonvoting advisors of the University  of Florida, the Florida Depart ment of Transpor tation and a r ural 
community advisor.  The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area is responsible for  the 
continuing, comprehensive and cooperative urban transportation pl anning program for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  This pl anning 
program is required in order to receive federa l and state funds for transportation projects. 
Copies of the meeting agenda and more detailed information concerning the Federal Obligations Report and proposed 
Transportation Improvement Program can be obtained by writing to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organi-
zation for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, c/o North Central Florida Regional Planning Council, 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida 32653, at the www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo website, or by calling 352.955.2200.  Copies of the meeting 
agenda will also be posted at the above address.  All persons are advised that, if they decide to contest any decision 
made at this public meeting, they will need a record of the proceedings and, for such purpose, they may need to ensure 
that a verbatim record of the proceedings is made, which record includes the testimony and evidence upon which it is 
to be based.  All interested persons are invited to attend and be heard.  Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, religious status, disability, familial status or 
gender identity.  Persons who require special accommodations under the American with Disabilities Act, or persons 
who require translation services (free of charge), should contact Michael Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at 
least 48 hours before the public meeting. 
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area consists of the Gainesville 
City Commission, the Alachua County Commission and nonvoting advisors of the University of Florida, the Florida De-
partment of Transportation and a rural community advisor.  The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area is responsible for the continuing, comprehensive and cooperative urban transportation 
planning program for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  This planning program is required in order to receive federal 
and state funds for transportation projects. Projects in the proposed Transportation Improvement Program are also consistent with the Gainesville Metropolitan 
Area Year 2045 Long-Range Transportation Plan. This plan identifies transportation system modifications expected 
to be needed to serve projected volumes and patterns of traffic through the Year 2045.  A final decision regarding all 
projects contained in the Transportation Improvement Program will be forwarded to the Florida Department of Trans-
portation by the adoption of this Transportation Improvement Program document. 
Public notice of public involvement activities and time established for public review and comments on the Transporta-
tion Improvement Program will satisfy the Program of Projects. 
The Federal Obligations Reports are included in Appendix B of the Transportation Improvement Program.  These Re-
ports show the expenditure of federal funds within the Gainesville Metropolitan Area from October 1, 2019 through 
September 30, 2020. 
This map only shows some of the transportation projects scheduled during the next five years.  The proposed Trans-
portation Improvement Program includes transportation projects such as: bicycle; pedestrian; project development and 
environmental studies; resurfacing/ repaving; school safety concern; transportation alternatives; and transit projects, 
including transportation disadvantaged projects. 
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization 
for the Gainesville Urbanized Area will meet both on-site and virtually on June 21, 2021 at 5:00 p.m. PURPOSE: The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area has scheduled a public meeting to receive input concerning the proposed Transportation Im-
provement Program for Fiscal Years 2021-22 to 2025-26.  The Transportation Improvement Program 
is a staged implementation program of transportation projects consistent, to the maximum extent 
feasible, with the Alachua County and City of Gainesville comprehensive plans.  TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  
and services at tobaccofreeflorida.com/quityourway.NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led virtual sessions are now available for all Florida residents, 
regardless of insurance status. Participants are also eligible to receive free 
nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
FFoorr  mmoorree  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  vviirrttuuaall  GGrroouupp  QQuuiitt  sseessssiioonnss,,  ccoonnttaacctt::
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
UF Area Health Education
Cente rs (AHEC) Program 
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA|4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021By Antonia LaRocca
Alligator Staff Writer
Soon, people will be allowed to sit in 
classrooms on Santa Fe College’s campus 
without a mask.
As of May 21, Santa Fe College President 
Paul Broadie II announced masks are 
no longer required to be worn outdoors 
throughout the campus, according to a May 
24 press release. 
While the college still requires masks 
indoors, the beginning of Summer B 
semester — June 28 — will mark a transition 
to optional face coverings for inside spaces on campus, according to the release. The 
college will resume full-scale instruction 
and operations, along with relaxed social 
distancing requirements in Fall, according 
to the release.
The updates reflect the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention’s May 13 
announcement, which recommends fully 
vaccinated people no longer need to wear 
masks or practice social distancing.
Student Body President Trevor Mathisen 
said he is nervous about the college not 
tracking the vaccination status of students 
and employees but believes people will 
make the right decisions and be safe. “I would just encourage people that 
aren’t vaccinated and are social distancing 
and wearing a mask to just respect those 
that are and try to be understanding and try 
to at least be safe — if not for themselves 
then for the people around them,” Mathisen 
said.
People who have not been vaccinated 
are recommended to still wear a mask, 
the college’s communications manager Jay 
Anderson wrote in an email.
Santa Fe College does not require its 
students, faculty or staff to regularly test for 
COVID-19 or receive COVID-19 vaccines, 
Anderson wrote.
Some students have reported concerns 
to the college’s Student Senate about 
unvaccinated people walking around 
campus maskless, Student Senate President 
Kane Ahern said.
“That does draw a little bit of concern 
because, as you already know, how can you tell the difference between someone who’s 
vaccinated and who’s not fully vaccinated?” 
he said.
However, Ahern said he is not worried 
and believes students, faculty and staff will 
be respectful of each other. 
Santa Fe College’s Student Senate plans 
to continue meeting over Zoom for the 
Summer, Ahern said. 
The college’s mask update did not change 
any athletics protocols, Santa Fe College’s 
new director of athletics, Greg McVey, said. 
Restrictions in the Spring prohibited fans at 
indoor events and set limited attendance for 
outside games, Anderson wrote.
However, McVey said he expects changes 
may be made to align with the college’s 
updating guidelines once sports seasons 
begin again in Fall.
@antoniarlarocca
alarocca@alligator.org
THE PROGRAM COULD GIVE 
FORMERLY INCARCERATED 
PEOPLE $600 A MONTH FOR 
24 MONTHS
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
is working to implement a program 
that would give guaranteed income 
to formerly incarcerated people in 
Gainesville following their release. 
Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey gave 
Mayors for Guaranteed Income 
(MGI), a coalition of mayors 
looking to implement guaranteed 
income programs, $15 million. MGI 
distributed the money to cities across 
the U.S. and set aside half a million 
dollars for Gainesville’s program. 
The program is expected to start in 
October and will continue raising 
private funds on a national and local 
level until it reaches its goal of over 
$1.6 million.
The programs funded by MGI can choose which demographics to 
target with the cash. Poe said his 
goal is to give 115 former prisoners 
$600 a month for two years. 
The program is looking to 
specifically target former inmates 
because of the obstacles they 
typically face following release, Poe 
said. A 2018 Prison Policy Initiative 
study found former prisoners are 10 
times more likely to end up homeless 
than the general population. 
Poe partnered with Community 
Spring, an organization based 
in Gainesville that hires people 
impacted by poverty to identify and 
help eradicate issues that contribute 
to impoverishment. 
Kevin Scott, a former inmate 
andan employee at Community 
Spring, said he was given a bathing 
suit when he left jail five years ago 
even though it was winter — it’s all 
they had that would fit him. 
“I was starting from less than zero 
because, not only was I homeless, 
jobless, traumatized tremendously 
from my experience, but I also had negative money,” he said. “I had a 
mountain of debt.”
Scott explained he was still 
responsible for court fees, probation 
fees and child support upon his 
release. Failure to pay those debts 
would result in a return to prison, 
he said.
“The sense that every sentence is 
a life sentence is super real for a lot 
of people,” Scott said.
Scott also said the trauma of 
being in jail takes a physical toll on 
people. He said guards berated him, 
and other prisoners are sometimes 
physically abused by guards. While 
Scott thinks people coming out of 
that experience need to feel accepted, 
the opposite happens instead.
He said money with no strings 
attached helps former prisoners feel 
empowered, acknowledged and 
valued.
“We’re not just going to tolerate 
your return to society, but we’re 
going to embrace you,” Scott said.
The program is still in the 
planning stages, so it’s unclear whether the City of Gainesville 
or a nonprofit will administer the 
program, Poe said. Other cities like 
Richmond, Virginia, and Mount 
Vernon, New York, are looking 
at models partly funded by public 
money, so a public fund is not off 
the table, he said.
“There are no plans for this to be 
included in this coming fiscal year’s 
budget,” Poe said. “I can’t speak for 
future years after that because that’s 
up to a different commission and a 
different vote.” 
Unconditional payments to 
citizens have been in the spotlight 
as COVID-19 stimulus checks saw 
popular support. More than half of 
Americans supported the previous 
round of stimulus checks, and 
over a quarter thought they should 
have been larger, according to a 
Monmouth University poll.
Mayors across the nation are 
working together to find ways to 
provide people with direct cash. 
New America, a research group that 
promotes solutions to social issues, hosted a meeting May 25 to discuss 
direct cash payments. 
Poe joined New Orleans Mayor 
LaToya Cantrell, Oakland Mayor 
Libby Schaaf and Cambridge Mayor 
Sumbul Siddiqui. All four mayors 
discussed how guaranteed income 
can help bring balance to a system 
filled with wealth inequality. 
During the meeting, a privately 
funded income experiment initiated 
by Michael Tubbs, the former 2019 
mayor of Stockton, California, was 
discussed. It gave 125 randomly 
selected participants $500 a month 
for two years in an effort to increase 
their chances of landing a job. 
The findings showed the number 
of recipients with full-time jobs 
increased by 12% after a year of 
receiving benefits.
“It’s not a handout; it’s really 
a hand up,” Cantrell said at the 
meeting.
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.org
By Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
Pamela Bedford sat alone in her office 
when she saw the email. She yelled to her 
students in the next room — they had to see it.
Bedford, the director of the Institute of 
Culinary Arts at Eastside High School, was 
nominated as one of four finalists for the 
American Culinary Federation’s national Chef 
Educator of the Year Award — an annual 
recognition of a culinary educator who has led 
by example to enhance the cooking skills of 
their students and guide them to success. 
Finalists compete at the ACF national 
convention in Orlando, Florida, from Aug. 2 to 
Aug. 5. The final decision will be announced 
Aug. 5, Bedford said.
“It’s very exciting to be a finalist for this 
type of award,” Bedford said. “There are a lot 
of really amazing culinary educators all over 
this country, so I feel very lucky.”Bedford began her career in the restaurant 
industry when she was 17 and remained there 
for 10 years until she started teaching. She has 
worked at Eastside High School for the past 
14 years. 
She said she wanted to teach young 
people how to cook to make up for the lack 
of guidance during the start of her culinary 
career.
Her initial connection to cooking came from 
her grandfather who would throw elaborate 
parties at his home, despite not being a chef, 
she said.
“It was just always so much fun to get 
into the kitchen with him and see the joy that 
it brought to him and to other people,” she 
said. “I come from a large Italian family, so 
everything we do is surrounded by food.”
Bedford’s passion for cooking has 
transferred into the classroom where she 
motivates her students to produce a wide 
variety of foods from Mexican and Italian cuisine to pastries and bread.
“They come into this large commercial 
kitchen that we have here, and they’re 
sometimes a little afraid and intimidated and 
not sure if they are going to do alright in it,” 
she said. “I like to show them that it’s not that 
hard. There is a little work that is involved in it, 
but it’s not anything that they can’t achieve.”
Maria Kremer, who graduated from 
Eastside High School last year, took culinary 
classes with Bedford for three years.
“Chef Bedford has climbed the ladder just 
as anybody else, and I am really excited and 
proud of her to have gotten the recognition 
that she deserves,” she said. 
With Bedford’s guidance, Kremer said 
she won several culinary awards, such as 
the Embers Wood Grill’s “Build a Dessert” 
competition, where students invented their 
own dessert creations.
“She is like your best friend but also your 
mentor at the same time,” she said. “She was 
a good role model.”
Jeremy Mall, another culinary instructor 
at Eastside High School, credits Bedford’s 
enthusiasm for inciting his desire to teach.
“She puts in all of her heart, blood, sweat and tears into it to get these kids to be the 
best cooks that they can possibly be,” Mall 
said. “She is an incredible cook, she’s a great 
teacher and everybody loves her.”
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.orgSanta Fe College to go maskless  
Gainesville mayor to set up guaranteed income payments to former prisoners
Alachua County Public School teacher a finalist for national culinary education awardAt Santa Fe College, people can now be maskless 
outside and will soon not have to wear masks indoors
Chef Pamela Bedford is one of four finalists 
for the Chef Educator of the Year Award
Photo courtesy to The Alligator
Photo of Chef Pamela Bedford, the 
director of the Institute of Culinary Arts at 
Eastside High School. 
TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
speed tables. 
“I’m glad that there are major 
changes underway for University 
Avenue after tragedy there recently, 
but we’ve had five of those tragedies 
across the street from the homeless 
shelter and have still not seen any 
action,” DeCarmine said. 
Gainesville City Commissioner 
Harvey Ward thinks the road’s de -
sign causes some of its dangerous 
conditions. 
As a highway with four wide 
lanes and broad medians, the road 
encourages drivers to go as fast as 
traffic will let them despite the 45 
mph speed limit, Ward said. 
“It only takes one minute, one 
second, one moment of inattention 
and someone’s life and your life are 
changed forever,” Ward said. 
Waldo Road is a state road under 
the control of the Florida Department 
of Transportation. The agency has a 
different mission than Gainesville’s 
City Commission, Ward said. To the state, what makes a good road 
is whether it moves cars, trucks and 
cargo effectively, he said. 
“It’s not that they don’t care 
about people, and it’s not that we 
don’t care about moving things,” 
Ward said. “It’s just we’re respon -
sible for people right here in front of 
us. We’re responsible for our neigh -
bors, and they’re responsible for 
moving things.” 
Poor lighting on the road also cre -
ates safety issues, Ward said. 
Of the 37 pedestrian and cyclist 
crash reports obtained for Waldo 
Road, 21 crashes occurred at night. 
However, the Florida Depart -
ment of Transportation completed 
a $601,000 lighting improvement 
project on Waldo from September 
2020 to February, FDOT spokesper -
son Troy Roberts said. New light 
poles and restored sidewalks were 
installed on Northeast Waldo Road 
between University Avenue and 
Northeast 39th Avenue, according to 
FDOT’s website.
Each year, the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organiza -tion for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area requests FDOT funding for road 
projects. They rank these by impor -
tance in a “List of Priority Projects.” 
Since 1997, MTPO has asked for 
funding for projects such as pedestri -
an refuge islands, which are medians 
with a crosswalk through them, and 
improved crossings for bicyclists and 
pedestrians. 
“These are currently unfunded 
priorities; a decision to not fund 
them has not been made,” Roberts 
wrote. “FDOT funds projects based 
on the priorities of the MTPO.”
DeCarmine wants more pedes -
trian safety improvements. 
Since GRACE opened in May 
2014, at least five people have been 
hit by cars on Northeast 39th Ave -
nue while crossing the road to a bus 
stop, DeCarmine said.
GRACE officials have requested 
a flashing crosswalk or a closer bus 
stop from the city and county since 
2015, but this hasn’t gone anywhere, 
he said. 
One bus stop, located a quarter 
mile away from the GRACE campus, 
is frequently used by its residents. 
Its distance is a challenge for those 
walking through the heat, rain or cold with severe disabilities, DeCar -
mine said. 
GRACE resident Lawrence 
Doherty, 56, said the problem 
around GRACE is high-speed traffic 
and too many pedestrians.
Doherty said he believes more 
enforcement of speed limits and jay -
walking would be helpful. Without 
this kind of regulation, more casual -
ties on Waldo can be expected, he 
said. 
“If people would pay more at -tention to the traffic signals and the 
drivers would pay more attention to 
the pedestrians, we wouldn’t have 
this situation,” Doherty said.
Additional reporting by 
Jake Reyes, Joelle Wittig and 
Lianna Hubbard
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org
dent Kent Fuchs wrote in an email the univer -
sity will work toward making the environment 
in and around campus as safe as possible.
Student Body President Cooper Brown 
wrote he believes Nightlife Navigators, a Stu -
dent Government agency, is the best resource 
for addressing campus safety. Nightlife Naviga -
tors partners with businesses and the University 
Police Department to inform students of safe 
nighttime transportation options such as the 
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol, also known 
as SNAP. 
The current Nightlife Navigators director, 
Andrew Goodwin, acknowledged the danger -
ous traffic of West University Avenue and said 
his goal is to keep students safe. Starting in his 
newly acquired position, Goodwin said he be -
lieves meeting with officials and promoting stu -
dent awareness is the best way to address traffic 
safety from foundational levels. 
He plans to work with educational info -
graphics on social media platforms to encourage 
safe habits in and around campus. Future action 
plans are still being discussed, he said.“No matter how big it may seem there’s al -
ways something that we can do and just raising 
that awareness down the line can even create 
big changes,” Goodwin said. 
Brown is also working alongside the UF 
Board of Trustees and FDOT to amplify the voic -
es of students when they have ideas or concerns 
about traffic safety on West University Avenue, 
he wrote in an email.
Jack McKinney, a founding member of Flor -
ida Not One More, was a close friend to Maggie 
Paxton, who died on West University Avenue 
on Dec. 9. McKinney is a firm believer in the or -
ganization’s goals of protected bike lanes, raised 
sidewalks and lowering the speed limit. 
He said a strong social media presence is one 
way to promote change in the community. As 
the SG secretary of campus safety, he works to 
further the organization’s traffic safety message.
“If you have a lot of people that are behind 
you and agree with your sentiments, it can raise 
a lot of eyebrows and help you influence law -
makers to do the right thing,” McKinney said.
McKinney attends bi-weekly meetings with 
FDOT, UF faculty and student government to 
discuss ways to improve traffic conditions. He 
emphasized that FDOT wanted to do more 
community outreach while he would like to see 
more changes on the actual road. 
“I understand that it’s very hard to actually get laws passed and change a street and find 
funding and everything,” McKinney said. “But 
I think when you have so many incidents of 
people getting hurt, especially this year, and you 
see the collateral damage it causes, it should be 
a priority.”
In June, FDOT plans to collaborate with the 
city of Gainesville to upgrade pedestrian signals. 
These upgrades include installing illuminated 
pushbuttons, audible signals and devices that 
automatically detect pedestrians on the cross -
walk, according to an FDOT press release. 
The efforts are a part of a broader goal to 
turn West University Avenue into a complete 
street, which aims to consider all types of road 
users and their safety in its design. 
Charles Lane, UF’s senior vice president and 
chief operating officer, worked with FDOT and 
the city of Gainesville to create a traffic safety 
plan and update the public on information 
about West University Avenue. 
“When you envision a street, it should be 
able to accommodate really all forms of trans -
portation,” Lane said. “Pedestrians, vehicles, 
bicyclists, even scooters.”
FDOT has been working with businesses in 
Gainesville and posting flyers to promote safety 
and awareness, Troy Roberts, FDOT Northeast 
Florida district two communications specialist, 
said. The department’s educational outreach program hands out pledge cards, inciting people 
to obey road laws and has made efforts to en -
gage students and Gainesville residents in dis -
cussions about crosswalk use. 
“When you’re driving through an area 
where there is high pedestrian traffic that extra 
second or extra half-second can be the differ -
ence between life and death,” Roberts said.
The cost of redesigning the road and its con -
struction time are still being determined. 
“The biggest issue is always funding,” Chris 
Furlow, the president of GCAT, said. “Coming 
up with ideas to make roads safer aren’t super 
difficult or super expensive to do, but actu -
ally going out and reconstructing the roadways 
themselves is super expensive.”
Furlow commends the efforts of advocacy 
groups to initiate change from the state level.
“The fact that [FDOT] been making these 
changes on University [Avenue] so rapidly is 
a step in the right direction,” he said. “Hav -
ing those groups advocating … has made a 
big impact on FDOT actually making changes 
in a matter of months rather than a matter of 
decades.”
@Ad_Scribendum
@phongphont
idouglas@alligator.org
phuynh@alligator.orgWALDO,  from pg. 1
TRAFFIC,  from pg. 1High speeds, too many pedestrians
Complete streetsAlex Brown / / Alligator Staff
6   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
THE CITY ORDERED THE 
DEMOLITION OF A POPULAR 
DIY SKATE PARK
By Sam Schaffer
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 1,300 people have 
signed a petition to save a DIY skate 
spot in Gainesville that the city or -
dered to be demolished by June 20. 
The “Gentleman’s Club” is a DIY 
skate park — a type of skate park 
where skaters build ramps, rails 
and other obstacles with their own 
materials, typically without the per -
mission of landowners. The park re -
sides at 2212 SW 13th St., next to La 
Tienda, a popular Mexican restau -
rant in Gainesville. Trader’s South, 
the inspiration for its name, used 
to house live music, topless danc -
ers and performances by people like 
Tom Petty until 2006. 
Now, the property takes on a 
different look — the strippers have 
been replaced with skaters, and it 
now rains kickflips instead of dol -
lar bills inside the empty walls that 
once housed vibrant nightlife. The city inspected the property 
on May 18 and sent notice to the 
owner that the ramps and walls 
need to be torn down by June 20. 
The property is currently in viola -
tion of section 13-301.3 of the City 
of Gainesville Code of Ordinances, 
according to the notice of violation. 
The cited ordinance states vacant 
structures need to be maintained in 
clean, safe, secure and sanitary con -
ditions so they aren’t detrimental to 
public health. 
Failure to take corrective action 
by removing the ramps and walls 
and securing the area with a fence 
by June 20 could result in up to 
$5,000 per day in fines for the own -
er, according to the notice. 
Carlos Perez, who helped build 
the Gentlemen’s Club, said he quit 
his job at an architecture firm to 
build skate parks professionally.
“It’s literally changed my life,” 
Perez said. 
Ben Bradford, a 29-year-old trav -
eling skate park builder who helped 
organize and build much of the 
park, said the spot has become im -
portant to the skate community in 
Gainesville. “The Gentlemen’s Club is a place 
for us to go and not bother anyone 
and just peacefully skate and hang 
out,” Bradford said. “We build what 
we want to skate.”
Bradford said the skate park 
is open to anyone and serves as a 
place of expression.  
David Wells, the creator of the 
99 Print Shop, a clothing brand that 
found success in the Gainesville 
skate community, said the spot is 
well known. 
“Before even moving to 
Gainesville, I always heard about 
it,” Wells said. 
The 21-year-old Santa Fe gradu -
ate said DIY spots are important 
because they provide a different at -
mosphere than a commercial skate 
park.
“The heavy, hardcore locals are 
there,” he said. “Even if there’s not 
much at a DIY, it means a lot to the 
community.”
Wells said he’s made many new 
friends and memories through the 
Gentleman’s Club, and he knows 
many people who take trips to 
Gainesville just to visit the spot. 
“From this abandoned strip club, 
it’s turned into such a epicenter of 
community in Gainesville,” he said. 
While the Gentleman’s Club 
has been a skate spot for over six 
years, most of the work on it started 
in August. Bradford said he began 
organizing local skaters around 
Gainesville to create a place with 
steeper ramps that gave a smoother 
flow for skating, especially com -
pared to those found at Possum 
Creek State Park, a popular concrete 
skate park in Gainesville. 
“It would be almost easier for me 
to say who didn’t help than who did 
help,” Bradford said. “Most of the 
core skateboarders in Gainesville 
have either contributed labor or fi -
nancially.” 
Since starting work on the proj -
ect, Bradford said about $5,000 of 
concrete and reinforced steel has 
been shaped into ramps against the walls of the former bar.
Skaters flock to the Gentleman’s 
Club because it provides skating 
opportunities that aren’t avail -
able within a two-hour drive of 
Gainesville, Bradford said. He said 
the nearest good skate parks are in 
Jacksonville. 
He said he’s had limited interac -
tion with the property owner, and 
no issues have arisen from the few 
times he’s seen the property man -
ager.
“He’s been there when we’ve 
literally been unloading like $1,500 
worth of concrete bags,” Bradford 
said. “He’s like ‘all right, you guys 
are all right,’ and just took off.”
The surrounding neighborhoods 
and businesses have not expressed 
issues with the presence of the skate 
park, he said.
The spot is inside three concrete 
walls with around 50 feet of woods 
separating it from the nearest road. 
It is not visible from the road due to 
the heavy wooding.
The closest building to the spot 
is La Tienda, where Sofia Patino, a 
cashier, said the restaurant has no 
issue with the skaters. 
The 23-year-old said the only problem that arises from the skaters 
who use their parking lot is some 
littering. 
Bradford said a handwritten note 
was found from the owner or prop -
erty manager two weeks ago. The 
note said neighbors complained 
about noise, and the city ordered 
all ramps to be demolished and re -
moved. 
“It was a good thing while it 
lasted and now must stop,” the note 
reads. “Please respect the change.”
City officials declined requests 
for an interview after multiple 
phone calls and a media request. 
The Gentleman’s Club Instagram 
page is urging people to sign the pe -
tition and email city commissioners 
to stress the spot’s importance.
If the spot gets torn down, 
Bradford would probably leave 
Gainesville. He said there will be 
nothing good enough to keep him 
in town.
“It means everything to us,” he 
said. “The Gentleman’s Club is our 
heart and soul.”
@samschaf_
sschaffer@alligator.org
UF AND THE CITY OF GAINESVILLE 
ARE PUSHING FOR MORE 
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY 
TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS
By Eve Thompson
Alligator Staff Writer
With limited parking lots and estab -
lished decal zones, UF students often 
struggle to bring their vehicles to campus 
to attend classes. 
“It’s so hard to find parking for cars 
on campus; it’s not even worth it to drive 
to school with a car,” Amanda Feijo, a 
21-year-old economics and sustainability 
major, said.
This summer, however, students will 
have an alternative method of transporta -
tion.
The city of Gainesville plans to in -
troduce electric scooters, or e-scooters, 
throughout UF and surrounding areas this 
month. E-scooter companies Bird, Spin 
and Veo will be allowed to install small 
fleets of scooters available for rent.
Spin will deploy 200 scooters, which will cost $1 to unlock and $0.25 per min -
ute to ride. They will be available to rent 
from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. There will 
be virtually enforced parking areas and 
operating restrictions for e-scooters on 
campus.
Feijo said she is excited to see e-scoot -
ers around as UF transitions to a more eco-
friendly campus.
“You want to use things that are go -
ing to be better for the environment, but 
it’s just not easily accessible,” Feijo said. 
“Electric cars right now are so expensive, 
but seeing that UF is making it possible 
and making it easier for the students to 
make that change, that’s so awesome.” 
Micromobility — smaller, lightweight 
vehicles that can operate on the street 
— are becoming increasingly popular for 
both eco-friendliness and convenience.
Xilei Zhao, an assistant professor in the 
Department of Civil and Coastal Engineer -
ing, focuses her research on micromobil -
ity. She said the positive environmental 
impacts of e-scooters are notable.
“It’s completely electric. Just one 
charge of the e-scooters — you really run 
two to three days,” Zhao said. “So, it’s very environmentally friendly compared 
to cars, especially for short trips.”
Because they are electrically powered, 
e-scooters produce zero emissions; the av -
erage car emits 4.6 metric tons of carbon 
dioxide each year. 
The transportation sector produces the 
most greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S., 
around 29% of total emissions in 2019.
Many UF students turn to mopeds and 
scooters over cars, creating a “scooter cul -
ture” in Gainesville. 
Scooters and mopeds are also marketed 
as environmentally friendly. While gaso -
line-powered scooters produce less carbon 
pollution than cars, they produce more of 
other pollutants such as carbon monox -
ide and nitrous oxide. New mopeds can 
cost anywhere from $600 to $1600. A new 
scooter can cost upwards of $2,000.
There has been some skepticism 
around how eco-friendly electric scooters 
really are. A study from North Carolina 
State University revealed that traveling by 
e-scooter results in a higher global warm -
ing impact than public transportation, an 
electric bicycle or simply walking. 
When replacing personal car trips, us -ing an e-scooter results in a net reduction 
in environmental impacts.
While e-scooters have many advantag -
es, Zhao said curbside management may 
be difficult.
“Some people are not parking e-scoot -
ers properly. They readily park e-scooters 
on pedestrian lanes. A lot of people are 
complaining about that aspect,” she said.
Zhao also said safety may be an issue. 
She said many people don’t wear helmets 
when using scooters, and she encouraged 
UF students to stay safe on their rides.
Feijo said electric power is the future, 
and she hopes many students will replace 
their cars with e-scooters. 
“You think that one person doing some -
thing is not going to make that much of a 
difference, but if at least some of UF stu -
dents decide to make the change and stop 
driving their cars and start using electric 
scooters, that’s a wave,” she said.
Luke Bybee, an 18-year-old pre-nursing 
student, owns a Bird scooter, which he 
says is convenient.
“It’s a lot quicker than walking. Two 
minutes really beats 15 minutes of walk -
ing,” he said. “It’s kind of just to save time 
and energy.
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.orgGainesville skateboarders oppose destruction of local skate spot
Electric scooters are coming to UFWalter Harwood / / Alligator Staff
Annie Scull, 22, a Daytona Beach resident, skateboards between 
sunshine and shade at a leafy makeshift skate park adjacent to La 
Tienda Mexican Restaurant on Sunday, May 30, 2021.Sam Schaffer / / Alligator Staff
Concrete ramps rest in a shroud of graffiti at the Gentleman’s Club, a 
DIY skate park in Gainesville, Florida. The Gentleman’s club has become 
a place for artists and skaters to express themselves away from the 
public eye, but the city has ordered it to be demolished by June 20.
TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
On May 18, Palestine observed quiet 
streets. As business owners shut -
tered their shops and deserted their 
markets, citizens across Palestin -
ian cities and villages mobilized in central 
squares and demonstrated their opposition 
to the brutal Israeli military occupation. 
This general strike depicted a semblance of 
unity and collectivism among a state of persis -
tent grief and tragedy. Raising their flags with 
pride and garbed in the traditional kaffiyeh, 
Palestinians protested against recent atroci -
ties from Israel’s ongoing heavy airstrikes on 
Gaza and the forced displacement of residents 
in Sheikh Jarrah. Cities across the globe wit -
nessed similar scenes within the past week. 
On May 19, hundreds gathered in Gainesville 
on the corner of University Avenue to express 
their solidarity with Palestinians. 
As they mourn the lives ruthlessly robbed, 
the Palestinian diaspora and supporters of the 
Palestinian cause, like us, take to the streets 
to raise awareness and demand recognition of 
their decades-long plight.  
Reports trace the beginning of this latest 
crisis to May 7 as several Palestinian Muslims 
gathered at Al-Aqsa Mosque to celebrate the 
final days of the holy month of Ramadan. Con -
fronted by the advanced weaponry possessed 
by Israeli Occupation Forces, like rubber bul -
lets and stun grenades, Palestinians retaliated 
with stones and bottles. Events have since es -
calated as the Gaza Strip became the latest tar -
get of Israeli airstrikes, murdering more than 
two hundred innocent Palestinians and reduc -
ing buildings to rubble. 
Much of this hostility stemmed from the Is -
raeli court ruling in October to forcibly remove 
12 Palestinian families from their homes in 
Sheikh Jarrah. This Jerusalem neighborhood is historically home to Palestinian refugees 
expelled from other parts of the city in 1948. 
Despite international pleas to halt their ef -
forts, Israel remains steadfast in its monstrous 
acts, while the media’s dismissal of these war 
crimes only aid Israel’s efforts. 
Sheikh Jarrah currently resembles a war 
zone. Israeli Occupation Forces placed aggres -
sive checkpoints across the neighborhood’s 
entrance, barring the entry of medical and me -
dia personnel and denying the movement of 
Palestinian residents. The coerced evictions in 
Sheikh Jarrah reflect a settler-colonialist tactic 
to claim more land in an attempt to destroy 
and obliterate Palestinians’ means for wealth 
and survival. 
Further, these recent events, including the 
deliberate attacks on Al-Aqsa Mosque and 
Gaza Strip, are merely the latest manifesta -
tions of the Israeli agenda of apartheid and 
ethnic cleansing. As Palestinians observe the 
73rd anniversary of the Nakba — the Arabic 
word for “catastrophe” referring to the mass 
displacement of Palestinians in 1948 — recent 
ongoing injustices remind Palestinians that 
the Nakba never really ended. Israel is a state 
built on colonialism and the systemic erasure 
of Palestinian people, culture and history. The 
events in Sheikh Jarrah, Gaza, and Jerusalem 
are neither “unprecedented” nor moments of 
“unrest”; rather, they offer a glimpse into the 
decades of continual Palestinian oppression 
sustained by Israel.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/opinions    
The Students for Justice in Palestine 
(SJP) at UF aims to promote international 
law, human rights and justice for all people 
affected by this conflict.“Kill their moms, rape their 
daughters,” is what people 
heard from their windows in 
London on May 16. 
“Hitler was right,” was yelled in Florida last 
week. 
“Who’s Jewish here? I came to kill you!” 
someone said at a restaurant in Los Angeles 
on May 18. 
“Dirty Jew” is what Jewish people world -
wide are “used” to hearing.
These are just a few examples of the 267 
antisemitic incidents reported in the last 20 
days, since the conflict between Gaza and 
Israel erupted on May 6. Since then, Jews 
around the world have experienced an in -
creasing wave of antisemitism. On May 6, 
Hamas started firing rockets at Israel, killing 
innocent civilians in Israel and Gaza as well.
Antisemitism has existed as far back as the 
destruction of the Holy Temple in 586 BC, 
when Romans expelled Jews from their 
homeland in Jerusalem and renamed the 
land “Palestine.”
Since then, there have been countless antise -
mitic demonstrations and events around the 
world. We saw it in Europe when multiple 
pogroms fostered hate against Jews, which 
ultimately ended in the systematic genocide 
of more than six million Jews during the 
Holocaust, persecuting and murdering the 
whole families of two of my grandparents. 
We continue seeing antisemitic attacks in 
different countries, emotionally and physi -
cally harming innocent Jews and Zionists 
who do not do anything but be Jewish.  
In 1948, Israel declared independence and 
accepted the United Nations’ plan where Jews and Arabs would divide the land of 
modern day Israel and live peacefully as 
neighbors. However, tensions between Is -
raelis and Arabs arose since then and wors -
ened in 2005 when Israel, as an attempt for 
peace, gave full control of the Gaza Strip to 
its Arab neighbors. In 2007, Hamas, a ter -
rorist organization, took over the Gaza strip 
and started terrorizing Israel, which has 
continued to this day. 
As a Jew living in the diaspora, I cannot 
imagine the suffering of Israelis — Jews, 
Muslism and Christians — having to run 
to bomb shelters when Hamas fired rockets 
across the country. My skin crawls at the 
thought of them having just 15 seconds to 
stop what they are doing and run for their 
safety. Fifteen seconds to grab their chil -
dren, tell their families they love them and 
hope that everything will be okay when the 
rockets hit. 
Moreover, I cannot imagine the Palestin -
ians’ suffering, how it must be to live under 
the rule of Hamas, and how it is to live in a 
place where violence, terrorism and death 
are educated and transmitted to children.  
The truth is that both Palestinians and Is -
raelis have suffered and we, regardless of 
the side we decide to take, should minimize 
ignorance by putting hatred aside and real -
izing who is fighting for peace and for the 
safety of its people.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/opinions
 
Daniela Ghelman is a junior at the 
University of Florida studying journalism.What does the Israeli-Palestine conflict mean to local Palestinians? What does the Israeli-Palestine conflict mean to an Israeli?Column Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
“Riding the wave”
Learn how three teammates are bonded for life, literally. 
Read the rest on pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT FOCUSES 
ON PROVIDING COMPREHENSIVE MENTAL 
HEALTH CARE TO CLIENTS
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
A new initiative aims to show that quality mental health care 
has no age limit.
Marion Senior Services (MSS) instituted a new department to 
promote mental health for Marion County seniors. The Human 
Services department will focus on enhancing quality of life and 
crisis management skills by analyzing individual situations and 
finding areas for improvement. 
The new approach seeks to improve the services MSS 
already offers, including in-home support and nutrition services, 
according to a press release. 
“We are focusing on a more dignified approach when it 
comes to mental health,” Jennifer Martinez, executive director 
of MSS, said. “Looking at the mind, the spirit, the body —caring 
for the person as a whole.” 
These issues range from daily tasks like unloading a client’s 
dishwasher to more complicated endeavors like helping a client 
relocate. 
While a purely physical approach to solving these problems 
may resolve the immediate crises, Martinez said Human 
Services aims to find the root of these issues and provide long-
term solutions. 
This all-encompassing approach involves organizations 
across the state that participate in elder care, including first 
responders, Adult Protective Services and the Department of 
Children and Families. Martinez said the goal of Human Services 
is to streamline the aid process through all relevant outlets, 
creating a more cohesive network of care. 
Some of the more severe situations seen by MSS occur 
outside the range of their services, during what Martinez called 
“after hours.”One incident involved a couple displaced from their home on 
a Friday at 5:30 p.m. with no relatives or friends to take them 
in. Martinez was on the phone with fire rescue for an hour and 
a half in an attempt to find them a suitable place to stay for the 
night. Though the issue was resolved, Martinez said the mental 
taxation on the couple was cause for concern. 
“I could just imagine how they felt, sitting there not knowing 
what was going to happen to them or how they felt,” she said. 
A collection of similar incidents is what inspired the 
installation of Human Services, Martinez said. In finding and 
correcting the gaps within each organization, the department 
seeks to create a more efficient system, easing the mental strain 
on clients who may experience uncertainty or stress under 
current practices.   
Human Services will also implement counseling services 
for their clients, connecting them with a licensed mental health 
professional to provide the necessary skills for day-to-day living. 
Cassandra Jackson, the community care director of MSS, said 
this provision was included after a deeper analysis of seemingly 
routine referrals. 
Jackson said requests for assistance in homemaking, personal 
care, meals and other daily tasks often turned into much bigger 
cases that required more substantial support.
Self-neglect, the inability to meet basic daily needs due to 
physical or mental impairments, has become a major issue 
among the elderly. Between 40% and 50% of cases reported 
to Adult Protective Services involve some form of it, according 
to data from the Public Policy Institute of the AARP. Jackson 
said those who don’t receive the necessary mental aid may be at 
risk for self-neglect — something that, in the long run, presents 
serious health hazards. 
The COVID-19 pandemic has worsened the growing mental 
health crisis already afflicting the United States. Loneliness and 
isolation were common factors in the uptick of adults reporting 
symptoms of anxiety or depression, according to a study from 
the Kaiser Family Foundation.    
In the aging population, where many have been 
isolated due to the high risk of infection, these feelings are especially prominent. 
Though the sweeping reforms in programs across the state 
are necessary for more comprehensive care plans, Jackson said 
the solution to combating loneliness sometimes lies in something 
as simple as a phone call. 
Human Services has already begun offering this telephone 
reassurance to clients, who Jackson said came to rely on the 
service for conversation and connection amid the pandemic. 
Though the calls involved more complicated issues at times, 
Jackson said they were mostly “harmless” and offered a chance 
for clients to chat with a listening ear. 
The institution of the Human Services department is a step 
toward the overall goal of MSS to promote independent living for 
seniors for as long as possible. Though some clients are fearful 
of becoming burdens to those around them, Martinez said the 
ability to live independently is impossible to achieve without 
assistance — something everyone should have at their disposal.
“Asking for help isn’t a sign of weakness. It’s a sign of 
strength.”
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.org
A CHANCE ENCOUNTER BETWEEN 
A LOCAL MUSICIAN AND A NEW 
BUSINESS OWNER LED TO AN 
UNEXPECTED WAY TO 
SUPPORT FAMILIES WITH 
CRITICALLY ILL CHILDREN
By Brenna Sheets
Alligator Staff Writer
A blend of ax-throwing, live music and fun -
draising for children with severe illnesses will 
take place at The Hatchetbury this month.
Alachua County’s first ax-throwing venue 
teamed up with local musician Azazus to cre -
ate a song titled “Best Damn Moment.” 
Azazus will perform the single live at The 
Hatchetbury’s fundraising event on June 16. All 
proceeds will go toward supporting the families 
at Ronald McDonald House Charities of North 
Central Florida, a nonprofit charity organiza -
tion that helps house the families of critically ill 
children at Shands Hospital. 
The music video for “Best Damn Moment,” 
which was filmed at The Hatchetbury, will be 
released June 15 in honor of National Chil -
dren’s Day.
Suzanne Gilbert, co-owner of The Hatch -etbury, met Azazus at its grand opening and 
asked him to make a song that embodied the 
empowering atmosphere of her new business.
“I said to him, ‘I just want something that 
captures the vibe of The Hatchetbury, that 
guarantees smiles,’” Gilbert said. “We play 
great music, and it’s just great fun.”
The fundraising event is $100 per admission 
ticket, which is equal to the cost of housing one 
family for one night at the Ronald McDonald 
House. The money earned from every stream 
and download of the song will also go toward 
helping the families.
“At the end of the day, our number one pri -
ority is to raise as much money as we possibly 
can for a genuinely great cause for families,” 
Gilbert said. “There’s nothing more rewarding 
than making a difference like that.”
In a time of persistent worry and tension 
due to the pandemic, The Hatchetbury intro -
duced Gainesville community members to a 
new stress-relieving activity.
After beginning construction in January 
2020, The Hatchetbury adapted to the CDC’s 
guidelines by redesigning its venue to include 
6-foot spacing and sanitization stations for ev -
ery lane. 
In addition to the tension caused by the pan -
demic, a survey by Northwestern National Life 
reported that approximately 40% of American workers feel their job alone is “very or extreme -
ly stressful” and 25% of employees view their 
jobs as the number one stressor in their lives.
Mckensi Houston, a 20-year-old classical 
studies and general theater senior at UF, has 
worked as an “ax-pert” at The Hatchetbury 
since it opened Aug. 29, 2020. She said The 
Hatchebury’s cathartic environment helped 
customers during the pandemic. 
“Being able to go somewhere and have a 
sense of normalcy for a little bit, it can be really 
good for the spirit,” Houston said. “I’ve defi -
nitely seen a lot of return customers who gravi -
tate towards that and recognize that it’s helping 
them mentally.” 
While writing “Best Damn Moment,” Aza -
zus took notice of this and made the song about 
having a good time at The Hatchetbury, zoning 
out from all the stress and adversities after a 
long day.
“This is a college city and, for the people that 
aren’t in college, their regular schedule is to go 
to work and get off work,” Azazus said. “We’re 
trying to inspire people to dive into what’s here 
locally as far as resources and entertainment.”
Once Azazus informed Gilbert that they 
could release “Best Damn Moment” as a single, 
she decided to use the song as a chance to lend 
a helping hand to the community.
Gilbert met Sherry Houston, the executive director at North Central Florida’s Ronald Mc -
Donald House, through a frequent ax-thrower 
at The Hatchetbury.
“The number one diagnosis of a family 
who comes to us is their child is waiting for 
a heart, and those families stay an average of 
six months, sometimes a year with us,” Hous -
ton said. “We knew we still had to make a dif -
ference because families needed us more than 
ever during this pandemic.”
Ronald McDonald House is dedicated to 
providing families with more than just a home 
away from home. Since January 2021, it has 
distributed nearly 900 “comfort bags” full of 
non-perishable snacks and toiletries to their 
families. 
The Hatchetbury, Azazus and Ronald Mc -
Donald House each make an impact in their 
own fields, but Houston said the rather un -
expected three-way collaboration is a perfect 
blend of community involvement.
“To partner with this brand new organiza -
tion in town, to have this celebrity create a song 
to promote the organization and to have them 
raise money for our families, it makes a com -
pletely formed circle,” Houston said.
@BrennaMarieShe1
bsheets@alligator.orgMarion senior services institutes new department dedicated to mental health
The Hatchetbury partners with Azazus to fundraise for Ronald McDonald House Charities  
HEALTH & WELLNESSHEALTH & WELLNESS
ENTREPRENEURSHIPENTREPRENEURSHIPShelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
say: "I found it in the alligator!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-121For Rent
furnished
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            8-15-21-13-2
For Rent 2BR 1BA house, screened porch, 
fenced yard. Walking distance to Butler 
Plaza, Celebration Point and bus transpor-
tation. Available 7/1 Call: 352-494-3277.    
6-7-20-2-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail-
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod-
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.  
8-1-21-9-2solution on page 10
©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    IInn  ffaasshhiioonn,,  sswwaannkk
11..    TTrriinniiddaadd  aanndd  ________55..    NNoonnsseennssee  
22..    MMaakkee  bbiiggggeerr66..    CCoorraall  ________
33..    PPaacciiffiicc  aaddjjeeccttiivvee  77..    IImmpprroovveedd  
44..    PPooiinntteerrEERRYYDDTTNN
AAGGTTBBOOOOLLEEBBGGII
FFEESSEERR
NNAALLEEEERRGG
PPDDSSEETTEEEEEETTBBRREETT
UUCCOORRRRSSAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TTrreennddyy    55AA--BBiillggee    66AA--RReeeeffss    77AA--BBeetttteerr
11DD--TToobbaaggoo    22DD--EEnnllaarrggee    33DD--DDeeeeppeesstt    44DD--CCuurrssoorr    BB--BBiirrddsseeyyee66--11--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: CCllaarreennccee  ________  iiss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  tthhee  ffoouunnddeerr  
ooff  tthhee  mmooddeerrnn  ffrroozzeenn  ffoooodd  iinndduussttrryy..
BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter
answers on pg. 101. TELEVISION: What were the names of 
the six children on "The Brady Bunch"?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Which of the Earth's 
oceans is the smallest?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the 
lowest rank in the U.S. Air Force?
4. LANGUAGE: What is the American ver -
sion of the British plimsolls?
5. LITERATURE: Which one of Shake -
speare's plays is the longest?
6. MEASUREMENTS: What time period is a 
decennial?
7. MOVIES: Which actor played himself in 
the movie "Zombieland"?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: How many eyes 
does a bee have?
9. ANATOMY: What are rasceta?
10. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which 20th-century 
president's Secret Service code name was 
Timberwolf?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RVís 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          6-1-4-1213 Wanted 5 Real Estate
By Alina Abidi and Gary Larson
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/01/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/01/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 1, 2021
ACROSS
1 Object from a 
much earlier  
time
6 Wild guesses
11 “__ Blinded Me 
With Science”: 
1983 hit
14 Barn-raising sect
15 14-inch paper 
size
16 Triumphed
17 Machine Gun 
Kelly or Pretty 
Boy Floyd
19 JFK posting
20 Slipped up
21 Bit of staircase 
babyproofing
22 Musician’s asset
25 Former name 
of Denver’s Ball 
Arena
29 Pests whose 
name means 
“fly” in a Bantu 
language
31 “Bottomless” 
brunch drinks
32 Melt
33 Wildly excited
34 Breathtaking 
regimen?
41 Strand at the 
airport, say
42 Worked the soil
43 Very few
46 Like some 
decorative glass
49 Underwater 
shocker
51 One with a code 
name
52 Bordeaux, say
53 Loads
55 Longoria of 
“Desperate 
Housewives”
56 Get a delicate 
dialogue started 
... and a hint to 
17-, 25-, 34- and 
49-Across
62 Transgression
63 Flat contract
64 Quell
65 Bit of ink
66 Spud
67 Soothing balm
DOWN
1 Missy Elliott 
genre
2 Big Aussie bird
3 Women’s __4 Key in the water
5 Tweets
6 Goes into  
low-power  
mode
7 Cares for, as a 
garden
8 Mature
9 Loud comics 
sound
10 Foxy
11 Jogging wear
12 Soothing cuppa
13 See 24-Down
18 Manitoba tribe
21 Italian  
dumplings
22 R&B great 
James
23 Activist and 
tennis legend 
Arthur
24 With 13-Down, 
collisions from 
behind
26 Big-screen 
format
27 Cannes subject
28 Qatari leader
30 Batman villain 
who carries a 
double-headed 
coin
33 R&B’s Boyz II __
35 Hightail it36 Horror movie 
helper
37 Big name in 
banking
38 + or - particles
39 Slip slowly 
through the 
cracks
40 Whirlpool
43 State-of-the-art
44 “Booksmart” 
director Wilde
45 Renter
46 Explorer47 Suckling spot
48 Top dogs
50 Run after
54 “Sisters” star 
Ward
56 Sandwich letters
57 Stephen of “V for 
Vendetta”
58 Put away
59 Under the 
weather
60 LeBron until 
2010, for short
61 Private __
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/25/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/25/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, May 25, 2021
ACROSS
1 Aquatic barker
5 “Notorious” 
justice, initially
8 Frozen rock in a 
bar?
12 Lake that drains 
via the Niagara 
River
13 City on the Nile
15 Daunting exam
16 *Historic lifetime 
golf or tennis 
achievement
19 *Cushioned 
Adidas running 
shoes
20 TV censoring 
device
22 Do canine care?
25 Long-bodied fish
26 Dose amt.
28 Super Bowl org.
29 Bronze 
component
31 Hang loosely
33 Tigger’s best 
friend
35 Clear sky hue
37 Long-eared 
equines
38 Need to pay
39 More secure
40 Extreme clutter
41 Oscar-winning 
actress Berry
43 “Should that 
happen ... ”
44 Power source for 
Watt
46 Sleeping sound
48 City hall leaders
50 Guiding principles
53 Driver’s licenses, 
e.g.
54 Donnybrook
58 “Crazy Rich 
Asians” director 
Jon M. __
59 A or B, but not O
61 “30 Rock” actor 
__ Morgan
62 Pleased
63 Follow orders
64 Product pitcher
65 “Mary Magdalene” 
star Rooney __
66 Capital on the 
Tiber
67 Party attendee
68 Portent
DOWN
1 “Be there in a __!”
2 Stat for Clayton 
Kershaw
3 Breathing 
necessity4 Bloodsucker
5 Pasta sauce 
brand
6 Eagle or lark
7 Steffi in the 
Tennis Hall of 
Fame
8 Pink cocktail, 
familiarly
9 Digital address 
letters
10 Sheep sound
11 Common name 
for a tree-lined 
street
13 Corn, wheat, etc.
14 Switch type
17 Privileged groups
18 Cowboys’ home
20 Chapter 
companion
21 *Social status 
hierarchy
23 Seafood 
appetizer, and 
what each 
answer to a 
starred clue 
literally is?
24 Foals’ fathers
25 Wax-coated 
cheese
27 Links tournament 
with two-person 
teams
28 Yuletide carols30 Roman fiddler
32 Basil-based sauce
34 “Wise” flier
36 The Congo, 
formerly
41 Word or phrase 
preceded by “#”
42 Put into code
45 Goof up
47 Uranus or 
Neptune
48 Key that may 
sound sad or 
angry49 Marinade in 
Philippine 
cooking
51 Windy City hub
52 Khartoum’s 
nation
55 Language of 
Pakistan
56 Like Hubbard’s 
cupboard
57 Nails, as a test
60 Lens location
62 Controversial 
food letters
05/24/2021get VACCINATED today
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-15-21-13-15
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring for all positions. 
Full time/part time, day/nightshift. Apply at 
fivestarpizza.com/employment
* Delivery drivers
* Pizza makers
* Phone personnel
* Food prep
* Managers
6-7-21-8-14
Sun Country Sports Center is now hiring 
Summer Camp Counselors
Fun, friendly work environment with awe-
some kids facilitating fun sports activities! 
Gymnastics, Rock Climbing, Swimming, 
Games, Crafts and much more! Apply to-
day at suncountrysports.com/jobs      
6-7-21-4-14
Part time sales assistant to work Saturdays 
from 10am-3pm in a local Gainesville retail 
audio/video store. Individual needs to be 
personable, organized, dependable and 
possess good communication skills. Must 
have a reliable vehicle to get to & from work. 
$11.00 per hour with some extra hours on 
occasion. Applicants can email resume to 
mark@electronicsworld.net         6-1-21-4-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille
NOW HIRING
Until June 13th, we'll be hosting interviews 
for Spurrier's Gridiron Grille! We need 5-star 
restaurant talent to join our team. Applications 
must be submitted online & an interview will 
be scheduled with those qualified. No walk-ins 
due to the high volume of applicants. Apply at 
spurriersdraft.com                        6-7-21-5-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
ATTENTION SENIORS
The average funeral cost is $9000+Don't leave 
your family to pay your debts. State Approved, 
Final Expense Life Insurance Plans Are Now 
Available as Low as $25 a month Hurry and 
Call Before Enrollment Ends.
800-555-5555 M-F 9am-6pmEST            6-1-2-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
answers below1. What national team dominated the 
Fed Cup women's tennis competition from 
2011-18, winning six championships during 
that span?
2. What Utah Jazz player broke the NBA 
single-season slam dunk record with 306 
in 2019?
3. Name the former college football coach 
who won Alabama's U.S. senate election in 
2020.4. In what sport do the Adelaide Strikers, 
Hobart Hurricanes and Perth Scorchers 
of the Women's Big Bash League (WBBL) 
compete?
5. Nicknamed "The Ginger Assassin," what 
teenage bowler successfully cleared a 7-10 
split at the 2021 U.S. Open semifinals?
6. What National Baseball Hall of Famer -- 
and his various conspiracy theories -- was 
profiled in a 1994 "Philadelphia" maga -
zine article by Pat Jordan?
7. Name the ESPN baseball analyst who 
also wrote the book "I'm Fascinated by Sac -
rifice Flies: Inside the Game We All Love."
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted
14 Help Wanted16 Health Service
AllStar Cheer/Tumbling Coach
Florida TeamCheer is looking for energetic 
cheer/tumbling coaches.
AllStar experience required. 
Send your resume to ftcgators@aol.com
or call 352-222-9977                         7-6-21-5-14
Front Desk Reception SIMEDHealth
SIMEDHealth is looking for both PT and FT 
Front Desk Receptionists for our Gainesville 
locations. Please go to our website to apply: 
http://simedhealth.com/jobs.  
6-7-21-5-14
Newberry Animal Hospital has several po-
sitions open on their client service team. 
Do you have great customer service skills, 
smile, and attitude? Are you enthusiastic, 
friendly, and a naturally happy team player? 
Can you have at least 2 full days of availabil -
ity each week? We can teach you everything 
else you need to know for the job! Previous 
reception experience a plus. We are a drug 
free workplace and do require candidate em-
ployment testing. Apply: https://www.new-
berryanimalhospital.com/careers
6-7-21-2-14
solution to the right
solution below
Sports Quiz  
answers1. Czech Republic.
2. Rudy Gobert.
3. Tommy Tuberville.
4. Cricket.
5. Anthony Neuer.
6. Steve Carlton.
7. Tim Kurkjian.Trivia Test  answers1. Greg, Marcia, Peter, Jan, Bobby and 
Cindy
2. Arctic
3. Airman basic
4. Sneakers
5. "Hamlet"6. 10 years
7. Bill Murray
8. Five
9. Deep creases at your wrists
10. George Herbert Walker Bush
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
MegaMaze solution
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONS10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
found found   
something? something? 
place a place a FREEFREE   "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
scan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:you can get
VACCINATED
TODAY!TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sportsFollow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast. 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.TRACK & FIELD
MEN'S TENNISFLORIDA TRACK AND FIELD 
SECURED 18 TOTAL ENTRIES 
TO NATIONALS — 10 FOR 
THE MEN AND EIGHT FOR 
THE WOMEN
By Kaitlyn Wadulack
Sports Writer
 
Florida’s track and field program 
earned 18 total entries to the NCAA 
Outdoor Championships over four 
days of competition at the East Pre -
liminary meet in Jacksonville from 
May 26 to May 29. 
The men’s team booked 10 en -
tries for the championship in Eu -
gene, Oregon, and the women’s 
team secured eight through the final 
stage of qualifying.
Thomas Mardal and Connor Ban -
del punched their tickets to Eugene 
Wednesday. 
Mardal unleashed a 71.29 meter 
(233-10) throw in the men’s hammer 
throw. The No.1 seed was the only 
competitor to exceed the 70-meter 
mark for the second straight meet, 
with the second-closest launch com -
ing in at 68.89 meters (226-0).
Bandel will make the trip to the 
West Coast as well. The redshirt se -
nior entered the meet as the No. 12 
seed and thrust the shot put 19.52 
meters (64 ½) away to land the 
fourth-best qualifying time. 
Two more Gators locked in spots 
for the NCAA Outdoor Champion -
ships Thursday: Arianne Duarte-Mo -
rais and Claire Bryant. Duarte-Morais catapulted her 
javelin 51.89 meters (170-3) in 
the women’s javelin, while Bryant 
launched herself 6.64 meters (21-
9½) in the women’s long jump. The 
freshman Bryant hit this mark in 
the first round of the event to make 
herself the fourth-best performer in 
NCAA East Preliminary Round his -
tory, according to USTFCCCA. 
The men’s squad solidified their 
nationals spots on the third day of 
the competition with eight more en -
tries, including Clayton Brown and 
Joseph Fahnbulleh, who double-
booked themselves with two events 
each.
Brown will compete in the men’s 
high jump and men’s triple jump at 
nationals. The senior stretched 2.16 
meters (7-1) in the men’s high jump 
to land the 12th qualifying spot and 
vaulted 15.94 meters (52-3¾) in the 
men’s triple jump to qualify 11th. 
Fahnbulleh blasts off in the men’s 
100 and 200 meters at nationals. The 
redshirt freshman crushed his seed 
marks in both events. The No. 7 seed 
in the 100 legged out a 10.01 second 
time, a 0.07 second improvement on 
his seed time. He coasted to a 19.94 
in the 200, cutting 0.11 seconds off 
his No. 2 seed spot.  
Tyler Davis joins Fahnbulleh in 
the men’s 200. The Huntsville, Ala -
bama, native secured a lane in the 
championship after he sprinted a 
20.54 time, a huge decrease from his 
20.95 seed time. 
Ryan Willie aced the men’s 400 
with a 45.56 time, the seventh-best qualifying mark. The freshman sits a 
fraction under a second behind the 
top time. 
Denzel Villaman, who began as 
the No. 5 seed, charged through the 
men’s 400 hurdles and crossed the 
finish line at 50.75, the ninth-best 
time.
The Gator’s men’s 4x400 crew 
of Willie, Chantz Sawyers, Villa -
man and Kunle Fasasi managed to 
seal an automatic qualification with 
a 3:05.27 time in heat one, marking 
the 14th consecutive time the Gators 
earned a spot in the relays at NCAA 
Outdoors. 
The final day of regionals left six 
more nationals entries to the Gators’ 
women’s team. 
Natricia Hooper vied for the 
women’s triple jump championship 
with fellow field teammates Duarte-
Morais and Bryant. The Guyana na -
tive Hooper flew 13.72 meters (45 
¼), the second-best mark of the day. 
Grace Stark clinched the fourth 
qualifying spot in the 100-meter hur -
dles. The SEC Outdoor 100 hurdles 
silver medalist sped to a 12.88 time, 
the fourth-fastest finish in school his -
tory. 
Gabrielle Wilkinson crushed her 
first-round time in the women’s 800 
quarterfinal. The redshirt sophomore 
cut 2.99 seconds off her previous 
low when she paced a 2:02.04 time. 
It’s double trouble in the wom -
en’s 400, as both Talitha Diggs and 
Taylor Manson sit in the top five 
qualifiers. Diggs ran at a blazing 
pace and was just one-hundredth of a second from the top spot with a 
51.04 time, and Manson berthed the 
fourth-best qualifying time with a 
51.38. Both times are personal-bests 
for the runners, with Diggs shaving 
.19 seconds off her No. 2 seed time 
and Manson dropping .13 seconds 
off her No. 4 seed time. 
The top-ranked Gators’ women’s 
4x400 relay didn’t disappoint. Man -
son, Sterling Lester, Doneisha An -derson and Diggs burst out with a 
3:27.51 top qualifying time, .72 sec -
onds faster than the second qualifier, 
Alabama. 
Next up for Florida will be the 
NCAA Outdoor Championships in 
Eugene from June 9 to June 12.
@kwadulack
kwadulack@alligator.org
JUNIOR SAM RIFFICE DEFEATED 
SECOND-RANKED DANIEL RODRIGUES IN 
THREE SETS TO WIN THE NATIONAL TITLE  
By Ryan Zehnder
Sports Writer
 
Minutes away from winning his second national 
championship in five days, Sam Riffice watched 
as Daniel Rodrigues lunged to return his powerful 
serve. Florida’s tennis captain bounced on the balls 
of his feet and waited as Rodrigues sent the ball 
back to his side of the net. 
The ball landed inches behind the baseline, and 
Riffice dropped his racket to the court, tapped his 
chest with both hands and extended his arms out 
wide, a smile creeping across his face. 
The junior Florida tennis star is a double national 
champion after winning the individual singles final 
Friday afternoon over Rodrigues.
Down in the first set 4-1, the Orlando native 
initially looked outmatched against No. 2 Rodrigues. 
When Riffice finally settled deep into the frame, the South Carolina star’s lead was too much to 
overcome; he took the set 6-3. 
Riffice exploded in the second set, breaking 
Rodrigues’ serve twice to even the match at one set 
apiece. Rodrigues double-faulted with Riffice up 4-1 
to hand the Florida junior his second break of the 
set. 
Knotted at 4-4 in the final set and a point away 
from breaking, Riffice rushed the net and forced 
a reflex shot from Rodrigues that landed deep 
and out. The junior served out the match to cap a 
championship season for both himself and his team.
Riffice defeated SEC Player of the Year Valentin 
Vacherot, No. 1 Liam Draxl and No. 2 Rodrigues in 
his final three matches.
Riffice’s national championship win marks the 
third singles title in program history and first in 
22 years. Mark Merklein (1994) and Jeff Morrison 
(1999) previously won the honor while representing 
the orange and blue.
@ryan_zehnder
rzehnder@alligator.orgGators boast 18 total entries to nationals after fourth day of NCAA East Preliminary
Seeing double: Riffice wins individual singles championship for second title in five daysCourtesy of the UAA
Florida's Thomas Mardal competes during the Pepsi Florida Relays on 
Friday, April 2, 2021 at Percy Beard Track at James G. Pressly Stadium 
in Gainesville, Fla. / UAA Communications photo by Alex de la Osa.
Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Florida's Sam Riffice prepares to return a ball against South 
Florida on May 9. Riffice defeated South Carolina's Daniel 
Rodrigues 3-6, 6-1, 6-4 to win the individual singles national 
championship Friday afternoon.
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021
LACROSSE
THE TRIPLE THREAT OF ATTACKER 
BRIANNA HARRIS, MIDFIELDER 
SHANNON KAVANAGH AND 
DEFENDER KAITLYN DABKOWSKI 
SHARE MATCHING FINGER TATTOOS
By Karina Wilson 
Sports Writer 
Moments before the opening draw against 
Maryland, Florida lacrosse players Brianna 
Harris, Shannon Kavanagh and Kaitlyn 
Dabkowski embraced one another. The 
three took a few graceful steps before they 
simultaneously hopped into the circle, ready to ride the wave.
Not long after, Harris, Kavanagh and 
Dabkowski made a permanent mark on each 
other — literally. The trio knew they wanted 
to get matching tattoos, and after the Gators 
defeated the second-ranked Terrapins in a 
thrilling 15-14 battle in College Park, Maryland, 
in Feb. 2020, it felt like the right time.
The three roommates each have a small 
finger tattoo of a wave meant to symbolize 
their catchphrase, “ride the wave.” The 
teammates endured a whirlwind of experiences 
together: from injuries to winning conference 
championships to a canceled season to 
bittersweet goodbyes.
“I have a physical reminder, something visible I can see, but I’m also always gonna 
have a connection under our skin,” Harris said. 
“Something that you can’t really see.” 
Kavanagh also shares tattoos with her 
family members, and Harris plans to get one 
with her twin sister, Kayla, a Navy lacrosse 
alumna. 
“Ride the wave” carries a legacy both 
on and off the field. Kavanagh said the girls 
brought it to lacrosse, but it started outside of 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Harris introduced the saying to her 
teammates. It reminds her of summer days 
on a boat in her hometown of Annapolis, 
Maryland.
“A few of my girlfriends kind of said ‘ride 
the wave,’” Harris said. “So it was kind of 
something from my hometown as well.”
Dabkowski said Harris truly embodies the 
phrase.
“Bri is just a super enthusiastic person 
overall,” Dabkowski said. “When she started 
saying that  a lot, the three of us kind of made 
it our thing.” 
“Ride the wave” keeps the teammates 
humble and puts actions in perspective, 
Dabkowski said. Getting tattoos was originally 
her idea. The Cockeysville, Maryland, native 
said though the saying is small, it is important 
to live by.
“Knowing that just whatever happens is 
meant to be and you can’t really control a lot 
in life so might as well just go with the flow,” 
Dabkowski said.
The then-No. 6 Gators’ 2020 campaign was 
abruptly cut short in March 2020 due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
“We went into last year just saying, you 
know, ‘we’re gonna go with the flow of things, we’re not gonna let things bother us,’” 
Kavanagh said.
After Harris underwent surgery for her 
second torn ACL and sat out Florida’s entire 
2018 season, the attacker seemed destined to 
return to the field for a fifth year of eligibility. 
That’s when the redshirt senior formed her 
unique relationship with coach Amanda 
O’Leary. The two had their ups and downs, 
Harris said, but when she got hurt, their bond 
grew stronger. 
“We would have individual meetings. We 
would really talk about my life and talk about 
her life,” she said.
Harris said she opened up to O’Leary in 
the last year and their relationship became 
especially meaningful to her, so of course 
O’Leary had to ride the wave with her, too. 
When UF beat UM, Harris eagerly purchased 
a T-shirt for O’Leary that featured a surfer and 
the phrase “ride the wave.” She paired the tee 
with a handwritten note.
“This is something that we’ve been saying 
here, we say in my hometown and I think it’d 
be important for you to have a ‘ride the wave’ 
T-shirt,” Harris said the note generally read. 
O’Leary sported her new gear the very next 
day. 
Harris, Kavanagh and Dabkowski’s 
collegiate careers came to a close with a 
national quarterfinal loss to the Syracuse 
Orange on May 22. The trio missed their shot 
at a national championship, but their trust in 
the future never wavered. 
“Ride the wave, it’s going to take us 
somewhere better,” Harris said.
@kk_rinaa 
kwilson@alligator.org Florida lacrosse seniors “ride the wave” with matching tattoos
Karina Wilson / / Alligator Staff
Shannon Kavanagh (17), Brianna Harris (20) and Kaitlyn Dabkowski (33) walk 
together against Cincinnati on May 6.
