We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperAS THE UNIVERSITY 
TRANSITIONS TO 
PRE-PANDEMIC OPERATIONS, 
CLASSROOM AND SPORTS 
EVENTS WILL RETURN TO 
FULL CAPACITY
By Alexandra Harris 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Over a year after the initial CO -
VID-19 shutdown, UF faculty and 
students will be able to see each 
other’s unmasked faces again. 
UF announced May 17 that 
face coverings are no longer re -
quired on UF property as all op -
erations prepare to transition to 
pre-pandemic norms. 
The updated policies were 
announced through a universi -
ty-wide email, which also an -
nounced classroom, recreational 
and athletic activity will return to 
full capacity. 
Normal activity on campus 
will resume June 28, the start of Summer B, according to UF’s CO -
VID-19 page. The update followed 
a university announcement that 
three-quarters of students have 
been vaccinated.
More information about UF’s 
COVID-19 policies and previous 
guidelines are available through 
an online FAQ, which has only 
been updated to reflect the uni -
versity’s new mask policy. UF 
spokesperson Brittany Wise wrote 
in a text that the university will 
add the other new policies to its 
FAQ this week.  
The university did not provide 
further comment about protocol 
regarding tailgates, quarantine 
dorms, dining hall operations and 
sanitation services. 
UF spokesperson Cynthia 
Roldan, UF Health Director of 
Screen, Test & Protect Dr. Michael 
Lauzardo and UF Health spokes -
person Ken Garcia also did not re -
spond to questions regarding the 
university’s plans to respond to 
Blueberry lab
UF aims to create a better berry. Read more on pg. 6
Ralph Turlington
Turling plaza namesake dies at 100,  pg. 8National champs
UF men’s tennis wins first national title. 
Read the story on pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, MAY 24, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 33
UF STUDENTS HAVE A HISTORY OF 
BEING VOCAL ABOUT 
THE CONFLICT
By Makiya Seminera
Alligator Staff Writer
Activists drowned out the monotonous 
noise of traffic in Gainesville with chants, 
songs and poetry on May 19. 
Over 200 protestors gathered on the cor -
ner of West University Avenue and North -
west 13th Street at a demonstration sup -
porting Palestinians through the current 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The Solidarity with Palestine demonstra -
tion — hosted by UF Students for Justice in 
Palestine — gathered supporters of all ages 
and backgrounds.
Following the 1947 U.N. General As -
sembly partitioning of Palestine and subse -
quent 1948 Arab-Israeli War, continuously 
escalating tensions have made the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict a persistent source of 
violence in the Middle East.
In the past two weeks, Israel and the 
Palestinian militant group Hamas have 
engaged in aerial bombardment attacks — 
with Hamas firing over 4,000 rockets and 
Israel unleashing over 1,400 airstrikes in 
Gaza. Two hundred thirty-two Palestinians 
were killed by Israeli bombings, while at least 12 Israelis were killed by Hamas’ rock -
ets. More than 90,000 Gazans have been 
displaced. As of May 21, Israel and Hamas 
have agreed to a ceasefire.
  
How did Gainesville react?
At the Solidarity with Palestine demon -
stration, Gainesville residents and students 
protested for more than two hours to show 
support for Palestinians. 
As a Palestinian woman from the West 
Bank and the president of Students for Jus -
tice in Palestine, Leena Issa was thrilled 
to see the number of people voicing their 
support for Palestine before and during the 
protest.
“[It’s] just incredible that this many peo -
ple are starting to see what we are going 
through and wanting to go out and stand 
in solidarity with us,” the 20-year-old said. 
Throughout the night, protestors chant -
ed “Free Palestine,” sang along to songs 
about liberation and listened to demonstra -
tors perform poetry they prepared for the 
event. 
To Hepa Naas, a 22-year-old Florida In -
stitute of Technology alumna, the protest’s 
message of Palestinian solidarity had a uni -
versal appeal.
“This is not even political. This is a hu -UF community responds to Israeli-Palestinian conflict
Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
A protestor spreads their arms in the air and holds the flag of Palestine during the 
Solidarity with Palestine protest on Wednesday, May 19, 2021.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THE FLORIDA 
GATORS HAVE SEEN A FULL CAPACITY 
STADIUM SINCE MARCH 11, 2020
By Faith Buckley
Sports Writer
Cheers and chants reverberated the stands once 
again at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium Friday in the 
first Florida softball game without capacity restrictions 
since March 11, 2020. Gators gear flooded the stands 
as fans wore colorful hats, brought pom poms and 
even stood up toy alligators atop the field’s netting. 
Senior Gators softball player Hannah Adams 
nailed a hit to center field bringing 1,569 fans to their 
feet. UF outfielder Cheyenne Lindsey, known for her 
speed, took off and rounded the third base toward 
home plate. She crossed the plate to seal a 1-0 win 
against the University of South Florida in the final 
inning.
Traditional college softball had returned. 
UF announced its return to full capacity for all 
sporting events Wednesday after an NCAA update 
gave the green light to return to pre-pandemic activities 
effective immediately. The order counteracted the 
previous mask-optional, full-capacity regulation 
slated to start June 28.Facing the crowd and clapping their palms 
together in the famous Gator chomp, the team drew 
energy from the raucous crowd.
“The crowd got us a little bit nervous there for a 
minute,” head coach Tim Walton said. “I thought the 
energy was fantastic.”
Lindsey stepped up to the plate. 
“TWO BITS, FOUR BITS,” yelled passionate fans.
The left-hand hitter cut off the rest of the chant 
when she struck a mighty hit to left field and snagged 
a single base in the seventh and final inning.
The boisterous crowd took charge from there. 
Front-row season ticket holders threw hands in 
the air as they ridiculed every call the umpire made 
against Florida’s offense — screaming and shouting 
for a reversal of opening-pitch strikes and heckling 
from the stands.
Fans of all ages made their way to Gainesville 
to support their beloved Gators in game one of the 
NCAA Gainesville Regionals. 
Two children along the front row held a blue 
poster with misspelled scribbles.
“We skiped school for this. GO GATOR.” They 
hoped their support meant something to the team.
Florida fan Steven Wendit took notice of the Fans pack Pressly StadiumSEE PROTEST,  PAGE 5
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 4SEE UF MASK,  PAGE 4New UF COVID-19 policies met 
with excitement and apprehensionT oday’s Weather
FROM 2019 TO 2020, THERE 
WERE 30% FEWER NEW 
FACULTY MEMBERS 
HIRED AT UF
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
UF will resume faculty and staff 
hiring and employee business-
related travel this Summer.
The university announced May 
13 it will lift the hiring pause, 
along with all other COVID-related 
restrictions on travel and visitors 
put in place at the beginning of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
update is effective immediately as 
UF’s campus prepares to return 
to full capacity for Summer B and 
Fall.
The hiring pause was 
announced on March 27, 2020, 
and the non-essential travel ban on 
March 16, 2020, as precautionary 
measures to limit the spread of 
COVID-19. Only essential travel 
relating to university business was 
permitted and had to be approved 
by the dean of a college, senior 
vice president or vice president.
Although travel is now 
permitted, the university will 
be monitoring the situation as 
restrictions lessen throughout the 
year and more so in 2022, Chris 
Cowen, senior vice president and 
chief financial officer at UF, wrote 
in an email.
The UF cabinet decided to 
enact the hiring pause to address 
the possible economic impacts 
of the pandemic, such as funds 
needed to fill staff positions, Jodi 
Gentry, vice president for Human 
Resources at UF, wrote in an 
email.
The pause allowed departments 
to save funds on recurring 
expenses from vacant positions, 
anticipating potential difficulties 
caused by COVID-19. Members 
of the UF cabinet decided to lift 
the pause based on the changing 
COVID-19 restrictions and a more 
stable financial situation that 
allows for hiring.
UF’s overall staff was reduced 
by 6% during the pandemic, 
Gentry wrote. 
In 2019, UF hired 571 new faculty members. In 2020, there 
were only 395 new faculty 
members hired due to the inability 
to fill temporary positions, Gentry 
wrote. 
This represents a 30% decrease 
in new faculty members being 
hired over the pandemic.
Faculty hired within the past 
year were required to go through 
three additional steps within the 
hiring process to receive approval 
for exceptions to the hiring pause.
Exemptions to the hiring pause 
were handled through a form 
that had to receive approval from 
the dean of the college or vice 
president, or the provost and 
senior vice president for academic 
affairs Joe Glover, senior vice 
president for UF Health affairs Dr. 
David Nelson or Jodi Gentry.
New faculty hires no longer 
need to go through these 
additional approval steps to apply 
to work at UF.
UF lifted these restrictions for 
some graduate assistants, student 
assistants and adjunct faculty as 
early as last July. 
Faculty positions are tailored 
to the individual; members can 
personalize their approach to the 
job more than graduate assistant 
positions, which already have a 
set structure and receive guidance 
from their mentors, 24-year-
old Graduate Assistants United 
committee chair Bryn Taylor said.
Taylor said she, unlike many 
of her friends, was hired through 
a less rigorous process in the 
middle of the pandemic — August 
2020 — as a research assistant. 
“I know my friends who were 
not GAs but just looking for 
staff and admin positions at UF, 
they’ve definitely had a harder 
time getting any kind of response 
back when they applied for those 
kinds of positions at UF,” Taylor 
said.
Stephen Beale, a 23-year-old 
mailroom clerk who planned to 
go back to school for his master’s 
degree, applied to administrative 
assistant and receptionist 
positions May 2020 to February 
of this year but was set back by 
COVID-related hiring freezes and 
funding decreases.
Although UF is slowly easing COVID-19 restrictions, Beale is 
cautiously optimistic as he is 
worried about a spike in cases. 
However, he is glad UF will have 
more job opportunities if he 
decides to change positions, Beale 
wrote.
Taylor said UF should consider 
the possibility of new virus 
variants reaching UF from places 
like India and Brazil, which are 
experiencing new COVID-19 
outbreaks.
“I think that is important to 
consider when making these 
reopening decisions, but, I mean, 
I don’t think I can necessarily 
blame UF for wanting to try to 
return to normal operations,” 
Taylor said.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereria@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 33
 UF lifts hiring pause as it  
shifts to pre-COVID-19 operations
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Shelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff
CORRECTION :
The article printed on
 page 1 of the May 17 issue 
titled “Summer Senate: UF 
SG violates its own codes” 
has been updated to reflect 
that UF Student Government 
did not violate its own codes 
by holding virtual committee 
meetings and will not break 
them by holding virtual 
meetings as long as a 
federal state of emergency 
is declared, and that in 
order to meet quorum, 51 
senators must be present. 
The Alligator previously 
reported otherwise.MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  
and services at tobaccofreeflorida.com/quityourway.NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led virtual sessions are now available for all Florida residents, 
regardless of insurance status. Participants are also eligible to receive free 
nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
FFoorr  mmoorree  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  vviirrttuuaall  GGrroouupp  QQuuiitt  sseessssiioonnss,,  ccoonnttaacctt::
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
UF Area Health Education
Cente rs (AHEC) Program 
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA|4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021change of atmosphere in the stadium Friday, too.
Wendit held a season ticket and attended most of the 
37 home games played this pandemic-altered 2021 season. 
He said it wasn’t hard to sense the impact a fully packed 
stadium made.
“We definitely feel the difference,” he said. “You feel it a 
lot more, the crowd’s all wound up.”
The recurrent screams of elation balanced with the 
blurted taunts toward the Bulls didn’t go unnoticed from 
the green and gold in the opposing dugout, either.
USF pitcher Georgina Corrick felt privileged to play the 
fourth-seeded Gators and found humor in the intense crowd.
“Sometimes you have to laugh about these situations,” 
Corrick said. “We earned our spot here -- we earned to be 
heckled in a sense.”
USF infielder Kyndall Williams also blocked out the 
Florida fans from her gameplay.
“From the catcher out to left field every single person on 
the field really was playing their game and not letting the 
loud crowd get to us at all,” she said.
The Gators won their share of the SEC regular-season 
conference title surrounded by mostly empty chairs at home 
this season. With those seats filled and as fans filtered into 
the complex, the team gears up for a postseason run with 
Gator nation now by their side once again.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgFaith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
A Florida softball fan celebrates with the crowd at Katie Seashore Pressly Stadium on Friday, May 21, 2021. 
Friday was Florida’s first game without capacity restrictions in 14 months.
SOFTBALL,  from pg. 1‘The crowd’ s all wound up’
potential spikes in cases, how to encourage 
mask use among unvaccinated students or 
include vaccination data on the universi -
ty’s COVID-19 dashboard.
UF’s chapter of United Faculty of Florida 
(UFF-UF), a union representing UF’s facul -
ty, supports the university’s plans to return 
to pre-pandemic operations. 
Returning to pre-pandemic operations 
can be a reasonable goal, as long as UF 
continues to address faculty and student 
concerns, Meera Sitharam, vice president 
of UFF-UF, wrote in an email.
She hopes the administration ensures 
students, faculty and staff are vaccinated, 
keeps an eye out for CDC guidelines — 
especially on new coronavirus variants 
— and is prepared to make the necessary 
changes at short notice if needed.
Meanwhile, Barstool Sports Florida 
posted on their affiliate account about the 
reopening and received over 10,000 likes 
on Instagram.
While some students are excited to at -
tend in-person classes, cheer loudly at 
sports events and roam campus with 
friends, others are concerned for their 
health and safety.
Graduate Assistants United, a union 
representing UF’s graduate employees, 
expressed great concern over this devel -
opment. The organization represents over 
4,000 graduate student employees who 
work for the university as teaching assis -
tants and researchers.
Following complaints about lack of 
transparency and inclusion with the uni -
versity’s plans, graduate students have 
been disappointed with UF’s administra -
tion for years.
“We’re just very disheartened and up -
set that UF has decided once again to make 
this decision without any consultation or 
discussion with faculty, staff, students or 
graduates,” Rachel Hartnett, co-president 
of UF’s GAU chapter and co-chair of the 
joint UFF-GAU COVID council, said.She said all COVID-related decisions 
have been made at an administrative level 
and applied top-down without consulting 
with UF’s labor union.
“When we have voiced complaints and 
issues, beginning way back to last October, 
we have been ignored by the university,” 
she said.
As someone with a chronic illness, Hart -
nett said she is worried about potentially 
being in close contact with students who 
are not vaccinated. UF encouraged face 
coverings for unvaccinated and chronically 
ill individuals following Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention recommendations.
“I’d like to think that all the students [I 
have] when I teach in Fall have my best 
interests in mind and are vaccinated and want to protect their fellow teachers,” she 
said. “But am I willing to risk my life on 
it?”
She said UF-GAU would support a vac -
cine mandate with medical and religious 
exemptions.
“It’s no different than some of these oth -
er vaccines that are required, and it would 
absolutely make sure that we keep our CO -
VID numbers down,” Hartnett said.
Without a vaccine requirement, teaching 
assistants are being asked to put their trust 
in not just students but parents, friends and 
total strangers, she said.
“It seems as if UF is putting reopening 
and reaching that top-five status over em -
ployees, which is unfortunate,” she said.
She said these decisions hurt the hiring and retention of graduate students and fac -
ulty.
Victor Paes-Leme, a 20-year-old aero -
space engineering junior, said he learns 
better through in-person lectures and is 
hopeful for a positive transition back to on-
campus activity.
He said he still plans to carry a mask in 
his backpack to be considerate of people 
who haven’t been vaccinated or would pre -
fer to meet with masks on.
“I’m very excited to just be able to go 
to the library and be with people again,” 
Paes-Leme said.
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgUF MASK,  from pg. 1Unmasking UF
Shelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
manitarian crisis,” Naas said. “I 
feel like the whole world should 
be standing with the Palestinian 
people.”
About an hour into the demon -
stration, a small group of pro-Israel 
counter-protesters formed across 
the street to express concerns about 
the violence against Israelis in the 
ongoing conflict. 
Yona Green, a 26-year-old Jew -
ish UF undergraduate student 
and one of the counter-protestors, 
felt uneasy about the anti-Zionist 
stance of the demonstration. 
Zionism — a Jewish national -
ist movement — advocates for the 
establishment of a Jewish state in 
Palestine. Green said the anti-Zi -
onist sentiments expressed among 
pro-Palestinian supporters could be 
interpreted as antisemitic, which 
worried him as a Jewish student. 
Marina Sachs, a 27-year-old 
Jewish UF graduate student and 
member of the social justice or -
ganizing group Dream Defenders, 
distinguished that pro-Palestinian 
protestors were criticizing the state 
of Israel rather than Jewish people. 
Sachs felt it was important for Jew -
ish people to stand in solidarity 
with the Palestinian people. 
“Being in support of human 
rights is the most Jewish thing I can 
think of,” Sachs said. 
For young people like Mena Ab -
del-Fattah, a 16-year-old Eastside 
High School student, global pro-
Palestinian protests signal hope for 
the Palestinian people.
“I want to see peace,” Abdel-
Fattah said. That’s all I want to 
see. I don’t want to see Israel being 
bombed. I don’t want to see Pales -
tine being bombed. I just want to 
see peace all around.”
Two hours before the pro-Pal -
estinian demonstration, a different 
event played out virtually: an exclu -
sive pro-Israel Zoom briefing with 
Gil Hoffman, chief political corre -
spondent for The Jerusalem Post. 
UF Hillel — an organization for 
Jewish students — hosted the free 
limited-ticket event in which Hoff -
man addressed the situation in Is -rael for half an hour and answered 
participants’ questions in a 45-min -
ute Q&A session. Over 60 partici -
pants joined the Zoom call. 
Hoffman discussed the events 
that increased violence between 
Israel and Palestine, as well as Is -
rael’s reputation within the country 
and the international community.
Hoffman said Israel’s existence 
is facing three battles: one on the 
battlefield, one on airwaves and 
another on college campuses. Israel 
is at a military advantage, evenly 
matched on TV and social media 
but at a disadvantage among col -
lege students, he said.
During the Q&A sessions, at -
tendees asked how to be proactive 
to support Palestinian-Jewish rela -
tions, the future of Democratic sup -
port to Israel and the recent cease -
fire between Israel and Hamas. 
“People are people. We want 
to help people on both sides of the 
border. We want people to have 
better lives,” Hoffman said, an -
swering a question about the pos -
sibility of being both pro-Israel and 
pro-Palestine. 
UF Hillel wrote in an email that 
they plan to engage in educational 
opportunities and support students 
so they feel free to express their val -
ues. 
“[We are] proud of our support 
for Israel and we take seriously our 
commitment to engage in robust 
conversations as Israel defends its 
citizens against attacks from a ter -
rorist organization seeking its de -
struction,” said Rabbi Jonah Zinn 
in a statement on behalf of UF Hil -
lel.
Patricia Sohn, an associate pro -
fessor at UF who has heavily re -
searched the politics of Israel and 
Palestine, offered advice in an 
email to students on both sides of 
the conflict.
“I hope that students will exer -
cise restraint in dealing with one 
another and allow people who are 
living locally to the conflict to take 
care of it,” Sohn wrote.
The Israel-Palestine conflict’s 
history at UF
Pro-Palestinian and pro-Israeli 
movements are not new to UF’s 
campus. 
In 2018, UF alumna and former Students for Justice in Palestine 
President Lara Alqasem attempted 
to travel to Israel to pursue her 
graduate studies but was barred 
from the country and detained for 
more than two weeks in the Ben 
Gurion International Airport due 
to a 2017 law barring visitors who 
support boycotts on Israel. 
The case made international 
headlines as the longest anyone has 
been detained for a boycott-related 
case. 
A year later, around 100 pro -
testors — organized by SJP — at -
tended a silent walk-out responding 
to a presentation addressing the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict by Yoni 
Michanie, a representative for the 
Committee for Accuracy in Middle 
East Reporting in America and an 
Israeli Defense Forces reserve mem -
ber.
UF released a university-wide 
statement addressing racism and 
antisemitism on campus following 
alleged accusations by the protes -
tors against Michanie, calling him a 
“Nazi” and “war criminal.” Twenty 
days after the original statement, 
UF apologized to the protestors, af -
firming the accusations were inac -
curate, as there was no evidence of 
the protesters saying such remarks.
In December 2019, former 
President Donald Trump signed an 
executive order extending antise -
mitic discrimination to include bias 
against the Israeli national identity. 
The order aimed to combat anti -
semitism on college campuses. 
For some Jewish students at UF, 
the order was an important step to 
provide more protections against 
antisemitism — an issue UF has en -
countered throughout the years.
In 2009, a swastika was painted 
on the house of the Jewish frater -
nity Alpha Epsilon Pi. The follow -
ing year, an outdoor menorah for 
Hanukkah on the property of UF 
Hillel was vandalized. The UF Jew -
ish Center sign was also vandalized 
in 2017. 
To commemorate the 72nd anni -
versary of the Nakba — the expul -
sion of at least 750,000 Palestinians 
from their homes and the killing of 
around 15,000 Palestinians from 
1947 to 1949 — UF Students for 
Justice in Palestine posted a series 
of graphics from Palestinian artist Naji al-Ali last May. 
Three days after the post, a tweet 
was posted by BDS Report — a pro-
Israel account created in opposi -
tion to the Boycott, Divestment and 
Sanctions movement — describing 
one of the graphics posted on the 
UF Students for Justice in Pales -
tine’s social media as antisemitic 
because of how a Jewish character 
was depicted.
UF Students for Justice in Pales -
tine released a modified post with 
a different graphic, as well as an 
explanation that al-Ali’s artwork 
depicts both Arab Palestinians and 
Jewish characters in similar styles.  
Nearly a year before the May 19 
Solidarity with Palestine demon -
stration, over 100 people gathered 
for the Day of Rage protest to op -
pose Israel’s annexation of a third 
of the Palestinian West Bank. In a 
similar scene to the May 19 demon -
stration, a group of counter-protest -
ers congregated to show support for 
Israel, prompting the Day of Rage 
protestors to chant louder.
Last December, UF Gators for 
Israel released a list of UF student 
leaders who supported strong bipar -
tisan U.S.-Israeli relations. Among 
the 60 names on the list were for -
mer Student Body President Trevor 
Pope, Senate President Franco Luis 
and Senate majority leader Jason 
Scheuer.
UF Gators for Israel, Pope and Luis all declined to comment on the 
current Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
UF’s Response 
While UF has grappled with its 
own complex past with the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, it has main -
tained neutral academic spaces for 
resources on the states of Israel and 
Palestine — one of those being the 
Isser and Rae Price Library of Ju -
daica. 
Following its mission to display 
the Jewish experience, the Library 
of Judaica possesses over 50,000 
items relating to Israel. The library 
strives to represent every perspec -
tive possible, collecting over 3,000 
Palestinian items and resources 
relating to the Arab-Israeli conflict 
from a wide array of political per -
spectives.
“I try to bring in materials that 
offer a wider spectrum of opinions 
and experiences that relate to or 
connect to that subject matter,” Re -
becca Jefferson, Ph.D., the head of 
the Library of Judaica, wrote in an 
email.
With members of the UF com -
munity on both sides, UF admin -
istration has not made a statement 
regarding the recent developments 
in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
 
@makseminera
mseminera@alligator.orgPROTEST,  from pg. 1Students split
Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
A boy shows his “Free, Free, Palestine. Occupation is a crime,” 
sign to other people during the Solidarity with Palestine protest 
on Wednesday, May 19, 2021.Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Layan Abdelfattah, 2, wears 
a “free Palestine”  ribbon on 
Wednesday, May 19, 2021. 
Layan participated in the 
Solidarity with Palestine 
protest with her family.Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Miguel Abuayyash, 9, holds a Palestinian flag and shouts out, 
“Free, Free, Palestine!” during the Solidarity with Palestine 
protest on Wednesday, May 19, 2021.
Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Over 200 protesters gathered on the corner of West University 
Avenue and Northwest 13th Street in support of Palestinians on 
Wednesday, May 19, 2021.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
THE 34-HOME NEIGHBORHOOD 
IS IN SOUTHEAST GAINESVILLE
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
After about 10 years of planning, the first 
home is standing in the Heartwood Neighbor -
hood. Its new website, which includes floor 
plans and pricing details for interested buyers, 
launched May 14.
The neighborhood, located at 1717 SE 
Eighth Ave., consists of 34 single-family homes 
and sits near Depot Park. Team Dynamo at 
Keller Williams Realty announced May 14 the 
sales for the houses will begin June 30. 
The land holding the neighborhood was 
once the Kennedy Homes complex, which was 
determined unsafe to live in and torn down af -
ter a major fire 18 years ago. In the years fol -
lowing the fire, the lot sat empty as the city 
brainstormed what to do with the land, Craig 
Wilburn, team leader of Team Dynamo at 
Keller Williams Realty, said.
Wilburn said the Heartwood neighborhood 
project arose in the hopes of promoting eco -
nomic development in East Gainesville. The 
area, he said, was designed to keep residents 
on the East side segregated and economically 
depressed from a lack of development. 
Eleven of the 34 homes will be sold through 
an online lottery system to qualified buyers 
who are approved for a down payment as -
sistance program with up to $70,000 in assis -
tance, Wilburn said. The 11 homes are called 
“Dreams2Reality.”
The city agreed to subsidize the construc -
tion of these homes, and the city, state and 
Gainesville Regional Utilities have provided 
grant money, Wilburn said. To receive the 
grant, prospective buyers must meet criteria to 
be placed into the lottery. 
The criteria includes not owning a home 
since June 30, 2018, currently residing in Ala -
chua County, household income falling within 
2021 Housing and Urban Development income 
limits, contributing 2% of the sales price and 
obtaining a preapproval letter from a certified 
lender. The computer lottery system will then 
randomly select 11 of the names. 
Wilburn, who has lived in Gainesville for about 25 years, always heard stereotypes about 
East Gainesville being run down and crime rid -
den. He said he sees Heartwood as an oppor -
tunity to change that narrative and encourage 
people to appreciate the beauty of the area. 
The city first planned to build more afford -
able housing in the area but instead decided to 
build a neighborhood that would invite more 
people to live in East Gainesville, he said. 
“We have to start bringing some more capi -
tal into that market area to help elevate it and 
not keep it economically depressed,” he said.
The Gainesville Community Reinvestment 
Area, the city program that created Depot Park 
and helps underserved regions attract private 
investment, worked with Wilburn on house 
designs that include modern exteriors and fin -
ishes.
“I didn’t want it to look like every other 
community in Gainesville,” Wilburn said. “I 
really wanted it to be high quality — new prod -
uct, new concept.”
“The beauty of Heartwood is — I look at it 
as a catalyst for equity,” he said.
In the same neighborhood, there could be 
two identical homes, but one owner would pay 
about $230,000 while another would pay less 
with assistance. The lottery system is meant to 
help people with good credit scores in lower 
income brackets afford a home, Wilburn said.
“We’re going to create an opportunity for 
people to get into really nice homes and a great 
community in East Gainesville and not leave,” 
he said. “And we’re going to create an oppor -
tunity for people who want to be closer to the 
beauty of our county to have an opportunity to 
purchase there as well.”
While there are more than 1,200 people on 
the interest list for the neighborhood right now, 
some have concerns about its affordability. 
Tina Days, a 42-year-old East Gainesville 
resident, first heard about the neighborhood 
on Facebook. She said she was immediately 
interested because of its affordability, quality 
and proximity to her daughter’s school.
“It was a really nice thing to have over on 
the East side — the only one that I know of,” 
Days said. 
However, she said it has taken too long for 
the neighborhood to be developed.
“You can go any day of the week on the 
West side and see apartments and houses built overnight,” she said. 
Days also feels discouraged that not all of 
the homes in the neighborhood are affordable 
for low-income people. She said she and many 
others expected the homes to be affordable 
after the Kennedy Homes apartment complex 
was torn down. Days said she called the city 
commission to bring up these concerns. 
“I’m very concerned that it’s not going to be 
East side residents that even get the affordable 
housing,” Days said. “That project was sup -
posed to be for residents of East side.”
According to Days, there is also a concern 
that the Heartwood neighborhood could fur -
ther amplify pre-existing issues due to what 
she calls a “housing shortage” on the East side.
She said she and many others are unable 
to find housing in their price range, and the 
homes they find often need renovations. She 
fears if more neighborhoods like Heartwood 
begin popping up on the East side, house pric -
es in surrounding neighborhoods will also go 
up.
“A lot of people in the community were 
very discouraged about Heartwood,” Days 
said. “We were led to believe something, and 
it just entirely changed into something else.”Daniel Gil, a project manager for the 
Gainesville Community Reinvestment Area 
(GCRA), said he understands these concerns. 
The community remained involved as the 
neighborhood was designed, and GCRA advi -
sory boards were informed of each design step, 
he said. 
Gil said much of the community wanted to 
see high quality homes in East Gainesville, like 
the ones in West Gainesville. 
“I feel confident in the product that we are 
producing,” Gil said. “It’s something that I un -
derstand may be worrisome, but I think, in the 
end, it’s going to be a beautiful thing.”
Wilburn said the neighborhood is an op -
portunity to infuse people with higher incomes 
into the East Gainesville area while still consid -
ering those who do not have a strong financial 
capability.  
“Heartwood is a template, I hope, for us to 
be able to show how to create quality products 
and have different income levels be able to en -
joy the same product,” Wilburn said.
@LucilleLannigan
llannigan@alligator.org
THE BLUEBERRY BREEDING 
AND GENOMICS LAB 
DEVELOPS BLUEBERRIES FIT 
FOR THE FLORIDA HEAT
By Eve Thompson
Alligator Staff Writer
Firm, plump, smooth-skinned, 
juicy and sweet: the perfect blueber -
ry. Great in smoothies, muffins and 
cobblers. But not everyone knows 
the unassuming fruit on their plate 
has been meticulously researched 
and cultivated before it even made it 
to the grocery store shelves.
The UF/IFAS Blueberry Breeding 
and Genomics Lab is responsible for 
breeding and cultivating many vari -
eties of the beloved blueberry. Patri -
cio Muñoz, an assistant professor at 
UF’s Horticultural Science Depart -
ment, is the principal investigator at 
the lab. 
He said the lab has two main 
goals. 
“One of them is to develop new 
varieties for the state, in the south -
eastern market of blueberries. The 
second one is to perform genetics, genomics and molecular research to 
better the first goal,” Munoz said.
The Blueberry Breeding and Ge -
nomics Lab is one of many plant 
breeding programs affiliated with 
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricul -
tural Science. Others include the Cit -
rus Research and Education Center, 
located at Lake Alfred, and a peanut-
breeding program.
The lab began in the 1940s when 
blueberries could not be grown in 
Florida because of the heat and hu -
midity. Plant breeders at UF worked 
with the USDA to find a solution 
and create a hybrid berry that could 
thrive in the harsh southern weath -
er, the Sharpblue and Flordablue 
varieties.
Muñoz is the latest in a long 
line of passionate plant breeders 
who found a home at the Blue -
berry Breeding and Genomics Lab. 
His background is in forestry, but 
he turned to blueberries because of 
their biological components. 
“Blueberries are a dream for a 
plant breeder because it has many 
of the characteristics that a plant 
breeder would wish for, a short 
cycle, flowers that are perfect, easy to pollinate and easy to work with,” 
Muñoz said.
The United States is the largest 
blueberry producer in the world, 
producing 690 million pounds of 
both wild and cultivated berries in 
2016. Within the U.S., Florida is a 
major producer of blueberries, with 
an industry worth around $82 mil -
lion. In 2020, growers produced 20 
million pounds of blueberries. 
Florida is the main supplier of 
blueberries from April to May, giving 
farmers an early market advantage. 
The state also ranks within the top 
eight producers of cultivated blue -
berries in the United States.
Meanwhile, Mexico only began 
planting blueberries in the early 
2000s. While the industry has been 
built mostly over the last 10 years, 
growers produced 89 million pounds 
in 2018.
The Blueberry Breeding and 
Genomics Lab provides valuable 
research to help Florida blueberry 
growers increase their yield of ber -
ries per acre and become a signifi -
cant competitor globally. This in turn 
will help local farmers measure up 
in demanding international markets. Muñoz said working with blue -
berries is always exciting. 
“If we, for example, discover a 
blueberry with purple inside, we 
are the ones that make it happen 
and then put it in the market after -
wards,” he said. 
There are already 40 varieties of 
blueberries on the website, and the 
researchers use genetics, genomics 
and even microbiology to find and 
optimize genetic traits and create a 
better generation of berries.
Juliana Cromie, a plant molecular 
and cellular biology Ph.D. candidate, 
started working in the lab as an un -
dergraduate. She began by harvest -
ing fruit but eventually became in -
terested in improving pollination in 
blueberries.
“I am not biased when I say that 
we have the best lab. I think we have 
a great principal investigator who is 
really invested in fostering students’ 
interests, their personal interests and 
professional goals,” she said.
Cromie appreciates how wide-
ranging the research is.
“We have a really diverse lab,” 
she said. “In the sense that we have 
people from all over the world, as well as people working on all areas 
in our department, be it genomics, 
genomic selection and using modern 
day breeding techniques, all the way 
to people studying biochemistry and 
flavor.”  
Matthew Davis, who graduated 
from UF in December with a bach -
elor’s degree in biology, began as a 
temporary hire in the fruit quality 
lab and later became a research as -
sistant. 
“One thing that I really enjoyed 
is that there’s so much going on,” 
Davis said. “I got to learn a lot more 
about not just plant breeding, but 
about plant pathology, about mo -
lecular biology and way more about 
statistics than I knew before.”
Blueberries are not just little blue 
powerhouses of antioxidants. Mu -
ñoz said they are the perfect fruit be -
cause they are easy to enjoy. 
“Imagine you open the pack. You 
wash the fruit, and then you start 
popping it in your mouth, throw -
ing it in your mouth. There are no 
seeds left. There is no core, there is 
no peel, there is no stem, there is no 
pit,” he said. “You just wash them 
and eat them, and that’s it.”
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.org‘A catalyst for equity’: Heartwood Neighborhood project moves forward
UF blueberry lab aims to create a better berryMingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
A newly-built house sits in the Heartwood neighborhood on Sunday, May 23, 2021.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
SEC baseball
Florida baseball starts the SEC Tournament Tuesday with a 
Battle against the Kentucky Wildcats, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Download the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
THE BUSINESS SUPPORTS BLACK 
AND ASIAN RACIAL JUSTICE 
ORGANIZATIONS  
By Alejandra Zamora
Contributing Writer
A relaxing evening for Tomi Adesogan 
involves switching on a podcast at her bed -
room desk with an array of intricate tools 
and delicate hardware splayed out before 
her.
On any given night, it may be a set of flat 
or round-nose pliers and a metal piece she 
has shaped into a hoop. On another, it’s a 
pile of jump rings, clamps and tweezers. Or 
perhaps it’s a bottle of resin, a mysterious 
substance of plant or synthetic origin that 
hardens when poured into a mold.
But even Adesogan, a 21-year-old UF 
health education senior, couldn’t say ex -
actly what that was.
“I couldn’t even tell you what resin re -
ally is,” she said with a laugh. “A lot of the 
time I’m like, ‘What is this chemistry?’”
Adesogan created the Instagram-based 
shop EarringsByTomi, a passion project 
she started just two months into the CO -
VID-19 pandemic. Within days, she took 
on another mission to support racial justice 
causes. 
In May 2020, a friend who knew about 
Adesogan’s love for elegant and quirky 
jewelry gifted her an earring-making kit.
“If you know me, you know how much 
I love a good pair of earrings,” she said in 
her first Instagram post. Her page is a col -
lection of sculpted hoops laced with white 
pearls, sapphire spheres draping off of 
studs, coiled golden serpents and countless 
other distinct creations.Adesogan originally started her brand 
to solve a personal dilemma — she created 
too many earrings for just herself to keep. 
That’s when the idea to sell her handiwork 
was born. 
She originally maintained her digital 
earring shop as an outlet for her friends — 
her target audience — to support her. 
But days later, “things got really bad in 
America,” Adesogan recalled.
The murder of George Floyd by police 
sent ripples of rage across the world, spur -
ring a wave of activism the U.S. hadn’t 
seen in years. 
“It didn’t feel right to go on without us -
ing my platform,” she said.
EarringsByTomi vowed to donate 100% 
of proceeds to Reclaim the Block, a Min -
neapolis-based grassroots organization 
dedicated to reallocating law enforcement 
funds throughout the community. Within 
days, followers from Minneapolis and 
Gainesville found her shop, and the orders 
came rushing in. In one week, her eclectic, 
handmade earrings, which sold for an aver -
age of $8, raised $900 for Reclaim the Block 
and 70 other bail funds and racial justice 
organizations. To this day, she has raised 
more than $1,000.
Community support was overwhelming. 
She said some customers would even send 
in $15 for $5 earrings just to donate more 
to the cause.
Grace Romo, a customer and model for 
the earrings, appreciated the integrity and 
beauty of both Adesogan’s jewelry and 
character. Adesogan even hand-delivered 
some earrings.
Read the  rest online at 
alligator.org/the_avenueORIGINAL ARCHITECTURE, MEMORABILIA 
AND ENGRAVED BRICKS WILL CARRY OVER
By Brenna Sheets
Alligator Staff Writer
The Swamp Restaurant is rebuilding its his -
tory brick by brick.
Expected to open by the start of UF’s 2022 
football season September 4, The Swamp’s 
new building will be located in the Innovation 
District at 1026 SW Second Ave. It will feature 
a courtyard and walkway of personalized, en -
graved bricks and a dedicated area for the nearly 
300 bricks saved from its Midtown demolition. 
The restaurant was forced to close its doors 
on June 30, 2020 when the land it stood on for 
25 years was purchased by 908 Development 
Group to build a high-rise apartment complex. 
Michael Nolan, a 38-year-old Tampa realtor 
who used to frequent The Swamp on visits to 
Gainesville before it closed, said the brick his 
wife Jennifer bought him at The Swamp was 
one of the very first presents she ever gave him.
“This was probably our first or second week 
of dating and one of our first experiences to -
gether, ” Nolan said.
The restaurant’s initial plan was to reopen a 
year and a half later in the same location, where 
it would reside on the first-floor of the mixed-
use development space. Owner Ryan Prodesky 
chose to construct a stand-alone building that 
would replicate The Swamp’s original structure 
and preserve its authentic charm.
“We’re copying it to a T,” Prodesky said. 
“I’m excited that we’re able to bring The 
Swamp back in its true form, in the way that it was intended to be instead of having to build it 
under five stories of apartments.”
The architectural style isn’t the only thing 
the new restaurant is replicating. Prodesky 
saved all decorations and memorabilia from the 
old location, including all of the engraved bricks 
from The Swamp’s 8-year-old brick program. 
“We definitely didn’t want the people that 
had already participated in the program to feel 
disenfranchised,” Prodesky said. “We wanted 
to continue to honor them and their personal 
messages.”
Because of the memories customers have 
with the restaurant, Prodesky plans to continue 
the brick program as a way for people to stay 
connected with the restaurant and “keep that 
tradition alive.” 
“I think it’s a saving grace that they decided 
to ultimately duplicate the property over some -
where else,” Nolan said. “We’ve been coming 
up for years — we have close friends that are 
alumni. I’m a huge Gator fan just from being a 
Florida native for so long.”
The new restaurant will be about 20% big -
ger with an added outside bar, a private room 
upstairs and an elevator. While modernization 
and improvements are in the works, Prodesky’s 
goal is to retain the same atmosphere as the old 
location.
“I think once people get there, they’re going 
to feel like they’re at the old Swamp,” he said.
Construction updates, brick engravings and 
reopening information can be found on their 
website, Facebook and Instagram.
@BrennaMarieShe1
bsheets@alligator.org EarringsByTomi: UF student sells handmade jewelryThe Swamp Restaurant to transfer  
original design to new location
FASHIONFASHION
 FOODFOOD8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
TURLINGTON SERVED THE STATE 
OF FLORIDA FOR 
36 CONSECUTIVE YEARS
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Ralph D. Turlington Sr., the namesake of 
UF’s Turlington Hall and Turlington Plaza, 
had a knack for making people smile. 
“He was able to get along in essence with 
virtually everyone — no matter where they 
came from or their political persuasion,” his 
son, Don Turlington, said.
Ralph D. Turlington Sr. died May 12 at 
100 years old.
Born Oct. 5, 1920, Turlington grew up 
on a farm where Gainesville High School 
is now located. He was a member of P.K. 
Yonge Laboratory School’s first high school 
class before starting at UF, Don said. Today, 
the school is called P.K. Yonge Develop -
mental Research School. 
He was first elected to the Florida Leg -
islature in 1950 as a Democrat and was re -
elected 11 more times. Turlington was the 
speaker of the Florida House of Representa -
tives from 1966 to 1968. 
He was a natural politician, Don said. No 
matter what he was debating in the legisla -
ture, Turlington was able to do so without 
offense, he said. 
In 1973, he was appointed by the gov -
ernor to be the state’s commissioner of 
education. The following year, he won the 
statewide election for the position and was 
reelected twice before retiring in 1986. 
As a UF alumnus, Turlington took pride 
in his achievements for the university. He 
started as a student in 1938 and graduated 
from the university in 1942 with a bache -
lor’s degree in business administration, Don said. Later on, Turlington taught at UF as a 
business instructor. 
Before each legislative session, Don re -
members the president of UF and around six 
other administrators coming to their fam -
ily’s house to see Turlington, he said. With 
papers all spread out, they’d tell Turlington 
how much money they needed, Don said. 
When the Florida Legislature would bud -
get funds for universities, Turlington did his 
best to make sure UF was first in line, Don 
said. 
“I think that was because of the soft spot 
in his heart for the university as his alma 
mater,” Don said. 
Because of his presence and involvement 
at UF, the university named Turlington Hall 
and Turlington Plaza after him in Oct. 1985, 
43 years after receiving his degree. 
After church each Sunday, Don said Tur -
lington would take him to see places around 
Gainesville. Around 1956, Turlington and 
Don visited a construction site at UF where 
they climbed ladders and admired the views 
from the upper floors. 
When Don asked about the building, 
Turlington told him it would become the 
UF teaching hospital and medical school, 
which is now UF Health Shands Hospital, 
Don said. Turlington, Florida Sen. William 
Shands and Florida Rep. Osee Fagan were 
the legislators who obtained the funding to 
establish the medical center. Turlington was 
proud of the role he played in getting the 
initial funding for the hospital, Don said. 
Turlington understood both issues and 
people, Jon Mills, a former speaker of the 
Florida House of Representatives and for -
mer UF law school dean, said. When trying 
to gain support for education funding, he 
knew how to explain it simply, Mills said. 
He also helped establish and campaign 
for the Florida Lottery, which funds educa -tion in the state. 
When Donnie Turlington, his grandson, 
would visit Turlington as a child, Turlington 
would relate stories from his political career 
to what they were doing together, Donnie 
said. Turlington always had a joke ready to 
go. 
Turlington believed everyone should al -
ways continue to learn, his daughter, Kathy 
Turlington, said. He yearned for knowledge 
and would read encyclopedias, she said. On 
road trips, he’d stop Kathy and Don to view 
historical plaques, making sure they under -
stood each one’s importance, she said. 
Later in their marriage, Turlington and 
his wife, Ann Gellerstedt, would read “The 
Story of Civilization” by Will and Ariel Du -
rant — an 11-volume set about the history 
and culture of man —  to each other out 
loud, Kathy said. 
“How romantic is that?” Kathy said, 
laughing. 
Turlington also had music in his soul. He 
loved to sing — even in his final days, Kathy 
said. He was famous for changing song lyr -
ics and did so with a straight face, she said. 
Once as a child, Kathy said she made 
the mistake of singing her father’s version 
of “Onward, Christian Soldiers” at Vacation 
Bible School to the horror of her teacher. 
“He was always worried that somebody 
was going to plagiarize his lyrics, and he 
wasn’t going to get financially compensated 
for his creative effort,” Kathy joked. 
Even bigger than his love of music was 
his sense of humor, Kathy said. Turlington 
had the ability to make others laugh no mat -
ter who he was with and never took himself 
too seriously. 
“My dad’s great gift was his joy and en -
thusiasm for other people,” Kathy said. “He 
just had a spark.” 
While at his retirement home’s gym, Turlington would always listen to the same 
song first: “(Won’t You Come Home) Bill 
Bailey,” Megan Taub, his granddaughter, 
said. Every day for months, he sang along 
to it while exercising as Taub listened, she 
said. 
“Now, I love that song more than any -
thing,” Taub said. “I think it’s kind of like 
our song.” 
Whenever someone was feeling down, 
Turlington would say how proud he was to 
be related to them, Taub said. 
“No one has ever made me feel more 
loved or have I loved that much,” she said. 
“There was no one more important to him 
than his family.”
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org Ralph D. Turlington Sr., namesake of Turlington Plaza, dies at 100
CITY COMMISSIONERS 
APPROVED A MOTION FOR 
LAWYERS TO DRAFT 
A COMPLAINT AGAINST 
THE STATE
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville’s City Commission 
approved a motion that will 
allow two nonprofits and the 
city attorney to draft a formal 
complaint against Florida’s House 
Bill 1. The complaint could lead to 
a lawsuit that would challenge the 
bill in court.
Gov. Ron DeSantis signed the 
bill into law on April 19. It aims 
to more severely punish people 
who commit crimes during a riot 
and limit local governments from 
defunding police departments. 
The governor introduced the 
bill in September as a response 
to the Black Lives Matter protests 
last summer. Opponents of the 
bill argue it strips power away 
from local governments and gives 
too much power to the governor’s 
office. 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
criticized the bill during a city 
commission meeting May 20.
“I feel intimidated and 
threatened through this bill, and I feel like I’m being told I 
cannot make the government’s 
decisions,” he said.
Commissioner David Arreola 
offered similar criticism during 
the meeting.
“The idea about this law is 
that the governor has the power 
to deputize local law enforcement 
and to have more power than 
any of the cities in their given 
state and any law enforcement 
chief and any law enforcement 
officer,” Arreola said. “That’s the 
kind of power that gets used in 
governments around the world 
that are not known for good 
things.”
A team of lawyers at Community 
Justice Project, Public Rights 
Project and the City of Gainesville 
would work together to bring 
forth the lawsuit against the state 
if Gainesville commissioners and 
the city attorney approve it. 
Public Rights Project is a 
nonprofit organization focused 
on helping local and state 
governments protect the legal 
rights of residents. Community 
Justice Project is a team of lawyers 
focused on serving community 
organizers in low-income and 
minority communities. 
Both organizations are willing 
to work on the lawsuit at no cost to Gainesville taxpayers, and 
both approached the city with a 
proposal to sue the state. 
“Gainesville is really well-
poised to lead here and I think 
it would be meaningful for other 
cities to join if Gainesville is 
leading,” LiJia Gong, a counsel at 
Public Rights Project, said.
The first step toward this goal 
was taken May 20 when city 
commissioners approved a motion 
to draft a formal complaint against 
the state. The team of lawyers has 
to draft the complaint within 30 
days to present to Gainesville’s 
city commission. If the complaint 
is approved by city commissioners 
in a month, the lawsuit would 
likely move forward.
Gainesville’s city attorney 
Nicolle Shalley said she does not 
recommend the city move forward 
with a lawsuit at this time. She 
prefers to wait for the HB 1 law 
to go into effect and violate a 
law in order to give them firmer 
legal grounds to sue the state. Her 
office will still work with both 
nonprofits to draft a complaint 
nonetheless.
Although he opposes the bill, 
Commissioner Harvey Ward 
said he’s skeptical of suing the 
state without the city attorney’s 
approval.“I’m not sure how we move 
forward without more clear 
support from our own attorney 
staff,” Ward said.
Some Gainesville residents 
called into the commission 
meeting to express support for the 
challenge, while others disagreed 
with the challenge.
“It’s amazing that this 
commission spends so much time 
discussing frivolous lawsuits and 
national issues instead of their 
own utility problems,” Nathan 
Skop, a Gainesville resident, said 
during public comment. 
Veronica Robleto, an immigrant 
rights paralegal at Florida Legal 
Services, voiced support for the 
lawsuit during public comment.
“The city attorney, in my 
view, has always erred on the 
side of not taking a stand,” she 
said. “But we have multiple legal 
organizations presenting and 
telling you that there is a basis, so 
I would encourage you to listen to 
other legal voices beyond simply 
the city attorney.” 
Representatives of both the 
Community Justice Project 
and Public Rights Project cited 
concerns with the state’s power to 
interfere with police reform under 
the law.
The law is a clear response to last summer’s calls for racial 
justice, Berbeth Foster, a senior 
staff attorney at Community 
Justice Project, said. Community 
organizers know the law is a 
direct attempt to stop efforts to 
reimagine public safety.
Jonathan Miller, the Public 
Rights Project legal director, said 
the project’s team is concerned 
about the potential for states across 
the country to pass sweeping laws 
like HB 1 that would interfere 
with community preferences 
having to do with civil, worker or 
immigration rights.
Georgia’s governor Brian 
Kemp signed House Bill 286 May 
7, which prohibits local counties 
from decreasing local police 
budgets. The law will go into 
effect July 1.
Florida’s HB 1 similarly limits 
local governments from changing 
any police department budget 
unless it increases, Commissioner 
Arreola said.
“Gainesville is ready to 
challenge this law,” Arreola said. 
“It’s sad to look at a law like this 
and think this is where our state 
has gone.”
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.orgGainesville City Commissioners take first step in potential lawsuit over House Bill 1Courtesty to The Alligator
Photo of Ralph D. Turlington, Sr.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
say: "I found it in the alligator!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-121For Rent
furnished
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            8-15-21-13-2
solution on page 10
©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    SShhooww  ooffff
11..    LLeeggeennddaarryy  55..    LLaarrggee  hhoouussee
22..    FFoorrggeettffuull  ccoonnddiittiioonn  66..    PPaann--ffrryy
33..    CCaarree  ffoorr77..    LLeeaasstt  ccoommmmoonn  
44..    HHoouussee  ________NNAAUUTTFFLL
FFUUOOSSAAMMRRMMOOAANN
UUAATTEESS
MMEEAAIIAASSNN
RREEUURRNNTTUUSSTTEEAARRRR
AASSRRTTEERRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--FFllaauunntt    55AA--MMaannoorr    66AA--SSaauuttee    77AA--RRaarreesstt
11DD--FFaammoouuss    22DD--AAmmnneessiiaa    33DD--NNuurrttuurree    44DD--AArrrreesstt    BB--MMaannaatteeee55--2244--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThheerree  aarree  tthhrreeee  ssppeecciieess  
ooff  tthhiiss  mmaammmmaall..  
BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter
answers on pg. 101. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president 
signed the Louisiana Purchase?
2. MOVIES: Which 1960s movie featured 
the theme song "Foggy Mountain 
Breakdown"?
3. ADVERTISING: Sailor Jack and dog 
Bingo are the mascots for what snack?
4. SCIENCE: When was the International 
Space Station launched?
5. U.S. STATES: I-75 runs between which 
upper Midwest state and Florida?
6. TELEVISION: The long-running TV drama 
"ER" is set in which U.S. city?
7. LANGUAGE: What is the meaning of 
the Latin phrase, "aut viam inveniam aut 
faciam"?
8. INVENTIONS: When did the FDA approve 
the first oral contraceptive in the U.S.?
9. HISTORY: The ancient city of Rome was 
built on how many hills?
10. MEDICAL: What is a common name for 
the condition known medically as pyrexia?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RVís 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          5-24-3-1213 Wanted 5 Real Estate
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/24/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/24/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, May 24, 2021
ACROSS
1 Winans of gospel
5 Nebula Award 
genre
10 Like deserts
14 Oohs and __
15 Like wine barrels
16 “Suits” actress 
Torres
17 Catch in a web
18 *Major tennis 
tournament 
played on clay
20 Letter after phi
21 Field with cases 
and briefs
22 Boring tools
23 *Vegas vacation 
valuables holder
27 Lone Ranger’s pal
28 Justice Kagan
29 ER pictures
31 A, in German
32 Software help file
34 Dublin’s land: 
Abbr.
35 Govt. Rx 
watchdog
36 PC key with 
a left-pointing 
arrow ... and hint 
to the last words 
of the answers to 
starred clues
39 Shed tears
41 Lang. of the Torah
42 Fuselage 
fasteners
46 Group of two
47 Skin openings
49 Swab again
50 Canadian skater 
Brian
52 *TV headline 
ticker
54 Early Web forum
56 Didn’t fast
57 Land in the Seine
58 *99-year-old 
Emmy-winning 
actress with 
eight-plus 
decades in show 
business
61 Romance novelist 
Hilderbrand
62 Any of four British 
art galleries
63 Music rights org.
64 What libraries do
65 Have the lead (in)
66 Undoes a dele
67 Think tank tidbit
DOWN
1 Mask wearer at 
home2 Football helmet 
opening
3 Indian spiced 
drink
4 Debatable ability, 
briefly
5 Sectionals and 
sleepers
6 Auto body coat
7 Clanton gang 
leader
8 Boggy lowland
9 Ancient Peruvian
10 Galore, in disco 
lingo
11 Matured on the 
vine
12 Subject of 
Newton’s first 
law
13 Ted of “Cheers”
19 Makeshift 
shelters
21 Andean wool 
source
24 Be over no later 
than
25 Flying Wham-O 
toy
26 O.K. Corral 
lawman
30 Common 
subscription 
period
33 Rebounding 
sound35 Above-normal 
body temperature
37 “Show Boat” 
composer 
Jerome
38 Greek sorceress
39 Attack with 
profanity
40 British  
Museum’s __ 
Stone
43 Clicked “send”
44 Rope for a 
tugboat45 Low-calorie 
sweetener
46 Uncertainties
47 Hunter’s quarry
48 Try to hit, as a  
fly
51 Go into
53 Fitbit units
55 “__ the night 
before ... ”
59 DDE’s 
predecessor
60 Highway hazard
61 Yale student
By Jesse Goldberg
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/18/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/18/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, May 18, 2021
ACROSS
1 Sousa specialty
6 Show 
appreciation for 
the performance
10 __ 67: Montreal 
World’s Fair
14 Amtrak speedster
15 Hand-up 
command
16 Really funny sort
17 Food truck fare
18 McDonald’s 
slogan since 
2003
20 Go ballistic
22 Bogey on a par 5
23 Homer’s TV 
neighbor
24 Tough H.S. 
exams
27 Take the sloop 
out
30 Self-indulgent 
period
35 2002 biopic about 
con man Frank 
Abagnale
38 Opera highlight
39 Kimono sash
40 First female 
attorney general
41 Cleaner of teeth
46 Takes care of
47 Hammett pooch
48 Kickoff aid
49 Balaam’s mount
51 Unit of heat: 
Abbr.
53 Overextended ...  
and what’s 
literally in each 
set of circles
60 In exact terms
62 Optimist’s phrase
63 Chef’s flavoring
64 Ensnare
65 “Take a load off”
66 Uncertain
67 “This round’s __”
68 Romantic 
rendezvous
DOWN
1 Course with 
operations
2 Trendy berry
3 Four-sided fig.
4 Stops bleeding
5 Cannabis 
concentrate6 Stylish
7 Poor, as an 
excuse
8 Make-or-break 
poker bet
9 Ancient Greek 
astronomer
10 Activist 
Brockovich
11 Ped __: street 
sign
12 Hawaiian staple
13 MLB Hall of 
Famer Mel
19 The “v” in vlog
21 Midterm, e.g.
24 USMA and 
USNA: Abbr.
25 “Gay” capital of 
song
26 “Mostly Ghostly” 
series writer  
R.L. __
28 The “I” in I.M.  
Pei
29 Niger neighbor
31 Chance to play
32 Ensure the win
33 Minister’s house
34 Cybermessage
36 Musical with  
the song 
“Memory”37 Newton fruit
42 Gaming brand 
since 1972
43 Is bested by
44 The Beatles’  
“Let __”
45 Offer a humble 
retraction
50 Back of the boat
52 __ Pendragon, 
King Arthur’s 
father
53 Medieval laborer54 Frozen dessert 
chain
55 Dig for quahogs, 
say
56 Flashy promotion
57 Sacred
58 Hoppy brews, 
briefly
59 “Whose turn is 
it?” shout
60 Letter before chi
61 Ump’s NBA 
counterpart
05/17/2021scan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:you can get
VACCINATED
TODAY!
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-15-21-13-15
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring for all positions. 
Full time/part time, day/nightshift. Apply at 
fivestarpizza.com/employment
* Delivery drivers
* Pizza makers
* Phone personnel
* Food prep
* Managers
6-7-21-8-14
Sun Country Sports Center is now hiring 
Summer Camp Counselors
Fun, friendly work environment with awe-
some kids facilitating fun sports activities! 
Gymnastics, Rock Climbing, Swimming, 
Games, Crafts and much more! Apply to-
day at suncountrysports.com/jobs      
6-7-21-4-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille
NOW HIRING
Until June 13th, we'll be hosting interviews 
for Spurrier's Gridiron Grille! We need 5-star 
restaurant talent to join our team. Applications 
must be submitted online & an interview will 
be scheduled with those qualified. No walk-ins 
due to the high volume of applicants. Apply at 
spurriersdraft.com                        6-7-21-5-14
Warehouse worker needed. Must be able 
to lift heavy merchandise. Drug free work-
place. Must pass drug test and background 
check. Full time position includes week-
ends and evenings.
Wage based on experience. Apply in person 
at Furniture Country.   5-24-21-1-14
Part time sales assistant to work Saturdays 
from 10am-3pm in a local Gainesville retail 
audio/video store. Individual needs to be 
personable, organized, dependable and 
possess good communication skills. Must 
have a reliable vehicle to get to & from work. 
$11.00 per hour with some extra hours on 
occasion. Applicants can email resume to 
mark@electronicsworld.net         6-1-21-4-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
ATTENTION SENIORS
The average funeral cost is $9000+Don't leave 
your family to pay your debts. State Approved, 
Final Expense Life Insurance Plans Are Now 
Available as Low as $25 a month Hurry and 
Call Before Enrollment Ends.
800-555-5555 M-F 9am-6pmEST          5-24-1-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Foundanswers below1. Name the quarterback who started for 
the San Diego Chargers in their 49-26 loss 
to the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl 
XXIX. 
2. What Baseball Hall of Famer, nicknamed 
"Double X," became the second player in 
Major League Baseball history to hit 500 
career home runs when he achieved the 
milestone in 1940? 
3. Reality TV star Kendra Wilkinson ("The 
Girls Next Door," "Kendra") was married to 
what NFL wide receiver from 2009-18?4. What golf equipment manufacturer 
introduced its Big Bertha line of stainless-
steel drivers in 1991?
5. During the Korean War, Boston Red Sox 
legend Ted Williams flew fighter jets and 
was wingman for what future astronaut/
politician?
6. Shannon O'Keefe, Dasha Kovalova, Dan -
ielle McEwan and Bryanna Cote are ath -
letes in what professional sports league?
7. For what Apple TV+ series did Jason 
Sudeikis win a Golden Globe award for 
portraying a backwoods American football 
coach who takes a job as manager of an 
English Premier League soccer club?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted
14 Help Wanted16 Health Service
Furniture Delivery Driver, Tues-Sat MUST 
HAVE a valid driver's license and a clean 
driving record. Must pass driving test, back -
ground check and drug test. DFW. Must be 
able to lift heavy merchandise. Apply in 
person at Furniture Country. Wage based 
on experience.                              5-24-32-1-14
HOUSEKEEPER / PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Good pay. Steady 20 hours / week
Near UF. Must like dogs. Call 352-727-0255    
5-24-21-53-14
Front Desk Reception SIMEDHealth
SIMEDHealth is looking for both PT and FT 
Front Desk Receptionists for our Gainesville 
locations. Please go to our website to apply: 
http://simedhealth.com/jobs.  
6-7-21-5-14
Customer service/Office 
Local busy Furniture Store has an immediate 
opening for customer service/office position. 
You must have good math skills and able to 
handle money and use an adding machine. 
Multi tasking and good communication skills 
are a plus. The position hours would be 
Tues-Sat 11am-7pm. Wage based on experi -
ence. Please email resume.     
5-24-21-1-14
pleaseplease   recyclerecycle
 this newspaper. this newspaper.
thank you.thank you.
solution to the right
solution below
Sports Quiz  
answers1. Stan Humphries.
2. Jimmie Foxx.
3. Hank Baskett.
4. Callaway Golf Company.
5. John Glenn.
6. The Professional Women's 
Bowling Association (PWBA).
7. "Ted Lasso."Trivia Test  answers1. Thomas Jefferson
2. "Bonnie and Clyde"
3. Cracker Jack
4. 1998
5. Michigan6. Chicago
7. I shall either find a way or make one
8. 1960
9. Seven
10. Fever
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
MegaMaze solution
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONS10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
found found   
something? something? 
place a place a FREEFREE   "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
www.alligator.org/sportsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFollow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast. 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.MEN'S TENNIS
SOFTBALLTHE GATORS LOSE IN 
DOUBLES, STORM BACK IN 
SINGLES AGAINST THE BEARS
Ryan Zehnder
Sports Writer
Freshman Ben Shelton threw 
his racket into the air as Charlie 
Broom’s forehand missed wide.Head coach Bryan Shelton 
collapsed on the sidelines, 
hands in his face. His son 
had just clinched the national 
championship for the Florida 
Gators.
Florida men’s tennis won its 
first national title in program 
history early Sunday morning, 
defeating No. 2 Baylor 4-1.
Florida dropped the doubles point to Baylor, losing on courts 
one and three. Finn Bass and 
Broom nearly swept senior 
Brian Berdusco and sophomore 
Will Grant, jumping out to an 
insurmountable 5-0 lead and 
closing the set 6-1 on court three.
Shortly after, Shelton and 
junior Sam Riffice tied the 
doubles point on court two, as 
they defeated Nick Stachowiak 
and Matias Soto without dropping 
a game.
Seniors Duarte Vale and 
Johannes Ingildsen were locked 
with Constantin Frantzen and 
Sven Lah in the decisive doubles 
match. Knotted at 2-2, the Baylor 
duo raised the intensity and broke 
both Vale and Ingildsen to serve 
out the set and win 6-2.
Florida needed four wins in 
singles play to come from behind 
and close out a storybook season 
with a national championship. 
Senior Josh Goodger’s 
dominant first-set victory allowed 
the Gators to settle down after 
losing the doubles point. 
Vale, Shelton and sophomore 
Blaise Bicknell were all defeated 
in their first sets. Adrian Boitan 
outlasted Vale 7-5 as Florida’s 
court-one star struggled to keep 
up with the Baylor ace. On court five, Shelton lacked 
the poise and concentration he 
showed in Friday night’s straight-
set victory and dropped the first 
set to Broom 6-3. 
Stachowiak took the first 
set against Bicknell 6-3, a 
discouraging result for the 
undefeated sophomore who had 
been Florida’s most consistent 
singles player. 
Riffice and senior Andy 
Andrade won their first sets in 
tiebreaks. Florida and Baylor were 
neck and neck as Saturday night 
gave way to Sunday morning. 
Each team led in three matches. If 
the scores held, the Bears would 
upset the top-seeded Gators. 
But the ever-resilient Florida 
singles squad persevered. 
After he won his first set in 
a tiebreak, Andrade rolled over 
Lah in the second to record the 
Gators’ first point, 7-6, 6-0. 
The Florida fans in the 
complex came alive, sensing that 
their team was on the brink of 
pulling away.
Riffice added a second point 
minutes later as he outclassed 
Soto in the second set to finish 
7-5, 6-3. 
After his first-set win provided 
the Gators with much-needed confidence early in the singles 
portion, Goodger closed out 
Spencer Furman on court six 
to move Florida one point from 
glory.
All eyes shifted to court four, 
where Shelton fought back and 
forced a third set. Leading 4-2 
on serve, Florida’s breakout star 
was in danger of being broken 
as he trailed 40-15. With his 
back against the wall, Shelton 
won three-straight points to take 
control of the set, 5-2. 
Initially uncomfortable and 
overmatched, the freshman rose 
to the challenge in sets two and 
three to close out Broom and 
displayed the signature athletic 
ability and confident style that 
defined Florida’s 2021 season. 
The title triumph capped off a 
stellar 26-2 season for a team who 
returns to Gainesville as national 
champions. 
The individual championships 
begin Sunday evening with Vale, 
Riffice and Andrade all slated to 
compete in singles. Two Florida 
tandems will also play in the 
doubles competition: Vale with 
Riffice and Ingildsen with Grant.
@ryan_zehnder
rzehnder@alligator.org
ELIZABETH HIGHTOWER THREW 
HER FIRST CAREER NO-HITTER 
AND THE ENTIRE FLORIDA LINEUP 
GOT ON BASE
By Julianna Reichenbach 
Sports Writer
Florida softball needs two more wins to 
reach the Women’s College World Series.
Gators ace Elizabeth Hightower tossed a 
no-hitter Sunday to power the Gators (45-9) 
over South Florida (31-20) and Georgina Cor -
rick 8-0 to send UF to the NCAA Super Re -
gional.
The game began like Friday’s 1-0 walk-off 
victory over the Bulls, as Corrick and Hight -
ower battled for the second time this week -
end, but the encore shifted to an all-around 
offensive performance for Florida. Every 
Gators hitter in the lineup reached base for 
the second game in a row.  
Charla Echols terminated the progression 
toward a two-team no-hitter in the fourth in -
ning when she brushed a line drive off Cor -
rick’s foot. Fifth-year senior Kendyl Lindaman 
synced up with her teammate at the right time 
and hit a single to advance Echols to second.Catcher Julia Cottrill made her return from 
illness after missing the SEC Tournament last 
weekend. Walton gave Cottrill the option of 
either bunting or hitting with the game tied 
0-0 in the fourth inning. 
While a bunt could easily advance Echols, 
Cottrill wanted to bring the best for her team 
and told her coach she wanted to hit.
Moments after their discussion, Cottrill 
knocked Corrick’s pitch into the left-field 
wall, and Echols sprinted home.
“Julia is one of those big-game players,” 
Walton said. “I would like to have her in that 
championship game because she has histori -
cally done well in those kind of moments.”
After her RBI in the fourth, Cottrill proved 
she was the offensive MVP and hit her fifth 
home run of the season in the sixth inning.
USF’s loss to Florida in the first round 
meant Corrick had to pitch 26 innings this 
weekend after the Bulls took on South Ala -
bama and Baylor in the losers’ bracket of the 
double-elimination tournament.
Nature, and the Gators bats, eventually 
found their balance. USF and Team USA 
coach Ken Eriksen noticed his team started to 
fatigue in the fourth inning, while the Gators 
went on the hunt.
Hightower put on her own show when she struck out a career-high 10 batters to finish 
off thirteen innings without a hit allowed over 
the weekend.
Second baseman Hannah Adams made a 
play Walton described as “one of the most 
special plays” he had ever seen to save High -
tower’s no-hitter in the seventh. She fielded a 
ground ball she could have thrown to second 
for an easy out. Instead, she kept her team -
mate’s no-hitter alive by throwing the runner 
out at first.
Corrick came into the game boasting 
the fourth-lowest ERA in the nation among 
pitchers with more than two appearances at 
.91. During the second inning, amidst three 
straight instances of leaving the Gators look -
ing or swinging, Corrick eclipsed all of Divi -
sion 1 NCAA Softball in strikeouts, ending the 
season with 333.
In the seventh inning, the junior USF 
pitcher finally left the field after an Emily 
Wilkie single. In a show of sportsmanship, 
the full-capacity Katie Seashole Pressly Sta -
dium crowd rose to their feet in applause.
“What you saw today was nothing but 
heart, grit, determination and loyalty to a 
team,” Eriksen said.
After Corrick departed, the game became a 
field day for Florida against a revolving door of challengers.
Senior Jaimie Hoover hit a sacrifice fly 
with bases loaded to open up the floodgates. 
Sophomore shortstop Sarah Longley 
crushed the ball out of the park for a grand 
slam, her first collegiate home run after a two-
year wait. 
Cheyenne Lindsey followed up with an -
other home run of her own to seal the eight-
run lead.
With the regional in the rearview mirror 
now, Walton and his team anticipate the chal -
lenge another round of the postseason brings.
“We're excited to play another week and I 
think our athletes are doing a really good job 
of embracing the preparation it takes for them 
to be good hitters,” Walton said.
Florida will now take on the Georgia Bull -
dogs (31-21) in the NCAA Super Regionals. 
Florida took the series 2-1 earlier in the year. 
Game times are to be announced, but the 
best-of-three series to reach the WCWS will 
play out in Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium 
next weekend.
@Julianna_Reich
jreichenbach@alligator.org Florida defeats Baylor, wins first national championship in program history
Gators move on to Super Regional behind Hightower’s no-hitterFaith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Ben Shelton celebrates on Feb. 21 against Auburn. Shelton clinched 
the championship point for the Gators Saturday.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 24, 2021
BASEBALL
NO. 9 GATORS HAVE ISSUES TO 
ADDRESS BEFORE THE FIRST ROUND 
AGAINST KENTUCKY
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer 
The Florida Gators burrowed into their 
locker room in despair while the Arkansas 
Razorbacks celebrated a regular-season SEC 
crown in the outfield. 
Gloom hung over the heads of the Gators 
roster, but head coach Kevin O’Sullivan had 
his sights aimed forward.
“Bottom line is as difficult as this weekend 
was, we have to move on,” he said.
It’s hard to move on that easily when 
the best team in the nation busted out its 
broomsticks and swept away any momentum 
Florida built up before the SEC Championship 
tournament. The first round of the postseason 
starts Tuesday, and if there was ever a time 
to work out the kinks in the system, it’s now.
To use O’Sullivan’s words, the Gators 
were outpitched, outhit and outplayed over 
the weekend. If Florida copies and pastes its 
performance from the Arkansas series, the 
team may not survive the first round.
The Razorback pitching crew struck 
out the Gators 44 times in 98 at-bats and 
outscored Florida 19-7 across the entire 
weekend. 
The small and sour sample size isn’t an 
accurate outline of how the Gators, who won 
15 of their previous 20 games, performed all 
season. Instead, it can serve as a lesson before 
the playoffs. The team amassed a steady 17-
13 record against conference opponents and swept teams like Texas A&M and Missouri 
throughout 2021.
Other teams, like future opponent 
Kentucky, have a golden opportunity to kick 
the Gators while they’re down and expose 
any additional flaws in the system.
The Gators will attempt to shake off their 
woes and start anew against a familiar Wildcat 
team, who they already overcame twice this 
season. Southpaw Hunter Barco had the most 
success that weekend, corralling the Wildcats 
to zero runs in 6.2 innings tossed and 10 
strikeouts.
Sluggers like left fielder Jacob Young 
and catcher Nathan Hickey are usually key 
contributors in UF victories, but both have 
recently taken a trip to the freezer to go a 
combined 6-of-48 in their last at-bats. Center 
fielder Jud Fabian will also try to land on his 
feet after going hitless twice in the Arkansas 
series and once against the Georgia Bulldogs.
Newly assigned first baseman Kendrick 
Calilao set his bat ablaze after being inserted 
into the starting lineup. The sophomore rides 
a six-game hitting streak into the postseason 
with four home runs and 10 RBIs since he 
reentered the lineup on May 7.
Florida players aflame and frostbitten 
alike must convene in Alabama for the 
conference tournament. The roster has to 
answer whether its Arkansas struggles were 
a blip on the radar or a premonition of playoff 
struggles.
Florida will compete in the first round of 
the SEC tournament against the Wildcats at 
10:30 a.m. Tuesday.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgEyes forward: Gators shake off sweep before SEC tournament
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Florida first baseman Kendrick Calilao runs off the field against Jacksonville March 14. 
Calilao hit four home runs and brought home 10 RBIs in his past nine games.
