We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -COVID-19 on campus
Traces of the virus found in Mallory Hall wastewater,  pg. 6
Artificial Intelligence
UF AI high in rankings,  pg. 5Going for gold
Kelsey Stewart, Aubre e Monro and Michelle 
Moultrie head to Tokyo and attempt to 
become the first Gators to win gold in 
softball , pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JULY 12, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 39
Prize and fees are subject to change. Limited time only. See office for details.Tour and enter to win an  
Electric Scooter!
Scan to schedule a tour:Apply today and save up to $325  with zero down @
AmericanCampus.com/Gainesville
Walter Harwood / / Alligator Staff
A deserted Toyota RAV-4 on Northwest Fourth Boulevard in Gainesville on Wednesday, July 7, 
2021. The Gainesville Police Department stated this vehicle and one other got stuck after drivers 
attempted to cross the flooded street.
CHRISTOPHER SCOTT’S 
FAMILY IS ASKING FOR HELP 
WITH MEDICAL EXPENSES
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer
A 13-year-old boy is dead after A 
13-year-old boy is dead after being 
shot during a party at the Gainesville 
American Legion on June 24. 
Christopher Scott endured life-
threatening wounds after gunshots 
erupted during a party at the Ameri -
can Legion at 4701 NW Sixth St. 
Christopher and four teenagers were taken to UF Health Shands Hos -
pital after two other teenagers started 
firing shots. The four other teenagers 
suffered nonlife-threatening injuries.
Four suspects were found and ar -
rested on June 25.
Jakarean Ford, 14, was arrested 
and charged with fleeing and eluding 
law enforcement, operating a motor 
vehicle without a driver’s license 
and possession of marijuana by the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office.
Javari Baptiste, 17, who stole 
a car and fled the scene with Ford 
after the shooting, was arrested and 
charged with attempted felony mur -
der by the Gainesville Police Depart -ment and with possession of a stolen 
firearm and resisting without vio -
lence by ACSO.
Christian Jones, 16, was charged 
with attempted felony murder and 
carrying a concealed firearm.
Jarquez Kerreim Mitchell, 17, 
was charged with aggravated assault 
and carrying a concealed firearm. 
Christopher’s family created a 
GoFundMe for medical expenses, 
and about $5,000 has been raised 
out of the $10,000 goal as of July 12.
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgTHE VIRUS WAS DETECTED 
IN WASTEWATER FROM THE 
MALLORY HALL AREA
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Recent wastewater testing 
found traces of COVID-19 on 
campus.
A UF Health Screen, Test and 
Protect email sent the morning 
of July 8 warned students of CO -
VID-19 found in the wastewater 
around a residence hall or Greek 
house. The email was sent along 
with a text alert to students liv -
ing near Mallory Hall, informing 
them of traces of COVID-19 de -
tected in the area’s wastewater. 
The hall is near Sorority Row next 
to Yulee, Reid and Cypress Hall. 
The message urged students to 
take a free saliva COVID-19 test 
within two days of the email. In 
the first week of July, UF aver -
aged a seven-day 1-2% COVID-19 
positivity rate, which has re -
mained that low through the ma -
jority of the summer.  
“I didn’t really know what the 
email was about, initially I was 
just a little surprised,” Michael 
Lunin, an 18-year-old biology 
freshman, said. “I didn’t really 
understand what they were ask -
ing of us or what they were say -
ing, it was a little confusing.”  
Monitoring the wastewater 
helps UF identify locations where 
the virus may be present, even if 
people may not show any symp -
toms, according to the email. 
UF Health spokesperson Ken 
Garcia wrote wastewater testing 
is a part of the campus’ COVID-19 
surveillance. The efforts began as 
a result of the outbreak of COV -ID-19 Fall 2020. 
Wastewater surveillance will 
continue for the Fall semester to 
monitor and contain any viral 
spread of COVID-19, UF spokes -
person Steve Orlando wrote in an 
email.
“Given that not all students 
are vaccinated, it is expected that 
there will be positive cases on 
campus,” he wrote.
He wrote students who are 
vaccinated should not be con -
cerned about the traces of CO -
VID-19 found in the wastewater. 
He encourages students who are 
not vaccinated to wear a mask 
and receive the vaccine at any of 
UF’s free locations.
Wastewater Analysis and 
Tracking for Community Health, 
or GatorWATCH, was created 
April 2020 to monitor wastewa -
ter found in UF residence halls, 
campus apartment complexes and 
fraternity and sorority houses, ac -
cording to a UF News release. 
Created by public health, mi -
crobiology and environmental 
toxicology experts with medical 
and facilities personnel, Gator -
WATCH alerts UF Health Screen, 
Test and Protect if any traces of 
the virus are found.
Joseph Bisesi, an environmen -
tal toxicologist, wrote his team is 
testing the sewage from each resi -
dence hall three times per week. 
The locations are based on occu -
pancy of the buildings and their 
ability to isolate samples. Occu -
pied off-campus halls like Infinity 
Hall and halls not isolated from 
other buildings, like Jennings 
and Yulee Hall, are not able to be 
tested. 
Anna Olliff, an 18-year-old A 13-year-old boy is dead after a 
shooting at Gainesville American LegionTraces of COVID-19 found in 
UF residence halls wastewater
SEE COVID-19,  PAGE 6T oday’s Weather
SEEK BRINGS 30 HIGH 
SCHOOL STUDENTS 
FROM AROUND THE 
STATE TO LEARN ABOUT 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
CAREERS AT UF
By Eve Thompson
Alligator Staff Writer
“Think globally, act locally” is a 
phrase repeated by climate activists 
and politicians alike. But to Quinn 
Zacharias, it’s more than a phrase 
— it’s a necessity.
Zacharias is the head counselor 
at SEEK, an environmental confer -
ence for Florida high school stu -
dents held from June 28 to July 1. 
While the conference moves yearly 
between cities in Florida, this year 
it was held in Gainesville. SEEK 
stands for Save the Earth’s Environ -
ment through Knowledge, and the 
program aims to expose high school 
students to careers within environ -
mental science. 
“We need to understand how the 
environment works in order to pro -
tect it,” Zacharias said.  SEEK is sponsored by the Florida 
Federation of Garden Clubs, an or -
ganization for garden and landscape 
enthusiasts that also promotes vol -
unteer and philanthropy work. The 
federation gives scholarships to 30 
high school students from around 
the state.
Students entering grades 10-12 
can apply to SEEK. At the program, 
participants can expect hands-on 
and field-based educational expe -
riences, including guest speakers, 
observations at UF’s bat house and 
a trip to an energy research park. 
SEEK has been around for about 40 
years. The program was canceled 
last year due to the COVID-19 pan -
demic.  
Mary Whisler is the conference 
chairperson and said she became 
interested in protecting the environ -
ment because of Florida’s increas -
ing population. A report from state 
analysts shows the state will grow 
by about 300,000 residents per year. 
“If groups aren’t really focusing 
on making the state be sure that we 
grow in a responsible way, we’re 
going to end up with having just 
wall-to-wall people and losing all 
of the beauty of this state, and the 
environment collapsing,” Whisler 
said. 
The conference began June 28 
with a sunny hike at the Sweetwa -
ter Wetlands Preserve. It started out 
with a short walk through a dense 
wood, then the trail opened up into 
a wide dirt path.
The students and counselors, 
guided by David Kaplan, associ -
ate professor in UF’s department 
of environmental engineering sci -
ences, made their way along the 
trail. Every so often, Kaplan stopped 
to point out an alligator, bird or 
unique plant.
“It’s a pretty boring thing to hear 
about water and hear about plants 
and hear about alligators,” Kaplan 
said. “But when you see an alliga -
tor right in front of your face, or an 
osprey cat, holding a giant fish that 
it had just snagged out of the water, 
you see that the ecosystem is this 
thing that functions kind of with or 
without you.”Eventually, the group reached 
the spillway, the part of a dam that 
allows water to run over or around 
it. There, students were surprised 
by the amount of garbage that had 
been filtered out of the water before 
it poured back into the wetlands.
Then, they hiked back to the 
parking lot, sweaty but smiling.
Geeta Robinson, a high school 
student from Dunnellon, Florida, 
said the trip helped her understand 
the need to take care of the environ -
ment.
“It’s one of those things that peo -
ple aren’t afraid to talk about but 
never actually do anything about,” 
Robinson said. “So coming to this 
camp is a way to highlight what we 
can do and how we can step in to 
help.”
Later in the week, students vis -
ited O’Lena State Park, watched the 
bats at the UF bat house and cre -
ated their own research projects in 
a symposium.
Both Zacharias and Whisler, the 
conference’s organizers, said see -
ing high school students interested 
in environmental science inspires 
them.
“I just want to keep Florida a 
beautiful state, and without educat -
ing the next generation, we’ve lost,” 
Whisler said. “I think that your age 
group can do a tremendous amount 
on saving this whole state and our 
planet.”
Walter Harwood contributed to 
this report.
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 39
 Environmental conference for Florida 
high school students held in Gainesville
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Walter Harwood / / Alligator Staff
David Kaplan, an associate 
environmental engineering 
professor at UF, gives the 
Summer Engineering Experience 
for Kids attendees a tour of 
Sweetwater Wetlands Park on 
Monday, June 28, 2021. Kaplan 
hopes the camp can serve as 
"motivation to look to nature 
for a way to design things that 
minimize human impact."
MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
&
Announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL  semester:
EDITOR
A paid position as head of the Editorial Division and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
ENGAGEMENT MANAGING EDITOR
&
DIGITAL MANAGING EDITOR
Paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors
For an application, email Alligator  General Manager Shaun O’Connor 
at soconnor@alligator.org  Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. 
and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, July 1 6th.  No phone calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator  by Friday, 
July 16th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held via video conference on 
Thursday, July 22nd at 11 a.m.  
Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. 
Preference will be given to those who have experience with The 
Independent Florida Alligator .
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
THE ALACHUA COUNTY LABOR 
COALITION HELPED ORGANIZE THE 
MEETING THAT ATTRACTED 40 PEOPLE
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
Pineridge residents gathered the morning of 
July 10 to voice concerns about notices to va -
cate their homes that appeared in some mail -
boxes last week.
Residents of the north Gainesville neighbor -
hood went door to door last week to warn oth -
ers of the notices. The property manager, Sun -
Coast Property Management, sent the notices 
to inform residents of plans to renovate some 
apartments, which tenants said have been de -
teriorating. 
These renovations will increase rental 
rates. One resident said her rent was expected 
to go up from $500 to $900. 
The Alachua County Labor Coalition, a lo -
cal social justice group, wants to ensure the 
tight-knit neighborhood isn’t displaced by 
the renovations and subsequent rental hikes. The ACLC organized a meeting for a crowd of 
about 40 residents to discuss the issue with the 
new property owners and city officials on July 
10.
Lee Feldman, Gainesville’s city manager, 
attended the meeting and ensured the city will 
work toward a solution.
“I don’t think this company wants anybody 
out on the street,” Feldman said.
ACLC asked the city of Gainesville to set 
aside money for rental assistance and for assis -
tance in finding temporary homes for residents 
while renovations take place. 
The city received about $32 million from 
the federal government, but must spend it ex -
clusively on COVID-19 relief. Feldman said the 
city might give some of that money to land -
lords to renovate apartments while keeping 
rent affordable.
Additionally, Alachua County received $8.3 
million for rental assistance, but the county 
has had a shortage of people applying for the 
funds, Feldman said. At least one person liv -
ing in the home has to be unemployed to be 
considered as a recipient.
One resident pushed back and said some don’t qualify for the program because they’ve 
been working throughout the COVID-19 pan -
demic. Even while working through the pan -
demic, paying bills has been hard, and the 
county’s money is only being aimed at people 
who lost work during the pandemic, the resi -
dent said.
Feldman acknowledged the problem but 
promised the city is trying to find ways to help 
people who need it. He also said the process 
will take time, which is disadvantageous to 
residents facing homelessness.
Carolyn Grant, a resident of Pineridge for 
26 years, said her roof had a leak, but she was 
too scared to call for maintenance because she 
doesn’t want to be displaced by the renova -
tion.
“I’m too scared to go to the mailbox expect -
ing that 30-day letter,” Grant said. 
Grant said she has a friend who was evicted 
and is now homeless, and she is scared she’ll 
end up like her.
Some tenants in the neighborhood do not 
have enough money to pay a significant rental 
hike right away. 
Pamela Morrison, who has lived in Piner -
idge for 22 years, thinks they should have been 
more involved in the process leading up to the 
decision to renovate. 
KeyCity Capital, an investment company 
based in Texas, bought 83 apartments in Oc -
tober, including a unit turned into the neigh -
borhood’s community center. Residents were 
made aware of the renovation plans the week 
of July 4, and Morrison is upset about the lack 
of communication during that time.
“Why didn’t you tell us this eight months 
ago and give us a choice to say whether I want 
to stay out here or not?” Morrison said.
Lacarlya Peoples, a longtime resident, said 
she’s seen quick solutions in past renovations 
from the previous owner.
“I’m not against the raising of the rates 
and the renovations,” Peoples said. “Just do it 
right. Don’t come in and patchwork.”
Carey Erff, who is in charge of community 
support services at KeyCity Capital, flew into 
Gainesville from Texas to address concerns at the meeting.
“The root of this issue, I believe, is com -
munication breakdown,” Erff said.
She offered residents a chance to talk to her 
one-on-one by staying after the meeting and 
making her phone number available. She also 
mentioned the possibility of offering tablets so 
residents can fill out applications for rentals 
more easily.
Some residents expressed concerns over 
people convicted of crimes being turned away, 
but Erff assured them that most crimes com -
mitted over five years ago would be excused. 
She said specific crimes, such as arson, might 
lead to a rental denial for new applicants.
Erff also guaranteed residents who decide 
to leave following the rate increase will have 
90 days to find a new home. The only reason 
the notices said 30 days is because a 30-day 
notice is required by law in Florida, but KeyC -
ity Capital can extend that.
The meeting helped answer some ques -
tions, but some were left with worries of losing 
the community they’ve grown with for years.
“We are a family. We live here. We built 
this,” one resident said. “I feel safe on this 
street.”
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.orgPineridge residents demand answers after receiving notices to vacate homes
Alexander Lugo / / Alligator Staff
A sign for the Pineridge neighborhood 
sits at Northwest 34th Boulevard on 
Saturday, July 10, 2021.
Alexander Lugo / / Alligator Staff
Sheila Payne, one of the meeting’s organizers, speaks to a crowd gathered in 
the Pinewood neighborhood on Saturday, July 10, 2021. Pineridge residents 
gathered to voice their concerns about notices to vacate their homes that 
appeared in some mailboxes last week.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021ALACHUA COUNTY 
EXPERIENCED DIFFICULTIES 
IN THE AFTERMATH OF ITS 
FIRST TROPICAL STORM 
THIS YEAR
By Phong Huynh
Alligator Staff Writer
Tropical Storm Elsa hit Alachua 
County July 7, bringing flooding, 
sunken cars, power outages and 
fallen trees. 
Although the storm has passed, 
Gainesville residents are still deal -
ing with the effects, which some said 
were unprecedented.  
“I’ve lived here for 38 years of my 
life, and this is the wettest that I’ve 
seen since 1990,” Dorothy Cayce, a 
homeowner on Southwest 56th Av -
enue, said. 
She said the standing water 
brought by Elsa has disrupted her 
property’s water system.
“I can’t wash my dishes, I cannot 
flush my toilets and I cannot take a 
shower inside,” she said. 
Victoria Laan, a 62-year-old retir -
ee, was driving home from helping a 
friend on the afternoon of July 7 and 
said she was shocked to find flood -
ing at the intersection of Southwest 
34th Street and Williston Road. 
“I think some of the rain issues 
were definitely caused by all the new 
construction that’s going on,” she 
said. “As a county, we really need to make sure we’re making good deci -
sions for everybody.”
She said seeing the flooding re -
minded her how much Gainesville 
has changed. 
“I felt deeply affected because 
I grew up on that road, and I have 
never seen that intersection flood 
before,” she said. “I was born in 
Gainesville and been down that in -
tersection many times, been through 
many hurricanes — never flooded 
like that.”
Leslie Patterson, a 37-year-old 
waitress and resident of 63rd Av -
enue, or Rocky Point, said construc -
tion in the area has worsened flood -
ing issues.
“All these new buildings going up 
and new neighborhoods that were 
flood zones, like where is this water 
supposed to go,” she said. “That’s 
my concern just about any storm 
season coming up. But this is just a 
small tropical storm. What’s gonna 
happen till the next big one?”
New infrastructure developments 
in the area are making some resi -
dents feel as though county officials 
are apathetic to their concerns. 
However, Patterson said she does 
believe the county is proactive with 
checking on rural areas and opening 
shelters in emergency situations. She 
said she appreciates how active the 
county is in updating and sharing in -
formation on social media. 
“They’re really pretty good about 
opening shelters and going in rural areas to check on people,” she said. 
“To me, it’s mostly about the little 
communities inside of the communi -
ty—the little people you don’t see.”
An Alachua County update en -
couraged residents to stay home and 
avoid driving in flooded areas. Road 
closures are still in place as of Thurs -
day evening and will be updated by 
the county. 
“We just want to make sure that people understand that there are 
still some dangerous conditions out 
there,” Mark Sexton, Alachua Coun -
ty’s communications and legislative 
affairs director, said. 
Sexton said no fatalities have 
been reported in the county.
Alachua County has also advised 
residents to avoid flooded waters en -
tirely. 
“If you come up on standing wa -ter, and you have any question about 
what depth it is, just turn around,” 
Sexton said. “I mean, the old saying 
is ‘turn around, don’t drown,’ and 
this is the time to keep that in mind 
or you don’t want to flood out your 
car and be stranded.”
@phongphont
phuynh@alligator.org
THE RANGE OF INTELLECTUAL 
PERSPECTIVES WILL BE 
EVALUATED ANNUALLY
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A new Florida law will assess political and 
ideological diversity on campus through year -
ly surveys. 
House Bill 233 was signed by Gov. Ron De -
Santis June 22 and went into effect July 1. In 
the survey, students, faculty and staff will be 
asked whether they feel comfortable express -
ing their viewpoints at Florida College System institutions. 
It states both the State Board of Education 
and the Board of Governors may not shield 
students, faculty or staff from speech allowed 
under the First Amendment. The law defines 
“shield” as limiting exposure to “uncomfort -
able, unwelcome, disagreeable, or offensive” 
ideas and opinions. 
As an institution that values academic de -
liberation, UF is a marketplace of ideas and 
houses a variety of opinions, UF spokesper -
son Cynthia Roldan wrote in an email. 
“We believe the survey will reflect that, 
and we look forward to widespread participa -
tion across campus,” Roldan wrote.  
As a public state university, UF will be af -
fected by the law. On campus, students can 
be involved in a variety of political organiza -
tions representing a wide range of ideologies. 
Some of the biggest politically affiliated orga -
nizations include UF College Republicans and 
UF College Democrats. Nonpartisan groups 
like Democracy Matters UF are also present 
on campus. 
Beyond the survey, the law allows stu -
dents to record class lectures “for their own 
personal educational use,” which can be used 
as evidence for a criminal or civil case or 
to bring a complaint against the school, ac -
cording to the law. However, the recording, 
whether audio or video, cannot be published 
without the speaker’s permission. 
In a press conference June 22, DeSantis 
said universities once allowed students to be 
exposed to many different ideas, but today, 
they are “intellectually repressive environ -
ments.” While some orthodoxies are encour -
aged, he said others are suppressed. 
“We don’t want that in Florida,” DeSantis said during the press conference. “Students 
should not be shielded from ideas, and we 
want robust First Amendment speech on our 
college and university campuses.” 
College is advertised as a diverse environ -
ment where students from different back -
grounds can learn from each other, Jackson 
Rowell, the external director for Young Amer -
icans for Freedom at UF, wrote in a statement. 
“Intellectual freedom is a non-partisan 
ideal, and the students of UF deserve nothing 
less,” Rowell wrote. “Bill 233 protects intel -
lectual freedom and speech, as the non-parti -
san survey will help to maintain a wide array 
of diverse viewpoints around campus.” 
UF College Republicans and Turning Point 
USA at UF did not respond in time for publi -
cation.
To Andrew Taramykin, a 19-year-old UF 
political science and economics sophomore, 
the law seems unnecessary. He said Florida’s 
universities already promote intellectual di -
versity and freedom.
“It really just feels like Gov. DeSantis 
wants to put his signature on something 
that’ll get good coverage on Tucker Carlson, 
but it’s not actually solving a problem in Flor -
ida,” he said. 
Looking at the faculty, on-campus organi -
zations, classes and speakers, it’s hard to ar -
gue the state’s public colleges are politically 
swayed in one direction, Taramykin said. 
“I don’t think there’s a shortage of left or 
right perspectives,” he said. “I think we have 
a vibrant, civically engaged culture, not just 
at UF but at FSU and other Florida schools.” 
Taramykin said the law will not have 
much of an effect unless the state withholds 
funds based on the survey’s results. However, the law is vague and leaves a lot of discretion 
to the Board of Governors, he said, meaning 
no one knows what it’ll look like in practice. 
It’s going to be hard to get honest feedback 
from faculty and students, he said. 
To Taramykin, the survey seems like a 
waste of the government’s, students’ and 
teachers’ time. 
“It’s disheartening to see academia and 
government have an adversarial relationship 
because I think our public universities are 
some of the most glowing success stories of 
Florida state government,” Taramykin said. 
It’s unfair to assume professors at liberal 
arts colleges are only left-leaning, Rachel Wol -
frey, UF College Democrats’ public relations 
director, said. The 20-year-old UF political 
science and public relations junior mentioned 
Richard Spencer’s visit to UF in 2017, for ex -
ample. 
Wolfrey said she has met students who are 
conservative, liberal, moderate and extremist. 
She doesn’t believe students will be comfort -
able documenting their personal beliefs on 
this scale. 
“This is a school where we have a pretty 
even playing field in terms of viewpoints,” 
she said. 
Wolfrey said she worries about how the 
survey information will be used. House Bill 
233 could be used as an excuse for students to 
use intolerable language, she said. 
“If a professor is not able to step in when 
there’s blatant racism, sexism, homophobia, 
who knows what that’s going to lead to in be -
tween the students,” she said.
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org Tropical storm Elsa brings torrent of damages and hazards for county residents
New Florida law requires colleges’ political and viewpoint diversity to be surveyed  Walter Harwood / / Alligator Staff
Rainfall from Tropical Storm Elsa saturated the ground at Meadowbrook Golf Club in Gainesville, 
causing several retention ponds and irrigation ditches to overflow on Wednesday, July 7, 2021.
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Gov. Ron DeSantis looks down at 
his notes as he speaks to a crowd 
of reporters in Surfside, Florida on 
Thursday, July 1, 2021.
MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
ALYNE HARRIS’ 200 
PAINTINGS ARE ON DISPLAY 
IN GAINESVILLE UNTIL 
JANUARY 2022
By Phong Huynh
Alligator Staff Writer
Streaks of vibrant colors 
stretch across each frame deco -
rating the walls of the Thomas 
Center. Each canvas captures the 
ever-changing nature of life the 
artist and her audience share. 
The exhibition, “Between 
Heaven and Earth — The Paint -
ings of Alyne Harris,” opened June 17 as part of Gainesville’s 
“Journey to Juneteenth” and will 
be on display at the Thomas Cen -
ter on 302 NE 6 Ave. until Jan. 
15. Alyne Harris, a 79-year-old 
Gainesville resident and self-
taught folk artist, portrays her life 
experiences with symbols such as 
angels and flowers.
Russell Etling, the City of 
Gainesville’s cultural affairs man -
ager, said Harris’ works cover 
different areas of her life from 
her Christianity to her Black cul -
ture. He said Harris grew up near 
Mount Pleasant Cemetery on 
2837 NW 13th St. and played in the graveyard as a child.
“They talk about incidents that 
happened of great joy and also of 
great sorrow,” he said. “They’re 
very expressive and her freedom 
of imagination, her use of color 
and the passion of which she tells 
the story is very very powerful 
sometimes.”
Two hundred of her paintings 
are displayed on the walls of the 
first and second floors for anyone 
to see for free. 
Evelyn Tanner, a 93-year-old 
resident from Archer, said the 
paintings reveal Harris has lived 
a full life. 
“You can tell she’s seen good 
and bad things in her life and 
been through hard times just like 
we have,” she said. “They all tell 
a story. This is what she’s seen in 
her life.”
Stephanie Birch, a member of 
the City of Gainesville Cultural 
Affairs board and the UF African 
American Studies librarian, said 
she came to see the exhibit to 
show her support for Black his -
tory and Juneteenth celebrations. 
“It’s a really fantastic opportu -
nity to come see such an immense 
and rich body of work in one 
space all at once,” she said. “See -
ing so far just a fraction of the 
exhibit, there is a lot about Black 
life and experiencing life through 
the eyes of a Black woman that is 
very telling — that you can just 
really see pouring off of the can -
vases.”Birch said the exhibition shows 
how young people can still learn 
from older generations that have 
contributed to the Gainesville 
community. 
“It’s important that we still 
have folks who can share and 
paint and show us what they 
looked like — what life looks like 
and has looked like for African 
Americans throughout the years 
through art — through whatever 
means of expression that there 
is.”
Anne Haisley, an 81-year-old 
former co-owner of Books Inc. 
and an attendee of the opening, 
said she has bought Harris’ art 
and encountered her at down -
town art shows. “She would smile, and she 
would say hello and that sort of 
thing,” she said. “No long con -
versations because she’s not into 
that — at least she hasn’t been 
that I know of. But it’s her work 
that speaks for her.”
Haisley said she admires the 
dedication and progression of 
Harris’ works. 
“Even then in the very begin -
ning when it was much more 
primitive, you could see it just 
came from her heart and soul,” 
she said. “Her spirit and soul kind 
of jump out at you from the pic -
tures.”
@phongphont
phuynh@alligator.org
THE SUPERCOMPUTER EXCELLED 
IN ITS ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND 
COMPUTING POWER  
By Makiya Seminera
Alligator Staff Writer 
Following recent rankings from Top500, 
the most referenced global list of supercomput -
ers, UF’s HiPerGator artificial intelligence has 
been named the most powerful and energy ef -
ficient university-owned supercomputer in the 
United States. 
Besides its national advances, HiPerGator 
AI also ranked No. 2 worldwide for energy ef -
ficiency.
The rankings not only bode well for the Ar -
tificial Intelligence Initiative, but are also wel -
coming news in UF’s pursuit of becoming a top 
five public university. 
“The AI initiative and HiPerGator AI will 
dramatically enhance the reputation of UF by 
allowing its students and faculty to become 
experts in AI,” the director of UFIT Research 
Computing Erik Deumens wrote in an email. 
Students and faculty from all academic 
disciplines will be able to utilize AI to solve 
real-world problems and conduct innovative 
research, which is an important criteria to get 
into the top five national public universities, 
Deumens said. 
Since the beginning of HiPerGator AI’s use 
in 2013, the supercomputer has been drastical -
ly enhanced by an $80 million donation from 
UF alumnus Chris Malachowsky and NVIDIA 
— a computer systems hardware company 
he co-founded. NVIDIA has been an essential partner to the university by providing tech -
nology to improve HiPerGator’s computing 
power. 
In January, the supercomputer became 
available to student and faculty researchers 
across the state university system at no charge. 
The university hopes that the move will help 
improve the economy by producing students 
ready for an AI workforce, as well as establish 
itself further as an AI national leader. 
“We think we’re the only university or col -
lege that is trying to take AI education to ma -
jors all across the full breadth of a college or a 
university,” associate provost David Reed said. 
“And so we’re doing a lot of communicating 
with other colleges and universities to try and 
bring them along.”
Expanding possibilities for UF students to 
get experience with AI has been another initia -
tive at the forefront of increasing student mar -
ketability after graduation, Reed said. The an -
nouncement of a new nine-credit AI certificate 
has been a step in achieving that goal. 
Offered through the department of engi -
neering education, the AI Fundamentals and 
Applications certificate is open to all majors 
and experience levels. In the certificate pro -
gram, students will enroll in an AI fundamen -
tals course, an ethics course and a college-spe -
cific course. 
“Our goal is going to be to expand the num -
ber of students and to promote the program so 
more students take this certificate. We would 
really like to see a large part of all university 
students taking at least part of this certificate,” 
Hans van Oostrom, chair of the department of 
engineering education, said. 
Involving faculty and staff in the incorpora -tion of AI on campus has been another main 
focus. UF is fueling the mission to hire 100 
more AI specialists across its 16 colleges, as 
well as other UF entities, by Spring 2022. 
One recipient of faculty from the AI hiring 
cohort has been the Florida Museum of Nat -
ural History, which plans to utilize two new 
hires to work with AI databases and educate 
K-12 students on how to use AI. 
Before the broader AI Initiative at UF, the 
museum had been a leader in digitizing U.S. 
biological collections and crafting interopera -
bile data sets for the National Science Foun -
dation over the past ten years, said Douglas 
Jones, the director of the Florida Museum of 
Natural History. 
Now, in its beginning stages at the muse -
um, machine-learning algorithms are able to 
interpret the digital data collections of over 40 
million specimens and objects. The museum is 
also looking to expand its use of AI to observe 
how climate patterns have affected indigenous 
peoples’ migration patterns in Florida. 
“Trying to sort out whether populations 
have migrated or things have gone extinct, it 
soon becomes impossible for a person to try to 
identify these pictures and so forth one by one 
by one,” Jones said. “But AI can do that fairly 
quickly, once the system has been trained and 
so we’re excited about that possibility.”
In addition to the Florida Museum of Natu -
ral History’s mission to protect biodiversity, 
the AI hiring initiative will also benefit another 
area on campus committed to environmental 
preservation: the Center for Coastal Solutions. 
A cohort of five faculty members were 
hired to work in the CCS, which is a 2020 UF 
initiative to prevent environmental, economic and health hazards to coastal communities. 
The new members’ responsibilities range from 
working with underwater robotics to computer 
science, director of the Center for Coastal Solu -
tions Christine Angelini said. 
Through a new partnership with SAS Insti -
tute — a business analytics software company 
— the center will also be using AI to integrate 
satellite data about the location of harmful 
algal blooms in Florida’s coastal waters. The 
center plans to use the AI-gathered informa -
tion to guide rehabilitation efforts for coastal 
ecosystems.
Different academic centers on campus 
aren’t the only ones using AI to their advan -
tage — UF research teams have also joined in. 
One research team is using AI technology to 
make homes energy resilient during natural 
disaster-induced power outages. 
The research team — which is made up 
of engineering professors Prabil Barooah and 
Sean Meyn, UF alumnus Naren Srivaths Ra -
man and graduate student Ninad Gaikwad — 
aims to provide solar energy to homes at a low 
cost through the use of an intelligent control 
system. The intelligent control system prioritiz -
es how much power certain household devices 
get during an outage through AI algorithms. 
“I’ve been able to get the skills that I need -
ed, so that I can actually use it and pursue a 
career in this direction,” Raman said. “The 
positive impact that you can create on the so -
ciety — that’s something that’s very fulfilling 
for me, so my plan is to continue in the same 
direction.”
@makseminera
mseminera@alligator.orgThe Thomas Center opens its doors to a new folk art exhibition  
Top-ranked HiPerGator AI supercomputer paves the way for growing AI Initiative at UF  Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Stephanie Birch, 33, the Gainesville Cultural Affairs African 
American Studies Librarian at the University of Florida’s George A. 
Smathers Libraries, comes to view paintings by Alyne Harris at the 
Historic Thomas Center on Thursday, June 17, 2021.Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Nancy Parkinson, 80, a Gainesville resident, stands in front of 
artwork at the “Between Heaven and Earth” exhibit at the Historic 
Thomas Center on Thursday, June 17, 2021.
THE COLLEGE PROVIDES ACCESS TO 
PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMS, AFFINITY 
GROUPS, TRAININGS AND MORE
By Antonia LaRocca
Alligator Staff Writer
In the wake of decreased overall enroll -
ment due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Santa 
Fe College lowered some of its equity goals 
for demographic distribution.
According to the college’s 2020-2021 Ed -
ucational Equity Act Report, a report about 
its efforts for nondiscrimination and equal 
access to education and employment, Santa 
Fe has updated some of its equity goals, or 
goals regarding demographic diversity.
The only group that achieved its 2019-
2020 overall student enrollment goal is 
“other minorities” — a category that in -
cludes people who are Asian, Native Amer -
ican, Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, 
Alaska native, biracial and multiracial, San -
ta Fe’s equity officer and Title IX coordina -
tor Lara Zwilling said. The other seven de -
mographic groups include people who are 
Black, Hispanic, white, female, male, have 
limited English-language proficiency skills 
(LEP) or are students with disabilities.
Zwilling said the college’s goals are not 
based on the previous year’s goals but cur -
rent enrollment and employment expec -
tations. Due to the pandemic and chang -
ing trends, Zwilling said the goals have 
changed.
Black, white, male and LEP students are 
among the groups with decreased overall 
enrollment goals for the 2020-2021 academ -
ic year, according to the report. Meanwhile, 
the overall enrollment goals for Hispanic, 
other minorities, females and students with disabilities increased.
Compared to Fall 2020, new student en -
rollment for Fall 2021 is up 24% as of June 
28, Zwilling said. Yet, she said this growth 
is overshadowed by the decrease in overall 
enrollment from the previous year.
Zwilling said the college aims to in -
crease diversity through virtual events for 
incoming students, re-engagement efforts 
with former students, affinity groups and 
partnership programs.
One program that promotes student eq -
uity is My Brother’s Keeper, a recruitment 
and retention program for Black men that 
supports student academic and personal 
growth, according to the college’s website.
“We just want to make sure we’re stu -
dent-facing, we’re here, and we’re here to 
serve students,” Zwilling said. “Our goal 
is a more diverse campus. And so, that is 
what we’re constantly striving for.”
Jamaal Baptiste, a 24-year-old informa -
tion technologies student and MBK ambas -
sador, said MBK provides financial oppor -
tunities and a sense of belonging within a 
predominantly white space. 
“I believe it serves as more of a pipeline 
for more disadvantaged groups, primarily 
Black males going into college with little di -
rection,” Baptiste said.
Beyond the student population, the de -
crease in equity goals extends to the col -
lege’s staff.
The Hispanic male full-time executive, 
administrative and managerial staff goal 
decreased from a stated 3% goal in Fall 
2020 to a 2% Fall 2021 goal while raising or 
maintaining the goals for all other groups, 
according to the report. The EAM goal for 
white male staff remained at 30% of EAM 
positions for Fall 2021.For increasing diversity among the staff, 
Zwilling said the college is currently devel -
oping an Association of Hispanic Faculty 
& Staff affinity group and has purchased 
advertising packages to find niche publica -
tions for hiring.
Due to a decline in enrollment, Lela 
Frye, the director of human resources, said 
an increase in hiring opportunities is not 
expected. She noted Santa Fe partners with 
UF for a faculty development project that 
strives to increase Santa Fe’s faculty diver -
sity and give underrepresented UF doctoral 
students teaching experience. 
The partnership is an opportunity for 
potential minority faculty candidates, and 
the project’s students are considered Santa 
Fe adjunct faculty when teaching, she said.
Santa Fe also aims to increase equity op -portunities and awareness by offering free 
workshops to the college’s students and 
employees, Zwilling said. 
In partnership with the Racial Equity In -
stitute, Santa Fe has offered two online in -
teractive workshops in June and has plans 
to offer another one later this year, accord -
ing to the college’s website. The trainings 
focus on increasing awareness of institu -
tional racism and how it has affected soci -
ety and institutions, as well as teach how 
to use the information provided and pursue 
institutional change.
“The more people that understand and 
have this knowledge and this training, the 
better we’ll be able to continue to move for -
ward as an equitable society,” said Cheryl 
Calhoun, Santa Fe’s dean of access and in -
clusion.
alarocca@alligator.org
@antoniarlaroccaSTUDENTS CAN TRANSFER 
THROUGH A TRADITIONAL 
PATH, DIRECT ARTICULATION 
AGREEMENTS AND MORE
By Antonia LaRocca
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College students’ futures 
depend on their college admission 
essays and applications — their life 
experiences compressed into about 
650 words.
However, there is more to trans -
ferring than answering a prompt on 
a college application. When choos -ing how and where to continue 
their education, students must con -
sider the requirements and deadlines 
needed to transfer. Santa Fe students 
have many ways of transferring to 
their desired colleges — through the 
traditional path, Santa Fe’s direct 
articulation agreements, partnership 
programs and more.
Santa Fe students’ top transfer 
choices include UF, University of 
Central Florida, University of South 
Florida and others. Out of 27 other 
Florida state colleges, UF admits the 
most Santa Fe students, according to 
the Santa Fe website.
Sergio Arcila, a 20-year-old as -sociate degree Spring graduate from 
Santa Fe, will be studying computer 
science at UF this Fall. He said his 
transfer process started the moment 
he was admitted to Santa Fe. 
“You have to plan your courses 
accordingly to where you want to go 
because not every college requires 
the same classes,” he said.
Arcila said he was accepted to 
colleges straight out of high school, 
but UF was not one of them.
“I decided to go to Santa Fe be -
cause Santa Fe was in Gainesville,” 
Arcila said. “I wanted to live life 
in Gainesville. I wanted to explore 
what it was like to be a college stu -
dent and live that college life.”
Arcila sought to make connec -
tions in the town, including associa -
tions with UF and other universities 
with Santa Fe’s help.
Santa Fe has five SF2Universities 
programs that include agreements 
with the University of North Florida, 
Florida Agricultural and Mechanical 
University, University of South Flor -
ida, University of West Florida and 
the University of the Virgin Islands. 
With the five programs, Santa 
Fe students are guaranteed admis -
sion to the partner universities if all 
requirements are met, said Thomas 
Beckwith, a coordinator at Santa Fe’s 
Academic Advisement Center. Santa Fe also has two programs 
that guarantee admission to UF: 
Gator Engineering and Gator Design 
and Construction. Students who 
want to be admitted into one of these 
programs must apply as freshmen to 
UF, be accepted into the program 
and successfully pass critical track -
ing courses at Santa Fe to be admit -
ted into UF, according to the Santa 
Fe website.
Paula Mello, a 21-year-old UF 
English and sustainability studies se -
nior, graduated from Santa Fe in the 
Fall of 2019 after a year and a half 
and transferred to UF in the Spring 
of 2020.
She said she chose Santa Fe be -
cause she wanted to be around UF 
and didn’t want to stay home or at -
tend college with her high school 
friends. 
Mello attended a few Santa Fe 
transfer events that helped her pre -
pare for transferring.
“I think just having the UF advis -
ers there is really great on Santa Fe’s 
part,” she said. 
Although UF advisers provided 
guidance, Mello said she would have 
liked to know more about the cours -
es that were needed to be accepted.
Santa Fe also has an honors pro -
gram where more than 88% of its 
graduates enroll at UF, according to the college website.
Jocelyn Standard, a 20-year-old 
incoming UF elementary education 
student, said her interest in Santa 
Fe’s honors program led her to Santa 
Fe. She said Santa Fe also offered a 
chance to save money and become 
familiar with the UF area.
“Santa Fe is still a pretty big 
campus, but it’s kind of like an in-
between step between high school 
and college,” Standard said. “So, if 
you have anxiety about going to col -
lege like I do, it’s like a really good 
in-between step to help you get ac -
customed to everything.”
On top of overcoming anxiety, 
she said she had to work through her 
confusion about the application pro -
cess for her desired program at UF. 
She graduated in December and was 
hoping to start at UF in the Spring, 
but she wasn’t aware that her de -
gree’s program doesn’t begin until 
the Fall semester, she said.
With the help of her Santa Fe and 
UF advisers, she was able to correct 
the confusion and was accepted to 
UF. 
“Everything seemed to perfectly 
fit together,” she said. “I’m just hap -
py to be transferring to UF.”
alarocca@alligator.org
@antoniarlarocca6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
psychology freshman, lives in Mallory Hall. After receiving the email, she noted that 
masks were not enforced on campus since May.
“So, I shouldn’t be that surprised that COVID followed us here for the summer,” 
Olliff said. 
Kyla Brewer, a 17-year-old UF health science freshman, has lived in Mallory Hall 
since the start of Summer B. After moving to UF two weeks ago, she is left wondering 
where the COVID-19  testing locations are on campus.
“I get that I’m supposed to do this but how and where do I go?” Brewer asked.
The email informed students how to receive the test. Students must go to ONE.UF, 
complete the screening questionnaire and schedule a test. The results will be emailed 
between 48 to 72 hours and appointments open daily at 10 a.m.
“I think none of us know what exactly to do or if it’s mandatory,” Brewer said. 
“More information is probably necessary.”
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgCOVID-19,  from pg. 1COVID-19 in wastewaterAlex Brown / / Alligator Staff
Santa Fe College students have many ways of transferring to their desired colleges
Santa Fe College addresses equity goals Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Gators in the MLB
Mike Zunino and Pete Alonso headline the top Florida alumni in 
major league baseball, pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE SHOW’S HONEST CONVERSATIONS TACKLE 
THE STIGMA BEHIND ADDICTION
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
Marina Sachs is tired of hearing they don’t look like an ad -
dict. 
The SOBERBABY creator identifies as an alcoholic and an 
addict, but when talking about their experiences, they’re often 
met with dismissive disbelief — they don’t seem like an addict 
because they don’t look like one.
The truth, Sachs said, is there’s not a particular ‘look’ to 
an addict, but stereotypes run deep. Sachs, a UF graduate stu -
dent in the Master of Fine Arts program, said the perception of 
addicts is a product of a society-wide stigma, a concept made 
apparent to them by their conversations with addicts and non-
addicts.
SOBERBABY, Sachs’ Instagram Live talk show, was born 
with the goal of erasing this stigma. The show debuted Febru -
ary 12 with an Instagram post captioned “where it all begins.” 
Running just under an hour, the first episode featured Sachs 
flying solo, offering their own experiences with addiction and everything that led to the show’s creation. 
Every Friday at 5 p.m., Sachs opens both their home and 
heart to the featured guest of the week and leads a conversation 
about their individual experiences with addiction. The relation -
ship between Sachs and SOBERBABY guests is showcased by 
the shared space they sit in every episode, something they said 
is vital to putting the show in context. 
“These conversations are not happening in a vacuum,” 
Sachs said. “These conversations are real and with real people.”
The talk show/livestream hybrid is often initially incorrectly 
categorized as a strictly auditory experience by guests and listen -
ers alike. But the show isn’t a podcast, Sachs said. Despite the 
misnomer, SOBERBABY is currently only available via IGTV.
But each post has a purpose. In candid conversations with 
friends and family affected by addiction, Sach aims to break 
stereotypes of the disease one episode at a time.  
Sachs’ inspiration for the show stemmed from their sobri -
ety journey, which began three years ago and came with three 
years’ worth of honest discussions.   
“I had some sort of idea where having honest and unfettered 
conversations with people, things that were usually private and 
whispered about, things that you aren’t supposed to talk about 
in public are placed very publicly,” Sachs said. 
SOBERBABY started with only Sachs and their cellphone, 
but the show is gearing up to expand. Custom merch inspired 
by Sachs’ own designs and other local artists is in the works. A 
Patreon page is up and running, and episodes are expected to 
be available on Spotify and other platforms by the end of the 
month. 
With the addition of audio engineer Jenny Alpaugh, SO -
BERBABY is graduating from its humble beginnings to a more 
advanced setup. The show now operates with an array of pro -
fessional audio equipment, priming the content for release on 
more platforms.
The partnership between Sachs and Alpaugh was forged by 
chance when the two met at a Swamp City Gallery Lounge pop-
up market, where Alpaugh was selling her custom crochet de -
signs. Alpaugh already knew of Sachs from their art, and when 
Sachs mentioned SOBERBABY, Alpaugh said she was immedi -
ately intrigued. 
Alpaugh said the technical improvement is the first step in the show’s conceptual growth. Multimedia elements, live 
episodes, international audiences — SOBERBABY is looking to 
break barriers. 
“We’re shooting for the moon, the stars, whatever’s next,” 
Alpaugh said.
Even in its infancy, SOBERBABY is already touching on top -
ics beyond addiction. Sachs begins every episode providing 
context of the show with “show notes” — a recap of world 
issues they said deserve the audience’s attention.   
Though SOBERBABY is a lighthearted affair, Sachs said 
heavier topics are inherently tied to the conversation. Race, 
class, gender, sexuality and other factors aren’t separated from 
addiction, Sachs said. Rather, they are integral components in 
an individual’s experiences with addiction, and Sachs said the 
issues surrounding them are essential to address on their show.
SOBERBABY’s casual conversations aren’t entirely represen -
tative of the darker moments on the journey to sobriety, Sachs 
said. Incorporating these external factors is their way of adding 
context to SOBERBABY’s more cavalier approach to addiction.
As SOBERBABY grows, Sachs said they’re growing along 
with it. Though still touching on past trauma, Sachs said their 
art, full of vibrant colors and eclectic designs, is now an exercise 
in professionalism and unbridled joy.
It’s this enthusiasm, along with the deep-rooted desire to 
make a difference, that carries the future of SOBERBABY — a 
future Sachs said is limitless.
“I have no other option than to aim as high as possible.”
SOBERBABY is available on Sachs’ Instagram page @
marina2mp3. The show streams every Friday at 5 p.m., and 
past episodes are available via IGTV.
If you or someone you know is struggling with addiction 
or mental health, call the National Suicide Hotline at 1(800)-
273-8255 or the Central Florida Intergroup Alcoholics Anony -
mous Hotline at (407)-260-5408
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgSOBERBABY subverts the addict stereotype with weekly talk show
HEALTH & WELLNESSHEALTH & WELLNESS
FOODFOODAlex Brown / / Alligator Staff
THE FOOD DELIVERY SERVICE 
DEBUTS THIS FALL AND 
CAPITALIZES ON NETWORKING 
THROUGH FOOD
By Melissa Hernandez De 
La Cruz
Avenue Staff Writer
BYPPOCampus plans to change 
how people interact with food de -
livery by highlighting the power of 
networking. 
In the primetime of DoorDash 
and UberEats, face-to-face interac -
tions can be lost. Sometimes the only 
evidence of an exchange is a brown 
paper to-go bag left at your door 
along with accumulated debt.
Founder of BYPPOCampus Victo -
ria Liu said the goal of the delivery 
service is to connect students through 
food, especially after the pandemic.  “As freshmen, you’re probably 
really scared coming to school for the 
first time, you know, post-pandemic, 
and you’re not really sure how to 
meet people,” she said.
Debuting this Fall, the BYPPO 
food delivery service capitalizes on 
being “for students, by students.” 
BYPPOCampus hires students to be 
“hippo hustlers” to deliver food from 
local restaurants in an eco-friendly 
way. Students are encouraged to de -
liver food by walking, biking or using 
a scooter.
“We think about just our impact 
in the world,” Liu said. “Our mis -
sion in the company for BYPPO has 
always been, ‘How do we support 
our community, and our community 
really is our Earth, how do we make 
the Earth a better place?’’ Liu said.
For first-year students who don’t 
know their way around UF, signing 
up for BYPPOCampus provides an easy hustle and an opportunity to 
meet new people, Liu said.
Liu, 25, graduated from UF with 
a masters degree in accounting and 
planned on being an auditor in 
south Florida. Things changed a few 
months before graduation in 2019 
when she opened BYPPO, a delivery 
service in Gainesville. 
The idea for BYPPOCampus and 
BYPPO originated from Liu’s time at 
UF. During a Gator football game, the 
long concession stand lines led Liu to 
consider how convenient it would be 
to get a Gatorade or a hot dog deliv -
ered to your seats without having to 
miss any part of the game. 
The name BYPPO is a meld of the 
words “baby” and “hippo.” Aside 
from hippos being Liu’s favorite ani -
mals, she realized many people be -
come feisty when hungry, much like 
a hungry hippo. 
Liu worked with Gator Business Services and Gator Dining services 
to create the on-campus delivery ser -
vice. 
Tim Bucolo, 39, resident district 
manager for Gator Dining Services, 
said BYPPOCampus’ focus on UF 
makes it unique. From the concep -
tion of the idea, the delivery service 
was geared toward being a UF stu -
dent. Bucolo said he’s been working 
with Liu for over a year to introduce 
BYPPOCampus to UF, especially af -
ter the pandemic. 
Among the team working on 
bringing BYPPOCampus to life is 
Taysir Ismail, 20, a third-year finance 
major, who works as an operations 
intern, helping out Liu with anything 
from delivery bag designs to tabling 
events. 
“I think my favorite part defi -
nitely is the idea of bringing students 
together, through delivery,” Ismail 
said. “A lot of this is a wonderful op -portunity for students to meet other 
students, especially when you just 
came on campus.”
Kadir Salas, 17-year-old first-year 
architecture major, arrived at UF at 
the start of Summer B. He said he’s 
been using DoorDash to get food to 
his dorm.
“It’s my first time away from 
home so I don’t really know how to 
cook like that. And I’m really depen -
dent on the meal plan right now,” 
Salas said. “Cooking is not my thing. 
If I can mess up water, I’ll probably 
do it.” 
Salas said he plans on using BYP -
POCampus if it provides a cheaper 
alternative to services like DoorDash 
and UberEats.
Liu said she plans on expanding 
BYPPOCampus to other schools in 
the future. For now, she wants to 
focus on using food as a way to con -
nect students across UF’s campus.
@mhernandezdlc
mhernandez@alligator.orgBYPPOCampus connects students through food8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
Over the past few months, I have been talking with groups of people living in small-
towns in North Florida about the impacts of climate change and how they might get 
involved in resiliency efforts. Despite the perception that many rural residents are 
climate change deniers, my interactions revealed a surprisingly large awareness and 
interest in this critical issue.  
As an environmental science student at the University of Florida, I wrote my undergradu -
ate thesis on ways to overcome climate planning challenges in rural inland Florida. My two 
main research findings were: Rural attitudes towards climate change and environmental 
conservation are misunderstood, and rural Florida is often excluded and ignored in climate 
conversations. 
To better understand perspectives, share information and expand the conversation, I em -
barked on what I call my “Florida Climate Roadshow.” 
I reached out to community-based organizations — Rotary Clubs, Kiwanis Clubs and 
Chambers of Commerce — across North Florida. I wondered how many would agree to meet 
with me because of the political divide on climate change. To my surprise, many were inter -
ested. From mid-April to the beginning of July, I presented to 14 groups — from Hamilton 
County to Marion County, and from Leon County to Putnam County. 
Along the way, I discovered the charm of rural Florida with its wildflowers, farmlands and 
historic buildings. Upon arriving at a meeting place or logging onto a Zoom call, we would 
share stories about our backgrounds and lives. During my 15-minute TED Talk-style presen -
tation, I would review county-level and regional climate trends and impacts, acknowledge 
the power of community groups in the climate fight and discuss actions to address climate 
change locally.
A few discussions included hard questions and comments about the financial investment 
of climate solutions, who is to blame and the validity of the science. But I was never disre -
spected by those uncertain about the issue. I found there is common ground on protecting 
our environment.
Crescent City Rotarians talked about changing lake levels and algal blooms and their rela -
tion to precipitation events and extreme heat. In Dixie County and Ocala, groups discussed 
recent infrastructure challenges from flooding and runoff. At the Hamilton County Chamber 
of Commerce, board members explained how disempowered rural counties feel about the Valdosta sewage spill issue.  
I was encouraged by my audience’s in -
terest in climate action as they asked ques -
tions. 
What does adapting to changes in the 
climate actually look like? What can I do 
as a business owner to prepare for extreme 
weather impacts? How do I talk about cli -
mate change to those in my community 
who deny it?
Talking about climate change can leave 
people in despair or feeling overwhelmed. 
But I walked away from my climate road -
show with one unparalleled feeling — 
hopefulness. 
I learned there is not much difference 
between rural Floridians and this city girl. 
Both of us recognize the importance of sav -
ing and conserving the environment, the 
impact of extreme weather events on our 
environmental, economic and social well-
being, and the power we have as individu -
als and community groups to make a dif -
ference. 
My big takeaway from this experience 
is that rural communities are an important 
part of Florida’s history and future. To pro -
tect our beautiful peninsula from the chang -
ing climate, rural Floridians must be included in the climate conversation.
Lacy Lingelback is a Florida Student Climate Fellow for the Florida Climate Institute and 
Askew Scholar for UF’s Bob Graham Center for Public Service, having graduated from the 
University of Florida this past spring.What I’ve learned from conversations on climate changeColumn
ALACHUA COUNTY LIBRARY 
DISTRICT’S “STORY TIME ON 
THE GREEN” PROGRAM AIMS 
TO BRING 
FAMILIES TOGETHER
By Phong Huynh
Alligator Staff Writer
On the green lawn of the 
Headquarters Library, 18 children 
and caregivers sat together on June 30 listening to Samantha 
Noll read picture books and sing 
songs using sign language. 
Noll, the 34-year-old library 
specialist in the youth services 
department, said she loves 
spending time with kids and 
engaging them in the library’s 
programs.
“I always like to start with a 
hello song or book,” she said. 
“I hadn’t done it before, but I wanted something that said 
‘hello’ since we haven’t seen 
these guys in a while.”
Alachua County Library 
District’s “Story Time on the 
Green” is an in-person educational 
program for caregivers to bring 
their young children to the 
library branches. Librarians will 
read stories aloud, sing songs and 
lead activities outside on green 
spaces or in parks. The program is intended to help children build 
their communication and reading 
skills. 
Different branches will host 
the program on Tuesdays, 
Wednesdays, Thursdays and 
Saturdays at 10 a.m. for about 30 
minutes until Oct. 2. 
At each branch, librarians 
select books to cater to young 
children. Noll said she picked 
new books that were short, 
colorful and interactive. She said 
she prefers reading pop-up books 
and using funny voices for the 
children. 
Jaqui Sturms, a 38-year-old 
stay-at-home mom who brought 
her daughter, Kaiya, said the 
program was a good opportunity 
for her daughter to socialize.
“Before COVID, she was very 
small, and we came to some of 
the library things, and it was 
good to see the other kids out,” 
she said. “But since COVID has 
happened, there aren’t many 
opportunities for her to see other 
kids and be around kids, which 
is a big problem with COVID 
babies.”
Brent Warner, a 48-year-old 
stay-at-home dad, brought his 
two children. He said he wanted 
to allow his oldest son to spend 
time with other kids because the 
past year limited his son’s social 
interaction. 
“We used to come a lot to 
the library to do a lot of events, 
and it’s kind of hard on him not 
being able to do these things,” he 
said. “I think it’s taking him back 
socially a little bit.” 
Radha Allard, a 28-year-old stay-at-home mom who brought 
her 16-month-old daughter, 
said she liked the relaxed, laid-
back atmosphere. She and other 
caregivers shook brightly colored 
plastic eggs with beans inside 
and sang songs while using sign 
language with their children. 
“I like that it’s very interactive 
so the storyteller gets the chance 
to interact with the story,” she 
said. “It’s not just them telling 
the story.”
Since the program began 
on June 29, it has experienced 
a significant turnout. About 
45 people attended the first 
storytime led by the Millhopper 
Branch team at Possum Creek 
Park, Rachel Cook, the public 
relations and marketing manager 
at the Alachua County Library 
District, wrote in an email.
The library district has 
hosted virtual programs such as 
storytime and art craft tutorials 
through Facebook, YouTube and 
Zoom since March 2020. 
All branches now welcome in-
person visits, and study rooms 
are open for the public. On July 6, 
quiet reading and meeting rooms 
opened for scheduled public use. 
Cook said she hopes more 
parents and caregivers will 
bring their children to this free 
program.
“We encourage families and 
caregivers to bring out blankets 
and chairs to spread out and get 
ready to wiggle and sing and have 
fun with their kids,” she said.
@phongphont
phuynh@alligator.orgAlachua County libraries host in-person, outdoor reading programs for children
Courtesy to The AlligatorAshley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
Live Online Auction with
Audio Streaming
ALTITUDE TRAMPOLINE PARK
“Practically New Equipment”
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
July 27, 2021 at 10 AM
Entire wall to wall trampoline park activ-
ity area equipment consisting of basketball 
court, battle beam area, stump jump area, 
dodgeball area, main court, trapeze / foam 
pit area and performance trampoline area; 
arcades; party room furniture/fixtures; bev-
erage coolers; refrigerator/freezer; Savaria 
V-1504, 750 lb. capacity wheelchair lift; up-
stairs mezzanine area; club lighting; office 
furniture and more. 
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com. 
Pick-up/removal: 1709 E Commercial 
Blvd., Fort Lauderdale, FL 33334 
Preview: 07/26 by appointment. Call for 
details (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS 
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     
7-12-1-101For Rent
furnished
2 bed/2 bath condo adjacent to campus 
w/ss appliances & w/d pool/gym rts bus 
walk to campus shands $1400/mo+util 
annl/lease ask about move-in special! 
Tom @ 941-216-8665                  7-12-21-4-1  
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
2 bed/2 bath condo adjacent to campus 
w/ss appliances & w/d pool/gym rts bus 
walk to campus shands $1200/mo+util 
annl/lease ask about move-in special! 
Tom @ 941-216-8665                    7-12-21-4-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            8-15-21-13-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail-
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod-
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.  
8-1-21-9-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
11..    OOuusstt,,  ddeetthhrroonnee  
11..    RReeaallmm,,  tteerrrriittoorryy  55..    SSaayyiinngg,,  ssllooggaann
22..    TTyyppee  ooff  ccrraatteerr  66..    PPoowweerr
33..    ________  ooffff77..    CClleeaanneedd,,  uupprrooootteedd  
44..    CCrruusshheedd  EESSDDEEOOPP
NNOODDAAIIMMTTMMOOOOTT
HHOOPPOOMM
HHPPEELLOOOOTT
DDSSOORREETTMMDDEEWWEEDDEE
EEDDAAMMHHSSAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--DDeeppoossee    55AA--MMoottttoo    66AA--OOoommpphh    77AA--WWeeeeddeedd
11DD--DDoommaaiinn    22DD--PPootthhoollee    33DD--SSttoorrmmeedd    44DD--MMaasshheedd    BB--MMaassttooddoonn77--1122--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ________  bbeeccaammee  eexxttiinncctt  
aabboouutt  1100,,000000  yyeeaarrss  aaggoo..  
BONUS● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-12
13 Wanted
CASH for WAR RELICS and VINTAGE 
ELECTRONICS
WW1 AND WW2 US/German/Japanese 
swords, daggers, armaments. Also buy-
ing outdated Audio equipment (Amplifiers, 
Tuners, Speakers, Vacuum Tubes.)
Call Chris at 904 315-5208 I PAY FINDERS 
FEES!                                            7-12-9-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RV's 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          7-12-1-1312 Autos 6 Furnishings
By George Jasper
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/12/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/12/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, July 12, 2021
ACROSS
1 Jigsaw puzzle unit
6 Rome’s Fontana 
di __
11 Baseball’s Ripken
14 Fizzy mixers
15 Whirlybird part
16 Ike’s WWII arena
17 The orange one 
is often called a 
yam
19 Court of __
20 Beach souvenirs
21 Golf ball position
22 Complete
24 Words with mode 
or carte
26 Stylish suits
27 Hidden Hogwarts 
corridor
32 Many a stray 
pooch
33 Nonetheless
34 Art class subjects
37 “T” on a test
39 Blunted fencing 
blades
41 Carpet thickness
42 “There you have 
it!”
44 “Fame” singer 
Cara
46 World Cup cheer
47 Behind-the-
scenes investor
50 Business event 
using Zoom, 
perhaps
52 La Brea goo
53 Trouser measure
54 D.C. fundraising 
group
56 Like much tea in 
summer
60 Cry from Homer
61 Group looking for 
a missing person
64 MSNBC 
co-anchor __ 
Velshi
65 German industrial 
city
66 Words of defeat
67 Syrup source
68 Tremble
69 Annual athletic 
achievement 
awards, and a 
phonetic hint to 
17-, 27-, 47- and 
61-AcrossDOWN
1 Attention-getting 
hiss
2 Des Moines’ state
3 Starter home for 
Adam and Eve?
4 Salad variety
5 Superlative 
ending
6 Picard’s 
counselor
7 Mechanical 
learning method
8 LAX posting
9 People filling out 
ballots
10 Ripken nickname 
based on his 
durability
11 Canadian-born 
singer with the 
2019 album 
“Courage”
12 Gaming pioneer
13 The Home Depot 
competitor
18 Nebraska river
23 Prepare to score 
from third, say
25 French article
26 Out for the night
27 Old Canadian 
skit show28 Italian money
29 Vacation vessel
30 __ hot: steaming
31 On the lookout
35 Fashion monthly
36 Visionary
38 Cream of the 
crop
40 Grab quickly
43 Assumed  
names
45 Pitcher’s stat
48 Catch in a net49 “All Rise” 
procedures
50 Golden-touch 
king
51 __ Gay: WWII 
bomber
54 Educ. for tots
55 Teen’s bane
57 Field yield
58 Craftsy etailer
59 Hair salon colors
62 Clean __ whistle
63 Dessert pastry
By Kurt Krauss
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/07/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/07/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, July 7, 2021
ACROSS
1 Tomato used for 
paste
5 Comic strip frame
10 Cookbook abbr.
14 Issue with a URL
15 Colleague of Amy 
and Sonia
16 Roast, on le 
menu
17 Amazed
19 Wilson of 
“Zoolander”
20 Boring lecture 
feature
21 Agatha 
contemporary
22 Blue Bonnet, e.g.
23 Small change
25 Swear off sinning
27 Shout from 
Speedy Gonzales
30 Set, as a price
31 Herr’s home
32 A or Ray, say
35 Chip away at
38 Branch
39 Amazed
41 “101 Dalmatians” 
villain Cruella 
de __
42 __ Ludington, 
1777 militia-
alerting rider
44 “Well done!”
45 Widen, as a hole 
opening
46 Attempts
48 Very
50 __ music: 
orchestrates
52 Ate
54 End for soft or 
silver
55 GPS options
57 Bob Marley, e.g.
61 Lago contents
62 Amazed
64 Foul weather 
gear for Brits
65 Permeate
66 A fisherman may 
spin one
67 Jet black
68 Until now
69 British 
submachine gun
DOWN
1 Collecting Soc. 
Sec., maybe2 Sharif of “Che!”
3 Great white shark 
relative
4 Ulterior motives, 
perhaps
5 Patch veggie
6 “Three Tall 
Women” Pulitzer 
playwright
7 Approaches
8 Something in 
addition to the 
letter: Abbr.
9 Celtic rivals
10 State cop
11 Amazed
12 Dutch painter 
Jan
13 Burgundy grape
18 Astronaut 
Armstrong
24 Protein provider
26 Barely managed, 
with “out”
27 Cries of 
discovery
28 __ a one
29 Amazed
30 River near 
Arezzo
33 Carries with effort
34 “Another Green 
World” musician36 “Buenos __”
37 Red Muppet
39 Bed board
40 Biblical plot
43 “Piece of cake”
45 Censors for 
security reasons
47 Noble Italian 
house that 
produced two 
popes
49 Aloe __
50 Hindu ascetic51 Eddie __, 
Olympic gold-
medalist in 
boxing and 
bobsledding
52 Disney Channel 
star __ Ryan
53 It’s debatable
56 Whiskered males
58 32-card game
59 Marketing leader?
60 Yemeni port
63 Bumped into
07/06/2021Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"answers on page 101. AD SLOGANS: Which 
company used the slogan "The 
Uncola" as a way to stand out 
in the beverage market?
2. ENTERTAINERS: Which 
actor/singer created The 
Cowboy Code in the 1940s?
3. MYTHOLOGY: What 
item is a werewolf's greatest 
weakness?
4. BUSINESS: What is the 
basic currency of Laos?5. U.S. STATES: Which state 
uses the slogan "The Last Fron -
tier" on its license plates?
6. ANATOMY: What is the 
second largest organ in the 
human body? 
7. GEOGRAPHY:  Which 
body of water separates Sau -
di Arabia from Africa? 
8. TELEVISION:  What was 
the name of the detective 
agency in the 1980s series 
"Moonlighting"?
9. SCIENCE: At what wind 
speed is a tropical storm re -
classified as a hurricane?
10. LITERATURE:  Truman 
Capote's book "In Cold Blood" 
takes its name from which of 
Shakespeare's plays?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by FifiRodriguez
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
solution  on page 10Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE: This newspaper assumes no re-
sponsibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate 
the sincerity of the advertiser before giv-
ing out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.answers below1. Who was guest host of "Jeopardy!" 
when contestant Scott Shewfelt gave "Who 
wanted to kick that field goal?" as his Final 
Jeopardy answer?
2. Name the Texas Tech Red Raiders bas -
ketball player whose glass-shattering slam 
dunk in the NCAA Tournament appeared 
on the March 25, 1996, issue of Sports Il -
lustrated.
3. What St. Louis Blues defenseman suffered 
a cardiac arrest and collapsed on the bench 
during a February 2020 game vs. the Ana -
heim Ducks?
4. What NASCAR driver finished sixth in the 
2014 Indianapolis 500 and won Indy 500 
Rookie of the Year honors? 
5. What Oscar-winning film from 1981 de -
picted the true story of British sprinters Eric 
Liddell and Harold Abrahams, who both 
won gold medals at the 1924 Paris Summer 
Olympics?
6. At what stadium did the New York Giants' 
Willie Mays make his famous over-the-shoul -
der catch of a fly ball hit by the Cleveland 
Indians' Vic Wertz in Game 1 of the 1954 
World Series? 
7. What two brothers combined for 93 goals 
during the 1999-2000 NHL regular season?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-21-13-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME.
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact:  fairoaks1879@aol.com   
8-30-21-8-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Join our team!
Hiring committed individuals for our
out of school program for girls ages 5-14.
Applicants must be available M-F.
Schedules vary during summer and
afternoons during the school year. 
Apply at: http://girlsplace.net/employment/
7-26-21-5-14
Leasing Consultant 
CMC is looking for full-time and part-time 
dedicated individuals to join our leasing 
team! The leasing consultant is responsible 
for general office duties, conducting tours of 
apartments & property amenities, qualifying 
prospects, and ensuring completion of lease 
agreements. Must be customer service and 
sales oriented, have excellent communica -
tion skills, be able to work weekends and 
must pass background and drug screen. 
CMC offers a benefits package including 
generous paid time off! Apply at cmcapt.com 
or email katie.castelli@cmcapt.com.   
7-19-21-4-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Trivia Test  answers1. 7UP
2. Gene Autry
3. Silver
4. The kip
5. Alaska6. Liver
7. Red Sea
8. Blue Moon Detective Agency
9. 74 mph
10. "Timon of Athens"Sports Quiz  answers1. Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers.
2. Darvin Ham.
3. Jay Bouwmeester.
4. Kurt Busch.
5. "Chariots of Fire."
6. The Polo Grounds.
7. Pavel (58) and Valeri (35) Bure. 10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
solution  below
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUND
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www. alligator .org/classifieds
(352)373- FIND
classified @alligator.org
Visit alligator.org/classifieds and submit your 
ad to one of the following categories today!
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.SOFTBALL
THREE GATORS SOFTBALL PLAYERS, 
INCLUDING 2014 & 2015 NATIONAL 
CHAMPIONS AUBREE MUNRO AND 
KELSEY STEWART PLAY FOR GOLD IN 
TOKYO. THEY ARE THE FIRST GATOR 
SOFTBALL PLAYERS TO PLAY FOR 
THE USA OLYMPIC TEAM
By Julianna Reichenbach
Sports Writer
Before former UF softball captain Aubree 
Munro wore the orange and blue, she drew 
pictures of herself playing softball on Team 
USA rocking a No. 1 jersey.
Former Gator softball second baseman 
and shortstop Kelsey Stewart said she always 
believed she would go to the Olympics, too. 
She initially planned to swing, vault and flip 
her way onto the five rings a la Simone Biles.
Stewart and Munro, who each graduated 
from UF with degrees in telecommunication 
in 2016, didn’t arrive at their goals the same 
way, but long before they left for the 2020 
Tokyo Olympics, both had aspirations to play 
for the United States on the world’s largest 
sporting stage. 
For several years after the catcher saw the 
2004 Olympic team play in her hometown of 
Brea, California, Munro lived and breathed 
red, white and blue. Even her fourth grade 
school projects reflected those colors.
Munro’s teacher instructed her to draw 
what she wanted to be when she grew up. 
Munro wrote: “I will be an Olympian.” 
Stewart competed in gymnastics until she 
was 15 years old but eventually lost interest. 
She showed her athletic prowess in basket -ball, cheerleading, soccer and volleyball. Fi -
nally, after growing up inspired by the likes 
of Caitlin Lowe, Tairia Flowers and Laura 
“Bergie” Berg, she found herself on the in -
field dirt of a softball field.
When the International Olympic Commit -
tee removed softball from the games in 2008, 
the future Gators said they felt gutted. 
“It was like a dream that was taken 
away,” Stewart said, “and we could do noth -
ing about it.”
The duo merged their paths in Gainesville 
in 2012. Munro was elected captain in her 
debut 2013 spring season. In her career, she 
committed only four errors behind the plate 
in 1,423 chances. In the same four years, 
Stewart had 357 hits and a .391 batting av -
erage, both of which stand alone atop UF’s 
career records. They won two national titles 
and made the Women’s College World Series 
All-Tournament Team in 2014 and 2015. 
With softball out of the Olympic cycle, 
they thought the WCWS in Oklahoma City 
was it. They believed they had reached the 
peak of their sport.  Everything changed with 
a vote.
In August 2016, the IOC decided to bring 
softball back into the games for Tokyo. Elat -
ed, the pair’s dreams came back to life. 
“I felt like a little kid again,” Stewart said. 
“I was dreaming big and no one could tell me 
anything different.”
Both players made the USA Women’s Na -
tional Team in a January 2016 tryout while 
still playing college ball. 
In the final game of the 2018 World Cham -
pionship, Munro hit an RBI double in the 
10th inning with two outs to tie the Olympic-
bid clinching game. Stewart proceeded to hit a single to drive in Michelle Moultrie, who 
played centerfield at UF from 2009 to 2012, 
defeating Japan 7-6.
In October 2019, they were named to the 
U.S. Olympic roster. Stewart, Munro and 
Moultrie were going to Tokyo. 
“We’re the best of friends; we’re like sis -
ters,” Stewart said. “It’s a special bond. It's 
definitely a crazy bond that we have like all 
18 of us [on the Olympic roster] but espe -
cially us three.”
Munro’s mom jokes the number from 
Munro’s drawing represents her because, at 
5 foot 10 inches, she is tall and lanky like the 
number one.
“It's what I dreamed of when I was a 
kid,” Munro said. “It's been my number, my 
whole life, so I'm very attached to it. It’s a 
huge honor.”
Now full circle from when she watched 
Team USA play in Brea, she earned the op -
portunity to play in front of fans all over the 
country in their hometowns, like Gainesville. 
Team USA played in the nationwide Stand 
Beside Her Tour in February 2020 and March 
2021, when Munro traveled from her current 
hometown of Naples, Florida, to play at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium twice. Munro rel -
ishes her memories at UF and how her expe -
riences in big moments prepared her for the 
international stage. The former Gator says 
winning a championship is a familiar feeling.
“I kinda feel like [National] Championship 
vibes right now,” Munro said to Stewart at 
the 2018 World Championships. 
When Team USA scrimmaged the Gators 
in March, Munro received tips from head 
coach Tim Walton, and both Munro and 
Stewart say they know they can call Walton 
at any time.
Stewart said she has grown closer to Wal -
ton after her Gator days, probably because 
he doesn’t have to yell at her anymore. She 
visits the coach whenever she comes to Flor -
ida from her hometown of Wichita, Kansas. 
Stewart said he knows how to talk to her as a 
player when she’s frustrated and praised him 
as being an awesome human being as well 
as a coach.
Stewart is excited to grow the sport of 
softball. Softball is building popularity in the 
U.S., as the 2021 WCWS recorded its high -
est viewer ratings ever. Even internationally, 
the sport features in Japanese video games 
and airport jerseys. Yet, it will not be part 
of the Paris 2024 Olympics and is a toss-up 
for inclusion in the 2028 Los Angeles games. 
Stewart sees that, as Gators, the trio was able 
to affect how people look at softball in the 
United States, and now they can do so on a 
global level. At the Olympics, they can grow 
the game in Europe, Japan and countries 
where it doesn't seem like they play softball.
“Being able to just be a little part of grow -
ing my game and putting softball in the 
Olympics for every Olympics and not just To -
kyo is really the goal,” Stewart said. “I think 
having the platform that I do to give back to 
this game that has given me so much is really 
just unbelievable, and it’s something I truly 
owe to the game.”Munro said she will decorate her room at 
the Olympic Village with notes of people who 
have supported her career, a group she al -
ways relied on to motivate on proving right 
beyond naysayers. Her sister collected around 
50 messages from people like childhood best 
friends, UF coaches and former teammates. 
While loved ones are not allowed to travel 
to Japan amid COVID-19, Munro said seeing 
these people from all along her journey will 
make everything feel a little bit more familiar.
“We all have families that have been a 
part of this for a really long time, so it's not 
just my dream; it's like my family's dream,” 
she said.
Stewart, Munro and Moultrie landed in 
Iwakuni, Japan, July 6 for practices and train -
ing games and travel to Tokyo on July 14. 
Due to their playing schedule, they will not 
be in attendance for the lighting of the eternal 
flame nor the closing ceremonies.
The first pitch will be thrown for Team 
USA July 20 against Italy at 11 p.m. EST. 
The top two from the six-team round-robin 
advance to the gold medal game. The stars 
and stripes play each of the five other inter -
national teams: Italy, Canada, Mexico, Aus -
tralia and Japan. 
Historically, the biggest threat has been 
host Japan, which defeated star-studded 
Team USA in 2008. Munro and Stewart said 
they need to be on their A-game every day, as 
they know each opponent could send them 
packing any given day.
If they win the gold medal? Stewart wants 
to keep it safe & visible, on her neck.
“I don’t think it’s ever going to come off,” 
Stewart said.
Munro now gets to bring her childhood 
drawing to life and wear No. 1 for Team USA, 
as the trio attempts to become Florida soft -
ball’s first Olympic champions.
@Julianna_Reich 
jreichenbach@alligator.orgGator softball Olympic dreams come true
Jordan McPherson / / Alligator Staff
Aubree Munro catches during Florida's 7-1 win against Kansas on Feb. 21, 2015, 
at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.Jordan McPherson / / Alligator Staff
Kelsey Stewart bats during Florida's 
doubleheader sweep against Jacksonville 
on Feb. 17, 2016, at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 12, 2021
BASEBALL
AN IN-DEPTH ANALYSIS 
OF FLORIDA BASEBALL 
ALUMNI IN THE PROS
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
While fans wait for the return 
of college baseball, MLB teams 
enter the All-Star break and 
several UF alumni are making 
their mark among the elite. 
There’s a copious amount of 
Gators spread about the major 
and minor leagues such as New 
York Mets first baseman Pete 
Alonso and right-handed pitcher 
Shaun Anderson, who just got 
promoted from Triple-A Norfolk 
to help out the Baltimore Orioles.
Every player on the list brings 
their own set of skills to the table, 
and this list narrows down the 
five former Gators tearing apart 
the league the most in 2021.
No. 1 - Mike Zunino, Catcher, 
T ampa Bay Rays  
2021 American All-Star 
Selection Zunino starts off the 
list. The nine-year veteran catcher 
set his anchor back in his home 
state of Florida after six seasons 
on the west coast with the Seattle 
Mariners. 
A 30-year-old from Cape Coral, 
Florida, Zunino was the third 
overall draft pick by Seattle in 2012. The former Gator knocked 
19 home runs in the first half 
of the season to lead the Rays 
and ranks second among MLB 
catchers in dingers. 
Zunino’s .198 batting average 
doesn’t leap off the page, but his 
defensive work behind the plate 
helped the veteran earn his first 
appearance in the All Star game 
July 13. The catcher threw out 
510 baserunners on 538 chances 
this year and recorded 26 assists 
so far this season.
The Rays compiled a six game 
win streak but lost to the Toronto 
Blue Jays on Sunday afternoon. 
Zunino went one-for-three in the 
Saturday matchup with a home 
run in the bottom of the third.
No. 2 - Pete Alonso, 1B, 
New York Mets
The second-round pick in the 
2016 MLB Amateur Draft made 
a name for himself in the 2019 
season. He recorded 53 home 
runs, the most by a rookie in MLB 
history, and won National League 
Rookie of the Year. 
The right-handed first baseman 
played for the Gators in 2014-2016 
before being selected by the New 
York Mets in the 2nd round and 
sent down to the minor leagues. 
Now in his third season, the 26 
year-old remains consistent and 
has eclipsed his pace from the 2020 season. 
The Polar Bear has been on 
and off the injured list because 
of a lingering hand sprain but 
returned to the lineup June 9 to 
launch two home runs against 
the Baltimore Orioles. In a 
recent double header against the 
Pittsburgh Pirates July 10, Alonso 
bombed his 17th home run while 
going one-for-four in the 4-2 win.
Besides his 17 trots around the 
bases, Alonso has tallied 68 hits 
in 268 at-bats, carries a .332 on-
base percentage and recorded 49 
RBIs. The slugger’s hot bat will 
be tested further when he defends 
his crown in the 2021 edition of 
the Home Run Derby.
No. 3 - Jonathan India, 2B, 
Cincinnati Reds
A rookie hailing from Ft. 
Lauderdale, Florida, India 
recently broke into the MLB and 
quickly claimed the spotlight in 
southern Ohio. Selected in the 
first round of the 2018 Amateur 
Draft, India blasted through two 
seasons in the minor leagues 
before being called upon to play 
second base for the Cincinnati 
Reds.
Cincinnati sits in second place 
in the National League Central 
due in large part to the hot bat 
of the former Gator. India logged 
78 starts this season with a .275 average and batting in 42 runs. 
The rookie leads the Reds with a 
team-high seven stolen bases. 
In a 5-2 victory July 7 over 
the Kansas City Royals, India 
went three-of-four and recorded 
a double plus two RBIs. The 
rookie’s slugging percentage rests 
at .408 on the year.
No. 4 - Anthony DeSclafani, 
Pitcher, San Francisco Giants
The first pitcher on the list is 
a seasoned seventh-year pitcher 
currently working through his 
debut with the San Francisco 
Giants. 
DeSclafani earned the trust of 
Giants manager Gabe Kapler to 
start on the hill with a 2.68 ERA. 
The 31-year-old right hander 
carries a 10-3 overall record in 
107.1 innings tossed. 
The veteran tossed two 
complete game shutouts this 
season against the Colorado 
Rockies April 26 and most 
recently against the Washington 
Nationals June 11. In the two 
starts, DeSclafani threw 17 total 
strikeouts while only giving up 
five hits and two walks.
No. 5 - Dane Dunning, Pitcher, 
T exas Rangers
The right-handed Dunning 
played for the Florida Gators from 
2014-2016 before being drafted by 
the Washington Nationals in the first round of the 2016 Amatuer 
Draft. 
Washington traded Dunning to 
the Chicago White Sox to work in 
the minor leagues before Chicago 
shipped the pitcher to his current 
squad, the Texas Rangers. 
The veteran has now found 
his home in the lone star state 
and made 17 starts but is only 
credited with a 3-6 overall record. 
In 79 innings pitched, the right 
hander from Orange Park, Florida, 
successfully struck out 85 of 342 
batters while giving up 86 hits 
and seven home runs.
Dunning struck out six and 
allowed one hit in his last five 
inning start against the Detroit 
Tigers July 6. The hurler’s ERA 
stands steady at 4.22 for the 
season while his ERA+ is at 106, 
just above the MLB average of 
100.
Honorable Mention - Brady Singer, 
Pitcher, Kansas City
Singer narrowly missed a spot 
in the top five this week despite 
similar statistics to Dunning. 
The right hander from Leesburg, 
Florida, carries a 3-6 record in 18 
starts but finished his most recent 
stint against the Cincinnati Reds 
with six strikeouts in six innings 
pitched.
jrichardson@alligator.org
@JesseRich352Gators in the MLB - former Florida stars shine in pros