We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Shock therapy
Shands patient was forcibly given the treatment,  pg. 4
A word from UF President Fuchs
Read the president’s latest column,  pg. 7Senior day success leaves more 
questions than answers
Gators ride Dameon Pierce and Anthony Richardson to 
a victory against Florida State Saturday — so why didn’t 
they do so earlier this season? Read more on pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 15
No car? No problem.
Hitch oﬀers private and shared rides from Gainesville to Orlando, 
Jacksonville, Tampa, and more. 
First ride is FREE!* CODE: UFNEWS1 ridehitch.com *discount up to $50
THE FORMER LOUISIANA HEAD 
COACH REPLACES DAN MULLEN, 
FOURTH FLORIDA COACH SINCE 2014
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Florida football has found its next head 
coach — Louisiana’s Billy Napier.
The team announced Napier will arrive in 
Gainesville on Dec. 5, with his introductory 
press conference on the same day.
The Ragin’ Cajuns head coach, who spent 
the past four seasons in the Bayou, led Louisi -
ana to a 39-12 record across his tenure, includ -
ing a 27-5 record in the Sun Belt. He leaves UL 
with the highest winning percentage in school 
history (76.5%), and he reached the confer -
ence championship game in each of his four 
seasons. 
After UL never won more than nine games 
in a season in school history, Napier strung to -
gether three straight seasons with double-digit 
wins in his final three years with the program 
and elevated the team to its first-ever Associ -
ated Press ranking. 
Napier went 32-5 overall and 22-2 in the 
Sun Belt across his final three seasons.“Our team, staff and entire organization 
will work daily to establish a program with in -
tegrity and class that we all can be proud of,” 
Napier said in the team’s release.
The newest Gators’ head coach learned un -
der both Alabama’s Nick Saban and Clemson’s 
Dabo Swinney. Napier was Swinney’s assistant 
coach and tight ends coach from 2006-08 and 
his offensive coordinator and quarterbacks 
coach from 2009-10. He was the youngest of -
fensive coordinator in the FBS at the time of his 
promotion at just 29 years old, but the Tigers 
let him go before the 2011 season.
Saban came calling next, and Napier spent 
the 2011 season with the Crimson Tide as an 
offensive analyst. He left for Colorado State to 
be an assistant coach and quarterbacks coach, 
but returned to the Tide in 2013 to work as a 
wide receivers coach and assistant coach for 
four seasons before Louisiana gave him his 
first head coaching job.
Former head coach Dan Mullen won 34 
games and made a Southeastern Conference 
championship appearance in four seasons but 
was fired after an overtime loss to Missouri on 
Nov. 20.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgFlorida football hires Billy Napier as next head coach
By Desiree Anello
Alligator Contributing Writer 
 
A course meant to recognize the 
diversity of Florida’s history has 
stirred up some unintended emo -
tions in students, causing them to 
question the value of the course. 
The African American Studies de -
partment is offering a course next se -
mester titled “Blacks in Florida” un -
der the course code AFA4225. Some 
students said the wording of the 
course title is off-putting and may 
take away from the intentions of the course. Others believe the course of -
fers a different look into Black expe -
riences in Florida.
Tyler Thomas, a 19-year-old UF 
biology major, said the phrasing of 
the title and its presentation of the 
term “Blacks” seemed demeaning. 
Thomas, who is Black, feels it is in -
sensitive.
“It kind of makes us subhuman 
in a way because it calls back to the 
time of segregation and when it was 
used like that,” he said.
Thomas said it’s important to 
learn the history behind language when it comes to topics of race and 
ethnicity and educate people who 
don’t realize their words can be of -
fensive and rude. 
The course is making a come -
back after it was taught in 2014 and 
again during the Spring 2020 semes -
ter, said David A. Canton, UF Afri -
can American Studies department 
director. While he said he was not 
responsible for naming this course, 
replacing the current phrasing with 
something that sounds more pleas -By Camila Pereira & 
Elena Barrera
Alligator Staff Writers
Last week, UF wrapped up 
its internal investigation into 
conflicts-of-interest and outside 
activities policies, offering policy 
recommendations to avoid future 
scandals. 
Although the report followed 
recommendations made by a task 
force created to reimagine UF’s 
conflict of interest policies, the 
proposed changes would still allow 
the university to bar professors 
from testifying in the future. 
President Kent Fuchs sent the announcement in a university-
wide email Tuesday, where he 
also wrote UF had sent documents 
to its accreditor to comply with its 
investigation.
Fuchs created the task force 
Nov. 5, and it concluded right 
before Thanksgiving break — a 
week earlier than its scheduled 
deadline. The task force’s final 
report recommendations stated 
UF could still deny testimony if it 
thought professors were engaging 
in too many outside activities 
restricting them from duties at UF.
In Tuesday’s email, Fuchs 
wrote that he accepted the UF African American Studies course title 
sparks controversy among studentsUF ties up loose ends in academic 
freedom scandal, criticism mountsCourtesy of the Associated Press
Louisiana-Lafayette head coach Billy Napier is congratulated by Louisiana-
Monroe Offensive Coordinator Rich Rodriguez after the Ragin’ Cajuns won 
21-16, Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021.
SEE TASK FORCE,  PAGE 5SEE BLACK HISTORY,  PAGE 4It’ s not the first time the course has been offeredT oday’s Weather
AS OF NOV. 19, THERE HAVE 
BEEN FOUR INDECENT 
EXPOSURES ON CAMPUS 
THIS YEAR   
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Equipped with pepper spray, a 
young woman now chooses her seat 
placement cautiously — always mak -
ing sure a camera is in sight. 
She hasn’t felt safe on campus 
since Oct. 23 at the Reitz Union food 
court, where a man who hasn’t been 
found by police masturbated in front 
of her. 
She doesn’t know if she will ever 
feel safe on campus again.
The victim made a post on Reddit 
in November, detailing the incident. 
But one key portion of the post rec -
ognized a shortcoming: the need for 
more security on campus. An image 
of the suspect obtained by the Uni -
versity Police Department is grainy, 
black and white.
Still, the incident at the Reitz 
Union lingers in her memory.
“It is still encouraging that there 
are more security cameras being put 
in place and that UPD is recogniz -
ing the situation,” she said. “But it 
doesn't doesn't fix what happened.”
She said UPD called her and 
apologized for the way it handled 
her phone call after the incident was 
reported. Initially, her report was dis -
missed.
On the phone, a dispatcher told her father the victim didn’t want to 
open an investigation. 
However, the victim said she was 
never asked whether she wanted 
one. After UPD called and apolo -
gized on Nov. 19, she was told the 
dispatcher, although trained by the 
university, was new to the position. 
UPD Chief Linda Stump said there 
was likely a miscommunication be -
tween the victim and the dispatcher. 
“We are all the time going back 
and reviewing our protocols, review -
ing our dispatcher's conversations 
and how direct they need to be,” 
Stump said. “We’ll go back and re -
train. We’ll go back and take a look 
at the protocols and make sure … 
what’s getting reported to us is taken 
very seriously and is responded to 
appropriately.”
After the victim called a second 
time affirming her desire to open 
an investigation, uniformed officers 
were sent to the Reitz Union to pa -
trol, Stump said. Officers not in uni -
form were also sent out to investigate 
undercover.
A Nov. 22 updated version of the 
bulletin described the victim’s assail -
ant as a 30-to-40-year-old mixed race 
male. On Nov. 16 and Sept. 24, UPD 
received reports of suspicious people 
around the Reitz Union. 
As of Nov. 19, there have been 
four indecent exposures on campus 
in 2021, according to UPD data ob -
tained by The Alligator. 
“I think some people look at sexu -
al harrassment as a victimless crime. 
It’s not, it’s a serious crime with seri -
ous consequences,” the victim wrote in a text. “I hope that UF and UPD 
take the necessary steps to prevent 
another girl from having to live with 
this feeling.”
Stump said if the man is found 
he will be barred from campus. If he 
comes to campus afterward, a sworn 
complaint will be filed with the 
State Attorney’s Office with charges 
against him. 
“This is obviously a crime that no -
body wants to happen,” Stump said. 
“It shouldn't happen. It shouldn't 
happen in our environment and we 
want to find these perpetrators and 
ban them from campus activities.”
UF has also been working to bol -
ster security on campus.
In February, the Division of Stu -
dent Life requested the installation 
of cameras for the Reitz Union, UF 
Spokesperson Cynthia Roldan wrote. 
The request was approved by the 
State University System’s Capital Im -
provement Trust Fund Committee 
for $105,000. In August, UF’s Student 
Government agreed to contribute an 
additional $45,000 for the cameras. 
The university will begin install -
ing the cameras in the Reitz Union 
in Spring 2022, Roldan wrote. How -
ever, she wrote the university can -
not disclose the number or locations 
of the cameras because of a Florida 
statute. 
Roldan encourages everyone on 
campus to report any crime or suspi -
cious behavior. 
The victim, although frustrated, 
recognizes the university’s efforts. 
“It is encouraging to hear that this 
is a problem that’s recognized and 
something that is recognized as being 
needed to change,” she said.
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 15
 UF, UPD respond to sexual 
violence at Reitz Union352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
Catherine McCarthy / / Alligator Staff
The Reitz Union is seen on Nov. 14, 2021.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
With his heart racing, chest 
pounding and eyes locked in, 
Anthony Arambula darted 
downfield, fighting for the ball. He 
gave everything for the sport he 
loved most: soccer.
Just a few weeks later, tears 
streamed down the faces of family 
and friends at the Santa Fe High School football field as they joined 
together to celebrate Anthony’s life 
Tuesday.
Anthony, a sophomore at Santa 
Fe High School, died at 16 on Nov. 
22. 
Paul Richardson, a Santa Fe 
soccer coach, worked with him 
four times a week on the field
“The good thing about Anthony 
is you could kind of use him as a 
wildcard,” Richardson said. “He was versatile in many different 
positions.”
Anthony, a left winger for Santa 
Fe High School, moved up to the 
varsity level to conclude the 2020-
2021 season and stayed there this 
season.
Richardson said Anthony  
was honest with himself and his 
mistakes. The coach wishes he 
could’ve watched him become an 
even better player. 
“If he messed up or he did 
something incorrectly, he always 
wanted to make it better,” 
Richardson said. “He made us feel 
like we might be doing something 
good as coaches.” 
Growing up, Anthony wanted 
to pursue a career in STEM, 
focusing on marine biology. That 
aspiration soon dissolved as he 
was introduced to sports.
As a kid in football, he moved 
around on offense — quarterback, 
fullback, general running back. He 
stuck with linebacker on  defense 
and specialized in the position in 
high school.
He yearned to become a 
professional athlete, either in 
soccer or football. A Miami native, 
Anthony dreamed of attending 
the University of Miami to play 
football because the university 
does not offer a Division 1 men’s 
soccer team.
Countless hours dedicated to 
playing basketball, soccer, tennis 
and football defined his life since 
he was 6, said Anthony’s father, 
Jonathan Arambula.
Jonathan holds on tight to 
memories he made when his son 
was little. He’ll always remember 
holding Anthony in his arms night 
after night carrying him to bed. 
Jonathan would do it forever if he 
could, he said
His mother, Angela Arambula, 
said he used to fall asleep twirling 
her hair. She would laugh as she 
combed her untangled hair later in 
the night. He started twirling his 
own hair as he grew older.
“[He was] my sunshine,” 
Angela said.
Santa Fe High School organized 
a vigil for Anthony Nov. 23. About 150 students, teachers, friends and 
family gathered on the field. Poster 
boards with his portrait on them 
were passed around the bleachers 
for everyone to sign and 16 candles 
circulated around the crowd. 
Although hesitant to go, 
Jonathan and Angela attended the 
vigil to be present for everyone 
who knew their son.
“As soon as I crossed the gate 
from the concession stands, I felt 
like tearing up,” Jonathan said.
The family paused on the stand’s 
walkway to hug one another before 
they sat on the bleachers. The vigil 
helped their 13-year-old daughter, 
Isabella Arambula, cope with loss.
“It showed [Isabella] how many 
people’s lives he touched — how 
many people loved him,” he said.
He was in a state of shock until 
later in the week when he had a 
complete breakdown.
Anthony’s cousin, 16-year-old 
Santa Fe junior Adrian Roman, 
held a strong bond with him as 
they played soccer recreationally 
and on the high school team. When Adrian would get 
flustered on the soccer field, 
Anthony always reminded him it 
was just a game.
Aside from seeing each other 
at school every day, the two often 
hung out, playing Call of Duty, 
Minecraft and FIFA together.
When Anthony passed, many 
students thought it wasn’t real. 
Roman was bombarded with texts 
asking if the news was true, he 
said. But he had to be the bearer 
of bad news.
A viewing was held Sunday. 
The school is offering counseling 
on site and a public funeral will 
be held at Holy Family Catholic 
Church in Williston on Monday at 
11 a.m. It will be an open casket.  
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance 
is also creating a scholarship in 
dedication to Anthony. It will offer 
financial aid to a recipient that 
mirrors Anthony’s characteristics 
on and off the field, his father said.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgThe left winger: Family, friends remember Santa Fe High School athlete  
Courtesy to The AlligatorCourtesy to The Alligator
THE SF ACHIEVE PROGRAM WILL 
PLACE COLLEGE COUNSELORS IN 
EVERY HIGH SCHOOL IN ALACHUA 
AND BRADFORD COUNTIES
By Eve Thompson
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua and Bradford County high 
school students will now receive college-
level counseling at their local high schools 
because of SF Achieve, Santa Fe College’s 
new mentorship program that launched 
Nov. 4.
The program places Santa Fe college 
counselors in every high school in 
Alachua and Bradford counties. The 
goal is to provide scholarships and 
textbook stipends, and show high school 
students higher education options — from 
community colleges and trade schools to 
four-year universities.Quinten Eyman, director of the SF 
Achieve program said the Alachua County 
School Board approved the agreement Nov. 
2, and P.K. Yonge passed it two weeks later 
while the Bradford County School Board 
approved it in October.
More than 70 students have signed up 
for SF Achieve as of Tuesday, Eyman said.
He said SF Achieve will create more 
college-aware, college-prepared students.
“We want college to be as big a reality 
for everybody as possible,” Eyman 
said. “We look at it as the golden ticket 
to a better, more prosperous and more 
satisfying future for everybody.” 
There are four SF Achieve trained 
college coaches who offer one-on-one 
support, as well as classroom presentations 
on career exploration, time management 
and financial aid. 
Marie Young is one of the four 
specialists, working at Buchholz High School, Gainesville High School, North 
Central Florida Charter School and Pace 
Center for Girls. She hopes to help students 
understand what college is really about.
“It’s helping them down the road, but 
it’s also empowering them right now, to 
give them a reason for all the hard work 
that they’re already having to do,” Young 
said.
Once a student signs up for SF Achieve, 
they are enrolled in a Canvas course about 
college readiness, which they complete at 
their own pace.
From there, students can apply to be 
an Achieve scholar and commit to be 
enrolled at Santa Fe College. The Achieve 
scholarship will fill in gaps between 
financial aid and what the student is able 
to contribute.
Robert Gregory is another SF Achieve 
specialist who works at Newberry High 
School and Santa Fe High School, among others. He was a high school teacher for 
almost 20 years.
“What I hope to come out of this is a 
much better connection to the idea for high 
school students that going to college isn’t 
as intimidating or as big of a process as 
they might think,” Gregory said.
Eyman said he hopes the program, along 
with the scholarship and book stipends it 
offers, will inspire high school students to 
consider higher education as not only an 
academic decision, but a financial one.
“The college experience is a great 
one,” Eyman said. “It’s a great personal 
experience for a lot of people. But really, 
it’s meant to be a launching pad. It’s meant 
to be a place from which you can get to 
that future, to that career, to that starting 
salary that you want.”
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.orgSanta Fe College launches high school counseling program SF AchieveThe sophomore died Nov. 224   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021UF HEALTH SHANDS CLAIMS SHOCK 
THERAPY IS SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
WHILE ADVOCATES SAY IT’S 
DANGEROUS AND INHUMANE
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF Health Shands psychiatric patient was 
cornered by staff, shocked by force and left with 
lasting memory damage. 
In early June, Brian Henley attempted to 
leave his assisted living facility, suffering a 
shoulder injury in the process. After being in 
the emergency room for the fracture, he was 
forced into UF Health Shands Psychiatric Hospi -
tal. There, he told staff he had a heart condition 
that could make electroshock deadly. 
Henley was cornered by about 20 staff mem -
bers and forced into shock therapy for weeks, 
said Michele Diamond, Henley’s Shield Cam -
paign Manager for MindFreedom International, 
a nonprofit advocating for people with mental 
health disorders. Henley said he was forced to 
undergo 12 shock procedures. Diamond said 
she talked with Henley by phone while he was 
at Shands and has spoken with him since his 
release.
Electroconvulsive therapy uses an electric 
current to the head to treat mood disorders, 
like depression and bipolar disorder, according 
to UF Health. The current causes a seizure in 
the brain, which doctors believe helps it rewire 
itself, helping relieve symptoms of mood disor -
ders. ECT is legal in the U.S. and is generally safe 
and effective, according to UF Health. In some 
cases, with courts’ permission, doctors can 
force very sick patients to get the treatment, ac -
cording to a Business Insider article.
The therapy’s response rate is high, even 
when prior medication and therapy trials have 
failed, according to UF Health. It’s also used for 
mania, catalonia and psychosis when individu -
als don’t improve with other treatments. Many 
tolerate ECT better than multiple medications, 
according to UF Health.
But that wasn’t the case for Henley. He had 
been living in an assisted living facility near 
Orlando for years after trying to harm himself. 
When he attempted to escape, he was forced 
into the hospital.
UF Health did not comment on Henley’s 
case, citing patient privacy laws. 
Despite heart complications being a side ef -
fect of ECT, Henley was forced into the therapy 
after telling doctors he was at risk for heart 
problems, Diamond said.
“He was very fearful,” Diamond said. “I just 
prayed for him during these treatments.”
After shock, Henley began forgetting things, 
mixing up his words and repeating himself, ac -
cording to MindFreedom International. Despite 
nerve pain and shaking legs, staff didn’t help, 
Diamond said. 
Diamond believes Henley was admitted 
to Shands the week of June 6, and said he re -
ceived shock three days per week until being 
discharged July 20. Diamond estimates he was 
in the hospital for about six to seven weeks.
But shock’s effects lingered long after Hen -ley’s discharge, Diamond said, causing depres -
sion.
“He couldn’t even walk out of the assisted 
living up to the store. He said ‘I’ll get lost,’” Dia -
mond said.
Henley refused to comment but agreed to let 
Diamond represent him.
With risks as severe as death, Diamond said 
electroshock should be banned and replaced 
with more humane treatments, like talk therapy.
“That’s what most people need, is just to talk 
to somebody non-judgmentally, without hav -
ing the fear of being locked away for how they 
feel,” Diamond said. 
While anesthesia can impair memory, the 
effect is variable and can be decreased with uni -
lateral ECT, Elias Sarkis, medical director of Sar -
kis Family Psychiatry and Clinical Trials, wrote 
in an email.
“ECT is associated with lifesaving improve -
ment in patients,” Sarkis wrote.
UF Health offers ECT to hospitalized patients 
and outpatients. Its website provides more in -
formation. UF Health declined to comment on 
ECT for this story.
Ron Bassman, executive director of Mind -
Freedom International, said he was forced into 
shock therapy in 1969, when he was 25. He lost 
his memory for about a year and a half and be -
lieves shock hindered his creativity. 
Bassman’s experience pushed him to help 
others as a psychologist. His success the past 40 
years has led others who’ve undergone shock 
to come see him, asking if their memory would 
return. 
“It’s unpredictable,” Bassman said. “There’s usually some fragments that don’t come back.”
For the past year and a half, Bassman said he 
has worked with a woman who had 99 electro -
shock treatments and lost her memory. But her 
doctor said the memory loss was from depres -
sion. Despite rationalizations about side effects, 
studies reveal the damage shock does, Bassman 
said.
“It’s probably a mystery why I was able to go 
on,” Bassman said. 
While some have said their lives were saved 
with electroshock, Bassman hypothesized it’s a 
small proportion of patients. 
While Bassman said people should be free to 
choose their treatment, forced shocking should 
be banned. But he said there isn’t true informed 
consent, because doctors don’t tell patients the 
irreparable damage shock does.
“This is pretty much an ongoing fight to in -
form the public,” Bassman said.
Most people who chose to undergo electro -
shock were angry they weren’t told the truth 
about it, Jim Gottstein, an attorney and founder 
of PsychRights, said. Shock causes more perma -
nent memory loss than any other closed-head 
injury. Gottstein also said electroshock doesn’t 
treat mood disorders. It may work for a day or 
two because of the euphoria from a head injury, 
but once effects wear off, doctors have to keep 
performing it, causing progressive brain damage 
and memory loss.
“Electroshock is as barbaric as it seems,” 
Gottstein said.
@joprison
joprison@alligator.org
SG PASSED FEWER 
BILLS THAN SPRING
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
The number of bills that have ap -
peared on the Senate floor this semes -
ter pales in comparison to the Spring 
semester.
Last Spring, SG passed 19 bills —  
at least 11 of which were resolutions. 
This semester, SG passed less than 
half of that. Seven bills were approved 
in the Senate chamber since Septem -
ber: three of which were resolutions.
The chamber lacked its typical live -
liness this semester as debate ceased 
to exist and senators got to call it a 
night within an hour of establishing 
quorum for several meetings. Gator 
Party senators called “previous ques -
tion,” or a motion to end debate, at 
any spark of conversation.  
As many as six Senate meetings 
did not take place this semester, along 
with at least four Judiciary Committee 
meetings due to senators declining to 
submit legislation or failing to meet 
quorum. 
The bills passed include a resolu -
tion recognizing the COVID-19 crisis 
in South Asia; the Senate Reapportion -
ment Act, which decides how many 
seats election districts receive in the 
Senate; and the Honor Code Adminis -
tration Independence Act, which takes 
away the Senate’s power to approve 
vice chairs in the agency by a two-
thirds vote. 
Senate also passed two revisions 
to the 800 codes. One keeps student 
organizations from using SG funds to 
pay dues to national organizations or 
items that are unapproved by UF for 
P-card transactions. The other makes 
available semester funds carry over only to the next corresponding semes -
ter.
The last two resolutions passed in -
clude one supporting the restoration of 
Liberty Pond and another advocating 
for a crosswalk on the intersection of 
University Ave and NW 26th Street. 
Senator Oscar Santiago (Change, 
District D) wrote in an email that 
much of the work some members of 
SG accomplish take place behind the 
scenes. 
Change senators have met with or 
plan to meet with departments such 
as the Field and Fork Pantry to dis -
cuss expansion, Nightlife Navigators 
to expand safe transportation options, 
and Internal Affairs to expand mental 
health services on campus, Minor -
ity Party Leader Gabrielle Adekunle 
(Change, District D) wrote in an email.
Change Party has not authored any 
passed legislation since the Fall elec -
tions when 12 minority party senators 
won seats in the chamber. However, 
Change Party currently has four bills 
set to be reviewed by the Judiciary 
Committee. Santiago authored three of 
those himself. 
The bills include a resolution sup -
porting funding for 24-hour libraries, 
an amendment that would allow peo -
ple to sign up for public comment up 
until 5 p.m. the day of a Senate meet -
ing as opposed to the night before, 
and another amendment that would 
allow anyone who isn’t an SG official 
to sponsor a bill. 
Senator Daniel DiBari (Gator, Dis -
trict A) authored a resolution demand -
ing an expansion of plane travel to and 
out of Gainesville and Deputy Minority 
Party Leader Faith Corbett (Change, 
District D) authored a resolution con -
demning the sexual assault that oc -
curred in the Reitz Union on Oct. 23.
The Judiciary Committee will re -view the bills and when passed to the 
Senate floor, it is most likely that the 
resolutions regarding expanding air 
travel, supporting funding for 24-hour 
libraries and condemning the sexual 
assault in the Reitz will pass. These 
topics are generally bipartisan in the 
chamber. 
It is unclear how senators will vote 
on Santiago’s proposed amendments 
focusing on bill sponsorships and pub -
lic comment. 
“There are so many ideas and ini -
tiatives that I and our other Change 
Senators constantly have in the back 
of our minds or are actively work -
ing on at all times,” Adekunle wrote. 
“This semester alone was not enough 
time to be able to accomplish all that 
we want.”
Senate Pro-Tempore Noah Fineberg 
(Gator, District A) is thrilled with the 
work SG has completed over the past 
several months. Some projects include 
allocating an additional $500,000 to 
student organizations, expanding the 
size of the RecSports weight room, 
providing free engineering paper, in -
dex cards and graph paper to all stu -
dents, along with starting the Stay 
Fresh Laundry Grant Initiative. 
Students bring many issues to the 
attention of SG, Fineberg wrote, but 
oftentimes those problems are out of 
the scope of the Senate’s power in 
terms of policies.  
While Fineberg feels satisfied with 
the amount of work SG has accom -
plished, Santiago does not.
“I feel as though more can be done,” 
Santiago wrote. “In the Spring, I hope 
to work with our caucus to write even 
more pieces of legislation, fighting for 
the causes we campaigned on.”
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgAdvocates demand change following forced shock therapy case at Shands
Here is what you missed in Student Government this Fall
ing may prove to be limiting. 
“It’s inclusive in terms 
of looking at the different 
experiences in the state of 
Florida,” he said. “I believe 
that makes it more inclusive 
than when we used to say the 
Black experience. There has 
never been just one Black ex -
perience.”
The experiences discussed 
in the course may also be 
based upon class, gender and 
sexual orientation. The title 
“Blacks in Florida” allows for 
these experiences to remain 
separate and equally impor -
tant, he said.
Amanda Concha-Holmes 
is the professor that will teach 
the course for the first time 
during the Spring 2022 se -
mester. She said it will be a 
learning experience for both 
herself and her students. 
When she committed to 
teaching the course, the title 
had already been solidified. 
She said she would have cho -
sen Black lives or Black expe -
riences rather than “Blacks” 
as a category, but she still 
believes the title represents 
the foundations of the course 
well. 
“The whole point of it is 
to be able to better value the 
complexity of Black lives in 
Florida and to recognize a 
much richer history that often 
gets overlooked if not erased 
from the textbooks, from the 
classrooms and from even 
media representations,” Con -
cha-Holmes said. People of African descent 
were major players in nearly 
every significant event in the 
history of Florida, she said. 
The course is designed to tell 
those stories and show stu -
dents how to take that knowl -
edge beyond the classroom 
and into communities and 
conversations.
Regardless of intent, stu -
dents showed concern others 
might be deterred from taking 
the course because of the ini -
tial implications of the title. 
“Blacks in Florida just 
sounds like you’re look -
ing from the outside with a 
microscope,” said Ashanti 
Brown, a 22-year-old UF pub -
lic relations major. “It just 
sounds like you’re almost 
judging them.”
Brown said people don’t 
know what a class has to of -
fer until they take it. The title 
provides the first look into the 
course and a title that can be 
taken as controversial may 
steer some students away, 
she said.
Concha-Holmes said she 
hopes students will not be 
discouraged by a title that 
was already in the books.
“We have such a mix of 
histories,” she said, “And 
that’s part of the goal is to 
recognize the diversity that’s 
here and then allow for that 
to come to the fore.”
 
Desiree Anello is a 
contributing writer 
for The Alligator.BLACK HISTORY , from pg. 1‘Makes us subhuman ’MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer 
The shuffling of shoes on 
bleachers quiets as the national 
anthem begins to shake the 
stadium. Fans rise, remove their 
hats and place their hands over 
their hearts. 
Some athletes on the sideline of 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium stand 
with the crowd. But most of the 
team members kneel to make their 
voices heard with silence.
When the first note of the 
anthem reverberates, the athletes 
take a knee or stand upright. 
The squad places a hand over 
their hearts and another over a 
teammate’s shoulder to express 
unity among the team.
Demonstrations like kneeling 
for the anthem, which became commonplace a year ago during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, have 
grown scarce. The Florida Gators 
soccer team, however, refuses 
to surrender the fight against 
injustice as some communities in 
the U.S. struggle for equality.
The form of protest stems back 
to 2016 with professional athletes, 
such as former NFL quarterback 
Colin Kaepernick, at the forefront. 
It reignited after the murder of 
George Floyd, an unarmed Black 
man killed by a police officer, in 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, in May 
2020.
Kouri Peace, a junior forward, 
kneels with her teammates to 
bring awareness of ongoing racial 
injustices in the country.
“There are people who are 
treated unfairly because of the 
color of their skin in America, and it’s not right,” Peace said. “Even 
though [kneeling], right now, may 
not seem like the right thing to do, 
I feel like it is in my heart because 
I’ve had personal experiences and 
worries about my loved ones.”
A year and a half ago, the UF 
roster met to discuss each athlete’s 
perspective about the injustices 
taking place. Everyone was 
transparent with how they felt and 
if they were going to participate in 
the demonstrations.
The team said no hateful 
comments or gruesome debates 
were sparked, despite the heavy 
topics. The squad came to an 
agreement within minutes, and 
the season continued with no off-
field quarrels.
Peace said she’ll never stop 
fighting and wants to set an 
example for the next generation. “Always do what you feel is 
right, even when there are people 
telling you that it’s wrong,” she 
said.
A specific line of the pledge 
of allegiance motivates Cameron 
Hall, a junior, to kneel before 
games. 
With liberty and justice for all.
She said her sign of protest 
symbolizes inequality against 
women, oppression of the 
LGBTQ+ community and unjust 
imprisonment and abuse of 
minorities.
“Until all — every creed, race, 
sexuality, nationality, and religion 
— have justice within our country, 
I will be kneeling for the national 
anthem,” she said. 
Hall wrote in a September 2020 
tweet the fight is not over.
“There has been case after case 
over this past summer that have 
shaken our country into protests,” 
Hall wrote. “I will be kneeling to 
protest inequality that has put 
people of color under oppression 
for over 400 years.”
Syd Kennedy takes a knee for 
racial equality and the end of 
racism put forth by the criminal 
justice system and the courts. The 
defender also uses the moment 
to magnify the oppression of the 
LGBTQ+ community, a society of 
which she’s a proud member.
The team hasn’t received any 
backlash from fans or fellow 
students around campus. While 
social media holds some heinous 
dialogue, the team usually 
removes any hateful comments. 
Peace said the official team email 
does receive a few messages 
critiquing the demonstration. 
Comments ranging from 
accusations of disrespect toward 
the country and the military poured in, but the team refused to 
stop. 
“[The emails] don’t affect me,” 
Peace said. “I know the reasons 
why I’m doing what I’m doing. 
It doesn’t change the fact I’m 
kneeling for equality in America, 
which I do not have yet.”
Peace also made it clear the 
demonstration doesn’t mean any 
disrespect toward veterans or 
those serving in the military.
Gators fans who berate the 
team, Hall said, never truly 
supported them in the first place.
“We’re not going to change 
our protest stance, no matter if 
someone pushes back,” Hall said. 
“If they’re not going to support 
us as complete humans, then we 
don’t really want your support on 
the soccer field … At the end of 
the day, we’re going to stand up 
for what we believe in.”
First-year head coach Tony 
Amato is an on-and-off participant 
of the demonstration at the back 
of the line. 
Amato, former coach for the 
Arizona Wildcats, was hired late 
in the offseason. He was never 
told the protest would take place 
at the start of the season, but he 
didn’t push back when he found 
out.
“We’re not going to change 
what we do, whether he has a 
different opinion or not,” Hall 
said. 
In a post-game press conference, 
Amato said he would never 
prevent his players from sharing 
important messages and speaking 
out against racial injustice. 
The fight against injustice has 
been a long battle but Florida 
soccer athletes like Peace, Hall and 
Kennedy kneel for its end.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgGators soccer refuse to surrender fight for social justice
recommendations and asked the appropriate 
offices to begin implementing them. In order 
to implement the changes, some employees’ 
collective bargaining agreements may need to 
be modified, he wrote.
These developments come after weeks 
of UF facing criticism for its decision to limit 
professors from testifying against the state. 
The university’s decision has led to questions 
over how much control outside entities, such 
as Gov. Ron DeSantis, have over the school 
following revelations that some Board of 
Trustees have political ties with DeSantis.
Those accusations eventually led to UF’s 
accreditor investigating the school. UF is 
also being investigated by a congressional 
subcommittee and its Faculty Senate has asked 
to conduct its own investigation.
Additionally, some professors who were 
barred from acting as expert witnesses in cases 
against the state joined a lawsuit against the 
school.
Some of the professors involved in the lawsuit against UF said the recommendations 
are not enough. They argue the changes still 
preserve the university’s right to deny requests 
that pose a conflict of commitment.
“We are disappointed but not surprised 
that a task force created as a public relations 
tool has returned with window-dressing 
recommendations,” read a statement from 
David O’Neil and Paul Donnelly, lawyers 
representing six UF professors suing the school.
The statement read that the proposed 
changes to the policy failed to resolve the 
constitutional problem with UF’s conflicts-of-
interest policy, only addressing the narrow 
issue of expert testimony.
“We will continue to press the University 
to make the real change that the Constitution 
requires,” the statement read.
In a letter sent to Fuchs Nov. 12, three UF 
professors also pointed out that two of the task 
force members — UF College of Law Dean 
Laura Rosenbury and UF Chief Compliance, 
Ethics, and Privacy Officer Terra DuBois — 
had been involved in the same conflicts-of-
interest policies that prevented the professors 
in the first place.UF reversed course on its decision to bar 
the professors Nov. 5, but the landslide of 
investigations and criticism continued to pile.
The task force’s four-page final report listed 
a total of seven policy recommendations. 
It stated that UF’s policy needs to affirm the 
academic freedom of faculty and their First 
Amendment right to free speech on matters of 
public concern. It specifically singled out cases 
that challenge the constitutionality, legality or 
application of a Florida law.
It also recommends that UF should clarify 
how such public comments, including those 
to the media, are considered outside activities 
when made by faculty and staff as individual 
citizens. The list also asks if a professor’s 
request is denied, the university should provide 
a written explanation with evidence as to how 
it is a conflict of interest.
As for the process recommendations, the 
task force recommends the university create 
a Provost’s Advisory Committee to increase 
transparency in the decision-making process 
and include faculty perspectives.
The proposed committee, consisting of both 
faculty and UF administrators, would review 
employees’ potential denied requests to serve 
as expert witnesses in litigation when the state 
is involved, among other proposed denials. 
After a review, it would provide a documented recommendation to the provost who will make 
the final decision.
Faculty members will be nominated to 
join the committee by the Faculty Senate 
and appointed by the Provost serving three-
year terms. Administrators will be chosen by 
Fuchs and will serve as long as they remain UF 
administrators. The report also recommends 
the implementation of an appeal process for 
all denial requests relating to outside activities 
and to revise the operating procedures of the 
Conflict of Interest Program office.
UF maintained its decision was affected by 
external entities or individuals in its response to 
its accreditor’s investigation. It also wrote the 
school’s Board of Governors was not involved 
in the decision-making process at any time.
Now that the documents have been sent, 
UF’s accreditor can continue the long process 
of investigating the university. 
It is unlikely UF will lose accreditation, but 
the process is expected to take several years.
Alexander Lugo contributed to this report.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.org
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgTASK FORCE , from pg. 1Disappointed, not surprisedSeveral players kneeled in unison to promote social change
Courtesy of the University Athletic Association
Florida soccer junior Kouri Peace on the field during a game against UCLA. She kneels with her 
teammates to bring awareness of ongoing racial injustices in the country.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
SENIOR DAY
Football Senior Day
Here are just a few of the Gators 
seniors who played their last 
game in The Swamp Saturday
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Dameon Pierce, RB (2018-2021)
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Malik Davis, RB (2017-2021)Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Zachary Carter, DL (2017-2021)Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Amari Burney, LB (2018-2021)
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Kemore Gamble, TE (2017-2021)
Career statistics
• 316 attempts
• 1,749 rushing yards
• 22 rushing touchdowns
• 44 receptions
• 423 receiving yards
• 5 receiving touchdowns
Career statistics
• 277 attempts
• 1,384 rushing yards
• 7 rushing touchdowns
• 70 receptions
• 726 receiving yards
• 2 receiving touchdowns
Career statistics
• 39 solo tackles
• 107 total tackles
• 28.5 tackles for loss
• 17.5 sacks
• 8 passes defended
Career statistics
• 47 catches
• 617 yards
• 7 touchdowns
Career statistics
• 75 solo tackles
• 138 total tackles
• 6.0 tackles for loss
• 3.0 sacks
• 2 interceptions
• 9 passes defendedEditorial
UF, UAA has failed its students, 
alumni, faculty and staff (again)MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
These final, hustling weeks of Fall are 
among my favorite times on campus. We 
return refreshed by Thanksgiving break, 
ready to finish the semester strong and 
looking forward to the celebrations ahead — 
from graduation to the holidays and New Year.
One celebration I look forward to is this 
week’s lighting of UF’s Holiday Gator. Watch 
for this artful alligator sculpture to appear on 
the University Auditorium lawn today. Then on 
Wednesday, I hope you’ll join me to celebrate 
our official “Lighting of the Holiday Gator.” All are invited 
to gather at 5 p.m. Dec. 1 to enjoy hot cocoa, apple ci -
der and other holiday treats — and great performances by 
members of three UF student groups: the Gator Marching 
Band, the UF Sunshine Steelers and the UF Concert Choir.
Gainesville metal artist and College of the Arts alumna 
Leslie Tharp created the Holiday Gator in 2019. Its com -
mission was intended to provide encouragement, light and 
joy to everyone on campus as the days get shorter and the 
semester draws to a close. The sculpture’s orange and blue 
LED lights were brightened last year, making it especially 
luminescent — more so when backlit by the beautiful lights 
of Century Tower, which have also been brightened and 
colorized.
This is the season of light and of song. Another campus 
celebration I love is the Sounds of the Season concert pre -
sented by 300 performers in the UF School of Music. This 
year’s concert, “A Celebration of Healing & Harmony,” is 
set for 7 p.m. Sunday, Dec. 5, at the Phillips Center. Free tickets will be distributed starting today at noon 
at the Phillips Center Box Office.
As we join in the cheer and warmth of this 
holiday season, I also want to share some news 
about holiday breaks in future years. The Faculty 
Senate last month approved a calendar, effective 
2024-25, with no scheduled classes during the 
entire Thanksgiving week, though the campus 
will remain open Monday through Wednesday 
of that holiday week.
Starting in 2024-25, the calendar also starts 
the Fall semester earlier and ends the semester earlier — 
lengthening the winter break — and moves Spring Break to 
later in the year. Syncing UF’s Spring Break with the Alach -
ua County school system’s will benefit those with children 
in the local schools.
Planning an academic calendar is always a thorny chal -
lenge. I’m thankful to the provost’s office, particularly Dr. 
Angela Lindner, UF Registrar Steve Pritz, all the colleges 
and everyone on the Faculty Senate who worked hard to 
make these enhancements possible.
And to all — my very best as you complete your papers, 
projects and research; prepare for exams; and get ready for 
the holidays. I wish you a strong finish to the semester and I 
encourage you to infuse these days with joy, light and song.
The Holiday Gator will do its part for that cause through 
the end of the semester, at which point it will return to stor -
age until it reappears next year. It’s quite a sight to behold, 
and I look forward to welcoming its return Wednesday and 
celebrating this season with all of you.Holiday light and song for a strong finishLooking forward to celebrations ahead
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.UF reached top 5 status in September. But as the semester 
progressed, our staff uncovered news beyond the univer -
sity’s nagging pursuit of rank. Our reporters were busy 
covering the gaps in university administration’s deci -
sions that made national headlines.  
Our sports desk uncovered the abuse of a former women’s 
basketball coach, and our university desk has spent the last 
weeks breaking down the university’s handling of UF profes -
sors testifying against the state and potential loss of accredita -
tion as a result.  
This coverage unveiled a common theme: The university 
and its leadership need to take more responsibility for the ef -
fects of its actions. 
Keeping professors from their freedom of speech and over -
looking abusive behavior in sports, UF’s administration has 
disappointed its community — and everyone watching. These 
actions do not reflect a top 5 university, nationally recognized 
for its research and achievements. 
UF barred multiple professors from testifying against the 
state of Florida. When it came to light in early November, the 
university took corrective action fast. Alumni started hesitating 
with their checkbooks, but that only scraped the surface of UF’s 
reputation. 
On Nov. 23, UF President Kent Fuchs sent an email to the 
university community announcing his task force’s recommen -
dations to fix their conflict of interest policy. Their decisions 
took some steps but left the door open for more issues — just 
like the one that got us here in the first place.
Ask any of the professors involved, and they’ll tell you UF 
didn’t go far enough. The recommendations of the task force 
were a band-aid approach in the eyes of these professors, many 
of whom are in active litigation against the university over this 
issue. 
At least everything is great with Gators sports, right? Ath -
letic Director Scott Stricklin just nailed the hire for head football 
coach, the basketball team looks poised to make a big run this 
season and women’s athletics just celebrated its 50th year at 
UF. 
That’s all great, except Stricklin has yet to comment on the 
ongoing developments with The Alligator’s report on abusive 
behavior from former women’s basketball coach Cam Newbau -
er. When our report was first published, Stricklin met with four 
reporters of his choosing to respond. 
The Alligator was not included in the closed-door meeting, 
despite breaking the story. That is unacceptable. You might try 
to stop professors from doing their job, but it’s against the Con -
stitution to try to stop us from doing ours. 
Weeks later, when Stricklin fired former head football coach 
Dan Mullen, he was forced to face the media for a press confer -
ence. When asked, he refused to comment on the situation.
Take some responsibility for what happened. Answer our 
questions. Players who experienced abuse under Newbauer 
depicted suicidal episodes and the experience degraded their 
mental health. Yet, mum’s the word from university leadership 
on it. 
Stricklin likes to tout the “Gator Standard” for the athletic 
department, but if this is what the standard is, that is pathetic.
It’s embarrassing a university that touts its excellent jour -
nalism program would punish its own students for doing good 
journalism.   It is embarrassing a university that prides itself on 
the excellence of its faculty silences professors from speaking 
on their expertise. It’s embarrassing the leadership at a top 5 
university acts this way.
Do better, UF.
The Alligator Editorial Board is composed of the 
editor-in-chief, the engagement managing editor, 
the digital managing editor and the opinions editor.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Carolina Ilvento
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORChloe Greenberg
OPINIONS
EDITORKristin Bausch
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORSteven Walker
EDITOR-IN-
CHIEFEL CAIMÁN
Por Camila Pereira 
y Elena Barrera
Escritoras del El Caimán 
Traducido por Melissa 
Hernandez De La Cruz
Escritora del El Caimán 
La semana pasada, UF concluyó 
su investigación interna sobre conflic -
tos de intereses y políticas de activi -
dades externas, y ofreció recomenda -
ciones de políticas para evitar futuros 
escándalos.
Aunque el informe siguió las re -
comendaciones hechas por un grupo 
de trabajo creado para reimaginar las 
políticas de conflicto de intereses de 
UF, los cambios propuestos aún per -
mitirían a la universidad prohibir a 
los profesores testificar en el futuro.
El presidente Kent Fuchs envió el 
anuncio en un correo electrónico de 
toda la universidad el martes, donde 
también escribió que UF había envia -
do documentos a su acreditador para 
cumplir con su investigación.
Fuchs creó el grupo de trabajo el 5 
de noviembre y concluyó justo antes 
de las vacaciones de Acción de Gra -
cias, una semana antes de la fecha 
límite programada. Las recomenda -
ciones del informe final del grupo de 
trabajo indicaron que UF aún podría negar el testimonio si pensaba que los 
profesores estaban participando en 
demasiadas actividades externas que 
los restringían de sus deberes en UF.
En el correo electrónico del mar -
tes, Fuchs escribió que había acepta -
do las recomendaciones y pidió a las 
oficinas correspondientes que comen -
zaran a implementarlas. Para imple -
mentar los cambios, es posible que 
sea necesario modificar los acuerdos 
de negociación colectiva de algunos 
empleados, escribió.
Estos desarrollos se producen 
después de semanas de que UF en -
frentara críticas por su decisión de 
limitar a los profesores a testificar 
contra el estado. La decisión de la es -
cuela ha generado dudas sobre cuánto 
control tienen las entidades externas, 
como el gobernador Ron DeSantis, 
sobre la escuela tras las revelaciones 
de que algunos miembros de la Junta 
Directiva tienen vínculos políticos 
con DeSantis.
Esas acusaciones finalmente ll -
evaron a que el acreditador de UF in -
vestigara la escuela. UF también está 
siendo investigada por un subcomité 
del Congreso y su Senado de la Fac -
ultad ha solicitado realizar su propia 
investigación.
Además, algunos profesores a los 
que se les prohibió actuar como testi -
gos expertos en casos contra el estado se unieron a una demanda contra la 
escuela.
Algunos de los profesores involu -
crados en la demanda contra UF dije -
ron que las recomendaciones no son 
suficientes. Argumentan que los cam -
bios aún preservan el derecho de la 
universidad a denegar solicitudes que 
planteen un conflicto de compromiso.
“Estamos decepcionados, pero no 
sorprendidos, de que un grupo de tra -
bajo creado como una herramienta 
de relaciones públicas haya regresado 
con recomendaciones de decora -
ción”, se lee en una declaración de 
David O’Neil y Paul Donnelly, aboga -
dos que representan a seis profesores 
de UF que demandaron a la escuela.
La declaración decía que los cam -
bios propuestos a la política no re -
solvieron el problema constitucional 
con la política de conflictos de intere -
ses de UF, y solo abordó el tema es -
trecho del testimonio de expertos.
Lee el resto en línea en 
alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Alexander Lugo contribuyó 
a este informe.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.org
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgUF ata cabos sueltos en escándalo de 
libertad académica, aumentan las críticas
Kent Fuchs
UF PresidentKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Florida’s elite encounters
Gators volleyball rode into Kentucky with a nine-match winning 
streak and left 1-5 against ranked opponents, pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
By T ara Carroll
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 12-hour car ride and encouraging words 
from a professor inspired a UF student to 
launch her own music podcast.
Kara Williamson, a 21-year-old advertising 
senior, created “On Loop with Kara” in July. 
She’s uploaded 13 episodes on Spotify since 
the podcast’s initial launch.
Most episodes feature Williamson discuss -
ing a specific artist and the songs she enjoys. 
Williamson said she hopes the podcast will be -
come popular and allow her to have conversa -
tions with the artists.
“Interviewing musicians is where I want to 
take [the podcast] and hopefully start traveling 
a little bit and interviewing musicians across 
the U.S. or even the world, if possible,” Wil -
liamson said.
When in-person classes shifted to online in 
2020, many UF students traveled back to cam -
pus to move out of their dorms or apartments. 
Williamson drove down to Gainesville from 
Bethesda, Maryland, to pack up her belong -
ings. Growing tired of music and podcasts, 
Williamson shut off her radio at one point dur -
ing her drive.
“I just started talking to myself as if I was 
being interviewed on a podcast.” she said. “I 
was able to talk to myself for so long that I was like, ‘I guess I could start a podcast.’”
Originally, Williamson said she planned for 
her podcast to focus on the lifestyle of a college 
student. But as she started recording it, she re -
alized she didn’t love the idea.
It would take Williamson another nine 
months to fully commit and plan out a process 
for her podcast. 
In the Fall of 2020, she enrolled in a content 
marketing course led by UF professor Robert 
Padovano.
“He was amazing,” Williamson said. “Ev -
ery day [in class], he would basically just tell 
us to create our own content. He was like ‘you 
just need to do it.”
She credited Padovano as one of the rea -
sons she decided to go for the podcast.
“I should just do this — why not?” William -
son said. “If it doesn’t go anywhere, it doesn’t 
go anywhere — that’s not the goal. The goal is 
to just create something that I’m proud of, and 
that is mine.” 
Padovano, 50, has been teaching at UF 
since 2012. He said Williamson was an active 
participant in his class and frequently engaged 
in the conversation.
“I think it is fantastic that students like 
Kara are inspired to take the initiative and cre -
ate their own content,” Padovano wrote in an 
email.
Padovano has listened to a few of William -son’s podcast episodes, and he was impressed.
“Students should give themselves permis -
sion to try something, learn from the experi -
ence and not give up on their dreams and aspi -
rations,” Padovano wrote.
Padovano wants his students to try some -
thing while time is on their side, so they can 
look back with no regrets. 
Williamson said she’s the busiest during the 
weeks she releases an episode.
“It’s probably an hour or two of recording, 
an average of six hours for editing and then 
another two [to] three hours for social media 
graphics and promos,” she wrote in a text.
After launching the podcast in July, Wil -
liamson said she wanted to find a way to con -
tinue her passion for music on UF’s campus.
She applied to Swamp Records, Gaines -
ville’s student-run artist resource agency, in 
August and was accepted. She is currently on 
an artist relations team for the Driptones, a lo -
cal band.
Shannon Mercatante, the president of 
Swamp Records, said that 40 applicants out 
of a total of 60 were accepted to the student 
organization. 
Mikey Saltzman, a 21-year-old UF finance 
junior, serves as the director for the Driptones.
“When I interviewed Kara, she was very 
charismatic and very passionate about help -
ing out and really wanting to get involved with helping out local artists in their social media, 
in their graphics … and increasing their brand 
awareness as a whole,” Saltzman said. 
Saltzman selected Williamson to join his 
team of only eight people.
“All her skills really lined up to the skills 
that the Driptones needed,” Saltzman said.
In collaboration with the Driptones, Wil -
liamson interviewed the band on the podcast 
and released the episode Nov. 4.
Tara Carroll is a contributing 
writer for The Alligator.
THE STIGMA AND 
STEREOTYPES AROUND THE 
TOPIC MAKE IT HARD FOR 
YOUNG ADULTS TO 
COME FORWARD FOR HELP
By Luigi Bencosme
Avenue Staff Writer
Alcoholism doesn’t conform to a 
stereotype. Alcohol misuse can affect 
anyone.
Robert F. Leeman, a UF College of 
Health and Human Performance as -
sociate professor, said although peo -
ple may have an image of an older 
man with liver problems, there is no 
true image of what a person with al -
cohol use disorder can look like.
While many may expect older 
people to be affected, data from the 
National Institute on Alcohol Abuse 
and Alcoholism shows those aged 18 
to 25 have the highest rate of alcohol 
use disorder.
Unlike older adults, he said, young 
adults don’t usually present major 
physical health issues, like liver func -tion problems, until later in life. This 
is partially why people don’t perceive 
young people to struggle with addic -
tion in the same way as elders. 
“A young adult who drinks heav -
ily could face withdrawal,” he said. 
“But on average, that’s something 
that probably is going to take a long 
drinking history to get to.” 
But someone doesn’t have to suf -
fer from these issues to be considered 
an addict.
Burton Burt, owner of Recov -
ery Awareness counseling center in 
Gainesville, said aside from the rec -
ognizable health signs —  like having 
a fatty liver or cirrhosis —  there are 
other warning signs of alcohol addic -
tion. These include failing to com -
plete daily tasks, drinking while at 
work and drinking earlier in the day.
Additional signs of a problem are 
constantly craving to drink, under -
performing in school and jobs, dam -
aging relationships due to alcohol use 
and repetitively losing consciousness 
while drinking or “blacking out,” 
Leeman said.
Burt also believes college culture sets students up for failure.
“You’re in a culture that promotes 
exploration on dangerous levels, in 
some cases, without regard for the 
consequences,” he said.
Leeman said although it’s true for 
most college towns, UF’s close prox -
imity to local bars makes students 
more susceptible to drinking.
Midtown Plaza, which houses 
Grog House Grill, Fat Daddy’s and 
JJ’s Tavern, is located across the 
street from campus. This makes it 
easy for anyone, especially those liv -
ing on campus, to go out drinking.
Marina Sachs, a 27-year-old grad -
uate student who identifies as a so -
ber alcoholic, said Greek life and the 
bars’ proximity to campus encourage 
this dangerous lifestyle. Also, they 
believe UF itself plays a role.
“I don’t think that there are ade -
quate resources for young people on 
campus, if we’re just talking about 
UF campus, to acknowledge and ad -
dress addiction,” they said. “I just 
haven’t seen it.”
While Sachs said UF’s lack of re -
sources on campus is terrifying, they also attributed students’ reluctance to 
seek out help to the perpetual stigma 
associated with alcoholism.
“The stigma emerges from this re -
ally incorrect notion that if you are 
drinking too much, or if you can’t 
stop using drugs … it’s because you 
don’t know how to control it,” they 
said. “And the thing about addiction 
is like that’s the point; we can’t con -
trol it.”
Even the idea of being too young 
to be an addict stigmatizes the entire 
topic, Sachs said. From their experi -
ence, it made them feel like a “fail -
ure” when they wanted to get help.
Leeman said clinicians and re -
searchers have even begun using 
terms such as “alcohol misuse” and 
“alcohol use disorder” because, from 
their expertise, there exists a certain 
level of stigma associated with the 
term “alcoholic.”
But Sachs takes issue with these 
newer terms.
“The fact that it is so kind of 
medically determined, oftentimes 
by white cis-het[ero] professionals 
who aren’t addicts themselves, feels like it’s an externally placed marker 
of a group of people who didn’t get 
a chance to determine that name,” 
they said.
They also believe this term, like 
other terms used against marginal -
ized communities, can be reclaimed 
and used to empower others. 
While Leeman said the 18 to 25 
age group is most susceptible to 
struggle with alcohol misuse, he 
also pointed to the period of “matur -
ing out,” during which most young 
adults will slow down the heavy 
drinking on their own.
“We want to try to predict the 
folks who are less likely to mature 
out, but we don’t want to focus all on 
that, because even folks who down 
the road will mature out, they could 
face some negative consequences in 
the here and now from drinking,” he 
said.
For additional support, you can 
contact Alcoholics Anonymous for 
Gainesville at (352) 372-8091 or on 
their website. 
lbencosme@alligator.orgUF student launches music podcast
Young adults struggle with alcohol misuse more than other age groups
ENTERTAINMENTENTERTAINMENT
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLECourtesy to the Alligator
Kara Williamson, 21, UF advertising 
senior, launched “On Loop with 
Kara” in July.
Kara Williamson breaks down the Gainesville music scene in ‘On Loop with Kara’BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
Online Public Auction
by the Order of the Bank
Fuel Transport and Logistic Carrier Fleet of 
Commercial Trucks and Trailers (Tampa, FL)
Bidding closes:
Mon, December 6th, 2021 at 10AM
Sale will consist of: Peterbilt, Freightliner and 
Mack Trucks; Fruehauf and Heil Fuel Tank 
Trailers; Fuel Tank Wagons; Power Tools and 
related inventory.
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com.
Pick-up/removal: Tampa, FL.
Preview: 12/03 by appointment.
Call for details (954) 252-2887 | 
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     11-22-1-101For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
Available for August 2022 Houses walking 
and biking distance to campus. See gaines-
villequalityrentalhouses.com Feel free to text 
or call 352-339-2342. For more information or 
appointments to view houses           1-18-22-5-2
5 Real Estate
Available for August 2022 Houses walking 
and biking distance to campus. See gaines-
villequalityrentalhouses.com Feel free to text 
or call 352-339-2342. For more information or 
appointments to view houses           1-18-22-5-2
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath-
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680        
1-10-22-4-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    WWaallkk  hheeaavviillyy  
11..    TTyyppee  ooff  aawwaarrdd55..    IInnddiiaann  ________
22..    EEaattiinngg  ________66..    PPiieeccee  ooff  ppiizzzzaa
33..    AAuutthheennttiicc  77..    TTiirreedd
44..    SSeellffiisshh,,  ppeennnnyy--ppiinncchhiinnggUUTTRREEGGDD
RROOYYPPTTHHOOAANNCCEE
CCLLEESSII
NNSSTTUULLEEII
EENNNNEEIIUUGGEESSPPYYLLEE
YYRREEGGEEDDAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TTrruuddggee    55AA--OOcceeaann    66AA--SSlliiccee    77AA--SSlleeeeppyy
11DD--TTrroopphhyy    22DD--UUtteennssiill    33DD--GGeennuuiinnee    44DD--GGrreeeeddyy    BB--CCooppeennhhaaggeenn1111--2299--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  wwaass  eessttaabblliisshheedd  aass  aa  VViikkiinngg  
ffiisshhiinngg  vviillllaaggee  iinn  tthhee  1100tthh  cceennttuurryy..
BONUSPotted Christmas Trees
Red Cedar, AZ Cypress, tabletop to 8 ft. tall. 
Open weekends Nov. 20 - Dec.19 and Nov. 26 
10am - 6pm. Kettle corn popped onsite 4 sale. 
Free sugarcane with purchase. 20926 NW 75th 
ST Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-1885. 
12-6-21-4-10
11Motorcycles/Mopeds
2019 INDIAN FTR 1200
Call Steve 352-213-2462 
12-6-21-3-11
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-13
Freon Wanted: : We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient. 
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 or 
visit RefrigerantFinders.com        11-22-2-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-21-16-1310 For Sale 6 Furnishings
By Bruce Venzke
(c)2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/23/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/23/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, November 23, 2021
ACROSS
1 D.C. insider
4 Anxious feeling
9 “Silent Night” 
words before 
calm and bright
14 Actress Gardner
15 More rational
16 Africa’s Sierra __
17 “Star Wars” 
sequel trilogy 
heroine
18 Spicy condiment
20 Pay off illicitly
22 How a scary-
movie watcher 
might recoil
23 Astronaut’s milieu
26 Deserved, as 
recognition
27 Keep separate 
from the rest
28 Restaurant chain 
with an owl logo
31 Horne of jazz
32 In the manner of
34 Oktober endings
35 Lawn areas 
lacking grass
39 Perth __, NJ
42 LBJ’s boy beagle
43 Big brass
47 Greets with 
guffaws
50 Features of some 
cruise ships
52 Heavy weight
53 NYC’s World 
Financial Center 
architect
55 Working together 
as one
58 ’90s candidate __ 
Perot
59 Coins in one’s 
pocket ... and 
what literally 
happens in each 
set of circles
62 When doubled, a 
Latin dance
63 Fix in the 
crosshairs
64 Knighted 
composer 
Edward
65 Showy pond fish
66 Stacks like 
Tupperware
67 Wed on the sly
68 Vicious with a 
bassDOWN
1 Partially cook, 
as rice
2 Employ 
excessively, as 
muscles
3 Overdo the 
flattery
4 Last word of 
Kansas’ motto
5 Macduff rebuff
6 Econ. measure
7 Old photo hue
8 Battlefield furrow
9 “What’s more ... ”
10 Norman who 
created Archie 
and Edith Bunker
11 French 
pilgrimage site
12 Trying a case, 
say
13 Prophetic woman
19 Prefix with stat
21 Overdo, as a 
point
24 Twinkler
25 Soccer standout
29 Frequently, to a 
bard
30 More irritable
33 Fireplace grate 
buildup36 Shakespearean 
cries
37 12-point type
38 Actor Epps
39 Craftsperson
40 Marshmallowy 
treat
41 Little chickens
44 Disengages the 
bolt for, as a 
door
45 Russian ballet 
company46 “Let me reiterate 
... ”
48 “High Voltage” 
band
49 Far from a guffaw
51 Round figure
54 Little
56 “I smell __!”
57 Ping-Pong 
supplies
60 Private aid prog.
61 Space between 
outfielders
11/22/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
11/29/2021The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
High Fliers
HIGH FLIERS by Jim Esposito.  High in the 
sky over Florida. Very high. Very funny novel 
about G-ville's bad old days by Alligator 
Alumni. Available on Amazon.com.
1-10-21-7-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND or 
email classified@alligator.org today!HOLIDAY DISCOUNT! 3 HRS ONLY $60!
Free quotes - N Gainesville to Alachua. 
Quality shrub, hedge, tree pruning & shear-
ing, chainsaw work, weed & overgrowth cut-
ting, yard & woods raking, blowing, hauling, 
gutter cleaning (1-story). 16 yrs exp. Ins. Satis 
guar. Call Richard Snyder 352-574-2656       
11-22-2-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- 
TRAIN ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096 . The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                      11-22-2-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts available. 
Call 888-460-2264                         11-22-2-15
DISCOUNT AIR TRAVEL. Call Flight 
Services for best pricing on domestic & 
international flights inside and from the 
US. Serving United, Delta, American & 
Southwest and many more airlines. Call for 
free quote now! Have travel dates ready! 
888-858-0128                                  11-22-2-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov-
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632                       11-22-2-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds.FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen        11-22-2-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-1815 Services 19 Connections 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Help Wanted Donut Connection
Baker needed experience preferred but will 
consider trainee, $15 per hr.  Also hiring 
counter/drive thru sales. Salary depends 
on experience. Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com     12-6-21-4-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter-
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
Summer 2022 Positions Available
The Oak Hall School Summer & Auxiliary 
Program is hiring Program Director positions 
in Technology/Stem and Enrichment for the 
summer of 2022.  Visit www.oakhall.org for 
application and information on this great op-
portunity in Gainesville!               12-6-21-5-14
15 Services
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
THE FIRST PROBLEM FOR ALL OF US, MEN AND WOMEN,
 IS NOT TO LEARN, BUT TO UNLEARN. — GLORIA STEINAM
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
solution  below1. 90%
2. "Spaceballs"
3. "Of Mice and Men"
4. A pandemonium
5. W.C. Handy
6. William Howard Taft 
(1910)
7. Tomato
8. Staten Island, New York
9. 1961
10. Sir Isaac NewtonTrivia Test answersanswers below1. GEOGRAPHY: What percent of the world's popu -
lation lives in the Northern Hemisphere?
2. MOVIES: Which 1987 film contains the catchy 
line, "May the Schwartz be with you"?
3. LITERATURE: Author John Steinbeck contends that 
his dog ate the first draft of which of his novels?
4. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a group of parrots called?
5. MUSIC: Who is considered the "Father of the Blues"?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the first sitting 
president to throw out the first pitch on baseball's 
opening day?
7. FOOD & DRINK: Which fruit also is sometimes 
called a "love apple"?
8. TELEVISION: Where do the vampires live in 
"What We Do in the Shadows"?
9. HISTORY: In what year did East Germany start to 
build the Berlin Wall?
10. INVENTIONS: Which scientist invented the 
color wheel?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving 
out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLQUARTERBACK ANTHONY 
RICHARDSON AND RUNNING BACK 
DAMEON PIERCE SAW THE BULK OF 
THE WORK AT THEIR POSITIONS 
IN THE SECOND HALF
By Michael Hull
Sports Writer
Quarterback Emory Jones stood calmly in 
the pocket, searching for an open receiver. He 
fired a rocket intended for Trent Whittemore 
in the back of the end zone but instead found 
Florida State corner Jarvis Brownlee, Jr. for his 
third interception of the half. Jones walked off 
the field, head hung low as a flurry of boos rang 
out from the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium crowd.
Jones’ near-fourth interception early in the 
third quarter solidified the change Florida fans 
clamored for all season. Redshirt freshman 
Anthony Richardson came in off the bench to 
the crowd’s raucous approval and proceeded 
to play the rest of Florida’s 24-21 victory over 
the Seminoles Saturday.
Richardson and running back Dameon 
Pierce’s performances Saturday, coupled with 
the glimpses of greatness shown throughout 
the year, left Florida fans wondering what 
could’ve been. Would this season had been 
more successful if former head coach Dan 
Mullen committed to Richardson and Pierce as 
the starting workhorses early on in the season?
Richardson entered with the game knotted 
up at seven and strung together three scoring 
drives in four possessions, expanding the 
Gators lead to 24-7. The redshirt freshman finished the afternoon an efficient five-for-
seven passing for 55 yards and a touchdown 
and added 11 carries for 27 yards with his legs. 
He by no means lit the world on fire, but he 
kept away from the cardinal sin of football: 
turnovers.
The Gainesville native’s second-half heroics are nothing new to Gator Nation. 
Richardson led four straight touchdown drives 
in the team’s eventual loss to LSU and showed 
flashes of greatness early in the season against 
FAU and USF. 
His lone start of the year came against the No. 
1 Georgia Bulldogs and their historic defense. 
He struggled against the ‘Dawgs, throwing for 
just 82 yards and two interceptions.
Jones racked up 19 passing touchdowns 
in 2021, but he threw 13 back-breaking 
interceptions. That type of inconsistency on 
offense limited Florida’s downfield passing 
attack, as the Gators completed just 17 passes 
over 20 yards with Jones under center this 
season, eight of which came against the likes 
of Vanderbilt and Samford.
Richardson completed six passes of 20 or 
more yards despite throwing nearly 250 less 
times than Jones (64 attempts to 310).
After the game, interim head coach Greg 
Knox did not commit to Richardson nor Jones 
as the starter for the team’s bowl game.
“What we’re going to do is enjoy this 
victory,” Knox said. “Then, when we get to 
that bowl game, we’ll let them figure it out. 
They’ll go to work and they’ll compete and 
we’ll make a decision from there.”
Speaking of competing for snaps, Pierce 
once again shined in The Swamp. The senior 
back carried the ball 12 times for 62 yards 
and a touchdown, including a helmetless run 
for the ages that was called back because of a 
technicality in the rule book. 
“My mama been calling me hardheaded 
since I was little, so that ain’t nothing new, 
Pierce said of the run after the game. “That was 
just basic instinct.”Entering Week 13, Pierce owned the highest 
PFF rushing grade in the country (93.4) despite 
never seeing double-digit carries in a game. 
After logging just two carries in the first 
half against FSU, Pierce commanded 10 in 
the second half. He took over late in the third 
quarter, ripping off runs of six, eight, 12 and 
12 yards on a single drive. He completed that 
drive in the fourth quarter with the vicious 
helmet run that didn't count followed by a 
3-yard touchdown plunge.
“I ain’t got good intentions (when I’m 
running), I’m gonna tell you that,” Pierce said. 
Pierce’s angry running style led to 15 total 
touchdowns, the most in a single season by a 
Gator since Percy Harvin had 17 in 2008. Pierce 
averaged 5.9 yards per carry this year, over a 
yard more than fellow starter Malik Davis (4.7).
Despite the obvious discrepancy in stats 
and production, Pierce just barely outsnapped 
Davis (87 to 85). Florida’s rushing offense 
cleared 200 yards each of its first four weeks, 
but fell off quite a bit since, hitting that mark 
just once in the past eight games (Samford). 
There’s no guarantee more Pierce usage 
would’ve helped the offense, but numbers 
don’t typically lie.
Florida won Saturday because it finally 
played its best players. The problem is it took 
a coaching change and nearly missing a bowl 
game to get them on the field. Maybe if the 
more efficient players saw the field earlier 
in the season, 2021 could have been a more 
successful year in Gainesville. Maybe.
@Michael_Hull33
mhull@alligator.org
By Karina Wilson 
Sports Writer
Guard Myreon Jones hurled the 
rubber ball to guard Tyree Appleby. 
The senior leapt into the air and 
launched the ball toward the bas -
ket. The swoosh of the net at the 
buzzer sent the entire Gators bench 
onto the court to mob the senior. 
“It was like a movie,” Appleby 
said. “It’s probably one of the best 
moments of my college career, re -
ally my life.” 
Florida emerged victorious. 
The Florida Gators slipped 
past the Ohio State Buckeyes 71-
68 Wednesday in Suncoast Credit 
Union Arena in Fort Myers, Florida. 
With the win, the Gators claimed 
the title of Fort Myers Tip-Off cham -
pions.
Florida head coach Mike White’s 
squad looked sluggish and started slow early. Ohio State scored the 
first four points to assert domi -
nance.
UF guard Brandon McKissic 
came to play, though. The gradu -
ate student throttled the ball back 
into play to keep possession for the 
Gators.
Defense defined the game — 
nothing out of the ordinary for Flor -
ida — but Ohio State kept up. 
“Our team prides ourselves on 
defense, that’s what we do,” Apple -
by said. “If a team wants to bring 
that physicality back, that’s fine.” 
Eventually, a fire lit under the 
Gators. The orange and blue sprint -
ed away with a 9-0 run to take their 
first lead of the night. 
All-American E.J. Liddell cap -
tained the Buckeyes with 23 points 
throughout 33 minutes. The junior 
boasted five rebounds and five 
blocks.
Forward CJ Felder dunked out a buzzer-beater to close out the first 
half, slicing Ohio State’s lead to six. 
Graduate transfer Phlandrous 
Fleming Jr. kept the ball rolling for 
UF to start the final frame. But the 
elation didn’t last long, as a lob to 
Ohio State fifth-year senior Kyle 
Young hushed the sea of orange 
and blue. 
 “We could be so much better,” 
Fleming said. “Luckily, we scrapped 
this one out and got the win.” 
Forward Colin Castleton swatted 
the ball out of the air for an early 
block in the second half. Castleton 
recorded his sixth career double-
double with 11 points and 13 re -
bounds, and Florida’s reliance on 
the big man earned him the title of 
tournament MVP and a spot on the 
All-Tournament Team. 
The sea of Gators fans were swal -
lowed by the traveling scarlet and 
red fans. However, as fouls piled up 
for Florida: UF lost its composure.A dunk from OSU’s Zed Key 
granted the Buckeyes a 47-37 lead, 
their largest of the game. 
However, the Gators wouldn’t 
back down. A no-look behind the 
back pass from Castleton found 
Felder to give the team some mo -
mentum.
Loud and proud Ohio State head 
coach Chris Holtmann earned a 
technical foul, allowing Fleming to 
capitalize on four shots for Florida, 
and the Gators drew closer.  
As the second half slowly came 
to a close, forward Anthony Du -
ruji saw an opportunity to make a 
bucket. The senior took two steps 
and ascended toward the net before 
dunking the leather ball into the 
hoop. The tie ballgame put UF back 
on track. 
“Let’s go Gators,” rang through -
out Suncoast Credit Union Arena, 
and Liddell’s last-minute jumper 
got swallowed with the noise. He couldn’t save the sinking Ohio State 
squad as the final stellar play from 
Jones and Appleby sent the scarlet 
and grey back to The Buckeye State.
Fleming said the intensity was 
there the whole ball game. He said 
the team was determined to win 
this game.
“It was crazy,” Fleming said. 
“We kept telling everybody ‘Be -
lieve, believe, believe.’”
The guard and Appleby both 
earned a spot on the All-Tourna -
ment Team. 
“We’ve got a tough, gritty team,” 
Appleby said. “I don’t really think 
[anybody] else in the country is go -
ing to be as tough as we are night in 
and night out.” 
White agreed. He said the team 
overcame adversity.
“A tough-nose group that just 
found a way,” he said. “Hopefully, 
our fans enjoyed what they saw.”
@kk_rinaa
kwilson@alligator.orgAbout time: Richardson and Pierce lead Gators over ‘Noles
Gators leave Ohio State Buckeyes bleeding scarlet redSamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Anthony Richardson pictured 
handing the ball to running back 
Dameon Pierce during the Gators’ 
Nov. 27 game against Florida State.
A shot and a prayer from Tyree Appleby led to a cathartic Florida win at the horn12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2021
VOLLEYBALL
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
The Florida volleyball team 
arrived in Lexington, Kentucky, 
Friday with a lot to be optimistic 
about. 
The team was still rolling on 
a nine-match winning streak that 
included seven sweeps, and the 
Gators had a chance to earn a share 
of the SEC Championship with two 
wins over the defending national 
champion Kentucky Wildcats.
Despite the recent victories, 
there was baited concern about 
the team, worrying whether 
the quality of play could hold 
against the elite class of collegiate 
volleyball. 
The Gators found an answer 
on the court, but not the one they 
hoped for. In the final two tests 
of the regular season against the 
‘Cats (24-4. 17-1), the Gators (20-
8, 14-4) couldn’t muster a single 
set win.
After back-to-back sweeps 
at the hands of Kentucky and a 
potential injury to redshirt senior T’ara Ceasar, Florida’s postseason 
prospects have been called into 
question, leaving much to think 
about on the return flight to 
Gainesville.
Early in the first set against 
Kentucky Friday, Ceasar, the 
player behind the Gators winning 
streak, left the game with an 
apparent ankle injury. The 
Panama City, Florida, native 
collided with Wildcats sophomore 
Reagan Rutherford at the net line 
after landing, rolling her ankle in 
the process. 
She returned to the set shortly 
after stretching and testing her 
ankle on the sideline and finished 
the match with 14 kills.
In Saturday’s match, Ceasar 
only played two sets and 
registered a mere three kills and 
three errors to match. While 
this could be attributed to the 
dominance from sophomore Sofia 
Victoria, who tallied nine kills, the 
absence of Ceasar is a concerning 
development.
No updates were given on 
Ceasar’s health, so only time will tell how ready the star will be by 
the NCAA Tournament.
Any Ceasar hindrance might 
be a coffin-sealing update for the 
Gators’ national title hopes.
Even if Ceasar is at full health, 
the Gators need to beat the best 
teams in the country in order 
to secure the first national title 
in program history; from the 
beginning of the regular season 
through the end of it, Florida had 
trouble doing exactly that. 
Florida played three teams in 
the regular season that reached 
the Sweet 16 of last year’s NCAA 
Tournament: Baylor, Minnesota 
and Kentucky. Against those three 
opponents, the Gators finished 1-4 
and suffered three sweeps. 
All of those opponents are 
currently ranked in the top 10 of 
the American Volleyball Coaches 
Association poll. The other ranked 
team Florida played this year, No. 
18 Stanford, defeated the Gators 
3-1.
These losses don’t outright 
designify the wins Florida enjoyed 
in the latter half of the season against SEC opponents, but it 
does show there is still a rather 
significant divide between the 
Gators and the teams they desire 
to call their peers. 
Through an optimistic lens, 
Florida remained competitive 
in each of the six sets it played 
against Kentucky. The Gators lost 
each set by an average of 4.17 
points, only losing one by more 
than five. 
That number correctly 
indicates Florida is not getting 
outclassed in these matches. The 
team consistently remained within striking distance of the Wildcats, 
just not quite doing enough to 
bring it home. 
If Florida meets Kentucky head 
coach Craig Skinner’s team in 
the tournament, it’s plausible the 
Gators could muster a set victory 
or two. Still, could Ceasar and 
company pull off a full three-
set victory against the defending 
national champions? 
That image just got harder to 
picture.
 @carsoncashion
ccashion@alligator.orgGators’ losses to Kentucky cast doubt over title chances
Catherine McCarthy / / Alligator Staff
Florida’s T’ara Ceasar serves during an Oct. 16 game against Texas A&M.
Florida has a 1-4 record this season against 
teams who reached last year’ s Sweet 16