Ashley Hicks / / Alligator StaffDavid Brandenburg, 71
David William Brandenburg 
was a Vietnam veteran who loved 
telling stories. His favorite song was 
“What a Wonderful World” by Louis 
Armstrong, and he loved whistling 
Christmas songs in July.
He was unable to finish his daily Kathryn Bozeman, 78
Kathryn Bozeman would light 
up when she sat in a rocking 
chair on her daughter’s porch and 
watched her great-grandkids play 
football.
Bozeman, 78, died April 12, 
2020, as a result of COVID-19 
complications.
Debra Bozeman Yarborough, 
Bozeman’s daughter, said her 
favorite memory of her mother 
was when her son, Bozeman’s 
first grandchild, was born.
“She went in there in the nursery home, and it was so cute. 
She said, ‘Oh God, he’s so beautiful! Now, which one is he?’” 
Yarborough said, reminiscing on her mother’s sense of humor.
Bozeman also loved to shop. She would go to secondhand 
stores and always make sure she looked good in a nice dress or 
skirt, she was really a “girl girl,” her daughter said.
Written by Carolina IlventoElease Bradley, 81
Elease Bradley’s grandson, 
Christopher, can sing. But until 
his grandmother’s memorial, he 
had never led a song on his own. 
During Bradley’s memorial 
service, Christopher seized the 
microphone and boldly led the at -
tendees through a rendition of the 
joyful gospel song, “I Came To 
Tell You.”
“If mama ([would have]) been 
there to see Christopher singing 
over her, she would have been jumpin’ and shoutin’,” Cherey 
Daniels, one of Bradley’s daughters, said.  
Daniels’ voice shook, and she fought through tears as she 
recalled how her mother selflessly stepped in to help Daniels 
raise her four children. 
“She was my best friend. She was my prayer partner,” Dan -
iels, 61, said. “And she was my mirror, or what I wanted to be.”
Bradley died July 25 from COVID-19 at 81 years old.
Standing at just over 5 feet tall, Bradley was petite in size and 
small in stature, said LaKendra Johnson, one of Bradley’s grand -
daughters. But despite her tiny frame, Bradley was filled with 
immeasurable strength as she survived breast cancer, raised four 
daughters as a single mother, often worked multiple jobs and 
cared for Daniels’ physically impaired stepfather, all while serv -
ing the church for more than 60 years, Daniels said.
“I would tell people, don’t let her size and looks fool you,” 
Johnson, 35, said. “She is one of the strongest people that you 
could ever meet.”
Her voice was soft when she spoke, but it carried powerful 
volume. Though she rarely yelled, she possessed the ability to 
make anyone feel like an ant, Daniels said, laughing. 
Daniels said Bradley was known for her compassionate hugs, Willie Wicks, 67
Willie Wicks, 67, wasn’t the 
youngest of his family. That 
didn’t stop his older sister Chris -
tine Dorsey from nicknaming him 
“Pee-Wee” — a playful jab at his 
5 foot 4 inch stature. 
“He was small, always small,” 
Dorsey said. “I could tell you, he 
was one of the best.”
Wicks was born on March 6, 
1953, in LaCrosse, Florida, 15 
miles north of Gainesville. The 
seventh of 11 children, his family saw him as an innocent child, 
one Dorsey remembers looking out for.
“When you met him, everybody loved him,” she said.
After he left high school, he started work as a groundskee -
per at UF, plucking flowers and trimming hedges for over 30 
years. He retired at 48, choosing not to tell his family and in -
stead opt for more time at home.
He was also an avid lover of football and basketball, the 
Gators being his favorite teams. He would also spend time with 
friends over games of dominoes, Dorsey said, and his girlfriend 
of over 20 years, Chavela Lee.
Written by Corbin BoliesKimora Lynum, 9
Kimora “Kimmie” Lynum’s 
favorite spot was always the water. 
She spent her summers racing and 
playing water volleyball in the pool 
and rushing into waves at the beach.
Lynum stayed in her underwater 
world for hours until she pruned and 
the sky darkened. Even then, she 
would beg not to leave.
On July 17, Kimmie’s life was 
cut short by COVID-19 at 9 years old. She was the youngest 
COVID-19 victim in the country at one point and remains the 
youngest victim in Alachua County.
Kimmie took her talkative and friendly nature after her 
second mother in heart, Travisha Donaldson. 
Kimmie had just crept out of her shell and became a social 
butterfly, chatting up fellow shoppers at the grocery store and 
helping shorter children at the playground.
“Kimmie always had a way to make sunshine out of the 
rainy day. Her smile, her laugh, her goofiness,” Donaldson said.
Donaldson became like a second mother to Kimmie when 
she dated the girl’s father, Theophilus Lynum. Even after the 
breakup, Donaldson stayed a part of the family.
Kimmie spent weekends at Donaldson’s home during the 
school year, playing with her nieces and swimming in the 
community pool. During the summer, Kimmie spent weeks 
there.
When the pandemic hit, Kimmie adjusted to staying indoors. 
She played video games with her mother, Mikasha Young-
Holmes, and made TikTok videos with her cousins. 
“She was able to make fun when there really was no fun,” 
Donaldson said.
After Kimmie’s father was shot and killed in April, Kimmie 
spent the entire month of May at Donaldson’s home mourning 
her father.
“She had her sad moments that she really missed him,” 
Donaldson said. “But she could laugh, and she could have fun.”
Donaldson cheered Kimmie with Roblox, water guns and 
trips to the pool.
Even though Kimmie kept her head up, she still missed her 
father. For her 10th birthday, she wished to have her father at 
her birthday party. Donaldson and the rest of Kimmie’s family 
planned the YMCA event months in advance.
They bought a life-size cutout of Kimmie’s dad and planned 
to edit him into her birthday photo shoot.
Donaldson was grateful to have known and loved Kimmie. 
She will always hold onto the photos, memories and neon 
bathing suits she bought Kimmie close to her heart.
“Don’t look at her death. Don’t look at how she died. More 
so look at her life, how she lived,” Donaldson said. “She’s 9 
years old, and she literally touched so many people.”
Written by Lianna Hubbard
Deborah Wilson, 67
Deborah Wilson, 67, loved 
helping other people and made 
a lasting impact on those around 
her. At Perkins Restaurant & 
Bakery, her favorite place to eat, 
all the waitresses knew her and 
competed to serve her. Wilson 
was authentically herself and 
had a no-nonsense personality, 
Carmelia Speed, her daughter, 
said. Wilson was most proud of 
her family and wanted to learn 
more about their roots. Once on a family trip to South Carolina, 
Wilson knocked on the door of distant cousins who she had 
never met. Wilson played a large role in helping Carmelia 
raise her children. To honor Wilson, her daughter and her 
grandchildren plan to start a nonprofit organization providing 
scholarship funds for children of single parents.
Written by Juliana Ferrie2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
COVID-19
April 21 marks the one-year anniversary 
of Alachua County’s first COVID-19 death. 
Since then, our community 
has lost 262 others. 
They were husbands and wives, parents 
and grandparents, friends and coworkers. 
Hundreds of local families are now without 
someone they loved, and while the death 
total may be measurable, 
these families’ losses are not.
A grandmother who could clear the 
dancefloor doing the jitterbug; a mother and 
school bus driver who passed out pizza to 
her students; a husband and father who left 
notes around the house 
to make his family smile — all gone. 
As vaccinations increase and local virus 
cases and death counts have recently 
slowed, it’s tempting to look to the future. 
But it’s important to remember 
those who were taken.
For the past three months, The Alligator 
staff has worked to identify local COVID-19 
victims, contact their loved ones and write 
obituaries in their memory. This is the 
beginning of that effort. 
If you have a loved one you’d like to 
be included in this project, let us know by 
filling out this form.Facing the Numbers
SEE MEMORIALS,  PAGE 15
which she gave out freely.
“She just gave that hug, and people said how they got 
strength from it,” Daniels said.
Though she longs to be with her mother and closest friend 
again, Daniels is at peace knowing Bradley is finally at rest. 
“I know she’s better,” she said.  
She leaves behind her four children, 17 grandchildren and 18 
great-grandchildren.
Written by Abbey Hasebroock
Dorothy Elouise Lester, 84
Dorothy Lester, a wife, mother 
and Gators fan, loved to dance. She 
and her husband of about 59 years, 
General Lee Lester Jr., would clear 
the dance floor as people watched 
them do the Jitterbug at weddings 
and parties. 
“When my dad died, ([dancing]) 
didn’t mean the same to her because 
my dad was her dancing partner,” 
Carmen L. Davis, her daughter, said.
Lester died from COVID-19 and other pre-existing health 
issues on July 29 at 84 years old. 
Above all else, she was a devoted Jehova’s Witness 
and dedicated her life to serving God, or Jehovah, and her 
congregation in Interlachen, Florida. She would break out her 
best china to invite the congregation over for get-togethers, 
Davis said.
Lester was legally blind but functioned on her own well, 
Davis said. When her husband would leave town, she used 
different technologies for the visually impaired that allowed her 
to change the thermostat, use the television and make coffee. 
When General Lee passed away, she continued living on her 
own in the house he built for them in Hawthorne. 
She loved being a homemaker and caring for her ever-
growing family as she took in about 20 foster children 
throughout her life. Lester and her husband adopted one child 
as a baby, Davis said. Brandi Field, one of the foster children 
they took in, spoke fondly of the time she spent with the family 
and expressed her gratitude for Lester’s help and nurturing. 
“She was devoted to her family and a loving and caring 
person,” Davis said.
Written by Lucille Lannigan
We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperUF to build new complex
New honors housing will replace Broward recreational center,  pg. 4
A cat named Tenders
Students care for the Tolbert tabby,  pg. 6The checkered flag
Gator Motorsports has molded a group of 
talented engineers and auto racing fanatics 
into consistent contenders in the Formula 
SAE competition,  pg. 13
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 30
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Carmen L. Davis looks out her window while holding a picture of her mother and father. Davis’ mother, Dorothy Lester, died in 
July of COVID-19 and pre-existing health conditions. This issue spotlights Lester’s and other local COVID-19 victims’ obituaries.
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer
The prospect of moving away to college 
is frightening for many reasons, but one 
is shared among most college students: 
learning to cook.
However, Devin Mix’s roommates nev -
er had that fear. 
The 20-year-old UF computer science 
sophomore said he typically cooks dinner 
for himself and his three roommates about 
five times a week. 
Mix’s newfound knack for cooking 
was born after he moved off-campus for 
his sophomore year. While he was origi -
nally slated to live in an on-campus dorm 
again, the arrival of the COVID-19 pan -
demic changed his mind because of the increased exposure risk of living in the 
dorms, he said. 
In his Italian wedding soup recipe, Mix 
combines a collection of spices into an In -
stant Pot with vegetable broth accompa -
nied by plant-based meatballs. His go-to 
dinner is a jalapeno macaroni and cheese 
dish, which he said requires at least 20 oz. 
of cheese. 
“It’s ridiculous,” he said. “But for the 
guys, it’s enough.”
As UF’s Spring semester comes to a 
close, students reflect on how the pan -
demic allowed for the opportunity to gain 
new abilities and navigate through HyFlex 
classes. They also look ahead to Fall — 
with some feeling apprehensive about 
UF’s decision to return to full, normal op -
erations and others eager to step foot back on campus. 
Jean-Pierre Pierantoni said he is excit -
ed about his in-person Fall schedule be -
cause he misses spontaneous group trips 
to the Marston Science Library basement 
after class to chat and study. 
“I’m going to need that environment in 
order to deal with the junior year that I’m 
about to have,” the 20-year-old UF bio -
medical engineering sophomore said. 
The rigor of the courses will elevate as 
Pierantoni enters into the Fall because he 
has to take 15 credits and the material will 
be more in-depth.
Though Pierantoni said he only ven -
tured to campus three or four times this 
entire school year, he, like Mix, also de -THE DASHBOARD LACKS DETAILED 
EXPLANATION OF WHERE ITS DATA 
COMES FROM AND 
WHO IT INCLUDES
By Kevin Maher
Alligator Staff Writer
Since February, UF’s COVID-19 testing 
program has reported a campus positivity 
rate ranging between 2% and less and 1%. 
An analysis of state and university data shows 
trends that can’t be fully explained, partly 
because the dashboard doesn’t fully explain 
where its numbers come from — including 
the campus positivity rate. 
UF’s COVID-19 dashboard has long been 
scrutinized, and its display has undergone 
numerous changes, often without warning or 
explanation. It’s a reflection of greater trends 
across the state, as reported numbers have 
been questioned and challenged since the 
start of the COVID-19 pandemic.
UF’s dashboard features two graphs that 
display data since the beginning of the pan -
demic, but doesn’t fully explain where the 
data comes from, who it excludes or who ex -
actly constitutes a “UF affiliate.” When the to -
tals are compared with state data, even more 
questions are raised about on-campus positiv -
ity rates and the way data is reported.
The Alligator spent two months analyzing 
and comparing state, county and university 
data. It found that the number of cases and 
tests reported by UF don’t match the cases in 
state reports. After talking to representatives 
and officials across the state, some pointed to 
different reporting methods and all directed 
to different agencies for explanations of how 
they report their numbers. Meanwhile, epide -
miologists provided possible explanations for 
patterns and vagueness in university and state 
data. 
UF has assured faculty, staff and students 
that its campus is safe and made reopening 
decisions based on the university’s self-report -
ed positivity rate. Despite constant pushback 
and criticism from faculty about their uncer -
tainty and fears, UF pushed forward to reopen 
campus at a 2% positivity rate. 
In a December announcement about UF’s 
reopening, Michael Lauzardo, director of UF 
Screen, Test & Protect, references a 2% posi -
tivity rate to justify reopening. But, neither the 
dashboard nor the announcement provides a 
comprehensive explanation of who is includ -
ed in the positivity rate and where their tests 
come from.
“We feel that [the dashboard] is a good 
representation of what’s happening,” Roxane 
Wergin, director of external communications 
for UF Health, said. 
But comparing the dashboard’s data with 
Florida Department of Health data raises even 
more questions, specifically because of a dif -
ference in positive and negative cases being 
reported. UF students reflect on Spring and the future of FallA year later, a shroud of uncertainty still surrounds UF’s COVID-19 numbers
SEE RECAP,  PAGE 6SEE COVID-19,  PAGE 5The 2021 Spring and Fall semesters bring mixed emotionsT oday’s Weather
HE SPOKE TO UF STUDENTS 
VIRTUALLY IN FINAL 
UF ACCENT EVENT
By Manny Rea
Alligator Staff Writer
Dave Portnoy built a small sports 
gambling newspaper in Boston into 
a nationally known product. And 
through the COVID-19 pandemic, his 
audience grew with pizza reviews, 
day trading and a small-business re -
lief fund.
Portnoy, president and founder 
of Barstool Sports, spoke to UF stu -
dents about his personal history and 
Barstool Sports’ success Thursday. 
He talked about the brand’s authen -
ticity while also addressing the con -
troversies his brand has faced over 
the years. 
Portnoy, the last speaker in the 
UF Accent Speakers Bureau’s Spring 
lineup, joined moderator Ted Spiker, 
the journalism department chair, 
over Zoom to discuss his latest ven -
tures.
In 2003, Portnoy founded Bar -
stool Sports as a print publication for 
gambling advertisements and sports 
talk. The company made a major 
breakthrough in 2007 when a New 
York reader offered to develop a 
website for the brand, Portnoy said.
“Once you went online, it chang -
es the whole business,” Portnoy 
said. “I was the right guy to take ad -
vantage of basically a lucky break.”
Barstool Sports has also expand -
ed into numerous podcasts, blogs 
and social media. Portnoy’s one-bite 
pizza reviews of restaurants across 
the country appeal to foodies and 
casual viewers alike. As quarantine halted daily life last March, he dab -
bled in TikTok and day trading.
Portnoy co-hosts the BFFs pod -
cast with TikToker Josh Richards, 
rounding up topics on the app’s 
influencers and their relationships. 
He also started the Barstool Fund 
to raise money for small businesses 
hurt by the pandemic, raising $37 
million for 332 businesses since De -
cember. 
But this image of Barstool is a 
shift from its rowdy roots as they 
branch into more sponsorships. 
Portnoy expects employees to be in 
better control of their comedy; if it’s 
going to be questionable, it better be 
funny, he said. 
Spiker asked Portnoy if he had 
any regrets about things he’s said in 
the past. Portnoy was recorded say -
ing a racial slur, and a flurry of in -
sults toward Sam Ponder from ESPN 
resurfaced after the network part -
nered with Barstool for a talk show. 
Portnoy said he wished he hadn’t 
made those remarks.
“But I can’t apologize for things 
in my heart. It’s like there’s no intent 
to cause harm,” Portnoy said.
Alana O’Brien, a 23-year-old UF 
biomedical sciences Ph.D. student, 
said she enjoyed the pressing ques -
tions Spiker asked about Portnoy’s 
controversial past. She witnessed 
the cyberbullying of the brand to -
ward the National Women’s Hockey 
League (NWHL) as Barstool fans at -
tacked smaller Twitter accounts for 
criticizing the company online.
Barstool Sports CEO Erika Nardi -
ni promoted the NWHL on her plat -
forms, which drew criticism from 
the league’s members and followers 
because of Barstool’s racist and mi -
sogynistic history. In turn, fans of the brand snapped back. 
“It’s unfortunate UF gives some -
one like this a platform,” O’Brien 
said.
However, other students don’t 
feel Portnoy’s or his brand’s actions 
are as simple. 
“I was surprised to see the di -
chotomy of how people were saying 
he’s 100% great and a lot of people 
saying he’s horrible and shouldn’t be 
allowed here,” Matty Kis, a 21-year-
old UF biology junior, said.
Kis follows Barstool’s annual box -
ing events such as Rough N’ Rowdy, 
but the backlash Portnoy received 
for the Accent event is what drove 
him to attend. He believes having a 
conversation about his controversies 
while also talking about sports jour -
nalism and business was valuable to 
college-aged people.
“He really had a lot to do with his 
own success,” Kis said. “Without his 
personality and the authenticity of 
the reporting from Barstool, I don't 
think they'd have the following that 
they do.”
@ReaManny
mrea@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 30
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgBarstool Sports founder Dave Portnoy 
discusses brand success and controversies
A NEW HONORS COMPLEX WILL REPLACE 
BROWARD OUTDOOR 
RECREATIONAL COMPLEX
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
Next year, UF will tear down a recreational complex 
students use for its size and proximity to campus to 
make room for more honors housing.
The Gator Residential Complex, an undergraduate 
dormitory for honors students, will replace the Broward 
Outdoor Recreational Complex in 2022, UF spokesper -
son Cynthia Roldan wrote in an email. UF officials don’t 
know when demolition will start, Roldan wrote. The 
complex behind Broward Hall contains tennis courts, 
basketball courts, sand volleyball courts, a skate park, 
a roller hockey rink and a pool. 
The future housing complex will consist of four 
residential buildings — each five stories tall —  and 
a two-story common area building, Roldan wrote. The 
estimated $220 million project will include 1,400 beds 
reserved for honors students, and it will be 420,000 
square feet, according to the UF Board of Trustees’ 
Committee on Finance.
The Broward Outdoor Recreational Complex will 
move to a new location, but it is unknown where or 
when, Sara Tanner, director of marketing and commu -
nications at UF’s Division of Student Affairs, wrote in 
an email. 
The building is expected to be complete by August 
2024, but the Board of Trustees is pushing for an earlier 
completion by Summer 2023, Chris Cowen, UF’s CFO, 
said at the Board of Trustees meeting March 19.
Additionally, rental rates for graduate and under -
graduate students will rise for the first time in four years 
by 4.5% starting July 1, Roldan wrote, to account for 
rising operational costs like salaries and cost of materi -
als at UF’s Department of Housing and Residence Edu -cation. The department mostly depends on rent collec -
tion for revenue. It brought in about $255,000 from rent 
in 2018, according to its most recent tax filing.
UF will continue exploring new construction and 
renovation projects but has no plans for any new hous -
ing buildings beyond the Gator Residential Complex, 
she wrote.
Meanwhile, two of the five graduate housing build -
ings are set to be demolished because repairing them 
would be too expensive, according to UF. The plan 
would cause a 40% drop in available graduate housing 
at a time when affordable housing is becoming more 
scarce in Gainesville.
While UF plans to demolish the Broward Outdoor 
Recreational Complex sometime next year to make way 
for the Gator Residential Complex, some students are 
surprised to see it go.
Vincent Ludwig, a 21-year-old UF civil engineering 
junior, uses the tennis courts at the Broward Outdoor 
Recreational Complex about twice a week. He was 
shocked to hear about the demolition plans.
“I would prefer [the courts] stay because I like us -
ing them,” Ludwig said. “But if they need the space for 
more housing, well, then I guess that’s up to them.”
David Torino, a 20-year-old UF accounting junior, 
started using the basketball courts more frequently the 
last couple of months because they’re much closer to 
him than the ones at Southwest Recreation Center. He 
said commuting to Southwest would be inconvenient.
“I think it’s a shame because on this side of cam -
pus, there aren’t any basketball courts besides these,” 
he said. 
Although this is UF’s biggest construction project at 
the moment, construction continues in areas surround -
ing the Reitz Union, McCarty Hall, the O’Connell Center 
and UF’s Police Department.
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.orgUF set to build new honors residential complexMONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
How UF calculates its 
on-campus positivity rate.
The dashboard’s first graph counts all daily 
tests performed by STP. Testing through STP, 
along with contact tracing, is used to calculate 
the university’s positivity rate, Ken Garcia, UF 
Health spokesperson said. 
The graph only counts tests provided by 
STP, which are processed through UF Pathol -
ogy Laboratories, or UF Path Labs, Garcia 
wrote. UF Path Labs is the main lab UF uses to 
process all STP tests. 
While STP records all testing done on UF’s 
main campus, some tests from UF Health Jack -
sonville can also roll into STP data, Garcia 
wrote. Other locations that could be counted in 
the data include UF Health Research and Aca -
demic Center in Lake Nona, UF Health Hialeah 
Dental Center, NCEF Pediatric Dental Center in 
Naples, UF Health St. Petersburg Dental Center 
and UF Pet Emergency Treatment Services in 
Ocala, Garcia wrote.
Garcia said the positivity rate UF uses to 
guide its reopening decisions primarily in -
cludes STP tests from the main campus, but 
UF’s dashboard does not indicate how many 
of STP’s tests come from these alternative lo -
cations. Garcia said this data was “not read -
ily available,” meaning it’s unclear how many 
people from these locations are included in 
UF’s on-campus positivity rate and how many 
of these tests are coming from outside Alachua 
County. 
UF does not provide a list of its tests based 
on the labs where they are processed. How -
ever, the Florida Department of Health does.
UF Path Labs’ data is accessible in a dataset 
provided by FDOH. In this dataset, the depart -
ment lists each lab that processes COVID-19 
tests in Florida, indicating how many positive 
and negative cases each lab has processed 
since the onset of the pandemic last March.
When comparing the UF Path Labs’ data 
and UF’s dashboard, the counts of negative 
and positive tests don’t match, because the 
state’s lab data does not account for every 
negative and positive test. Instead, the state 
reports cases based on individuals tested, an 
FDOH spokesperson wrote in an email. 
“For example, if an individual has been 
tested five times at UF [Path] Lab, they will 
only show one time in the table,” the email 
read.
The state has strayed away from this clas -
sification method since last October, and the 
state’s main COVID-19 dashboard changed 
from counting one test per person to all test 
encounters people have, according to the Mi -
ami Herald.
The FDOH would not explain why the lab 
data still counts tests this way. The office of 
communications has not responded to two 
emails and two calls inquiring about the lab 
data’s distinct classification method.
Despite this different classification method, 
the FDOH data for UF Path Labs still displays 
more positive test results than UF’s number of 
daily UF COVID-19 tests performed chart.
Similarities, discrepancies and unanswered 
questions
Based on state lab data from September to 
March 1, UF Path Lab has reported about 6,900 
positive COVID-19 cases; however, UF’s dash -
board of daily tests performed shows about 
2,300 fewer positive cases.
Garcia’s explanation for the discrepancy 
is that UF Path Labs also tests some non-UF 
community members in Gainesville — another 
detail that’s not explained on UF’s dashboard 
or in the state’s data. 
“The Path Lab processes tests from STP 
and the community which is what is sent to 
the state,” Garcia wrote. 
However, this doesn’t explain the differenc -
es between the data’s moving averages. 
Around November, the UF’s seven-day av -
erage of daily tests performed through STP, which is used to calculate its on-campus posi -
tivity rate, diverges from the seven-day aver -
age reported by FDOH, showing a significantly 
lower number of positive cases. 
After November, both seven-day averages 
begin to follow similar trends. The total UF 
Path Labs data reports higher seven-day aver -
ages than the UF dashboard’s data — this is 
to be expected because the total UF Path Labs 
data also includes non-UF people tested in the 
community. 
But for several months, the lines mirror 
each other’s shapes closely. Throughout Jan -
uary and February, the two lines have near-
identical peaks and valleys during the exact 
same times.
Based on UF Health’s explanations, in or -
der for the state’s UF Path Labs data and UF’s 
dashboard data to mirror each other, the differ -
ence between the two seven-day averages has 
to be made up of non-UF community positives 
processed by the Path Lab. 
So, for several months, the number of 
positive tests that aren’t from UF-affiliates that 
were processed by UF Path Labs would have 
to remain consistent with the positives among 
UF-affiliates through STP— with little to no 
unique variation — for the lines to mirror each 
other.
Dr. Jason Salemi, a professor of epidemiol -
ogy at the University of South Florida, specu -
lated the ages of the community members that 
are being tested through UF Path Labs might 
resemble the ages of UF’s population, which 
could be why the lines are so similar. 
“They’re all part of the larger community, 
and when we have increased viral transmis -
sion it affects all members of the same com -
munity,” Salemi said.
He said if UF is testing students, faculty and 
other affiliates, it’s going to see an array of ages 
that are probably similar to the community. 
STP tested few community members in the 
Fall, Garcia wrote. This could explain why the 
lines were so close to each other until about 
November when UF began increasing its com -
munity testing.
Garcia said UF Path Labs processed more 
tests from the community and UF-affiliates as 
the holidays approached. This was his expla -
nation for the lines diverging around Novem -
ber. He did not explain why the lines’ shapes 
appeared nearly identical between January 
and February.
Alachua County’s seven-day averages also 
follow the same trends as those of UF and 
FDOH.
“They’re just a microcosm of the broader 
community at large, and that’s why you tend 
to see the shape of these curves marry each 
other,” Salemi said.
The relationship between the lines shows there is no difference in the transmission pat -
terns between the university and Gainesville, 
meaning you’re exposed equally in both set -
tings, Dr. Edwin Michael, a professor of epide -
miology at the University of South Florida said. 
“So, you’ve not made campus safe, in other 
words,” Michael said. 
Shrouded in uncertainty
Following backlash from faculty mem -
bers who felt reopening the university wasn’t 
safe, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando told the 
Gainesville Sun that a study published Jan. 
13 showed COVID-19 outbreaks at UF do not 
translate to outbreaks in the surrounding com -
munity. 
Alachua County has a population of 
269,043, according to the latest census data. 
There are roughly 25,000 students enrolled 
in at least one in-person class for the Spring 
semester, but it’s reasonable to assume there 
are more UF students living in Gainesville, Or -
lando wrote in a text. 
This doesn’t mean the Gainesville commu -
nity is affecting UF’s COVID-19 rates, Salemi 
said.  
“It’s not that the community affects UF, UF 
is just a part of the community,” Salemi said. 
“In COVID-19 times, [UF affiliates] are more 
in the community than they are on campus.”
The seven-day average similarities between 
UF’s dashboard, the state’s UF Path Labs data, 
and the county show the importance of coor -
dinated efforts at reducing or curbing commu -
nity transmission of the virus, Salemi said. 
University’s faculty have been searching for 
accountability and responsibility from UF ad -
ministration as more face-to-face classes have 
been added, Dr. Steven Kirn, a retired UF fac -
ulty member now serving as Co-Chair of the 
United Faculty of Florida-UF’s COVID-19 task 
force said.
“There has been a disruption of trust in 
UF’s decision-making processes and their at -
titudes towards the faculty,” Kirn said. 
Jacob Fiala, a graduate student at the UF, 
has been keeping track of UF’s dashboard 
since it started tracking data. He’s skeptical 
about whether the community similarities ex -
plain why UF’s dashboard and the data from 
UF Path Labs match so well. 
Because UF accounts for a significant 
amount of testing in Alachua County, it isn’t 
surprising that the county’s line matches so 
well with UF Path Labs, Fiala wrote in a text. 
But Fiala compared state lab data from UF 
Health Shands Hospital with the UF Path Labs 
and dashboard data, and the lines weren’t as 
similar. 
If UF and the community’s tests are so sim -
ilar, then using a testing site that tests more 
community members than UF affiliates should mirror the trends as well.  UF Health Shands 
Hospital doesn’t.
The seven-day average of UF Health Shands 
Hospital’s daily tests does not correspond with 
the seven-day averages shown by the UF dash -
board and UF Path Labs data.  
Salemi said this is odd, but he does not find 
the non-correspondence surprising. 
“There’s a lot of variability in the patterns 
of positivity across labs for a number of dif -
ferent reasons, including who they’re testing, 
when they’re testing people and the volume of 
testing that they’re doing at those sites,” Sa -
lemi said. 
“We wouldn’t expect the patterns to be 
right on top of each other for all labs,” he said.  
If healthcare professionals make up the 
bulk of testing done at Shands, it makes the 
graph make more sense, as they’re at a lower 
risk to test positive for COVID-19, Salemi said.
“Even though they’re putting themselves 
in high-risk positions, they’re taking all of the 
precautions,” Salemi said. 
Garcia said the UF Health Shands Lab pro -
cesses tests for people going to the hospitals. 
Its patient demographic can be made up of 
locals in Gainesville as well as people from 
around and out of the state.
Salemi said it has been difficult for the pub -
lic to receive specific information about CO -
VID-19 numbers. 
“Often we are only working with partial in -
formation and there’s not much benefit from 
being specific in the absence of concrete infor -
mation,” Salemi wrote in a text. “One can only 
get themselves in trouble trying to be specific, 
especially if they are wrong.”
Roxane Wergin, director of external com -
munications for UF Health, said it would be too 
complicated to have a dashboard that includes 
the “asterisk-type of information” — details 
such as who exactly constitutes a UF-related 
individual and where STP’s positive tests come 
from. 
“We wouldn’t explain that on this [dash -
board] — this is meant for public consump -
tion,” Wergin said. 
Although Salemi said institutions such as 
universities and the FDOH are doing a great 
job in accurately compiling and reporting CO -
VID-19 data, he said a certain level of transpar -
ency is key. 
“I do think that it’s important that people 
who are trying to access information from reli -
able resources get as much information as pos -
sible to help them to understand that data,” 
Salemi said. 
@KevinMaher_
kmaher@alligator.orgCOVID-19,  from pg. 1
Ashley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
TENDERS RULES THE 
TOLBERT AREA
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer
A Tolbert Area resident has en -
joyed the luxury of a cozy bed, an 
abundance of food, constant atten -
tion and plenty of time to bask in 
the sun free of charge for about three 
years. 
Tenders, the campus cat, reels 
UF students in with her loveable 
personality and undeniable charm. 
She is one of many cats who occu -
pies UF’s campus and garners atten -
tion through online posts. She has 
amassed popularity among the entire 
community from her humble begin -
ning to her legacy today. 
Students can rest assured Ten -
ders will live a long, healthy life after 
being spayed about a year ago. 
During her last semester in col -
lege, Rachel Wolf, a 22-year-old UF 
alumna, said she took Tenders to 
Operation Catnip to get spayed in 
January 2020. 
Operation Catnip is an animal 
protection organization that aims to 
save community cats by offering free 
spaying, neutering and vaccination services to free-roaming cats. 
Wolf said she lived in Riker Hall 
since her freshman year in August 
2016 and began seeing Tenders in 
October of 2018. A conversation 
with Tolbert Area maintenance crew 
members revealed that Tenders 
would often give birth to kittens, 
most of whom would die shortly af -
ter.
It was then that Wolf decided she 
would take Tenders to get spayed. 
After an unsuccessful attempt to 
keep Tenders in her dorm, Wolf said 
she stayed awake all night outside 
trying to comfort Tender. 
The next morning, Wolf drove to 
Operation Catnip where Tenders was 
spayed and had her left ear clipped, 
a standard procedure conducted by 
the organization to all cats who have 
been neutered or spayed to identify 
them as fixed. 
Melissa Jenkins, the operations 
director at Operation Catnip, said the 
organization treats between 5,000 
and 6,000 cats annually. Jenkins 
loves seeing posts on social media 
of the cats OC has treated because 
it preserves the connection with the 
cats and allows the organization to 
know they are still healthy and hap -
py. “We really like seeing those up -
dates because it just shows that this 
program does so much good,” she 
said. 
Since her trip to Operation Cat -
nip, Tenders has grown into the out -
going, highly pampered Tolbert pet 
of today.
Brittany VanKirk, who lives in 
North Hall, said Tenders pays her 
visits while she goes on evening 
walks around the area.
“She loves being pet, and she 
really loves affection,” the 21-year-
old UF dietetics senior said. “She’s 
a very approachable cat. She won’t 
run away.”
VanKirk said her boyfriend, who 
is not a UF student, eagerly awaits 
a Tenders sighting every time he 
comes to visit. 
“She’s like an icon,” she said. 
“There’s no other way to describe 
it.”
The origin of Tenders’ name re -
mains a mystery as theories circulate 
throughout the years. VanKirk said 
Tenders got her name after develop -
ing a taste for the Gator Corner din -
ing hall chicken tenders students fed 
her. 
However, other students, like 
Arielle Tibon and Devon Limcangco, said they heard a rumor she was 
named after the beloved chicken ten -
ders Publix sub sandwich. 
Regardless of where her name 
came from, all the students agreed 
on one thing: Tenders has put on 
some pounds. 
“She’s a little chunky,” Tibon 
said.
The 20-year-old UF psychology 
junior said she began to notice Ten -
ders’ plumper appearance over the 
past couple of months as she fre -
quents the Tolbert area on her way 
to UF’s New Physics Building. 
Tibon said she often sees Ten -
ders sprawled out by the bike racks. 
During one interaction, Tibon said a 
freshman walked up to them, started 
taking pictures of the cat and desper -
ately wondered how she found and 
approached Tenders.
“You just got to be patient!” she 
said to the freshman. “Just let her 
come to you.”
Tibon said the campus cats allow 
for conversations and even friend -
ships to spark among strangers. 
“I love all of the positivity every -
one has around her, it’s just really 
sweet,” she said. “She has such a 
cult following.”
Limcangco said she treks to Tol -bert three to five times a week to 
visit Tenders and give her treats. 
The 20-year-old UF electrical engi -
neering sophomore recalled a season 
of stress before a big exam during 
her freshman year when she sought 
out the Tolbert cats to unwind. 
“They’re kind of like my emotion -
al support animals,” she said.
Limcangco especially cherishes 
Tenders and the other Tolbert cats 
because she misses her four cats 
back home, she said. 
Tenders’ most distinctive charac -
teristic is her willingness to be pet, 
which is something 19-year-old UF 
architecture sophomore Hayley Gil -
lette loves about her. 
“She’s one of the only cats that 
is not afraid of humans,” Hayley Gil -
lette said. 
Gillette said she and her three 
roommates intentionally walk 
through the Tolbert area at the end 
of the day on their way back to their 
dorm in the Keys Complex to spend 
some time with Tenders. 
The presence of the cats makes 
the campus a more pleasant place, 
and it is one of the reasons she lives 
on campus, she said. 
“It’s not out of the question that 
the cats have kept us in a dorm.”  
ahasebroock@alligator.org
@abbeyhasebroock6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
veloped cooking skills as a result of the 
pandemic. He said he no longer has the 
luxury of stopping by a fast food joint on 
his way to or from class, and his diet now 
consists of homemade, whole foods. 
“In freshman year, I was barely able to 
cook an egg,” he said. 
Pierantoni plans to maintain the healthy 
habits he cultivated this past year.
But not every UF student feels the same 
fervor for a semester of in-person classes 
and relaxed physical distancing measures.The transition to a fully online semester 
saved Madelyn White’s GPA and reignited 
the love for school that she had before 
coming to college. 
“I really enjoy online classes, which 
seems to be a very unpopular opinion,” the 
20-year-old UF finance sophomore said. “If 
I’m not feeling like doing math, I’m not go -
ing to do math from 10 a.m. to 11, I’ll do 
it later.” 
White said she worries her academic 
progress, such as being on the Dean’s list 
for the first time, will be lost as she heads 
back to campus this fall for live, in-person 
sections. In-person classes require a more rigid schedule, and White prefers learning 
at her own pace. 
Though she is happy about being vacci -
nated, she is concerned about UF’s plan to 
have full classroom capacity and wonders 
what mask-wearing rules will be imple -
mented. 
“What’s going to happen if the people 
next to me decide they just don’t want to 
wear it, and it’s like around their chin?” 
She said. 
“I’ll have to suck it up, but I shouldn’t 
have to suck it up about my health.”
Despite the uncertainty about the uni -
versity’s decisions regarding classroom policies in the Fall, some students, like 
Mix, are aching for the simple joys of life 
that have been stripped away for so long, 
like bumping into an old friend on campus. 
The monotony of being stuck in his apart -
ment invokes a sense of cabin fever, Mix 
said. 
“I think campus is beautiful, it’s really 
good for my health,” he said. “I love being 
there, and I’m looking forward to having 
that aspect back.”
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgRECAP,  from pg. 1
UF campus cat garners attention from studentsMONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/opinionsI’ve written this column so many times.
At the end of each semester, as the paper rolled fresh off the press, I’d quickly flip 
to the goodbye columns to see what everyone had to say, then I’d start constructing 
my own column in my head. What would I have to say when it was finally time to 
go? Would I make people laugh? Would I make them cry? What would my final mark 
be? 
But, all those other versions of this column could never print here. Back then, I leaned 
on the idea that there was at least one more semester to take on a new position. I always 
had more time. So, I guess if you’re reading this –– finally out of my head and on the 
paper –– it means my time’s up.
I like the way I used my time here. I started as the City Commission writer back in 
Spring 2019. I edited features later that Fall. Then, after a very long hiatus to get some 
professional experience under my belt, I returned for my final semester as editor-in-chief. 
I’ll never forget driving home from my first print night in January 2019. It was pushing 
11 p.m. on a Sunday, and I missed all my friends hanging out to kick off the semester. 
One thought kept racing through my mind:
What the hell did I just get myself into?
Turns out it was this crazy, life-changing experience. It was where I launched my 
career and made my closest friends. It houses my first bylines and favorite college 
memories. It will always be where I first fell in love with journalism. I just wish I had a 
little more time. 
Coming back to The Alligator after being gone for more than a year (which is ages in 
Alligator time) posed a set of unexpected challenges. When I looked at the staff list in 
January, I realized that –– with the exception of a few old-timers –– I was returning to 
almost entirely new faces. Most of them knew each other, but I was this outsider showing 
up to run the show. 
They didn’t know The Alligator I’d grown to love. I’d have to explain Devoun Cetoute’s 
hot food takes and tell stories about getting tattoos with Angie DiMichele. I’d have to tell them about all the ‘Dream Team’ stories I 
worked on with Chris Day and unravel years of 
tea. The new faces nodded and laughed along, 
but I felt like I was talking about a ghost of 
what The Alligator once was. 
But, when I returned this semester, The 
Alligator took me in with open arms. I picked 
up on the new dynamics and learned how 
to run the newsroom virtually. My dread for 
print night Zoom sessions quickly turned to 
excitement to see Kaelyn Cassidy and Payton 
Titus in the office every Sunday. I got to help 
writers prepare for interviews for prestigious 
internships. I tried to channel my energy into 
producing not just better papers but stronger 
reporters.
Still, I spent many nights worrying that I 
wasn’t enough for them. I worried they weren’t 
getting the same experience I did. Were they having fun? Was I pushing them hard 
enough? Was I working them too hard? Every Sunday night when I got home after the 
paper went off to the press, I never went right to sleep. I’d stay up to clean my room or 
watch TV –– anything to quiet my brain and stop the worrying — wondering what I could 
have done better.
That’s just part of the job, though. I knew what I was getting myself into. I read the 
goodbye columns and letters left behind by former EICs. I was ready to play the game. It 
wasn’t easy, but seeing the progress of every person on this staff was worth it.
I do wish there was more time. I wish I could stick around long enough to see the staff 
get vaccinated and pack into the dusty newsroom for a Sunday afternoon staff meeting. 
I want more time for a newspaper Friday, for a Halloween party, for a late night trip to 
Jacksonville. 
I’m terrified of becoming a ghost –– of one day becoming a name in someone’s 
goodbye column.
But that’s what happens when your time runs out.
Karina Elwood is a UF journalism senior. She was the Spring 2021 Alligator editor-in-chief.A LOVE LETTER TO THE AVENUE
I wasn’t going to write for the Avenue.
I drafted a “thanks, but no thanks” 
email to the editor after our first staff 
meeting in Fall 2019. Fears filled my 
mind: I wouldn’t be any good at it. I 
was way too anxious to interview strangers. 
I couldn’t be creative or productive in the 
way the staff writer position required. But 
something inside of me told me not to hit 
send. To see if I could do it. And so I did.
I wasn’t going to be the editor for the 
Avenue this semester, either. I wasn’t even 
going to apply. There was no way I could 
manage an entire section of a newspaper, 
I thought. But as the clock inched closer to 
midnight on the night of the application’s 
deadline, I told myself to apply anyway 
— just to see. And when I got offered an 
interview, I took it — just to see. And the 
more I kept an open mind to see if I could 
do it, the more I realized I actually really 
wanted to.
The Avenue’s beat has a special place 
in my heart. Hard news is important, 
undoubtedly. But to understand the news, 
you need to understand the community 
and the culture of the people who make 
up the news. That’s what the Ave strives 
to do. And I may be biased, but I think we 
did it pretty well.Even when the 
COVID-19 pandemic 
complicated stories, 
made sources 
hard to reach and 
made the work feel 
overwhelming at 
times, my team — 
Valeriya, Kristin, 
Heather, Katie and 
Veronica — pushed 
on.
When it felt like lifestyle stories weren’t 
as valued as the harder news stories, we 
showed how local entertainment news 
can still be — and is — good journalism.
I’m so proud of everything our desk 
accomplished this semester. We wrote 
over 70 articles, covering everything 
from mental health initiatives geared 
toward local musicians to the Oscar 
Mayer Weinermobile’s recruitment tour 
at UF. We recorded roughly 10 hours of 
pop culture news banter for The Alligator 
podcast. We put together hundreds of our 
favorite songs for our weekly playlists. 
And I’m really glad I got to be a part of it. 
I’m really glad I didn’t say no out of fear.
No matter what lies ahead in my 
journalism journey, I know I’ll probably be 
scared again. But if there’s anything I’ve 
learned from my time with The Alligator, 
it’s that if you feel called to something, do 
it. If you’re scared, do it scared. Because 
the scariest thing is letting an opportunity 
pass you by because you were too busy 
doubting yourself.I’ve spent the last few weeks thinking 
about all the things I have to do before 
I graduate. 
I have to pack and return my text -
books and figure out how I’m going to 
fit my entire life in my car so I can move 
halfway across the country. I have to go 
to my last classes and eat at all the res -
taurants I didn’t make it to over the past 
four years. 
And I have to start saying goodbye. 
This column is really my first real 
goodbye. I still have time with my friends 
and professors, but as I write this, sitting 
on the dirty carpet of The Alligator office, 
I know it is the last time I ever do it. And 
it’s sad. 
I never thought I would be sad about 
leaving The Alligator. Anyone who knows 
me knows I have threatened to quit every 
week since I started working here a little 
under two years ago. For the first month I 
worked here, I hated it. I couldn’t keep up 
with the pace, and I was discouraged by 
how many edits my stories were getting. I 
felt lonely in an office full of people.  
But then something changed. I started 
to make friends. My writing got better. 
The dread I felt going into the office three 
times a week morphed into a neutral feel -ing, and sometimes 
I was even enjoying 
it. 
I went from leav -
ing as soon as I could 
to staying until the 
paper was sent off. 
I made friends with 
the people I worked 
with and accepted 
their invitations to 
go out. I even sang karaoke with them 
once or twice. 
I remember sitting in my apartment 
working on a breaking story and look -
ing at the people I was working with and 
thinking how happy I was that I had fi -
nally found my place at UF. 
To say I loved every moment from then 
on would be a huge lie, and therefore 
a fact error. It was hard. I cried a lot. I 
fought with my editors and was probably 
too mean to my writers. 
But I wouldn’t trade it for the world. If 
I could do it all over again, I would. 
The Alligator gave me some of my best 
friends in the world. It gave me a reason 
to try and be the best I could be. It offered 
me an escape during some of the lowest 
moments of my life. 
So, here’s to the first of many good -
byes. The Alligator is the best of the best, 
and I’m honored to have been a small part 
of its history.
If you’re reading this, my time’s upDoing it scared Alyssa’s Version
Goodbye ColumnGoodbye Column Goodbye Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Karina Elwood
kelwood@alligator.org
@karina_elwood
Morgan Goldwich
mgoldwich@alligator.org
@morgangoldwich
Alyssa Feliciano
afeliciano@alligator.org
@alyssachantelle
What the hell did I just get myself into?8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
William Shakespeare’s Coriolanus. Act three, scene two, line 94.
In the play, Coriolanus’ mother Volumnia is trying to convince her son to run 
for consul. She tells him that action is eloquence: Put less pretentiously, that 
actions speak louder than words.
Once I wake up tomorrow, I’ll have concluded 10 semesters at the Inde -
pendent Florida Alligator. In that time, I’ve covered five sports beats, been here for two 
summers and served as both Engagement Managing Editor and Sports Editor. I don’t 
know how eloquent it has been, but that’s certainly a lot of action.
I was barely on campus for two weeks when I heard that the Alligator was hiring fall 
2017. I met with then-editor-in-chief Katelyn Newberg, who directed me to the sports sec -
tion. I took a writing test, which included a preview about UF’s swim team.
I wrote a story filled with meaningless stats and press release quotes, and as I wrote 
it, I grew to detest it. I decided  I had to get quotes from former head coach Gregg Troy, 
so I emailed him from my UF student account to see if he would give me some quotes 
for my writing test.
He did. And when Sports Editor Matt Brannon gave me a call late one night, the rest 
became history.
For the first time, I felt absolutely surrounded by people who shared my love of sports. 
A print night didn’t go by without some sort of argument over why Philip Rivers was or 
wasn’t a hall of fame quarterback or who the true greatest shooter in NBA history was. 
I’d watch sports shows on ESPN for hours when I was little, and suddenly, I felt like 
I was living in one.
Being a member of the sports staff — “sprots”, as it is so affectionately called — al -
lowed me to meet the best friends I’d ever get to make in college. I was writing features, 
going out on food runs during copy shift and making memes for the paper.
And then one night, while I was sitting alone eating dinner at Piesanos, I got a call 
from Christina Morales. She was going to be the editor-in-chief of the paper next spring, 
and she wanted me to be her Engagement Managing Editor. I had a lot of long conversations with my friends and colleagues 
in sports and news about that position, but in the end, I went out 
on a limb and I took it.
And you know what? It was really, really hard. I was entirely 
overwhelmed for the first few weeks of the job, and when I finally 
felt like I was starting to hit my stride, the world was plunged into 
a pandemic, and the job got even harder.
I don’t think I was a very good Engagement Managing Editor 
at all, but I got to uncover yet another side of the newspaper I’ve 
grown to adore so much, and I came out of that experience with 
such an immense respect for young student journalists in news -
rooms across the nation. I’m glad I got to do it, even if I probably (definitely) wasn’t the 
first choice for the job. 
After that, I spent a semester as Sports Editor, where I got to travel to places like 
Texas, Tennessee and Georgia to cover the best football season UF has had in years.
That’s action.
See, journalists write a lot of words. We write about the deeds and misdeeds of other 
people around us, but don’t be fooled. We’re doing our own deeds every print night 
when we put those words out there to the world, and the public service that journalists 
provide is absolutely integral.
Me? I’m far from the most accomplished writer at UF’s J-School. There are no awards 
or fanfare for me: I was never showered with honors, and I ended my tenure here at the 
world’s best student newspaper with as many internships as Troy Aikman has All-Pros.
I only have words to be proud of. And I’ve written a whole lot of words in my 10 
semesters here at the Alligator. But after those semesters on staff at the best damn stu -
dent newspaper in the country in an infinite number of positions, I hope people can say 
years from now that more than just my words told a story during my time as a student 
journalist.
For in such business, action is eloquence.
River Wells was Sports Editor, Engagement Managing Editor and a Staff Writer for the 
Independent Florida Alligator.Action is eloquenceGoodbye Column
River Wells
rwells@alligator.org
@twitter
If I had a brick for every time I’ve 
said “never” in my life, I could re -
construct the University of Florida 
campus from scratch.
“I never want to go to UF.”
“I like writing, but I would never 
become a journalism major.”
“I would never write for The 
Alligator.”
Today, I’m two weeks from 
graduating from UF with a journalism 
degree as I pen my goodbye column for 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
I suppose foresight has never been 
my strong suit.
When my toes touched down on UF’s 
terracotta pathways for the first time in 
August 2017, I carried a much different 
vision for my future. I was going to be a 
lawyer. I figured history would be a great 
major to coast through college with, as 
it was always my strongest subject in 
high school. Like I said before, I never 
wanted to go to UF and just wasn’t high 
on college in general — I had a negative 
attitude and was looking for the most in-
and-out experience possible.
My vibes weren’t immaculate as a 
freshman either. Standing at 5 feet, 9 
inches and pushing the scales to 145 
pounds after a good meal, my frame 
sparked a lot of McLovin comparisons. I 
didn’t have much confidence in myself, 
and a lot of what I said and did hinged 
on public perception.
I wanted to be taken seriously, I 
didn’t crack too many jokes and smiling 
wasn’t my thing.
It was easy to hide the cloud I cast 
over my head in Rainesville, but I was 
miserable during my first semester 
to say the least. I wasn’t being true to 
myself, and I wasn’t chasing any of my 
passions.
It was time for a change-up.
So, I marched into the CJC PATH 
office my freshman year and changed 
my major to journalism. I axed the law school idea. I 
decided to take 
life less seriously.
But the most 
life-altering  
decision I made 
during my 
college career 
was joining The 
Alligator as a 
sports writer 
summer 2019.
And although I had no previous 
reporting experience and clowned 
my way through my first two years of 
college, I somehow got hired.
COVID-19 aside, these past two years 
have been nothing short of an adventure. 
And while I could say my time at The 
Alligator will be memorable because 
of the sports I covered, interviews I 
conducted or clips I collected, I can’t say 
there’s a shred of truth to that statement.
When I’m asked about what it’s like 
to work at the best student newspaper in 
the country, I’m swift to gush about the 
writers who breathe their heart and soul 
in the sports section. My friends.
Late-night copy-editing shifts with the 
“coys”, grub runs, Milly Rocking to the 
SpongeBob soundtrack, watching River 
Wells burn down The Bull, spouting 
wise cracks and many more moments 
and memories with the best student 
journos around comprise my Alligator 
career in my mind. And I wouldn’t have 
it any other way.
I could pen a feature-length thank 
you to every member of The Alligator 
I’ve crossed paths with over my six 
semesters at the paper. But because 
word counts are pretty popular in this 
profession, I’m gonna have to stick to 
just a few.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/sports
Dylan O’Shea was a Staff Writer for 
The Independent Florida Alligator.“when are you going to get your tattoo?” my 
girlfriend Melissa Garcia asked me last night. 
I said (or threatened, depends on who you 
asked) I would get one around a year ago. 
Then, I was wrapping up my first semester at 
this intimate and profound newspaper. I haphaz -
ardly declared my intention to stain my skin with 
a tribute to this newspaper and messaged Alligator 
alumnus, Ethan Bauer. 
“What does your tattoo look like?”
He sent me a Snap of the bold lowercase A 
sown on his forearm. 
But for the three semesters that followed, I 
didn’t give the idea much thought. How could I? 
Doing so would mean coming to terms with the 
mortality of my career at this newspaper. 
So I put off thinking about the design. Lower -
case A? Maybe one of the alligators on our shirts. 
And the location. On my shoulder? What about my 
ass? My back? 
I only knew one thing:I wanted one. But how 
could I rush a decision like that?
I didn’t grow up dreaming of becoming a jour -
nalist. I didn’t realize my desire to religiously pur -
sue this career until my third year at FIU. So, I 
dropped out and quickly enrolled at Miami Dade 
College for a fresh start. 
I joined the student newspaper, The Reporter, 
and set my sights on the future. I wanted to go 
to UF. I didn’t consider another school. Because I 
wanted to write for The Alligator. 
So from 2017 to 2019, I wrote and edited with 
the dream of becoming an Alligator writer. It 
was the best student newspaper in the country, I 
thought. If I wanted to make something of myself, 
I couldn’t write anywhere else. 
So I arrived at UF in August 2019. The boy who 
grew up in Miami idolizing the Hurricanes was a 
Gator. But I wasn’t an Alligator. 
So I applied, waited, waited and waited some 
more. Finally, I got an email from then-sports edi -
tor Tyler Nettuno. I didn’t get the job. 
Are you kidding? 
That dose of reality struck me like a freight 
train, but I needed it. 
I kept my heart set on this damn newspaper 
and applied in the spring. Thankfully, then-sports 
editor Kyle Wood took a gamble and hired me to 
cover lacrosse. 
The rest is history. And I don’t want it to be. I really don’t. 
I’ve lived in Gainesville 
for almost two years now. 
I’ve come to appreciate 
this little city. But it’s not 
home. Maybe because it’s 
hard to find a half-decent 
croqueta. Or because I nev -
er imagined living some -
where where deer sight -
ings are casual. 
The Alligator was a 
home. 
That small newsroom. Whose walls are deco -
rated with hate mail. Whose smell is tastefully 
musty.  Whose chatter echoed through the emp -
ty Gainesville Sun offices during unholy hours. I 
made friendships I’ll cherish forever, even after we 
went virtual. 
The long hours editing. The frustrated hair pull -
ing. The elation when a story came out just right. 
Watching writers improve throughout semesters. 
I loved it. 
Because by virtue of love or patience, we went 
through it together. Whether it was as a writer or 
editor, I was never alone. 
I wrestled with how to write this column. Say -
ing goodbye is hard enough. Putting my thoughts 
into words is harder. Condensing four semesters of 
memories is almost a Herculean task. 
But maybe the reason why writing this was so 
hard is because the future is unknown. I feel like 
a little kid afraid of the dark. One who asks their 
parents to check for monsters and leave the light 
on before going to bed. 
Life outside college is going to be scary. I don’t 
know what will jump out from the dark. But what 
I learned at this newspaper is invaluable. It’s my 
night light that keeps me safe. 
It’s why I want to honor it by permanently 
staining my skin. So that when I’m scared of the 
unknown, I can look at wherever I decide to mark 
myself and feel at ease. Because I’m reminded of 
home. 
Thank you, everyone I worked with, for mak -
ing these four semesters the best of my life. 
Christian Ortega was the 
sports editor and editor-in-chief.If I had a brick How to say goodbye in 688 wordsGoodbye Column Goodbye Column
Dylan O’Shea
doshea@alligator.org
@dylanoshea24
Christian Ortega
cortega@alligator.org
@unofficialchrisMONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021   ALLIGATOR   9 
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
THE GAINESVILLE SINGER-
SONGWRITER OFFERS A 
FRESH PERSPECTIVE IN HIS 
LATEST RELEASE
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
 
Music runs through Grant Schaf -
fer’s veins.
With parents who surrounded 
him with sound from an early age 
and two older sisters who both 
played instruments, music was in -
escapable in Schaffer’s household. 
He was a bit of a late bloomer, first 
picking up the violin when he was 
already 2 years old, but he quickly 
caught up to his siblings.
Trained using the classical Suzuki 
method, the 20-year-old Gainesville 
native became proficient and began 
playing violin in local orchestras. Vi -
ola followed soon after, then guitar, 
and now, Schaffer said he can play 
“pretty much any string instrument.”
Shifting from his classical foun -
dation to a more contemporary indie 
pop sound, Schaffer is now a viral 
singer-songwriter, garnering almost 
857,000 followers on TikTok and 
over 4 million total streams on Spo -
tify. He returned Wednesday with 
his latest single “Lovely Town,” a 
charming soft rock jam about mak -ing the most of life and the power of 
free will.
“Lovely Town” is the latest in 
a string of singles Schaffer has re -
leased since March 2020, but this 
is the culmination of work started 
years earlier. After experimenting 
with songwriting and creating “ter -
rible” demos in high school, Schaffer 
said he started working with local 
producers and engineers to record 
his first serious attempts at making 
music.
What resulted was the 2019 “In -
digo Dreams” EP, a trap-infused 
indie pop effort with acoustic influ -
ence. Schaffer partnered with Will 
Frenchman, a Gainesville producer 
and sound engineer now based in 
Boston, to work on the project.
The pair met at a summer camp 
when Frenchman was 13 but only 
began collaborating after high 
school. Since then, Frenchman has 
produced almost all of Schaffer’s 
material.
“Grant is always magical to work 
with,” Frenchman said. “He can 
come up with a hit melody on his 
guitar or ukulele in 30 seconds like 
it’s nothing.” 
Schaffer’s musicality and knack 
for quick, catchy hooks translated 
well on TikTok, where creators have 
only seconds to make their sounds 
stick. Following “Indigo Dreams,” Schaffer said he turned to the plat -
form to promote his music, one of 
the first artists to do so.
“You can legitimately amass 
streams and followers and fans from 
knowing how to use the internet to 
your advantage,” Schaffer said.
Amass he did. Schaffer’s stream -
ing numbers on Spotify alone are in 
the millions, with his single “See -
ing Colors” racking up 1.3 million 
streams since its August 2020 re -
lease.
“Lovely Town” is a deviation 
from the hip-hop and electronic style 
of his previous releases. The track 
takes more of a soft rock approach, 
with clean guitar hooks decorating 
bright synth lines and an easy back -
beat. Solos emulating the likes of 
John Mayer and Jimi Hendrix, some 
of Schaffer’s heroes, glide easily over 
the instrumental base, and the beat 
is so effortless that the song sounds 
like it was written in swing. 
But it wasn’t always like that. 
Schaffer said the original recording 
sounded entirely different than the 
end product, but after months of 
hiatus recovering from a vocal injury 
that left him with a new perspective, 
Schaffer changed the arrangement. 
“Lovely Town” was originally 
tracked during a lengthy writing re -
cording session with Schaffer and 
Frenchman. The two had rented out an Airbnb in Winter Garden to 
quarantine together and make mu -
sic for weeks on end, but during the 
process, Schaffer developed vocal 
bruising.
“It took like a million tries to 
get this pretty simple vocal take,” 
Frenchman said. “I think that’s 
when we both knew something was 
really wrong.”
After two weeks of vocal rest 
saw no improvement, a specialist re -
ferred Schaffer to a vocal therapist, 
who helped rehabilitate his voice for 
three months. From there, Schaffer 
began working with a vocal coach, 
where he said he found the confi -
dence to develop a more authentic 
sound.
Schaffer realized he wanted to ex -
pand his musical style in the months 
where he wasn’t releasing mate -
rial. It meant live instrumentation, 
a heightened focus on songwriting 
and a spotlight on Schaffer’s musi -
cianship. 
“It kind of led to this gap of where 
my music was then to where it’s 
headed now,” Schaffer said.  “Going 
this direction felt a lot more true to 
myself.” 
Thematically, “Lovely Town,” is 
indicative of this renewal. The lyrics 
detail a utopia of creative energy, a 
place where dreams reign supreme 
and lofty aspirations aren’t lofty at all. 
“To live in a ‘Lovely Town’ is to 
live in a reality where you under -
stand you have the power to do any -
thing you want,” Schaffer said. 
Schaffer said his ‘Lovely Town’ is 
a future that’s “all-in” on music, one 
that sees him creating constantly 
and building a fanbase that enjoys 
his content. With streaming and so -
cial media success and a deeply in -
grained appreciation for the musical 
process, he’s on his way.
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Baseball’s streak
Following a home sweep over Missouri, the Gators look 
to capitalize on their winning streak during this week’s 
opportunistic road trip, pg. 14Scan for our playlist of 
songs saying goodbye to the 
Alligator’s Spring 2021 staff.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
MARION SENIOR SERVICES 
IS OFFERING FRESH 
PRODUCE TO SENIORS 
WITH SPONSORSHIP FROM 
FLORIDA BLUE  
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
When the story of an elderly man 
crossing six lanes of busy traffic on 
his motorized scooter reached Glen -
da Thomas, she was alarmed.
It wasn’t so much the event that 
caught Thomas’s attention; it was 
the reason behind it. The man had 
braved the bustling roads to pur -
chase a $1 hamburger from a nearby 
restaurant, only for the lettuce and 
tomato that came with it. 
He said he hadn’t had the pro -
duce in years.
Thomas, the outreach manager 
for Marion Senior Services, said the 
story alerted her to a much bigger 
problem: a staggering lack of access 
to fresh produce for senior citizens. 
That’s when she and her colleagues decided something had to be done.
Partnering with Florida Blue and 
Hebni Nutrition Consultants, Marion 
Senior Services, a nonprofit service 
organization supporting Marion 
County’s elderly population, facili -
tated a distribution program of free 
fruits and vegetables to seniors across 
Marion County. The Fresh Stop bus, 
a repurposed Lynx bus with refrig -
erated racks housing fresh fruits 
and vegetables, visits different cities 
across the county for easy access to 
produce, an otherwise difficult com -
modity to come by in certain areas. 
The idea was created from an 
already-existing partnership between 
Florida Blue and Marion Senior Ser -
vices. The Florida Blue community 
event managers across the state, 
who continuously seek out grass -
roots projects to support community 
health, partnered with Marion Senior 
Services to connect with Florida Blue 
clients in the area. 
Aware of the produce problem in 
Marion County, the two organiza -
tions began brainstorming possible 
solutions, something both economi -cally and physically accessible to 
provide their clients with proper nu -
tritional options. 
“Our agency has for some time 
been looking for ways to implement 
this type of a program, recognizing 
the need for seniors to have proper 
nutrition,” Thomas said. 
Kathryn Fleming, a community 
events manager at Florida Blue Medi -
care, suggested enlisting the help 
of Hebni Nutrition Consultants, an 
Orlando-based nonprofit organiza -
tion that offers nutrition strategies 
to populations at risk for diet-related 
diseases. The plan was for Hebni’s 
Fresh Stop bus to stop at certain tar -
get areas in Marion County, benefit -
ing both clients of Marion Senior Ser -
vices and Florida Blue.
While visiting the bus, clients can 
pick up a bag of fresh food and ingre -
dients, consult with an on-site nutri -
tionist and receive information about 
Florida Blue’s various insurance pro -
grams. Dell Richards, another Florida 
Blue Medicare community events 
manager, said the program has ser -
viced over 500 clients per month since its inception in January.
With sponsorship from Florida 
Blue, the Fresh Stop bus has visited 
two communities in Marion County 
per month, including Anthony and 
Marion Oaks, and the bus is set to 
stop in Dunnellon in the next week.
These areas fall under the cat -
egory of  “food deserts” — regions 
without easy access to fresh foods, 
according to Hebni’s website. The 
website states in Central Florida 
alone, more than 90,000 people live 
in a food desert, and the situation is 
even more severe for seniors.
Lack of funds and limited trans -
portation put the elderly population 
at a major disadvantage in the search 
for fruits and vegetables, Thomas 
said. With minimal income and lim -
ited ways of getting to the grocery 
store, some senior residents will go 
months — or even years, in the case 
of residents like the cross-traffic trav -
eler — without fresh produce.  
Thomas said this disparity was 
what inspired the program, which 
seeks not only to offer nutritional eq -
uity but also the opportunity to savor the flavor of good, healthy food.
“I don’t know anyone who 
doesn’t enjoy having a fresh piece of 
fruit,” Thomas said.
Resident response, Thomas said, 
has been overwhelmingly positive. 
She said the community has been 
very supportive of the program and 
hopes for it to continue.
“Clients have just been overjoyed 
about this,” Thomas said. “Obvi -
ously, they’re hoping we can keep it 
going.”
Florida Blue’s contract with Hebni 
extends through the year, but Rich -
ards said it’s likely they’ll renew to 
continue and even expand the pro -
gram. The Fresh Stop bus also visits 
areas in Orange County, and Rich -
ards said Florida Blue is looking to 
implement the program in other re -
gions where community event man -
agers operate.
“I don’t see it going away,” she 
said. “I see it growing if anything.”
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgGrant Schaffer moves to the ‘Lovely Town’
Fresh Stop bus brings fruits and veggies to Marion County Seniors 
MUSICMUSIC
FOODFOOD
Scan to listen to our last pop culture news roundup of the semester.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
3 Sublease
Sublease in LynCourt Square 1st Floor, fur -
nished 2br/2ba, W/D, Male, Individual lease 
required. $500/month 1blk from UF SW 
3rd Ave & SW 12th St. Call 407-234-7438.   
5-16-21-4-3
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-61For Rent
furnished
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
Furnished townhouse in SW neighborhood. 
18 min. from campus. $420/week. Utilities and 
internet included. Quiet, cozy, washer/dryer, 
high ceiling, front garden, back porch, parking 
spaces. No pets. Available from April 4. Email: 
vchow331@yahoo.com. phone:352-256-1211     
4-19-21-6-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                    5-10-21-6-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
11..    SSttiicckkyy  ________
11..    WWeeeeppiinngg  ________55..    PPiieerrccee  
22..    RReemmoottee  ________66..    RReessppoonndd
33..    ________  CCiittyy  77..    AAvvooiiddeedd,,  eessccaappeedd  
44..    LLeefftt,,  aabbaannddoonneeddWWEECCTTKKII
OOLLWWWWLLIICCLLEENNAA
CCAARREETT
NNLLOOOORRCCTT
EEAARRLLEEDDMMLLEEDDUUEEDD
IILLJJEETTDDAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--WWiicckkeett    55AA--LLaannccee    66AA--RReeaacctt    77AA--EElluuddeedd
11DD--WWiillllooww    22DD--CCoonnttrrooll    33DD--EEmmeerraalldd    44DD--JJiilltteedd    BB--EErriiee  CCaannaall44--1199--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: WWhheenn  iitt  wwaass  ccoommpplleetteedd  iinn  11882255,,  iitt  wwaass  tthhee  
sseeccoonndd  lloonnggeesstt  ooff  iittss  kkiinndd  iinn  tthhee  wwoorrlldd..
BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter
answers on pg. 121. U.S. CITIES: What is the name of the 
mountain and city where the famous Hol-
lywood sign is located?
2. MOVIES: "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" was 
filmed in and around which American city?
3. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century 
novel featured a character named Daisy 
Buchanan?
4. TELEVISION: Which 1960s sitcom's theme 
song is "The Fishin' Hole"?
5. ANIMAL KINGDOM: Which island nation is 
home to lemurs?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the birth 
flower for people born in November?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where are the Harz 
Mountains located?
8. HISTORY: What kind of mammal was the 
first to be cloned successfully?
9. MUSIC: Which rock group performed the 
1970s song "Doraville"?
10. MEASUREMENTS: What does a kilopond 
measure?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-132For Rent
unfurnished 10 For Sale
answer on page 12
By Jana Persky
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/19/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/19/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 19, 2021
ACROSS
1 Pats down in a 
weapons search
7 Gather, as crops
11 Theater ticket 
word
14 __ Beach: 
Southern 
California city
15 Memorable 
lioness
16 Imprecise suffix
17 Well-suited to a 
person’s abilities
19 Pontiac muscle 
car
20 One-named “Tik 
Tok” singer
21 College-level HS 
science course
23 Bundle of hay
26 Kid’s riddle: 
“Why is six 
afraid of seven?” 
“Because seven 
__ nine!”
28 Range above 
41-Down
29 Gift giver’s eager 
urging
32 Hire
34 Like Beethoven’s 
“Pastoral 
Symphony”
35 Arrow controlled 
by a mouse
37 Little piggies
40 Salad green
42 LinkedIn user’s 
quest
44 Of sound mind
45 Fancy fish eggs
47 Shapiro of NPR
48 Punctual
50 __ of honor: 
wedding party 
VIP
52 Smell
53 Late-night NYC 
show
55 Tenant’s payment
56 Like bouquets of 
roses
58 Dining room piece
61 Former soccer 
phenom Freddy
62 Unpretentious
67 Pen tip
68 Reverberate
69 Science journal 
since 1869
70 Obtain
71 Lion’s warning
72 What there may 
not be “in the 
house” during a 
tearjerkerDOWN
1 Annual shot 
target
2 Knock (on)
3 “Here __ again!”
4 Submerged
5 Joint above the 
ankle
6 Cheeky talk
7 Tells, as a story
8 Building wing
9 On the ocean
10 Online remittance 
app
11 “Correctamundo!”
12 Bone: Pref.
13 “To __ it may 
concern”
18 “Figured it out!”
22 Fabric
23 Reaches 
212 degrees 
Fahrenheit
24 Sleep disorder
25 Made certain
27 Expressive online 
image
30 RN’s workplace
31 Stanley of  
“The Hunger 
Games”
33 Golf  
tournament 
kickoff
36 Paper  
purchases38 Disgraced 
energy firm
39 Period of work
41 Range below 
28-Across
43 Half a bikini
46 Only “V” 
Monopoly 
avenue not 
named for a  
state
49 __ Joe’s
51 Peace 
agreement52 Song from the 
past
54 Chin-up muscle, 
briefly
56 Vampire tooth
57 Not of sound 
mind
59 “007” James
60 Kind of jet
63 “Huh!?”
64 Regret
65 The old  
college __
66 Giggle sound
By Brent Sverdloff
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/13/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/13/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 13, 2021
ACROSS
1 King-sized
6 Seat in un parc
10 Beer party 
staples
14 Scarlett of Tara
15 “Young 
Frankenstein” 
aide
16 Dark purple berry
17 Orson Scott Card 
sci-fi novel
19 Pinball no-no
20 “Anger, fear, 
aggression: the 
dark side of the 
Force are they” 
speaker
21 Adopted cat, say
22 Radiant pigment
24 Toon spouse 
with a blue 
beehive
27 Hypotheticals
30 Old Faithful’s st.
31 “__ Baby”: “Hair” 
song
32 Beat by a mile
34 Couture initials
35 Ostrich cousin
39 Park warning sign
43 Hairy Himalayan
44 Like King Cole
45 Kind of node
46 Filmmaker 
Ephron
48 Sch. north of 
Denver
50 Bean used in 
nondairy milk
51 Cheddar 
shredder
56 Elizabeth Arden 
parent company
57 Coleridge’s 
“before”
58 Harleys, familiarly
62 Burn balm
63 Go from neutral 
to reverse ... and 
a hint to each set 
of circles
66 Kinds
67 Island near Mull
68 Vermont patriot 
Allen
69 Leaves
70 Sweet-talk
71 Small earrings
DOWN
1 Baby in a pouch
2 “Sorry, can’t do it”3 Alcohol 
awareness-
raising org.
4 Another name for 
bluegill
5 Dinghy mover
6 Conceitedness
7 Playground 
marble
8 When tripled, 
“Yum!”
9 Ringing true
10 “I Kissed a Girl” 
singer
11 Vaping smokes, 
briefly
12 Ernest or Julio of 
wine fame
13 Squelch
18 Agile
23 Parisian pal
25 Dr. Seuss’ 
“Horton Hears __”
26 Merit badge spot
27 “Gross!”
28 Liberate
29 Christmas 
pudding fat
33 Cowardly
34 Since Jan. 1
36 Unlikely Oscar 
nominees
37 Hockey legend 
Phil, to fans38 Cinder-covered
40 Like much court 
evidence
41 “Flying” national 
symbol
42 Modeling 
adhesive
47 Bolivian bruin
48 Website 
providing vehicle 
history reports
49 “Don’t delete” 
mark51 Bond portrayer 
Daniel
52 Greeting word
53 Elicit
54 Spanish queen
55 Scarlett’s Butler
59 Island with a U.S. 
state capital
60 One visiting an 
old prof, perhaps
61 Taxpayer IDs
64 Boo-__
65 Some appliances
04/12/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
hip-hip-hooray!
scan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:you can get
VACCINATED
TODAY!The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil -
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RVs 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                                 4-19-1-13
14 Help Wanted
Person needed to clean 1 bedroom apart -
ment.  Some of the work is hard. Paying 
$100. Call Ron after 5pm. 352-792-7065.   
4-19-1-14
Commercial painting contractor looking for 
help. Work consists of prep work and possible 
painting.  Hours negotiable. Call 386-418-1177.          
5-11-21-3-14
Gwinnett County Schools will host Virtual 
Bilingual Teacher Interviews on April 20, 
21 & 24. Interested? Complete application 
at: www.gcpsk12.org/Page/28008. 
4-19-21-2-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         5-17-21-17-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring for all positions. 
Full time/part time, day/nightshift. Apply at 
fivestarpizza.com/employment
* Delivery drivers
* Pizza makers
* Phone personnel
* Food prep
* Managers
6-7-21-8-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Receptionists, Cashiers, Night Gate 
Attendants and Grounds Maintenance Staff
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy 
working with the public. High energy and 
low drama is a must! Must have your own 
transportation and availability to work 
nights, holidays and weekends. Full or Part-
time positions available. Apply in person 
ONLY 9 am - 4 pm weekdays - NO phone 
calls! ****GPS Address:**** 5000 NE 60th 
Ave. High Springs, FL 32643   
 5-10-21-6-14Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp 
Counselors, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall. 
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!   
4-19-21-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail -
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-15
16 Health Services
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
20 Events/Notices
gville doobie toss
420 @ 4:20
in virtual gville downtown. Doobie toss in 
Kitely.com                                       4-19-21-1-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/answers  below1. On May 6, 2019, what caused an 
18-minute delay in the start of a game 
between the San Francisco Giants and 
the Cincinnati Reds at Great American 
Ball Park?
2. The Billiken -- a charm doll de -
scribed as "The God of Things as They 
Ought to Be" -- is the mascot for what 
Jesuit university's athletic programs?3. What horse beat Triple Crown winner 
War Admiral in a head-to-head match 
at Pimlico Race Course in 1938?
4. Goodison Park in Liverpool is the 
home stadium of what English Premier 
League football club?
5. Billy Johnson, an NFL wide receiver 
and return specialist who was famous 
for his touchdown dances, was known 
by what popular nickname?
6. Michael Jordan, Wayne Gretzky and 
Bo Jackson were animated superhe -
roes in what Saturday-morning car -
toon series that aired on NBC in 1991?
7. What all-female professional base -
ball team, sponsored by Coors Brewing 
Company, barnstormed across America 
from 1994-97?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted
13 Wanted14 Help Wanted
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 or 
visit RefrigerantFinders.com               4-19-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
solution  below
solution  below
Sports Quiz  
answers1. A swarm of bees.
2. Saint Louis University.
3. Seabiscuit.
4. Everton F.C.
5. "White Shoes."
6. ProStars.
7. The Colorado Silver Bullets.Trivia Test  answers1. Mount Lee, Los Angeles
2. Chicago
3. "The Great Gatsby"
4. "The Andy Griffith Show"
5. Madagascar6. Chrysanthemum
7. Germany
8. A sheep
9. Atlanta Rhythm Section
10. Force
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
Women have been called 
queens for a long time,
but the kingdom given
them isn't worth ruling.
— Louisa May AlcottCryptoQuote  answer
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONS12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
www.alligator.org/sportsFEATURE
GATOR MOTORSPORTS COMPETES IN 
THE FORMULA SAE COMPETITION 
EVERY YEAR
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
There are a number of places that new UF 
students can go the moment they hit campus.
 They can go to the Reitz Union, eat with 
friends in the food court or buy new Gator mer -
ch at the bookstore. They can get some sun at 
the Plaza of the Americas or visit the mighty 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium and bask in its glory.
 When Alejandro Navarrete came to UF 
from the country of Colombia, he had no such 
first impressions. Instead, the moment he got 
to campus, he went to a small garage on Gale 
Lemerand Drive.
 It’s the home of Gator Motorsports, a team 
that competes in the Formula SAE competition 
held annually at Michigan International Speed -
way in Brooklyn, Michigan. And it was exactly 
what Navarrete was looking for.
 
* * *
 
Navarrete grew up in Colombia and devel -
oped a love of Motorsport from a young age. 
Enamored with the high speeds of Formula 1 
racing, he knew from early on that he wanted 
to be a part of the motorsports industry: And 
later, that he wanted to be an engineer.
 “Coming from one idea, and then devel -
oping it and creating it and making it real,” 
Navarrete said. “Those are the things I really 
like.”
 He wanted to make that motorsport dream 
a reality. When he began researching ways 
to make it happen, he learned about Formula 
SAE.
 The competition, called FSAE for short, 
features around 120 teams. There are eight 
categories judged out of a potential of 1,000 
points: Presentation, engineering design, cost 
analysis, acceleration, a skid-pad test to show -
case the car’s cornering ability, an autocross 
section, the overall efficiency of the car and an 
endurance portion.  
So when it was time to decide on an Ameri -
can university, he had one central criteria: It 
had to have a Formula SAE team.
 He applied to many such universities, and 
many accepted him. But one of those universi -
ties was in a state he liked — Florida — and 
had a motorsports team with the impressive 
pedigree and results that he was looking for.
 That school was UF. And that team was 
Gator Motorsports.
 “When I learned about the University of 
Florida and how the team has placed in the 
past and how good we are, I just had that click 
in my mind,” he said. 
The formula car GMS enters into the com -
petition is no simple machine. It boasts a 2007 
Honda CBR600RR motorbike engine, putting 
out 72 horsepower at 11400 revolutions per 
minute. It can go zero to 60 miles per hour in 
just around three seconds, and its aerodynamic 
package can generate 100 pounds of down -force at 35 miles per hour.
 But when he first walked into the GMS ga -
rage, the car wasn’t there.
 It was undergoing testing, typically done 
at Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park in Starke, Florida. Only the chief engineer 
was even in the building at the time, but he 
showed Navarrete some of the aero package in 
the front and rear wing. Even that was enough 
to put a swell in his chest.
 “I just get hit, like hit with that emotion,” 
he said. “And that sentiment of like ‘Wow, this 
is happening,’” he said.
 Navarrete found a place where GMS need -
ed him. He started working with the brakes, 
and then dabbled with the suspension before 
working on the car’s intake and exhaust.
 “That was kind of my first year, trying 
to understand what I wanted to do, where I 
wanted to be,” he said. “Just understanding 
everything, learning everything.”
 With the help of department leads and 
mentors, he found something that stuck: The 
ergonomics department.
 The ergonomics department focuses on 
how the driver can sit comfortably in the car. 
They work with what the driver uses: the steer -
ing wheel and pedals.
 But that wasn’t the only side he would get 
involved with. As Formula 1 World Champion 
Lewis Hamilton once touted, “cash is king” in 
motorsports. The business side of GMS is just 
as important as the engineering side, and on 
top of working in the ergonomics department, 
Navarrete is the business lead at GMS.
 He doesn’t work alone on the business 
side of things, though. He has a partner, Olivia 
Miller, and her love for the team budded at an 
early age, too.
 
* * *
Miller didn’t grow up with a love of mo -
torsport like Navarrete did, but she did grow 
up with a love for GMS. Her older sister Emily 
attends Florida, and Miller toured the school 
with her during her sophomore year of high 
school.
 The bay doors of that small garage on Gale 
Lemerand Drive were open. The car was on 
display, and she was hooked from the moment 
her eyes fell upon it.
 Miller turned to her dad to tell her how cool 
she thought the operation was, and he took her 
to go talk to the team and check out the garage. 
They did, and the shop equipment and the 
car captured Miller’s heart.
 “That night to myself, I was like wow, if I 
go to UF, if I'm 100% joining this team,” she 
said. “Because this is an experience I want, this 
is the coolest thing.”
 That’s not to say that Miller didn’t have 
any experience in engineering before she got to 
Florida. She initially planned to study art, but 
she joined an engineering class in high school 
and discovered that she loved making things 
with her hands.
 Miller got to UF in August of last year, amid 
the COVID-19 pandemic. That didn’t stop her 
from getting to GMS, a place she swore she’d 
end up if she made it to the university. “As soon as I could, I reached out to them 
and I was like, ‘Hey, I'm on campus,’” Miller 
said.  
Miller helps Navarrete on the business side 
of things as a recruitment lead and a business 
team member. She puts her engineering skills 
to use in the chassis department. 
Women in STEM are far less common in 
the field than men are, but Miller feels right 
at home.
 “No one treats me any differently, which 
is what I want,” she said. “I'm just another 
student, another engineer who wants to learn 
about this car.”
 Both Miller and Navarrete work under 
team captain Daniel Tremblay. And for Trem -
blay, motorsports isn’t just a passion: It’s his 
way of life.
 
* * *
 
Daniel Tremblay’s father Sylvain ran a mo -
torsports team, Speedsource, for five years be -
fore Daniel was born. And as Daniel  grew up, 
he remained a constant presence in the pad -
dock.
 “I always wanted to help at the racetrack,” 
Tremblay said. “Cleaning bodywork, helping 
out with the truck and cleaning off the tires 
after they were used, little things like that.”
 Eventually, he began to spot for the team: 
He’d have the radio and tell the drivers what 
was happening around the track. With a team 
like SpeedSource, it was often victory.
 SpeedSource started out by building Maz -
da RX-7’s for pro-am racing. When the Mazda 
RX-8 came out in 2004, the racing team part -
nered with the car company to compete 
in the Grand-Am Cup ST competition. 
SpeedSource won back-to-back titles 
at the Cup ST competition in 2005 and, 
most notably, the GT Class at the 24 
Hour of Daytona in 2008 and 2010.  
 Speedsource shut down in 2017 
while Tremblay was a junior engineer 
at the race team. He initially planned 
to go to college and then help the team 
on race weekends, but once that was no 
longer an option, he needed somewhere 
else to go. 
That somewhere was GMS, a 
team that he was already familiar 
with: GMS went to SpeedSource’s 
facilities and sponsored the team. A 
GMS alum was a lead engi -
neer of SpeedSource when 
Daniel was growing up.
 “I’ve been exposed 
to current and former 
SAE kids since I was 
young,” Tremblay said. 
“So I knew I wanted to go 
here.”
 When Tremblay got 
to GMS, he knew imme -
diately where he wanted 
to go: The suspension 
team. He became the 
suspension lead and 
testing coordinator his 
sophomore year, but he put a large amount of effort into the team that 
caused his grades to drop.
 “I kind of burnt myself out a little bit,” he 
said.
 Tremblay was in line to become co-captain 
of the team his junior year, but once he got his 
final exam grades, he had to step away from 
the team for two semesters.
At least, he tried. He began to mentor the 
other department leads and taught them not to 
make the same mistakes he did.
 “I said I was off, but from the background, 
I still wanted to be involved,” he said. “I took 
on more of a mentorship role.”
 Tremblay came back spring 2020. A week 
after the car was finished and testing began for 
the upcoming FSAE competition, the univer -
sity shut down.
“I think the chapter was closed, at least, be -
cause we got the car done and we were all very 
proud of what we’d done,” he said. 
Tremblay, though, looked at the positive: 
His tenure as captain started sooner, and GMS 
didn’t wait until the new year began to get its 
next car ready. And since it did, he taught his 
team with a simple mantra.
 “Focus on the little things,” he said. 
“There’s a lot of little bits on the car that 
you don’t see on first glance, or even second 
glance.”
 
Read the rest online at alligator.org/sports
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgThe Checkered Flag: Gator Motorsports drives all kinds
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFollow our newsletter
Love alligatorsSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
AlligatorSports has a podcast. 
The AlligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.Courtesy to The Alligator
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
The Sackler School of Medicine-New York State/ American Program offers an 
outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York 
and is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. 
One of these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one 
of the top 10 hospitals around the world.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,000 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org  provides extensive information about Sackler SOM. For further 
information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
Applications for the Class of 2025 are available on our website 
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
BASEBALL
COVID-19NO. 18 FLORIDA IS ON A 
FIVE-GAME WIN STREAK
By Griffin Foll
Sports Writer
Up by four in the top of the ninth in -
ning, Florida southpaw Trey Van Der Wei -
de surrendered two unearned runs before 
he stranded Missouri’s tying baserunner 
with the final out.
Van Der Weide secured his first save 
this season and completed the Gators’ first 
series sweep since SEC opening weekend. 
After they earned revenge over Florida 
State Tuesday, the Gators prevailed in Fri -
day’s series opener at Florida Ballpark be -
fore they matched a season-high five-game 
win streak with a pair of two-run victories 
Saturday. 
Florida improves to 9-6 (.600) in con -
ference play and leads the SEC in home 
wins (23). The Gators maintain a lacklus -ter 2-6 road record, but they have a prime 
opportunity to bounce back to .500 in this 
week’s favorable road trip. 
They’ll start the week against Jackson -
ville, whom the Gators defeated in a home 
series on March 14, before they head north 
to take on Auburn. The Tigers enter the 
weekend with a conference-worst 2-13 
(.133) record after they were outscored by 
more than two runs per game.
After the Seminoles teed off Florida 
right-hander Garrett Milchin in Tallahas -
see, head coach Kevin O’Sullivan gave 
Milchin the nod again in Tuesday’s re -
match. The redshirt junior struck out a ca -
reer-high five batters and allowed only one 
earned run across six frames until right-
hander Jack Leftwich took the rubber.
“He (Milchin) did everything we could 
have asked from him,” O’Sullivan said. 
“He was probably motivated to get another 
opportunity to pitch against them.”
Leftwich held Florida State hitless be -fore Kendrick Calilao hit an extra-inning, 
walk-off homer. Leftwich duplicated Tues -
day’s effort against Mizzou Saturday when 
he retired 11 straight batters to pick up his 
sixth win this year.
“It was real special for us, and him es -
pecially, to go out there and pitch like the 
Jack Leftwich we know,” freshman infield -
er Josh Rivera said. 
Freshman left-hander Hunter Barco and 
sophomore right-hander Christian Scott 
made quality appearances on the mound. 
Barco started the series finale Saturday and 
matched a career-high 6.1 innings thrown. 
The Jacksonville native struck out five bat -
ters and earned his sixth win. 
At the plate, Florida went 33-98 (.337) 
against Missouri, a noticeable increase 
from its .283 season average. The Gators 
went down on strikes just 10 times in the 
three-game series, which looks encourag -
ing for a team that averages over eight 
strikeouts a game.Sophomore center fielder Jud Fabian 
went 5-11 against Mizzou with a double in 
each game. Fabian led off the bottom of 
the Friday’s second inning with his team-
leading 12th home run this season. 
But the Ocala native struck out in the 
series opener and became the second play -
er in the nation to reach 50 strikeouts this 
season.
Freshman Nathan Hickey went 5-10 and 
drove in two more runs to reach a team-
high 37 RBIs. Senior third baseman Kirby 
McMullen hit 4-14 with 5 RBIs and his 
eighth dinger this year.
The Gators look to remain in the win 
column Tuesday in Jacksonville. They’ll 
face the Dolphins at 6 p.m. before they 
head to Auburn in search of their fifth con -
secutive SEC win Friday.
@GriffinFoll
gfoll@alligator.org
STRICKLIN ANNOUNCED 
WEDNESDAY THAT HE 
ANTICIPATES FILLED STANDS
By Karina Wilson 
Sports Writer
Fall sporting events may have 
full capacity, UF Athletic Director 
Scott Stricklin announced.
The university expressed its 
plans during a virtual UF Eye 
Opener Discovery Breakfast 
Wednesday. 
The Swamp was limited to 
17,000 people, or about 20% ca -
pacity, for the 2020 football sea -
son due to Alachua County CO -
VID-19 restrictions. The Gators 
haven’t seen full fan attendance 
since the day the sports world was put on pause, March 11, 
2020.
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium holds 
up to 88,548 people, and the larg -
est crowd of almost 91,000 people 
gathered Nov. 28, 2015 at a home 
game against Florida State. Dur -
ing Senior Day last season, UF 
boasted an attendance of 16,610. 
Gator football coach Dan Mul -
len hinted at a packed Swamp in 
a viral Tweet April 9. It features 
fans in a packed crowd singing 
to Gainesville native Tom Petty’s 
“I Won’t Back Down,” during the 
fourth quarter of the 2019 Auburn 
game. 
“Hopefully we’re able to get 
back to some normalcy in the 
fall when we hit the field again,” 
Mullen said March 15. “I think all 
the Gator Nation is going to be ex -cited. Everyone I see is like, ‘Boy, 
I hope we can pack the Swamp.”
Stricklin said about 60% of 
Florida’s student-athletes have 
received at least one dose of the 
COVID-19 vaccine, according to 
MYCBS4 sports reporter Sara Car -
dona. The university began to of -
fer the COVID-19 vaccine to all 
students, faculty and staff April 5.
Stricklin encourages people to 
get vaccinated but doesn’t foresee 
requiring proof of vaccination for 
athletic event attendance.
While Stricklin and company 
are optimistic for the fall, SEC and 
Alachua County officials have yet 
to announce changes to current 
regulations. 
“They’re desperate to get back 
into the stadium and to go expe -
rience Saturdays in the Swamp,” Mullen said. “Hopefully through 
all the precautions and everything 
going on, we’re able to stay safe 
and we’re able to fill the stadium this fall.”
@kk_rinaa
kwilson@alligator.orgGators sweep Mizzou to match season-high win streak 
Florida looks to have full capacity for fall sporting events
Alligator File Photo
Athletic director Scott Stricklin plans for Florida athletics to have 
full capacity for fall sports in 2021.
Sammie Carroll Rackley, 80
Although Sammie Carroll 
Rackley loved the bowling leagues 
he participated in, his greatest 
accomplishment was the family he 
raised. 
Rackley, 80, died from COVID-19 
on Dec. 26, 2020. 
He was born in Royse City, 
Texas. After high school, he worked 
on airplanes with his father at LTV 
(Ling-Temco-Vaught). Instead of being drafted, he decided to 
join the United States Air Force. During his time, he traveled the 
world, visiting Chile, Thailand, Mexico and Korea. 
Rackley was an avid sports fan. He rooted for the Dallas 
Cowboys and loved playing golf and bowling. He even met 
his wife of 56 years, Carolyn, at a bowling alley while he was 
stationed in Dover, Delaware. 
“He really loved his sports,” Carolyn said.
After Rackley’s time in Dover, the pair moved back to Texas, 
where they raised a family. They had two daughters, Robin and 
Jennifer, and a son, Marty. 
In 1988, they moved to Florida for work. Rackley was an 
electrician by trade, and he worked as a supervisor at DrilTech, 
Phillip S. Haisley, 86
Phillip Haisley, 86, was an avid 
reader, world traveler and Interna -
tional Scrabble Master.
Haisley grew up in Marion, In -
diana, where he and his wife, Anne 
Haisley, ran a bookstore called Red -
beard’s Books, named after Haisley’s 
bushy, red beard. 
The couple moved to Gainesville 
in 1989 and brought their business 
with them. That year, they established Books, Inc., which was 
a staple among Gainesville’s board gaming crowd. Haisley and 
Anne’s store was known for hosting chess competitions, Dun -MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021   ALLIGATOR   1 5 
MEMORIALS,  from pg. 2
SEE MEMORIALS,  PAGE 16Stephen Morse, 65
Stephen Morse knew everything 
there was to know about sports. You 
could ask him who won the Major 
League Baseball pennant in 1968, 
and he’d immediately be able to tell 
you, his wife, Jennifer Rich, said.
“It’s just like losing a giant 
library,” Rich said.
Morse, a Gainesville resident, 
died Aug. 6, 2020, from pulmonary 
fibrosis complicated by COVID-19. He was 65. 
Born in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Morse was raised by his 
grandparents George and Lorain Tansley. Morse graduated 
from Central Michigan University with a bachelor’s degree in 
journalism, where he was the managing editor of his college 
newspaper, College Michigan Life.
A former journalist, Morse was known for his editing skills, 
exceptional writing and work ethic, but also his kindness, 
graciousness, and patience, Rich said. 
“I have a lot more hot temper than he does, and he would 
always say things like ’Don’t sweat the small stuff,’” Rich said. 
“Everything of mine was pretty much the small stuff.”
Early in his career, Morse worked as the sports editor, news 
editor and metro editor at the Battle Creek Enquirer over 20 
years. He also worked at the Ann Arbor News as a copy editor 
and page designer, where he met his wife. 
The two then moved to Florida, where Morse worked at the 
Tampa Bay Times for nine years as an editor in its Clearwater 
bureau and then as a copy editor in its St. Petersburg office. He 
also worked brief stints at the Tampa Tribune and the Lakeland 
Ledger. 
Besides journalism, he loved basketball, regularly driving 
to Saint Pete to play with a group of his friends. He knew 
everything there was to know about sports, Rich said, and he 
was an avid fan of any sports team coming out of Michigan—
especially the Detroit Tigers. 
Morse recently retired and was planning a trip around the 
United States with his wife to visit every baseball park in the 
country. He also planned on writing short stories and maybe a 
book, Rich said.
Written by Kevin Maher
Hope Susan Jaffe, 92
Hope Susan Mosheim Jaffe’s 
recipes connected her family before 
COVID-19 took her life Oct. 29. She 
was 92 years old.
Jaffe taught herself to cook after 
meeting her husband, Larry Jaffe. 
She was a natural talent, especially 
in baking, her husband said.
Jaffe cooked for her four children 
and 10 grandchildren. She copied her 
beloved recipes into books for her daughter and three daughters-
in-law to continue feeding the family at Thanksgiving.
“She always was the pinnacle of the event,” Larry said. “It 
was our motto to give Hope a moment of joy as much as we 
can.”
Jaffe’s banana chocolate cake brings on memories of her 
strong love for her family. As the matriarch, her children’s love 
fueled her, Larry said.
“Hope and I were blessed with wonderful children,” Larry 
said. “Their love for her got returned with love from her. It was 
a beautiful circle.”
Even as dementia took her drive, Jaffe’s humor and 
storytelling drew her social groups in the memory ward at The 
Village at Gainesville retirement community, Larry said.
Written by Lianna HubbardTroyanne “ Ann” Hamm, 57
Troyanne Hamm, better known as 
“Ann,” was a school bus driver in Ala -
chua County for more than 25 years. She 
passed Aug. 2.
For the kids on her bus, Hamm would 
buy pizza on report-card days and give 
out treats for Halloween. She would help 
them with homework, reward them for 
doing well in school and check on them 
to make sure everything was OK for them at home.
“She would go against parents to watch out for the welfare 
of kids,” Melzone Johnson, her brother, said. “She knew that 
kids needed somebody to speak for them. She was a voice for 
children.” 
Hamm was also competitive. She loved to compete against 
other counties in bus “roadeos.” These roadeos were full of ob -
stacle courses, and you would have to be skilled in driving a bus 
to drive through them. Richelle Brown, her stepdaughter, said 
she was one of the best school bus drivers she’s seen. 
Outside of her bus route, Hamm was the life of parties. The 
energy she brought through her playlist of R&B music by Marvin 
Gaye, Lenny Williams and Al Green was matched by her astound -
ing dancing skills. For this reason, she also loved line dancing. 
“‘Cupid Shuffle,’ ‘Electric Slide,’ whatever, she was the one 
starting it off,” Brown said. “Always on the dance floor, always, 
always, always.”
As a lifelong Alachua County resident, Hamm’s heart be -
longed to the Gators. She collected anything with a Gators logo 
on it, including flags and a prized Gators-logo projector given to 
her by Brown for Christmas.
Besides the Florida State Seminoles, UF’s in-state chief rivals, 
Hamm disliked dishonesty and people who make promises they 
don’t keep.
Her service was themed blue and orange, and she was sur -
rounded by her favorite things: her school bus, her friends and 
most importantly, her family. 
Hamm is survived by her stepdaughter, Richelle Brown; and 
her brother, Melzone Johnson.
Written by Jake Reyes
Sudoku puzzle Sunday, Aug. 2, Brandenburg’s daughter Julie 
Wichman said, as he died that day. He was 71.
Wichman said Brandenburg was known for his humor, 
his Harley-Davidson motorcycle, his adoration for his wife, 
children and family and being the fourth child in a family of 
jokesters. She said he once ate an entire can of Crisco as a child 
in an attempt to stay home from school.
Brandenburg began his last day like he did every day — 
by greeting himself in the bathroom mirror and saying, “Well, 
looky there. I just get better lookin’ every day.” He then started 
the day’s Sudoku puzzle in the Gainesville Sun while sitting 
on the side of the dining room table where his arms had worn 
down the edge, Wichman said. 
From Brandenburg’s nickname of Da5ve — which Wichman 
said he would say the number five is silent — to leaving 
handwritten notes in places for his family to find, Wichman 
said he could make anyone smile.
She still finds notes written on scraps of paper, edges of bills 
or pieces of mail that he hid among family belongings.
Brandenburg’s niece Michelle Brandenburg said she knew 
him as “smilin’ uncle Dave.”
“He was always very happy,” she said. “He was loved by 
all.”
Along with working as a contractor and installing siding 
throughout the community while living in Gainesville for more 
than 30 years, Wichman said David Brandenburg served during 
the Vietnam War as a corporal in the U.S. Army’s 1st Cavalry 
Division. She said he received multiple honors, including 
a Combat Infantry Badge, Parachutist Badge, Sharpshooter 
Badge, Pathfinder Badge, National Defense Service Medal and 
Bronze Star Medal for acts of valor and heroic achievement in 
a combat zone.
“He was super proud of that,” she said. “Any time he 
was ever talking about Vietnam, he would only tell us good 
memories.”
Brandenburg was born March 17, 1949, at 4:44 a.m. in 
Detroit, Michigan.
His birth time gave rise to his saying, “Four, four, four,” 
which was his way of saying, “I love you.” Wichman said his 
saying was adopted and used by the entire family. 
Most members of the family plan to get a “444” tattoo to 
honor her father, she said.
Brandenburg is survived by his wife of 46 years, Marilyn; son, 
Bill; daughter, Julie; brothers, Mike and Randy; sisters, Sandra 
and Linda; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Written by Antonia LaRoccageons and Dragons meetups and, of course, Scrabble tourna -
ments. 
Haisley hosted and competed in international Scrabble tour -
naments since his days in Indiana. At one point, he was hospi -
talized with kidney stones, but his passion for the game over -
ruled his pain — he checked himself out of the hospital, hosted 
a tournament he was about to miss, and then returned for his 
surgery.
“He was just a dedicated person,” Anne said. “If he was 
responsible for something, he did it.”
Haisley was a bookworm, but he was not a recluse. He loved 
traveling and camping so much that he camped in every state in 
the United States. He taught grade school in Kenya and Austra -
lia, making friends wherever he went.
For decades, Haisley and Anne have received heaps of 
Christmas cards from friends they’ve made around the world. 
This year, Anne received the cards as usual, addressed to her 
and her husband. She’s had to go through them and inform 
their friends of Haisley’s passing.
“I still have a stack of cards from November and December I 
have to answer,” Anne said. “People loved him.”
Written by Thomas Weber
Michael Kuenstle, 59
Architecture allowed Michael 
Kuenstle to meticulously design 
hundreds of structures, but his 
favorite was the family he built.
Kuenstle, a 59-year-old UF School 
of Architecture associate professor, 
died Dec. 12 due to COVID-19 
complications. Kuenstle was the 
first professor to die COVID-19, UF 
spokesman Steve Orlando confirmed 
in a text message.
He contracted COVID-19 just before Thanksgiving, his wife 
and UF School of Architecture associate professor Nancy Clark, 
said.
Kuenstle was born on Sept. 28, 1961, in Houston, the fourth of 
six children. Unlike the turbulent times of the late 1960s and early 
1970s, his childhood was defined by good grades and careful 
decision-making, his younger brother, James Kuenstle, said.
“He didn’t make mistakes,” James, 54, said. “Some other 
kids in the family didn’t do the right things. I kept my eyes on 
Michael.”
In 1988, Kuenstle Michael met his wife while working at 
Brand + Allen Architects in San Francisco. His company had 
partnered with the firm Clark was interning at, and the two met 
while collaborating on a project.
“We’ve been partners in design since the day we met,” Clark 
said. “It gave us a unique relationship.”
Kuenstle Michael then taught at New York Institute of 
Technology for two years before he was recruited to UF’s School 
of Architecture in 1993. Once the couple moved to Gainesville, 
they started an architecture firm, Clark + Kuenstle Associates 
Inc.
“The legacy Michael left on this college is one that will live 
forever,” Acting Director of the UF School of Architecture Frank 
Bosworth wrote in a statement.
Written by Corbin Bolies
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021
MEMORIALS,  from pg. 2
Wesley Schneider, 94
Some children learn the history 
of America through books. Wesley 
Schneider taught his kids through 
road trips.
“It was a wonderful, wonderful 
way for my brother and I to learn,” 
his daughter, 66-year-old Lynn 
Newman, said.
It’s what Newman remembers 
the most about her father. Schneider, 
94, died on Dec. 28 from COVID-19.
Schneider was born on Oct. 15, 1926 in New Britain, 
Connecticut, the only child in his family. Passionate about 
service, he enlisted in the Army, serving in Korea during 
World War II.
But it was his family at home — his wife Muriel, his two 
kids, Lynn and Scott, and their 1957 red and cream Chevy 
station wagon, Betsy — that held his heart. 
Newman remembers Sunday adventures the group would 
take to nearby states like Vermont and New Hampshire, 
where Schneider exposed them to the country’s landscape 
and scenery — but was still home by dinner. 
Schneider carried that spirit late into his life, though he 
wasn’t restricted to land, Newman said. Instead, he and his 
son became avid cruise-goers, traveling to locations such as Fred Levin, 83
Martin Levin’s voice, slightly 
quivering from the remnants of 
tears, confidently announced 
to those at his father’s outdoor 
funeral that once the world is safe 
from COVID-19, a true celebration 
would be held for his dad. 
“It will be a blowout party,” 
Martin said. “It will be a Fred 
Levin celebration.” 
UF’s Levin College of Law namesake Fredric Levin died 
Jan. 12 due to COVID-19 complications. He was 83 years 
old. 
The UF Levin College of Law Dean Laura Rosenbury 
said Levin’s generous contributions to UF have created 
opportunities for students through numerous scholarships, 
and his positive example illustrates the power of a law 
degree.
“He pushed me to take the law school to new heights,” 
she said. “We’ve made a lot of progress, but we still have 
progress to go, and I will hear his voice in the back of my 
head as I move forward.” 
Mark Proctor, president of the Levin Papantonio 
Rafferty Law Firm, worked with Levin for over 40 years. 
He said Levin’s Jewish heritage often left him feeling like 
an outsider, especially growing up. 
“It was that experience learned at a young age that 
really molded and colored his entire life,” Proctor said. 
During the funeral, Levin’s family members also 
recalled how he was an avid fighter against racial injustice, 
bigotry and greed.  
“Dad had a very difficult time even understanding how 
someone could be prejudiced,” Martin Levin said. “And 
dad never hesitated, in any capacity, to speak up against 
the majority, against the authority, against the established 
and against the popular.” 
Written by Abigail Hasebroock
Read more memorials online at alligator.orgStacey Willams, 53
Known as “Coach” by most and 
“Hog” by hometown friends and 
family, Stacey Williams dedicated 
his life to coaching Gainesville 
youth.
For 25 years, Williams coached 
little league football, most recently 
at Eastside High School with the 
Rattlers Youth Football program. 
His wife, Latraile Williams, said he 
always had a passion for coaching and the wisdom needed 
to coach.
“He knew the youth was our future, and he loved being 
out there with them,” Latraile said. “He really got a thrill 
from seeing that he could use his knowledge to help someone 
else.”
On Jan. 4, Williams died from COVID-19. He was 53. 
Family and friends said he loved to watch the Gators and 
the Dallas Cowboys play, often coaching from behind the 
screen. 
As a big family man, he often hosted family gatherings, 
drove last in line to camping trips and DJed at Christmas 
parties.
Williams gave back to his community by working at 
LifeSouth Community Blood Center in Gainesville and as 
a praised ministry technician at the H.O.M.E Church in 
Hawthorne. Wendell Martin, his uncle, said he loved the job 
because he got to greet people at the door.
“If you looked at that smile, you couldn’t help but be 
happy,” Martin said. “So when you walked in the door of our 
church, you felt love because he was greeting you with love.”
His family believes Stacey loved everyone and wanted 
everyone to love each other.
Written by Lucille Lannigan
a drilling service provider to oil and gas operators in Alachua 
County.
Aside from work and sports, Rackley’s true passion was 
his family. He loved everything his wife cooked and was very 
proud of his children and grandchildren. 
“He was happy if he was around his family,” Jennifer said. 
Rackley never met a person who didn’t love him, Carolyn 
said. He was known for his work ethic, sense of humor and his 
famous catchphrases, especially one that expressed his honesty. 
“If I tell you a chicken dips snuff, you can look under his left 
wing for the can,” was one of the many sayings people loved 
him for, Jennifer said.
Written by Kevin Maherthe Caribbean, the Panama Canal and Alaska.
“We are so grateful for the way we were brought up,” she 
said. “Mom and Dad expected us to be decent citizens, good 
people. I think that would be Dad’s legacy.”
Written by Corbin Bolies