We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaTHERE HAVE BEEN MUL -
TIPLE REPORTS OF CRIME 
AT THE COMPLEX IN THE 
LAST TWO YEARS.
By Sam Schaffer
Alligator Staff Writer
Alicia Wagner, a 20-year-old 
UF history major, has lived at Gainesville Place for two years 
but isn’t renewing her lease. After 
witnessing a public masturbator 
in her stairwell and seeing no ac-
tion from management, she feels 
the complex doesn’t care. 
There have been more than 60 
reports of crimes ranging from MANY PATIENTS ARE YOUNGER, AND 
90% OF THOSE HOSPITALIZED ARE 
UNVACCINATED
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
Unvaccinated people are playing Russian rou-
lette with COVID-19 variants loaded into the cham-
ber, UF Health Shands CEO Ed Jimenez said.
UF Health Shands Hospital saw a 400% increase 
of COVID-19 patients over the past 16 days — 90% 
of whom Jimenez said are unvaccinated.
The number soared from 14 to 70 patients, and over 10% of the patients are on ventilators, he 
said.
“This is now becoming a pandemic of the un-
vaccinated,” Jimenez said. “The data, at least at 
the Shands hospital, would lend some confirma-
tory data to that.”
Despite the common belief that the virus is 
more impactful among the elderly population, 
Jimenez said on July 19 the recent COVID-19 pa-
tients coming into Shands are younger. He is urg-
ing the community to get vaccinated amid a spike 
in cases across Florida — making up one in five of 
new COVID-19 cases in the U.S.
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news-UF Health Jacksonville CEO dies in accident
Leon Haley Jr. was 56, pg. 5
Disability Pride Month
July 26 is the 31st anniversary of the American with Disabilities 
Act, pg. 3SEC media day
Florida head coach Dan Mullen and players 
spoke at SEC Media Week ahead of the 
upcoming season. pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JULY 26, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 41
Prize and fees are subject to change. Limited time only. See office for details.Tour and enter to win an  
Electric Scooter!
Scan to schedule a tour:Apply today and save up to $325  with zero down @
AmericanCampus.com/Gainesville
THE 28-TIME ALL-AMERICAN 
SELECTION LED THE AMERI -
CANS TO A REPEAT PERFOR-
MANCE IN THE 4X100 FREE -
STYLE RELAY, WHERE THEY LED 
FROM THE START
By Karina Wilson 
Sports Writer 
Former Gator Caeleb Dressel 
helped the United States defend the 
gold medal in the men’s 4x100 meter 
freestyle relay Sunday. 
The gold came after fellow Gators 
Kieran Smith and Natalie Hinds earned 
bronze in the men’s 400-meter free-
style and  in the women’s 4x100 meter 
freestyle relay, respectively, Saturday.
Dressel, a 2018 Florida graduate, 
claimed gold twice in the 2016 Rio 
Olympics — once in the men’s 4x100 
meter freestyle relay and again in the 
men’s 4x100 meter medley relay.
The seven-time world champion 
replaced LSU’s Brooks Curry in the fi-
nal as the first leg. Dressel preceded Blake Pieroni, Bowe Becker and Zach 
Apple.
The 10-time NCAA Champion dove 
into the pool and took the lead within 
the first 15 meters. He finished his 
opening leg in 47.29 seconds. 
Pieroni and Becker carried their 
weight for the stars and stripes as Italy 
trailed closely behind before Apple 
anchored the gold for the USA with a 
time of 3:08.97, enough for a 1.14-sec-
ond margin of victory. 
“It feels great, we knew there was a 
huge target on our back,” Dressel said 
in an interview after the race. “We’re 
never going to doubt ourselves, that’s 
how Team USA works.”
Dressel hits the pool again for the 
men’s 100-meter freestyle prelims 
Monday before he teams up again for 
the men’s 4x200 meter freestyle re-
lay, men’s 100-meter butterfly, men’s 
50-meter freestyle and the new men’s 
4x100 meter mixed medley relay later 
in the games.
@kk_rinaa
kwilson@alligator.orgCaeleb Dressel leads USA to another gold medal
SEE FLASHING,  PAGE 4SEE COVID,  PAGE 4UF hits highest positivity rate since March, 
Shands hospitalizations increase by 400%Public masturbation and lack 
of communication leaves 
tenants of Gainesville Place 
worried for their safetyMatthias Schrader / / Associated Press
United States men’s 4x100m freestyle relay team of Bowen Beck, Blake Pieroni, and Caeleb 
Dressel react after winning the gold medal at the 2020 Summer Olympics, Monday, July 26, 
2021, in Tokyo, Japan.
T oday’s Weather
A LOCAL BAR WAS 
ORDERED TO CLOSE 
AFTER ITS FLOOR WAS 
DEEMED STRUCTURALLY 
UNSTABLE
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
The city of Gainesville shut 
down Grog House, a popular bar 
frequented by students 18 and old-
er, after the floor was determined 
to be unstable and in danger of 
collapsing July 21.
The shutdown came after the 
city received a complaint from its 
myGNV app, an app created by the 
city where residents can pay bills 
and see bus routes, city spokes-
person Shelby Taylor, said. The 
complaint referenced the floor’s 
structural integrity, which was in-
vestigated by a code enforcement 
officer, who determined further 
inspection was needed before the 
bar could allow people back in, 
she said.
Grog House is often filled with 
students dancing on the floor lo-
cated right above Balls, the bar’s 
downstairs neighbor. The possi-
bility of the floor caving in puts 
Balls in danger of being pounded 
by rubble.
Before it opens again, the own-
ers must hire a company to assess 
the floor’s integrity and implement 
repairs if needed, Taylor said.
The decision comes one month 
after the collapse of a condomini-
um in Surfside. As of July 14, 97 
victims have been recovered from 
the remains.
The Surfside incident did not 
influence stricter guidelines that 
led to the closure, Taylor said.
“This isn't specifically related 
to the Surfside building collapse,” 
Taylor said. “But certainly when-
ever incidents like that occur, the 
public is more hyper aware of it.”Many on social media react-
ed in unique ways. Gainesville 
City Commissioner David Arre-
ola sent a tweet about the clo-
sure, which prompted memes 
to pour in.
One commenter reminisced 
about the bar’s swaying floor 
during their college days 20 
years ago.
Other comments made fun 
of the bar underneath.
“We don’t want crushed 
Balls,” one comment read.
Another tweeted it would 
be an “improvement” to the 
downstairs bar. 
In the end, it was not happy 
hour for those hoping to go to 
Grog anytime soon.
@AlexLugo67
alugo@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.orgStaff applications are now open!
Join our Fall team
Want to be a part of 
The Alligator? We are 
hiring reporters, editors, 
photographers, social media 
managers and more!
Interested in being part of one of 
the largest student newsrooms in 
the country? The Alligator is hiring 
for our Fall staff! Scan the QR code 
below to apply. Applications close 
August 2 at 11:59 p.m. If you have 
any questions about the process 
please reach out to the Fall Editor-in-
Chief at swalker@alligator.org2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 41
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Grog House deemed 
unsafe after inspection
Photo by Houston Harwood
Grog, a bar in midtown Gainesville, closed after a city inspection 
uncovered structural defects in the building. “The city under code 
enforcement has shut down Grog House 1718 W University Ave.,” 
Gainesville City Commissioner David Arreola tweeted Wednesday. 
“The floor is unstable and could collapse into Balls downstairs.”
MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
STANDARD GARAGE 
BY UF NOW OPEN!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!DISABILITY PRIDE MONTH 
CELEBRATES THE 31ST 
ANNIVERSARY OF THE 
AMERICANS WITH 
DISABILITIES ACT
By Joelle Wittig
Alligator Staff Writer
Growing up, Devin Norko assumed they 
were just accident-prone when they twisted 
the same ankle more than 200 times in the 
span of five years. 
For many disabled people, receiving an of-
ficial diagnosis can be difficult. For Norko, a 
22-year-old activist in Virginia, their family, 
friends and doctors told them their pain was 
nothing to worry about.
They were not formally diagnosed until 
college when they discovered they had hy-
permobility syndrome, fibromyalgia, autism, 
ADHD and idiopathic intracranial hyperten-
sion, which causes high blood pressure in the 
brain, as well as chronic fatigue, tinnitus and 
migraines.
July brings the disabled community to-
gether to reflect on common experiences and 
celebrate differences. On July 26, 1990, the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, which prohib-
its disability-based discrimination, was passed. 
“It’s really only been here for 31 years, and 
that is sometimes really difficult to conceptual-
ize,” Jenna Gonzalez, UF’s Disability Resource 
Center interim director, said.
On that day, the city of Boston celebrated 
Disability Pride Day, and 25 years later, New 
York declared July as the official Disability 
Pride Month, and other major cities in the U.S. 
have held parades in past years to garner sup-
port.
Gonzalez said there is still a long way to 
go for disability rights. Marriage for disabled 
people often results in the loss of Social Secu-
rity benefits and health insurance, and ableism 
still affects the disabled community.
Lindsi Baugher, a 19-year-old UF civil en-
gineering sophomore, experienced ableism 
throughout her life, which is discrimination in 
favor of able-bodied and neurotypical individu-
als.
Baugher said she was adopted at 9 months old and came home sick with ear infections. 
Her mother found out Baugher was deaf, and 
she got a cochlear implant, an electronic de-
vice that produces a modified sense of sound, 
at age 2.
Baugher said classmates would make fun of 
how she spoke growing up, particularly during 
presentations. She said she would practice in 
the mirror or around someone she was com-
fortable with beforehand.
Baugher had her second cochlear implant 
surgery at UF Health Shands Hospital after 
starting her first year in college. During the re-
covery process, she was not able to hear at all 
for about a month. 
In the same way that the ability to walk 
must be relearned if lost, Baugher said she had 
to reteach her brain how to hear.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Baugher 
used closed captioning for her online classes. 
As classes move back in person, she will have 
interpreters to help her, and she said she went 
to the Disability Resource Center to receive these accommodations.
“They just hired four full-time interpreters, 
which I’m really excited about because they’re 
trying to expand the DRC community,” she 
said. “I went up there a couple of weeks ago 
to meet them in person, and they’re really cool 
and chill.”
Gonzalez said living with disabilities while 
transitioning to college can be difficult. She 
hopes the DRC can act as a support system 
and make the process easier for disabled stu-
dents through academic and housing accomo-
dations.
She said there are 4,000 registered students 
with the DRC, and 60% of these students are 
registered with mental health diagnoses. 
“I hope that I can extend the mission of 
UF into DRC and extend disability advocacy 
throughout this campus,” she said.
When Gonzalez was 13, she said she dis-
covered her own invisible disability, a disabil-
ity that is not immediately apparent, when a 
teacher pulled her aside during class. She now has a passion for disability activism and has 
worked at the DRC for four years.
“When I saw the job post for learning spe-
cialist, and I read on there about Cypress Hall, 
I cried,” she said.
She said Cypress Hall, a fully inclusive resi-
dence hall where the DRC is located, opened 
her eyes to what accessibility could mean, and 
her first day at the DRC felt like home.
“If we can infiltrate one person with Dis-
ability Pride Month and at least one person 
seeing the impact and knowing what disability 
advocacy means to people, then the month did 
its job in my eyes,” she said.
Speaking out against ableism is not con-
fined to UF, either. Creators around the world 
are working to challenge misconceptions about 
disabilities this month through books, classes 
and social media platforms.
Andrew Gurza, a 37-year-old disability 
awareness consultant in Canada, plans to host 
a virtual class in September to discuss the im-
pacts of ableism. They said they hope to bridge 
the gap between disabled and nondisabled 
people in a welcoming environment.
“I would rather use my knowledge, my 
lived experience, to teach somebody, rather 
than be angry,” they said. “Of course I’m an-
gry too, but I want to mobilize that and do 
something good with it rather than sitting in 
my own anger.”
Gurza’s advocacy is compiled in their col-
laborative book and podcast, Disability After 
Dark, where they shine a light on disabled sto-
ries.
“When I say awareness, I don’t mean I’m 
gonna just talk to you about accessibility,” 
Gurza said. “I mean I’m going to talk about all 
those things, plus sexuality, plus how does that 
feel from an emotional level for the disabled 
person living in that body?”
Gurza lives with spastic quadriplegic cere-
bral palsy and is a full-time power wheelchair 
user. They said they hope to see more laws and 
policies in the future created by and for dis-
abled people. 
They said it is often a process to be proud 
of their disability.
[Read more on alligator.org]
jwittig@alligator.org 
@JoelleWittigJuly amplifies the voices of the disabled community
Graphic by Alex Brown
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021“It’s not a surprise that people are 
younger because the younger folks are the 
ones who were not vaccinated,” Jimenez 
said.
For people who feel the pandemic end-
ed, Jimenez said it was never over.
“Whenever people have said that to me, 
I say, you don’t live my life,” he said. “Be-
cause if you did, you would see people in 
pretty sick conditions all the time.”
UF reached its highest positivity rates 
since March, with 46 reported positive cas-
es out of 826 tests from July 18 to July 24.
Daily case number trends surpassed 
those seen in July 2020, peaking at a 6% 
seven-day average positivity rate for the 
third week of July.
The number of people in quarantine or 
isolation almost quadrupled from the sec-
ond to third week of July, going from 95 to 
374 people. Of the total, 143 are students, 
123 are employees, 102 are UF affiliates 
and six are unknown.
The highly infectious Delta variant, 
which was first identified in the U.S. in 
March, now accounts for 83% of cases in 
the U.S., according to the director of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion.
The Delta variant is spreading 50% fast-
er than the Alpha variant, which was 50% 
more contagious than the original strain of 
the virus. People who are fully vaccinated 
appear to have protection against Delta, 
according to Yale Medicine.
Delta is now the dominant strain world-
wide, identified in 100 countries since De-
cember.In Florida, Delta accounts for over 36% 
of unweighted proportions of variants of 
concern and other lineages, according to 
the CDC.
Young adults are the least likely group 
to get vaccinated. While 80% of people 65 
and older have received one or more doses, 
only 38% of those aged 18-29 have been 
vaccinated, according to a May CDC post.
A UF Health release in May estimated 
that between 70% and 80% of UF students 
have received a COVID-19 vaccine. The 
estimate is based on informal polls at the 
testing site, conversations with staff and 
students and 
its own vac-
cination num-
bers. 
After over 
two months 
of requests 
from The Alli-
gator, UF has not provided supporting data 
for the estimation.
Over 60,0000 vaccines have been ad-
ministered across UF’s vaccination sites, 
UF Senior Vice President for Health Affairs 
David Nelson said.
Since July 16, Alachua County reported 
an 11.4% new case positivity rate, which is 
4.5% higher than the national 6.9% seven-
day average positivity.
Meanwhile, Florida reached 15.1% new 
case positivity for July 16 to 22, according 
to the Florida Department of Health.
Florida is now the epicenter of the 
pandemic. Nationally, Florida ranked the 
worst for the number of weekly cases with 
over 73,000 new positive cases, according 
to the CDC.
Due to the rapid rise in cases and the Delta variant, UF Health changed its visi-
tation policies July 21 to protect staff, pa-
tients and visitors. All admitted patients 
are required to receive a COVID-19 test re-
gardless of vaccination status.
Visitation in UF Health Emergency 
Rooms will continue to be limited, in addi-
tion to following specific guidelines for UF 
Health Shands Children’s Hospital, Adult 
Hospitals and Outpatient Surgical Centers.
While doubling down on upcoming 
community vaccination outreach efforts 
and messaging to build trust in vaccines, 
Jimenez said masking recommendations 
will come 
from guid-
ance from 
scientists and 
public health 
officials.
To combat 
spikes in cas-
es among unvaccinated people, U.S. Sur-
geon General Vivek H. Murthy said July 18 
that he supports local counties reinstating 
mask mandates. In May, the CDC guide-
lines lifted masks recommendations for ful-
ly vaccinated people in indoor settings, he 
said, but it also gave local officials flexibil-
ity to respond to new outbreaks, according 
to the Washington Post.
With more students on campus and pos-
itive cases spiking, testing increased over 
215% from 262 tests for the second week 
of July to 826 tests for the third week.
As of July 25, the total number of 
positive cases since March 2020 reached 
10,386. Of these cases, 7,224 were stu-
dents, 1,655 were employees, 1,506 were 
UF affiliates and one was unknown.
The Florida Department of Health is no longer releasing daily COVID-19 updates 
and county death statistics.
“The part that nobody really sees is the 
amount of work that’s involved to collect 
and submit this data,” Jimenez said. “I 
would rather have my people taking care 
of the COVID patients.”
Alachua County reported June 3 a to-
tal of 285 deaths since the beginning of 
the pandemic. There have been a total of 
26,683 cases and 140,496 people vaccinat-
ed, according to the Florida Department of 
Health.
There were 664 new positive cases and 
1,220 people vaccinated from July 16 to 
July 22, according to the Florida Depart-
ment of Health.
New positive cases increased over 400% 
from the 131 cases reported for the week of 
July 2, according to Alachua County.
“The increases are startling,” the official 
Alachua County July 16 post stated.
UF Health is offering walk-up vaccina-
tions, and Alachua County has upcoming 
walk-up vaccine clinics at Thomas Coward 
Auditorium.
Vaccinations kicked off nearly eight 
months ago, and by now, Jimenez said 
people should trust the scientists about 
the safety of the mRNA technology used in 
Pfizer and Moderna vaccines.
The U.S. has administered over 341 mil-
lion vaccine doses, according to the CDC.
“Trust the UF scientists,” Jimenez said. 
“You trust us for Gatorade, you trust us to 
do AI, you trust us to do marine biology — 
why stop trusting us now?”
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgCOVID,  from pg. 1Highest positive COVID-19 rates since March
suspicious incidents to burglary 
and assault at the Gainesville 
Place apartments at 2800 SW 
35th Place in the last two years, 
according to Gainesville Police 
Department records. 
Burglary is the most common 
crime reported at the complex, 
and a crime is reported about 
once every two weeks according 
to GPD records. Indecent expo-
sure and flashing comprised three 
reported crimes, although sexual 
assault crimes often go unreport-
ed. 
Gainesville Place and its par-
ent company, the Collier Com-
pany, did not return requests to 
comment after two phone calls on 
different days. 
Wagner’s exposure to public 
masturbation occured in the 1300 
building while she helped her 
older sister carry luggage from 
her car to her upstairs apartment 
for a visit in August. 
On their second trip up from 
the car, a man was sprawled out 
on the stairs waiting for them and 
masturbating.
“I freaked out. I was just like 
‘what the f----?’” Wagner said. “I was really scared.”
She said she turned around 
and calmly went up the other set 
of stairs, and the man finished 
and walked off. 
The police told her there was 
nothing they could do because 
there was no proof, Wagner said. 
She complained to Gainesville 
Place management about the need 
for cameras, but they weren’t in-
stalled.
“There’s people coming here 
without their parents for the first 
time, especially young girls, and 
they’re living by themselves for 
the first time,” Wagner said.
Wagner said she does not feel 
safe and knows of at least five 
other people who have had run-
ins with public masturbation at 
the complex. 
“They neglect their tenants 
and their wants and needs, espe-
cially their basic safety,” Wagner 
said. “There’s young girls coming 
here… and it’s their duty to keep 
us safe and at least have evidence 
if anything happens.”
Witnesses of public masturba-
tion can feel violated even if they 
were not touched or seen by the 
flasher, Matt Pearce, a licensed 
clinical social worker and psycho-therapist, said. Many witnesses 
feel shame.
“Whether you were in a bath-
ing suit, whether you were at a 
party, whatever you were doing, 
it does not matter. [If] consent 
was not gained, then it is not your 
fault,” Pearce said.
Anywhere from 30 to 60% 
of people fantasize about hav-
ing some form of sex in a public 
place, he said, and that’s com-
pletely normal. It becomes un-
safe when nonconsenting parties 
are forced to be involved. Kink 
and fetish communities can meet 
these needs in a consensual way, 
he said. 
About a month ago, Gainesville 
Place management sent Arielle 
Cortina, a 21-year-old UF his-
tory major, a message warning 
of a man exposing himself in the 
stairwells. The message went out 
after a Reddit post about safety at 
Gainesville Place gained over 60 
comments and 450 upvotes last 
month.
Sometimes Cortina goes to the 
gym at night and runs back to her 
car after her workout.
“I don’t like going out at 
night, because it gets kind of dark 
around here,” Cortina said. Greyson Graham, a 20-year-
old UF environmental science ma-
jor who lives next to the stairwell 
where the alleged masturbation 
took place, sees public masturba-
tion as a serial problem around 
the building.
“He’s been here for months,” 
Graham said. “I got pepper spray 
because of [him].” 
Samantha Moron lives at 
Gainesville Place and is a 21-year-
old UF psychology and women’s 
studies major. On St. Patrick’s 
Day her first year at the complex, 
she and one of her roommates 
were home alone settling in to 
watch a movie when there was a 
loud knock on the door at about 
11 p.m., she said.
Moron looked through the 
peephole and saw a man running 
toward the door before slamming 
into it. She and her roommate 
locked themselves in Moron’s 
bathroom and called the police. 
The man didn’t go away for al-
most a half-hour, but police did 
not arrive in time to catch him, 
she said. 
She described another incident 
where she heard another knock 
late at night in Summer 2019. 
This time, she saw a man through the peephole taking tools out of a 
DoorDash bag. She said the man 
then began working on the door, 
presumably trying to get it open. 
The man left when he heard her 
run to tell her roommate what 
was happening, she said. 
Last November, she and three 
friends were at the pool near 
building 1300 at night. A man en-
tered the pool deck and sat down 
across the pool from them, she 
said. He went into the pool bath-
room and masturbated while star-
ing at her group.
Moron was scared to leave be-
cause the man was near the exit. 
They flagged down a group walk-
ing to the parking lot to chase 
the man away. The person who 
helped them had heard of the 
man masturbating before. 
Moron and her friends report-
ed the incident to GPD, but be-
cause they did not pick the same 
picture in a lineup of possible 
suspects that night, the respond-
ing officer was unable to charge 
anyone with a crime, according to 
a GPD report. 
Though Moron spoke to the 
complex about the incident, she 
said Gainesville Place told her 
there wasn’t much they could do 
and they can’t pick their neigh-
bors.
@samschaf_
sschaffer@alligator.orgFLASHING,  from pg. 1“I don’t like going out at night.”“TRUST THE UF SCIENTISTS. YOU TRUST 
US FOR GATORADE, YOU TRUST US TO DO 
AI, YOU TRUST US TO DO MARINE BIOL -
OGY — WHY STOP TRUSTING US NOW?”
Ed Jimenez
UF Health Shands CEOMONDAY, JULY 26, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
HALEY, 56, WAS ALSO DEAN 
OF UF’S COLLEGE OF 
MEDICINE - JACKSONVILLE
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Dr. Leon Haley Jr., the CEO of UF Health Jackson-
ville and dean of UF College of Medicine - Jackson-
ville, died in an accident July 
24 in South Florida. 
Haley, 56, was operating a 
personal watercraft and was 
ejected from it, Carol Lyn Par-
rish, Florida Fish and Wild-
life Conservation Commission 
South Region public infor-
mation director, wrote in an 
email. He was found wearing a 
life jacket and was transported 
to St. Mary’s Hospital in West 
Palm Beach, where he was 
pronounced dead, she wrote. FWC is currently inves-
tigating the incident. 
“All of the members of the FWC want to express 
our sincere sympathies to Dr. Haley’s family, friends 
and his colleagues at the University of Florida Health 
Jacksonville,” Parrish wrote. “Our thoughts and 
prayers are with all of them.” 
Haley served as the CEO of UF Health Jacksonville 
starting in 2018, when he became the first Black per-
son to hold the position. 
He received his undergraduate degree from Brown 
University before going on to earn his medical degree 
from the University of Pittsburgh, Daniel Leveton, the 
media relations manager at UF Health Jacksonville, 
wrote in an email. 
At the University of Michigan, Haley studied to 
earn his master of health services administration. He 
became the dean of the UF College of Medicine - Jack-
sonville in 2017, Leveton wrote. 
Haley was instrumental in the fight against COV-
ID-19 and was believed to be the first person in Flori-
da to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, 
according to Action News Jax. 
Haley’s death is a tremendous loss for his family, 
friends, people he led at UF, communities in North 
Florida and across the country, Dr. David R. Nelson, 
the president of UF Health and senior vice president 
for health affairs, wrote in an email statement. While 
his leadership and friendship will be missed, UF 
Health will continue his vision, he wrote. 
“Dr. Haley was such an incredible leader and col-
league to all of us at UF Health, but he was also a good 
friend to so many, an amazing advocate for equality 
in health care, and most importantly a man of integ-
rity who always wanted to do the right thing,” Nelson 
wrote. 
Several people took to social media to pay tribute 
to Haley. UF President Kent Fuchs was among them, 
writing on Twitter Haley was a leader others aspire 
to be. 
Student Body President Cooper Brown and Trea-
surer Giovanna Mompremier are authoring a resolu-
tion to honor Haley’s life, according to an email. 
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.orgDr. Leon Haley Jr., 
CEO of UF Health 
Jacksonville, dies 
in a watercraft 
accident 
Haley, Jr.
RESTRICTIONS ON THE GAINESVILLE POLICE 
DEPARTMENT’S ABILITY TO ENFORCE OPEN 
CONTAINER LAWS ON CITY PROPERTY GETS 
FURTHER APPROVAL FROM MOST CITY 
COMMISSIONERS
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville is one step closer to permanently allowing the 
consumption of alcohol in public.
Open container laws were originally lifted during the CO-
VID-19 pandemic to avoid large crowds in restaurants and 
bars. Gainesville’s city commission voted 4-3 July 19 to keep 
the change in place, but a second vote will be required to 
make it permanent. Commissioner David Arreola, Commis-
sioner Desmon Duncan-Walker and Commissioner Gail John-
son opposed the amendment. 
The commission also approved a review of the city’s rules 
allowing for hookah bars to be open past 2 a.m. Additionally, 
the ordinance would explore how the city could potentially 
begin enforcing noise complaints more often. The vote to 
maintain the open container laws as they are currently fol-
lowed an hour-long debate about how they could influence 
the prevalence of gun violence, which is rising in Gainesville.
“Given the fact that we’re not winning this battle with gun 
violence, I can’t put my stamp of support on something that 
statistics show will exacerbate violent behaviors,” Commis-
sioner Desmon Duncan-Walker said.
An Epidemiological Reviews study recommended viewing 
alcohol as a risk factor that can contribute to gun violence.
Duncan-Walker cited a shooting that injured two people 
just 30 minutes before she spoke at the meeting. Another 
shooting July 18 killed one person and injured four others. 
Both shootings occurred in Duncan-Walker’s district in East 
Gainesville.
Commissioner Reina Saco said she agreed that while alco-
hol can exacerbate violence, it does not cause violence.
“I think the issue we have is a gun control and gun safety 
issue, not so much an alcohol issue,” Saco said.
She also said the lack of restrictions on where you can 
drink doesn’t affect the amount of drunkenness in the streets. 
Gainesville has bars where people can drink then go out into 
the streets anyway, she said.
“If you are going to drink to excess, you are going to drink to excess regardless of where you’re doing it,” Saco said. “It is 
not a matter of where you drink — it is a matter of how much 
you’re going to drink and that choice you make.”
Saco also said open container laws punish homeless peo-
ple who don’t have a private place to have a drink.
Mayor Lauren Poe agreed the open container laws were 
created to harass poor people.
”They don’t have a private place that they can go enjoy a 
beverage,” Poe said. “Wherever they do it, they are breaking 
the law.”
Poe also mentioned that alcohol in private settings can in-
tensify domestic and sexual violence, whereas public settings 
may discourage violence. 
“I am equally outraged against the increase in domestic 
abuse and sexual violence that we’ve especially seen over the 
last 18 months,” he said.
Policing whether someone can have a beer on the sidewalk 
is not the way to solve problems like gun violence, Poe said.
Most public commentators spoke against permanently al-
lowing open containers on the streets with some expressing 
concerns about underage drinking becoming easier under this 
ordinance. Poe refuted this idea, however.
“This doesn’t lower the drinking age,” he said. “It’s still il-
legal. In fact, if they’re out in public doing it, it’s much easier 
for us to intervene.” 
One commentator took a shot at Poe, suggesting he pro-
vide his home address so parents of kids who drunkenly fall 
off scooters and get injured can go to his house to ask why he 
voted to keep the open container ordinance as it is.
Poe said the commentator crossed a line and prefers leav-
ing his family and their home out of the conversation.
One resident, who lives three blocks from Ben Hill Grif-
fin Stadium, is concerned about the large crowds of people 
drinking in her neighborhood that would come with football 
weekends.
“They are now allowing open containers, and I just can’t 
imagine what that’s gonna be like, because it was bad enough 
when they weren’t allowed,” Jane Brockmann, a retired UF 
professor, said. “There’d be so many drunk people.”
Brockmann understands why open container laws would 
be lifted in areas like downtown, but she said she does not 
understand why they aren’t preserved in neighborhoods like 
hers.
“I think it’s just totally nuts,” she said.
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.orgOpen container ordinance upheld 
after spirited debate
Alligator File Photo
Photo of Midtown, a popular bar and restaurant hub in Gainesville located across the street from UF.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
OAK HAMMOCK AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA BECOMES 
THE FIRST CONTINUING CARE 
RETIREMENT COMMUNITY TO 
SHIFT TOWARD SUSTAINABLE 
ENERGY IN FLORIDA
By Phong Huynh 
Alligator Staff Writer
A single solar panel lifted onto the rooftops 
of a retirement community was ready for the 
sun as a new sustainability project finally saw 
daylight. 
Oak Hammock Retirement Community at UF 
on 5100 SW 25th Blvd. will become the first con-
tinuing care retirement community in Florida 
to shift toward sustainable energy. Its first so-
lar panel was installed in front of residents and 
project managers on July 20. 
“Failure can be done alone; success requires 
a team,” Nelson Logan, a resident and engineer 
of the project, said. 
The more than four-year endeavor started 
with 24 panels installed by Solar Impact, a local 
solar panel installer. They are the first of 682 
bifacial panels, which will capture and generate 
solar power for the whole community. 
The Oak Hammock Chief Financial Officer 
Andrew Davey said the project cost $603,000 
and said the power bill per month would be 5% 
lower.
Solar panels have a lifespan of about 25 to 
30 years, according to an Oak Hammock press 
release. The panels will also generate an annual 
$50,000 in savings.
Logan said he was initially unsure whether 
the project would come to fruition. 
“It’s gratifying to think that we’re doing a 
little part in trying to be economic using our re-
sources wisely,” he said.
The project was proposed by the late Lee Bid-
good, a chemical engineer and resident of the 
community. Logan said after Bidgood retired, he 
moved to Oak Hammock and thought the roof should be used to support solar power.
“This is going to be a 30-year warranty kind 
of project; and most of us will be gone, but oth-
ers will benefit from it and the planet will benefit 
from it,” Logan said. 
Barry Jacobson, the company’s president and 
founder, said he was approached about the Oak 
Hammock project 12 years ago. 
John Paul, one of the engineers and resi-
dents, said the support of the Oak Hammock 
community made the project possible. 
“At the end of the day everybody kind of col-
laborated: that’s both the user community to-
gether with management,” he said. “That was 
a big piece of this that there was no pushback 
from management, because if we could make 
a business case and it made sense, they were 
more than willing to listen.”
Bill Rossi, one of the engineers and residents, 
pitched the project to the finance committee of 
the Oak Hammock Board of Directors in a pre-
sentation on Oct. 15, 2019. The board of direc-
tors approved the project in February 2020. 
“A lot of people talk about renewable energy 
and using some wind, water to generate our 
electricity rather than coal fired plants,” he said. 
“We’ve done something about it: the big differ-
ence between talking about it and doing some-
thing about it.”
Rossi said other communities and individuals 
need to rethink how they impact the environ-
ment to be sustainable. 
“Little habit changes by a lot of people end 
up being big effects,” he said. “People need to 
start thinking in terms of economics and saving 
this planet.”
As Logan, Paul and Rossi witnessed the first 
panel being installed, they smiled and shook 
hands with each other.
”I feel pride because we have done some-
thing good for Oak Hammock,” Rossi said. “It’s 
a big win for this community, it’s a big win for 
Oak Hammock and it’s a big win for us.”
@phongphont
phunyh@alligator.org.Retirement community 
installs first solar panels in 
shift toward sustainability
Photo by Phong Huynh
Workers carry the first solar panel installed on the rooftops of Oak Hammock at the 
University of Florida on Tuesday, July 20, 2021.THE INAUGURATED CLASS 
WILL CONSIST OF SEVEN 
STUDENTS WHO WILL HAVE 
HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE 
WORKING IN LABS AND 
FIELDS WITH THEIR 
SPECIALIZED PLANT
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
After almost seven years of discus-
sions and proposals, UF will welcome 
its first class of Ph.D. plant breeding 
students Fall 2020. The new program 
is one of six in the country and the 
only one in Florida. 
Led by newly established plant 
breeding graduate program direc-
tor Patricio Muñoz, the program will 
bring students hands-on experience 
in the fields and labs ensuring crops 
resists diseases, fruits taste good and 
plants emit a pleasant aroma. 
“Every product that we create or 
we develop, it can have a huge impact 
on the sustainability of the way things 
are done in agriculture,” Muñoz, an 
associate professor at UF’s Horticul-
ture Science Department and a blue-
berry breeder, said. “One of my goals 
as an educator is to transmit this pas-
sion to my students.”
Muñoz said the state depends on 
the products or varieties that have 
been developed by plant breeders. 
UF has created two industry hybrids, 
Yellowstone and Everglades, from the 
sweet corn breeding program, which 
is now available commercially. 
“We already have an excellent 
group of plant breeders creating a 
huge impact, not just for the univer-
sity, the state, the country, but also 
globally,”  Muñoz said.
As one of the seven students in the 
first cohort, Mark Porter, a 22-year-
old Pennsylvania State plant sciences 
graduate, will specialize in genetics of 
strawberry flavor. 
“I was confident that I wanted to 
do the program at University of Flor-
ida,” Porter said. “That kind of was 
an advantage in that sense because I 
knew right away what I was going to 
get to work on.”
Porter remembers being amazed at 
the different variations of fruits and 
vegetables as a kid. He credits his 
trips to the grocery store and garden-
ing for his love of plants and passion 
for plant breeding. 
“I saw, like, a red banana for the 
first time and I was like, ‘What? I 
thought bananas were only yellow,’” 
Porter said. “Like it almost blew my 
mind.” 
During his sophomore year at 
Pennsylvania State, he took a class on 
plant breeding with professor of plant 
genetics Majid Foolad, who opened his eyes to the significance of the field 
and inspired him to continue down 
this career path. 
“He stressed this need for plant 
breeders and how, you know, as the 
world changes, the climate changes — 
we’re going to need to really innovate 
with our approach to creating new va-
rieties,” Porter said.
UF/IFAS employs 27 faculty mem-
bers across seven research and educa-
tion centers in Florida. They breed 50 
diverse plant species, including blue-
berries located at UF’s main campus 
and strawberries in the Gulf Coast. 
Vance Whitaker, chair of the plant 
breeding working group and associ-
ate professor of horticulture, works 
with strawberries at the Gulf Coast 
research and education center. In his 
department, precision breeding fac-
ulty will be hired specifically for the 
plant breeding program. 
The program is funded by UF/IFAS 
and UF/CALS for personnel, recruit-
ment, fellowships and tuition assis-
tance, Whitaker said. 
“One of the big motivations for cre-
ating this unified graduate program 
was the hope that it would help us at-
tract the very best students to come 
to UF,” Whitaker said. “Having this 
cross departmental program gives us 
greater visibility to compete with oth-
er land grant institutions around the 
U.S. that have strong plant breeding 
programs.”
In the proposal to the Board of 
Governors, Whitaker said it was easy 
to justify the need for the plant breed-
ing program.
“It’s just an area with a lot of de-
mand right now,” Whitaker said. 
“Creating better crops that you know 
yield more and on less land and can 
be more sustainably produced are you 
know going to have to be a huge part 
of the solution to feeding a world that 
has a burgeoning population.”
The program will include in-person 
and online coursework. Plant breed-
ing working group overall coordina-
tor Eliana Kampf wrote the program 
will include molecular techniques, 
quantitative genetics and analysis of 
breeding trials. It will attract federal 
and private funding which in turn will 
be used toward educating new plant 
breeding graduates. 
“In the future we plan to recruit ad-
ditional top-notch students by broadly 
targeting prospective students in peer 
institutions,” Kampf wrote. “A proac-
tive recruitment plan to identify and 
attract top state, national and inter-
national students to the University of 
Florida and align it with its pre-emi-
nence goals is in motion.”
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgUF welcomes first Ph.D. 
plant breeding program, 
first in FloridaKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Burleigh to the pros
Former UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh takes over as 
interim head coach of the Orlando Pride pg. 11
THEATRETHEATRE
THE ABRIDGED COMEDY 
FEATURES ALL OF 
SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS 
IN A FEMALE-LED 
PERFORMANCE
Bryce Brown
Avenue Staff Writer 
Acrosstown Repertory Theatre, a 
Gainesville-based non-profit organiza-
tion, reopened July 23 after a year and 
a half of being shut down due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Its first produc-
tion to kick off the 
season is the “The 
Complete Works 
of William Shake-
speare,” which is 
a comedic retelling 
of all 37 of Shake-
speare’s plays in 
97 minutes. The 
show will run 
through Aug. 8 on 
Fridays and Satur-
days at 8 p.m. and 
Sundays at 2 p.m. 
Monica Cross, 
the 33-year-old di-
rector on the board 
of the Acrosstown 
Repertory The-
atre, said “The 
Complete Works 
of William Shake-
speare” was the 
perfect play to lift 
the mood of the 
Gainesville audi-
ence.  
“As we were planning our re-
opening, we really felt like everyone 
right now collectively needed a good 
laugh,” she said. “I'm really hoping 
that this show will be a breath of fresh 
air.”
Shakespeare’s “electricity” in his 
work is a major reason his stories can 
be adapted and remain entertaining 
for audiences today, Cross said. 
“The problems that they are deal-
ing with are very fundamental prob-
lems like family drama, relationship 
drama, and yet it's taken to these ex-
tremes,” she said. “That sort of energy 
is so exciting, and I think that that's 
what brings people back to Shake-
speare continuously.”
Cross said “The Complete Works 
of William Shakespeare” tones down 
Shakespeare’s drama, humorously 
acknowledging his bizarre storylines 
and self-awareness of the pedestal the 
world has put him on.    “The show really picks fun at 
Shakespeare as much as it reveres 
him,” said Rikki Baynard, a UF Eng-
lish literature third-year student per-
forming in the upcoming shows.
The play features a three-person 
cast, which Cross said made it easier 
to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines. 
“[We’re] trying to re-engage the 
community and bring everyone back 
together in a safe environment,” she 
said. 
Jennifer Hutton, a 35-year-old ac-
tress in the show, said it felt unusual 
being back in the theater after such a 
long hiatus.
“The theaters have been dark for 
a while. But it slowly felt like coming 
home,” she said.
Hutton hopes the show will bring a 
sense of normalcy back to the theater 
community and offer the audience a 
different experience.  
“It's been a long and difficult year 
and a half for everybody, and so I 
hope that everybody will enjoy being 
together again and laughing togeth-
er,” she said. “Live theater is not like 
watching Netflix. It's not like watching 
a movie, even in a movie theater. It re-
ally relies on the energy, the breath, 
the feeling of everybody in the room.” 
Baynard expressed her excitement 
for theater to return to the community.
“Theater is such a powerful thing,” 
she said. “For me, anyway, it's a form 
of escape and especially as an audi-
ence member, it takes you out of your 
daily life for an hour or two. There's 
that energy exchange. There's some-
thing about being around other living 
breathing human beings.” “The Complete Works of William 
Shakespeare'' has been in produc-
tion for three years and has been per-
formed at various venues, including 
Faux Tales, outdoor bars and the Uni-
versity of Florida’s driveway theater 
project.
After performing the same show 
for the last three years, the cast decid-
ed to revamp the show for its final sea-
son. This time, they will be adorning 
Shakespearean garments and British 
accents to stay true to the original text. 
“It's been cool to be able to — not 
rewrite it — but put our own twist on 
it and use our own senses of humor to 
really make it our 
own,” Baynard 
said “I feel very 
deeply attached to 
the show and it's 
gonna be sad to 
not do it again.”
The show was 
originally writ-
ten for men to fill 
the roles, but this 
time, women are 
taking to the stage. 
Actress Emma 
Grimm, 25, was 
grateful for the op-
portunity this play 
provided to give 
women a voice in 
a theater indus-
try that has long 
been dominated 
by men. 
“It means ev-
erything to me 
because as a per-
former, in both theater and film, I'm 
more often than not working with 
crews that are mostly men,” she said. 
“Getting to do it as three women has 
been a really unique experience be-
cause it's a complete rarity.” 
Hutton said the familiarity of 
Shakespeare’s material will help wel-
come audience members back to the 
theater. 
“It's comforting in a way to go to 
the theater and see a show that you're 
already familiar with,” Hutton said. 
“There's a little bit in it for everyone. 
And I think that's what makes this 
show so fun and something everyone 
can enjoy.” 
Acrosstown Repertory Theatre will 
host its annual gala on Aug. 21, which 
will help raise money for the upcom-
ing season.
@brycebrownnn 
bbrown@alligator.orgAcrosstown Repertory Theatre reopens with  
‘The Complete Works of William Shakespeare’ 
Photo by Houston Harwood
Miranda Campos, 20, the stage director at the Acrosstown Reper -
tory Theatre, steps outside before a showing of "The Complete 
Works of WIlliam Shakespeare” on Saturday, July 24, 2021. The 
show runs from July 22 to August 8 at the theater’s 619 S Main 
Street location. The compilation production transforms 37 histori-
cal plays, tragedies and comedies into a single 90-minute show.
DAN YMAS’ BOOK RECOUNTS THE THRILLS AND 
TROUBLES OF YOUNG ADULTHOOD IN GAINESVILLE
By Brenna Sheets
Avenue Staff Writer
Described as “The Perks of Being a Wallflower” meets “The 
Catcher in the Rye” on Amazon, Dan Ymas’ debut novel is UF’s new -
est coming-of-age story.
“The Nights We Won’t Forget” follows the life of a nameless His -
panic UF junior trying to navigate the world of young adulthood in 
Gainesville. With honorable mentions of Gainesville staples like Grog 
House Grill, Leonardo’s Pizza, Tatu Restaurant & Lounge and Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium, Ymas’ book details the adventure, pressure and 
excitement that comes with being a college student at UF.
Self-published on Amazon June 26, “The Nights We Won’t For -
get” is 283 pages long and is currently ranked No. 29 on Amazon’s 
Teen & Young Adult Hispanic & Latino American Fiction eBooks list.  
Ymas was born in Argentina in 1994. Eight years later, his family 
moved to Weston, Florida, where he spent his childhood and ado -
lescence aspiring to be an astronomer and professional tennis player. 
His time at UF, however, would ultimately propel him to become 
a software engineer by graduation in 2017 and an author by 2021. 
Ymas reflected on his own experiences as a Hispanic student at 
UF to build the narrator’s Hispanic identity.
“I think the narrator has this tendency to kind of go on tangents as 
the story unfolds, and I think his culture definitely plays a big role,” 
Ymas said. “Feeling that there's this dual identity between being 
American and having grown up in the U.S., but also being Hispanic 
and kind of trying to keep that part of himself alive as well.”
“The Nights We Won’t Forget” is a recount of lessons learned 
from college, according to Ymas.
“I think the book is pretty much a coming-of-age story from this 
narrative point of view,” he said. “It's a guy going through his junior 
year of college talking about pretty typical college things — falling 
for girls and things not working out, drinking and then stopping the 
drinking.”
After graduating from UF with a bachelor’s degree in computer 
science, Ymas moved out west to Seattle to work for a tech company. 
Having to face a brand new social environment along with the bit -
ter Seattle weather made him nostalgic for his college years in the 
sunshine state.
“My girlfriend was at UF still, so I was in Seattle feeling pretty 
lonely,” Ymas said. “The winters in Seattle get very bleak, and it’s 
cloudy all the time.”
While in Seattle, Ymas began journaling about his time at UF, fill -
ing pages of notebooks with memories of love, heartbreak, partying 
and maturing. Eventually, he decided to draft his journal entries into 
one all-encompassing novel.
While “The Nights We Won’t Forget” is fictional, Ymas said 
many characters in the book possess traits of real people he knew 
in Gainesville.
“The characters are based on friends or people I knew, but a lot 
of the characters are a mix of people,” Ymas said. “There's not a one-
to-one mapping.”
Samantha Morocz, a 2018 UF alumna, read “The Nights We 
Won’t Forget” after receiving an advanced copy from Ymas. One 
of her favorite themes from the book is the coming-of-age storyline.
“In college, you’re kind of in the middle of becoming an adult, but 
you’re still a kid,” Morocz said. “You have to handle that transition 
more than any other time in your life, and I think I really related to 
that.”
As a Venezuelan American, Morocz said Ymas’ detailing of col -
lege life for Hispanic students is told with empathy and understand -
ing.
“I think the narrator says something like, ‘When you’re from two 
different places, you sometimes feel like you’re from neither,’” Mo -
rocz said. “I think the narrator captures that feeling of ‘where do I 
belong?’ very well.”
Ymas plans to write more books in the future and eventually de -
velop a career as a writer.
“That’s actually been a dream of mine, to do this full-time at some 
point. But for now, I'm writing in my spare time, and hopefully, we'll 
have something else next year.”
@BrennaMarieShe1
BrennaSheets@gmail.comAlumnus’ debut novel is 
a nostalgic homage to 
UF student life8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
THE OWNER OF HEALTHY 
HAIR TRESSES WILL 
SHARE HER SKILLS AND 
PRODUCT KNOWLEDGE 
TO RESIDENTS
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
Tabreshia Bloodworth is re-
turning to Gainesville to share her 
knowledge on healthy hair care 
with the community she grew up in. 
After moving to Orlando for 
greater client opportunities, her 
homecoming will feature a $250 
class on Aug. 1. She also plans to 
launch a website where she’ll post 
online courses.
Bloodworth, 31, owns Healthy 
Hair Tresses, a small business sell-
ing healthy hair products like oils, 
edge tamers and defrizzers. She 
also developed her own silk press 
system, which uses six products to 
maintain healthy and shiny hair af-
ter receiving a silk press, a process 
that straightens hair with a flat iron. 
She plans to teach a class at the 
salon she works at in Gainesville, 
Hairport Salon and Barber Suites lo-
cated at 4110 SW 34th St. The salon 
fosters a nice atmosphere with an 
open floor to teach up to five peo-
ple, Bloodworth said. 
The class will teach students of 
all ages how to do their hair in a 
safe way using products and tech-
niques that Bloodworth has created 
over time. 
“I know that a lot of people don’t 
actually do natural hair and are not really focused on healthy hair,” 
Bloodworth said. “Maybe if I can 
teach what I know, maybe people 
would want to do it.”
She believes the class could be a 
great opportunity for people to pick 
up new skills, like hair product and 
tool knowledge.
Healthy hair has always been 
important to Bloodworth as she 
used to wear her hair in wraps to 
maintain it. After working as a certi-
fied nurse’s assistant for five years, 
she said she decided to follow her 
true passion and studied hairdress-
ing.
At school, she learned skills like 
cutting hair and how to use chemi-cals for coloring in a healthy way. 
After graduating, she gained inspi-
ration from the owners of Si Salon 
located at 5010 W Newberry Road 
who specialized in making products 
to turn naturally curly hair silky 
straight. She worked with them for 
two years before working on her 
own.
“I was able to learn how to give 
the hair a healthy look and what 
products to use especially for our 
culture,” Bloodworth said. 
She decided to move to Orlando 
in September to open a bigger salon 
and build a clientele but returns to 
Gainesville once a month to offer 
services to clients. “I figured that I would service 
my home area first before servicing 
the Orlando area only because I’m 
known there,” Bloodworth said.
Her clients believe the class will 
be beneficial as well. 
Jeriah Owens, a 29-year-old Or-
lando resident, gets her 8-year-old 
daughter’s hair done by Blood-
worth. She believes Bloodworth is 
offering a huge opportunity for oth-
ers to learn how to care for their 
own hair properly. 
She said her daughter has a lot 
of hair that is difficult to straighten. 
It was often damaged before they 
started going to Bloodworth. 
“There was a big comparison difference when I went to Tabreshia 
because literally her hair is silky, 
and I really feel like it’s the product 
that she use,” Owens said. 
On top of being extremely 
knowledgeable about hair care, 
Owens said Bloodworth’s prices are 
extremely reasonable and she cre-
ates a professional but friendly en-
vironment. 
Owens said Bloodworth’s edge 
control and hair serum works well 
and has helped both her and her 
daughter’s damaged hair grow and 
become healthy. 
Michaela Dudley, a 41-year-old 
Gainesville resident, has been going 
to Bloodworth for about three years 
to get hair washes and silk presses. 
Bloodworth’s process and products 
have helped her hair grow, she 
said. Bloodworth also gives instruc-
tions on how to maintain the hair 
at home. 
“I like the product she use. I like 
the way she washes my hair. I know 
it’s gonna be fully clean,” Dudley 
said. “I don’t let a lot of people do 
my hair.”
She received flyers about Blood-
worth’s class and thinks it’s a great 
idea, but she doesn’t want to see 
Bloodworth stop doing hair.
“I was like ‘Girl, God gave you 
a talent. You’re supposed to use 
that talent. And I know you want 
to teach, but you probably should 
do both,’” Dudley said. “When peo-
ple share their talents to help other 
people grow or make money, I think 
that’s nice.”
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgGainesville-born hair professional is returning to teach classes
Graphic by Ashley Hicks
ABOUT 2% OF STUDENTS 
ORIGINALLY COMMITTED TO UF 
CHOOSE TO PURSUE DEGREES 
ELSEWHERE
By Eve Thompson
Alligator Staff Writer
Anxiously awaiting SAT and ACT scores, 
painstakingly drafting and editing the perfect 
essay, finally submitting the completed ap-
plication — students spend months working 
hard on college applications, but they are not 
the final step in the journey to attend a dream 
school.
Soon after applications are sent off, there 
are decision days — a celebratory acceptance 
or a heartbreaking rejection.
Inevitably, some will commit to one 
school, or even multiple schools, but go back 
on their decisions, either because they were 
accepted off a waitlist or changed their minds. 
In university admissions, this phenomenon is 
called melt.
UF’s melt rate is 2-3%, according to Tam-
my Aagard, associate vice president for enroll-
ment management — a number significantly 
lower than the national average of 10-20%. 
Aagard also said UF’s melt rate has been simi-
larly low in previous years.
While UF’s melt rate is already low, the 
admissions team wants to decrease it even 
more, Aagard said.
Melt occurs for many different reasons, 
ranging from financial aid awards to spots at 
more prestigious universities. Aagard men-
tioned UF cannot always offer students ad-
ditional financial aid. However, she said the 
admissions staff helps families make the best decision for their budget.
“We do information sessions to help them 
understand their financial aid award, and 
really be able to make the best decision for 
them regarding fit and finances and all those 
things that the families must consider when 
they are making a decision about college,” 
Aagard said.
Aagard also said the majority of admitted 
students who turn down UF do so because 
they were admitted to a different, more presti-
gious university off a waitlist. 
Max Wyatt was one of those students. 
As the valedictorian of his class, he applied 
to seven different universities, including UF, 
Duke and Notre Dame. Accepted to all three, 
he committed to Notre Dame but finally de-
cided to go to Duke instead. 
“Duke has a top 10 engineering program in the nation,” Wyatt said. 
Duke’s location in the Research Triangle, 
the nickname for North Carolina’s research-
university-packed Piedmont region, was an-
other plus, he said.
While students like Wyatt decided based 
on prestige and reputation, others reconsid-
ered because of the pandemic. 
Students must consider several new fac-
tors, including closeness to home, delivery 
methods, as well as vaccination and mask 
requirements.
Olivia Giraldo, a 19-year-old UF finance 
sophomore, applied to four other schools, in-
cluding UCF and FSU. She was accepted into 
four of the five but chose UF because she said 
her tuition was completely paid by the Bright 
Futures Scholarship program.
Giraldo also said the finance program at UF is one of the best, and she decided on UF 
over the other universities because of its rank-
ing.
“I think that I am really lucky to be at UF. 
As far as where I want to go in my career, 
because I’m hoping to do the Master of Sci-
ence in finance program, which is like an in-
vestment banking track, and those tracks are 
usually really difficult if you’re not at an Ivy 
League school,” Giraldo said.
However, what truly makes or breaks a 
decision, Aagard said, is the campus. It’s also 
a tool admissions staff uses to lower the melt 
rate.
“I think probably one of the best things to 
combat melt, and where we’ve been perhaps 
the most hindered this year, has been getting 
students on campus,”  Aagard said. “There’s 
nothing that can replace really physically 
coming to a place and being able to see your-
self there.”
Location is key for most students, includ-
ing Emma Fernandez, an 18-year-old biology 
freshman at UCLA. Originally from Tampa, 
she said she wanted to go somewhere new 
for college.
“I wanted to branch out more, and just go 
completely either by myself or with a couple 
of friends, just so I can be more forced to get 
out of my comfort zone and meet new peo-
ple,” Fernandez said.
She was also accepted at UF, but the loca-
tion was not what she envisioned, she said.
When she visited UCLA, she knew it was 
where she wanted to be.
“It definitely did help me because I feel 
like, when you go to the actual campus, you 
get more of the vibe and the feeling of what 
your future would be there,” Fernandez said.
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.orgKeeping students committed: UF admissions to focus on retaining admitted students
Graphic by Shelby Cotta
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-12
13 Wanted
CASH for WAR RELICS and VINTAGE 
ELECTRONICS
WW1 AND WW2 US/German/Japanese 
swords, daggers, armaments. Also buy-
ing outdated Audio equipment (Amplifiers, 
Tuners, Speakers, Vacuum Tubes.)
Call Chris at 904 315-5208 I PAY FINDERS 
FEES!                                            7-19-9-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            8-15-21-13-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail-
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod-
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.  
8-1-21-9-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
HOME FOR SALE 3BR/2BA, immaculate. 
1200 sq. ft. New roof, paint, carpet, tile, 
windows. Great location. Near University/ 
$245,000  352-406-9325
8-2-21-2-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    SSccrraattcchh,,  sshhaavvee
11..    JJooiinn,,  iinntteerrwweeaavvee  55..    TTyyppee  ooff  mmaacchhiinnee  ttooooll
22..    VVeennoommoouuss  ssnnaakkee  66..    BBeeiinngg  ddiisshhoonneesstt  
33..    EExxaacctt  77..    TTrriibbuullaattiioonn  
44..    TThhrriiffttyy  RREEAAPPSSCC
LLIISSEEPPCCHHAAEELLTT
GGLLNNYYII
AARRLLTTRREETT
SSIIPPRREEEECCAAOORREELLDD
LLAAUUFFGGRRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSccrraappee    55AA--LLaatthhee    66AA--LLyyiinngg    77AA--OOrrddeeaall
11DD--SSpplliiccee    22DD--RRaattttlleerr    33DD--PPrreecciissee    44DD--FFrruuggaall    BB--CClleeooppaattrraa77--2266--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  rreeiiggnneedd  ffoorr  2211  yyeeaarrss..
BONUSDONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RV's 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          7-19-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-21-13-1413 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Rebecca Goldstein
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/26/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/26/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, July 26, 2021
ACROSS
1 “A Sorta 
Fairytale” singer 
Tori
5 Hawaiian coffee 
region
9 Mostly closed, 
like a door
13 Points connector
14 World’s most 
populous 
democracy
15 Expert
16 “Closing Bell” 
channel
17 Reebok rival
19 Rowing 
implement
20 Field of expertise
21 There are 10 
in standard 
Monopoly named 
for states: Abbr.
22 “Bravo!”
26 Chicken-king link
27 Creep (along)
28 “Sesame Street” 
rating
31 Passions
34 “__ you ready?”
35 Poet Silverstein
36 Pasture 
neckwear
38 Creator of a 
spider named 
Charlotte
40 GPS calculations
41 Pro vote
43 “Silent Spring” 
author Rachel
44 Like wallflowers
45 Vegan sources of 
protein
47 Sign-off kisses
48 1968 
Steppenwolf hit 
featured in “Easy 
Rider”
52 Distort, as data
54 Bearded flower
55 Actress/activist 
Ruby
56 According to Sir 
Walter Scott, 
what “we weave, 
/ When first 
we practise to 
deceive” ... and 
what appears 
in each set of 
circles
59 Fervor
60 Swedish furniture 
store
61 Bursts of laughter62 Expel
63 Stitched up
64 Haywire way 
to go
65 Chooses
DOWN
1 Former maker of 
Reynolds Wrap
2 Rapper Nicki
3 Where many 
caught “Cats”
4 Part of a min.
5 Gets down to a 
tot’s level
6 Discontinued 
smoothie brand
7 Penpoint
8 Roadside 
assistance org.
9 Tequila source
10 May follower
11 Rainbows, e.g.
12 Feel remorse for
14 Memo heading
18 Like a beanpole
20 Far from  
clueless
23 Splotches
24 Desperate, as 
straits
25 Last non-AD yr.
28 Box orientation 
instruction
29 White House no30 Secluded spot
31 “Pocket rockets,” 
in poker
32 Kind of IRA
33 More foxy
35 Mole-like 
mammal
37 Tilt
39 Shapes, as 
eyebrows
42 Like many 
peaceful protests
45 Cereal serving
46 In a bad way48 Started
49 Drool catchers
50 “It’s the __ I can 
do”
51 Shoulder 
muscles, briefly
52 Sushi bar 
beverage
53 Was informed (of)
56 “__ the  
season ... ”
57 AQI monitor
58 Beads on grass
59 State of chaos
By Yoni Glatt
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/20/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/20/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, July 20, 2021
ACROSS
1 FX for some 
Marvel characters
4 ’30s veep John 
__ Garner
9 Different
14 __ & Hammer 
baking soda
15 Throw for __: 
upset
16 Lumbering critter 
seen on safaris
17 Make like Drake
18 Hot dog topper
19 Gave up formally
20 “That’s what we 
agreed on”
23 La., once
24 Latin word for 
“brought back” 
used in titles
25 Haleakala 
National Park 
locale
29 “Can’t argue with 
the truth”
32 Period of time
34 Bollywood wrap
35 Who, in Paris
36 Tic-__-toe
37 Drink suffix
40 Inc.’s U.K. cousin
41 Coffee dispenser
42 Pertinent
43 Ostracize
45 Barely making, 
with “out”
47 “Can’t fight City 
Hall”
51 One-named 
“Pillowtalk” singer
52 Pitney __
53 Puerto __
56 “That’s life” ... and 
a summing-up 
of 20-, 29- and 
47-Across
59 Baby Yoda’s real 
name
62 Workout regimen
63 Rollover acronym
64 Wavy dos
65 HR assessments
66 Mork’s home 
planet
67 Tiptoe deviously
68 “For __ sake!”
69 Long of “Empire”
DOWN
1 Jeweler’s 
measure
2 Test score3 In a flawed way
4 Salt formula
5 Trumpet great 
with a statue in 
New Orleans
6 Creaks and 
shrieks
7 Piña __: rum 
drinks
8 Anesthetic 
injection that 
eases pain
9 Black-and-white 
ocean predator
10 Louise’s title pal
11 Kept out of sight
12 L.A.-to-Chicago 
dir.
13 Curtain holder
21 Devastated sea
22 Use, as influence
26 Corporate 
expansion tactic
27 Turnpike no-no, 
usually
28 “Of Thee __”
30 Many a Zoom 
session
31 Castro of Cuba
32 Cable network 
that’s a 
homophone for 
movie headliners33 __ New Guinea
38 Abu __
39 Tricky  
basketball 
footwork named 
for the continent 
of its origin
44 ’70s-’80s genre 
associated with 
the Knack’s “My 
Sharona”
46 Actress Russell
48 Real puzzle49 Nuke, as 
leftovers
50 Of service
54 Clouds that 
sound like a 
virtual assistant
55 Japanese port
57 Warthog weapon
58 Throw easily
59 Navig. 
technology
60 Stimpy’s sidekick
61 Iron mine output
07/19/2021answers on page 101. LITERATURE:  In which 
novel did the character Sher -
lock Holmes first appear?
2. GEOGRAPHY:  Where is 
Area 51 located in the United 
States?
3. SCIENCE: How long does 
it take for light from the sun to 
reach Earth?
4. ENTERTAINERS:  Which 
actor and comedian's original 
name was Joseph Levitch?5. GAMES:  What is the sum 
of all numbers on a roulette 
wheel?
6. AD SLOGANS: What 
product was advertised with 
the slogan "Let your fingers 
do the walking ..."?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What 
grain is used to make sake?
8. U.S. STATES:  Which state 
has used the slogan "Heart of 
Dixie" on its license plates?
9. MYTHOLOGY:  Who was 
the Greek god of time?
10. GAMES:  How many 
players are on each side in a 
polo game?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by FifiRodriguez
solution  on page 10HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
get VACCINATED
TODAY!
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/ answers below1. True or false: Motorboat racing was a 
medal sport contested at the 1908 Summer 
Olympics in London. 
2. What country won Olympic gold medals 
in baseball in 1992, '96 and 2004?
3. Name the East German female swimmer 
who won four gold medals at the 1976 Sum -
mer Olympics in Montreal and was later 
found to have been administered steroids 
by team doctors.
4. Who was head coach of the U.S. Olympic 
men's basketball team that managed to win 
only a bronze medal at the 2004 Summer 
Olympics in Athens?
5. What martial-arts arena in Tokyo was 
built for the 1964 Summer Olympics and 
has hosted musical acts such as the Beatles, 
ABBA, Bob Dylan and Eric Clapton? 
6. Name the U.S. female gymnast who suf -
fered an ankle injury and was carried to the 
medal podium by coach Bela Karolyi at the 
1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
7. What was the name of the E! reality TV 
show starring U.S. Olympic swimmer Ryan 
Lochte that aired briefly in 2013?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
Yard work/some light housekeeping. 
Student,P/T a few hours/week. Wanted by 
retired UF Grad. Close to UF, all equipment 
furnished. $10-$12/hr depending on exp. 
Reply with schedule/short resume include 
phone no. ghpolkgator@gmail.com.
8-16-21-4-14
Help Wanted: Personal Assistant/Driver
OT/PT/SLP students would be a great fit 
for this job, but not required to provide 
assistance to an individual with cerebral 
palsy. 352-258-0228.
8-2-21-2-14
Code Writer
Retired Scientist is looking for someone 
to write now and again simple math codes 
in "Mathematica" software. $20/code. 
adinculescu@cox.net
8-16-21-3-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '21  
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-7-21-6-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME.
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact:  fairoaks1879@aol.com   
8-30-21-8-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Sun Country Sports is hiring for Fall! 
After School Counselors,
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone, Rockwall and 
more. Apply today at
suncountrysports.com/jobs.
8-23-21-4-14  
Join our team!
Hiring committed individuals for our
out of school program for girls ages 5-14.
Applicants must be available M-F.
Schedules vary during summer and
afternoons during the school year. 
Apply at: http://girlsplace.net/employment/
7-26-21-5-14
The University of FL in Gainesville, FL is seek-
ing an Application Database Admin II. This is 
a sr professional-level role within Enterprise 
Sys (ES) of University of FL Information 
Technology (UFIT). Expected to design & 
support d/b mgmt sys (DBMS) of medium 
complexity & assist in designing & support-
ing DBMS of high complexity. Dsgn, monitor, 
maintain, & apply performance tune prod d/b's 
while ensuring high levels of data availability.
Position reqs a Bachelor’s in CS or a related 
field & three yrs of exp doing the following: 
Oracle D/b mgmt; SQL Server D/b mgmt; 
Oracle d/b upgrades; D/b platform migra-
tions btwn different operating sys & hosts; 
RAC & ASM mgmt; Oracle Data guard; 
Oracle Enterprise Mgr; Oracle Advance 
Security Encryption; Oracle Recovery Mgr; 
PeopleSoft Admin & People Tools upgrades.
To apply, send cover letter & resume/CV to 
Jessica McLane at jmclane@ufl.edu, or by 
mail to
Attention: Jessica McLane
UF Information Technology
720 SW 2nd Avenue, 2nd Floor, North Tower
Gainesville, FL 32611-2099
7-26-1-14
Trivia Test  answers1. "A Study in Scarlet"
2. Nevada
3. About 8 minutes, 20 seconds
4. Jerry Lewis
5. 6666. Yellow Pages
7. Ric e
8. Alabama
9. Chronos
10. FourSports Quiz  answers1. True.
2. Cuba.
3. Kornelia Ender.
4. Larry Brown.
5. The Budokan.
6. Kerri Strug.
7. "What Would Ryan Lochte Do?"10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
solution  below
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUND
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www. alligator .org/classifieds
(352)373- FIND
classified @alligator.org
Visit alligator.org/classifieds and submit your 
ad to one of the following categories today!
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
ATTENTION ALLIGATOR ADVERTISERS!
run date:
August 23, 2021
submit by:
August 16 
+
save 10%
: (352) 376-4482
: advertising @alligator.org
Contact your sales rep today and let incoming students know  
you’re ready for business in the Welcome Back Edition!
the
independent
florida
welcome back 
edition
 2021
NOTE: This newspaper assumes no respon-
sibility for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
SOCCERHEAD COACH DAN MULLEN AND DEFENDERS 
ZACH CARTER AND VENTRELL MILLER EACH SPOKE 
IN HOOVER, ALABAMA.
Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
The media floodgates opened July 19 after Florida Gators 
head coach Dan Mullen, defensive lineman Zach Carter and 
linebacker Ventrell Miller kicked off the first day of SEC Media 
Week.
The packed room of media members had plenty of ques-
tions for both the fifth-year coach and the defensive leaders to 
ponder, including the new mentality of the defense. 
Mullen first greeted the reporters with a bright smile to dis-
play his overall excitement for the new season. 
“It’s really exciting to be back, to see everybody here and 
the excitement of media day,” Mullen said. “The excitement of 
the season coming and being live in person again, not having 
to look at everybody through computer screens and to do that, 
I’m really excited to be here and get that kicked off.”
It’s clear the coach was ecstatic for the football world to 
return to some kind of normalcy after UF cleared the way for 
full capacity at sporting events, including those at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium.
“That energy in the stadium, those are things that we really 
missed, and I can’t wait for that opening night in The Swamp 
to feel that energy and excitement of our fans and everybody 
coming out to see us play again,” Mullen said.
Defensive focus
Mullen and Carter used their time to highlight a key focus 
going into the 2021 season: defensive attitude.
“Really, with me, the attitude of our defense is what I’m 
really pleased with,” Mullen said. “The energy, we play a lot 
of guys defensively, roll guys through to keep them fresh and 
healthy, and I’m really excited about the mindset, the attitude 
that the defense as a whole is bringing to the table and the 
leadership that they have within our program.” 
The Gators finished in the middle of the SEC pack defen-
sively last season, as they surrendered 30.8 points a game (8th 
in the conference) and allowed opposing offenses to gain 6.1 
yards per play (10th). The Alabama Crimson Tide took advan-
tage of the weak UF defense in the SEC Championship, putting 
up 52 points and denying Mullen his first conference crown.
Carter and Miller made the trip to Hoover, Alabama, to set 
the premise for the Gators defensive mentality. Carter enters his fifth year of eligibility and believes his final year with the 
team will be a recovery for Florida after the SEC Champion-
ship loss.
“We knew we had some things to work on this year defen-
sively definitely, and I think spring was a great step forward,” 
Carter said. “Going into camp, we’re looking to bounce back.” 
The lineman returns to compete with the Gators and feels 
that there’s still more to accomplish playing under Dan Mullen 
that he wants to be a part of.
“I remember after the SEC Championship game, I probably 
stayed on the field for about five minutes after watching the 
confetti come down and all of that,” Carter explained.” At that 
moment, I knew, I was like, we’ll be back.”
Linebacker Ventrell Miller believes the Gators are the team 
to beat in the SEC East.
“We came out and we won the East,” Miller boasted. “I feel 
like we’re the undisputed champions in the East. Like I said, 
we’re looking forward to coming out and winning the whole 
thing. We come out every year ready to go and ready to rock 
and roll.”
Carter closed his session with a promise he made to himself 
and the rest of the locker room: “I’m going to give everything 
I’ve got this year and I’m going to try to help my team the best 
I can, help lead my team in some type of way.”
The Florida Gators officially return on Sept. 4 against the 
Florida Atlantic Owls in Gainesville, as Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium welcomes a full house of fans after the 2020 season re-
duced the stadium capacity to 25%.
12-team playoff “destined to happen?”
The madness of SEC Media Days continued into July 20, 
and the hot topic of the day was the newly proposed college 
football playoff expansion.
Opinions are scattered across the NCAA about the expan-
sion proposal. Head coaches such as Clemson’s Dabo Swinney 
criticized the idea, while Oklahoma Sooners leader Lincoln Ri-
ley said his team’s emotions are a “bit of a mixed bag.”
Mullen took the podium to kick off the first day of SEC 
Media Week July 19 and was asked about his thoughts on 
the playoff expansion. The fifth-year coach seems to have a 
neutral stance.
“I’m just here to coach football,” Mullen replied. “I think, 
when the playoffs started, if you’d have asked me, you created 
the four-team playoff, I said it’s going to change a lot of things 
about college football, not immediately, but it will in the long 
haul. I think eventually it will, and eventually, we will end 
up getting to an expansion. I would imagine that would come 
sometime in the future.”Mullen continued his thoughts and explained that every-
one, including the CFP committee, is still trying to figure out 
the right way to handle things.
 “I think we’re still learning, it’s interesting to see,” Mullen 
continued. “Last year we had several opt-outs during the bowl 
game. Last year was also just a very, very difficult year as a 
whole mentally and emotionally.” 
Carter shared his point of view as well.
“When I heard about 12 teams, I was kind of like that 
might have been too many,” Carter said. “Personally I was 
thinking like eight.”
Miller currently has split thoughts, unable to determine 
which side of the fence he lands on.
“I’m not sure. I don’t really have too many thoughts of 
that, it could be a good thing but also a bad thing,” Miller 
pondered. “I don’t really know where I stand on it right now.” 
Mullen closed his opinions about the expansion with a 
view towards what he believes to be a hopeful tomorrow.
“I think college football will continue to evolve, and once 
the playoff system started, I think that was just the first step of 
the college football old bowl system that we knew going into 
the future.”
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.org
FORMER GATORS COACH TO 
BECOME INTERIM ORLANDO 
PRIDE MANAGER
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
Former Florida Gators soccer 
coach Becky Burleigh is going to the 
professional ranks of the National 
Women’s Soccer League.
The retired Burleigh is set to 
become the interim head coach of 
the Orlando Pride for the remainder 
of the season, The Athletic’s Meg Linehan reported July 23.
The Pride and former coach 
Marc Skinner parted ways July 
23, as Skinner took his coaching 
skills across the pond to lead the 
Manchester United women’s team.
Luckily for Orlando, it didn’t 
have to look very far to find a 
legendary local Floridian to be a 
short-term replacement.
Burleigh is known for planting 
the seeds of Florida Gators soccer 
and watching the tree grow for 
26 years as its one and only head 
coach. Under her leadership, the Gators won the 1998 College Cup 
after winning the ‘96 and ‘97 SEC 
Championships. Burleigh totaled a 
513-160-46 career record as head 
coach.
Now, Burleigh is elated to take 
on new challenges of the NWSL.
“I’m excited to become a member 
of the Orlando Pride franchise,” 
Burleigh said. “My hope is to create 
a seamless transition plan to build 
on the growth and strides that 
Marc and the team have made so 
far this season. Change, despite 
being difficult, always brings an opportunity for growth. I’m eager 
to work in partnership with the 
existing staff and players to make 
that happen.”
Burleigh announced back in 
January the 2021 season would 
be her swan song, and the Gators 
finished the season with a 6-8-3 
record and a second-round SEC 
Tournament exit.
Burleigh ruled out coaching at 
the professional level back when she 
announced her retirement but said 
she has always been “fascinated 
with high-level performance.”Orlando boasts some of that 
high-level talent, including U.S. 
Olympians Alex Morgan and Ali 
Krieger.
Burleigh looks forward to her 
new challenge in the pros.
The Orlando Pride get a fresh start 
with a new coach, as they currently 
hold a 4-4-4 record. Orlando takes 
on the North Carolina Courage July 
31 at 6 p.m. in Burleigh’s first game 
as coach.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgGators take to podium at SEC Media Week
She’s back: Becky Burleigh out of retirement and into OrlandoCourtesy of The Associated Press
Florida head coach Dan Mullen speaks to reporters during 
the NCAA college football Southeastern Conference 
Media Days Monday, July 19, 2021, in Hoover, Ala. 
FLORIDA SWIMMERS KIERAN 
SMITH AND NATALIE HINDS 
EACH WON THEIR FIRST 
OLYMPIC MEDALS SATURDAY 
Ryan Haley
Staff Writer
Gator nation added to its resume 
July 24, as USA swimmers Kieran 
Smith and Natalie Hinds notched 
their first Olympic medals in Tokyo. 
Smith stood on the Olympic podi-
um with a bronze medal in his hand 
after he touched the wall third in the 
400-meter freestyle final. He finished 
in 3 minutes, 43.94 seconds; 0.13 sec-
onds ahead of Germany’s Henning 
Muhlleitner and Austria’s Felix Au-
boeck. 
The junior started strong and was 
one of the first three swimmers to 
touch the wall after 50, 100, 150 and 
200 meters, but he began to fall be-
hind as the race wore on. Auboeck 
and Muhlleitner pushed past Smith, 
but the rising Florida senior perse-
vered to remain within striking dis-
tance as the final 50 meters began.
Smith pulled ahead of his oppo-
nents quickly in the final leg and kept 
his nose in front of all but two of his 
opponents to nab a medal.
The Florida swimmer secured 
his spot in the finals with a sterling 
performance in his prelims Satur-
day morning. The Gator took third place in heat five with a 3:45.25 time, only 
0.13 seconds ahead of USA swimmer Jake 
Mitchell to make the final race.
Smith’s Olympic journey isn’t over yet. 
He will race again in the 200-meter free-
style, which began July 25 with the finals 
July 26.
Former Gator Natalie Hinds swam the third leg of the women’s 4x100 freestyle 
relay and, in her first Olympic event ever, 
helped secure the bronze medal for the 
red, white and blue.
Hinds, who graduated from Florida in 
2016, jumped in the pool with the United 
States out of position for a medal after Aus-
tralia, Great Britain and Sweden raced out to early advantages. The stars and stripes 
were at least 0.3 seconds behind the lead-
ers halfway through the race.
Hinds swiftly corrected the U.S. course 
with a 53.15-second split, enough to push 
the States into third position for Simone 
Manuel’s anchor performance.
Despite a 52.96 final 100 meters from 
Manuel, Canada edged past the USA for the 
silver medal at the very end behind a time 
of 52.26 seconds from Penny Oleksiak in 
the adjacent lane.
Hinds, Manuel, Erika Brown 
and Abbey Weitzeil all assumed 
the final step of the podium as 
Australia took the top spot by over 
three seconds to set a world re-
cord. 
Despite missing out on silver, 
Hinds still got her hands on her 
first Olympic medal and added a 
second bronze to UF’s Saturday 
haul after Kieran Smith’s perfor-
mance in the 400-meter freestyle.
Hinds was named to the All-
SEC First Team in 2013, 2015 
and 2016 but stepped away from 
swimming after she missed out 
on the 2016 Olympics to focus on 
her work with Turner Broadcast-
ing. Her competitive fire reignited 
when she watched the 2018 USA 
National Championships. The for-
mer back-to-back SEC champion 
in the 100-yard freestyle (2015 & 
2016) qualified for her first Olym-
pics at age 27 and is now an Olym-
pic medalist.
rhaley@alligator.org
@ryan_dhaley12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 26, 2021
Gators take home bronze medals
Courtesy of The Associated Press
Kieran Smith swims in the fifth heat of the men’s 400-meter freestyle at the 2020 Summer 
Olympics, Saturday, July 24, 2021, in Tokyo, Japan.
TOKYO OLYMPICS 2021TOKYO OLYMPICS 2021