We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Gnomes?
UF’s shortest influencer documents college experience,  pg. 7
Registration waitlist
UF rolls out new waitlist feature for Spring registration,  pg. 5Two in a million
Florida long snapper Marco Ortiz took a 
long journey to his new scholarship — but 
with twin Antonio, he di dn’t take it alone . 
Read more on pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 8
No car? No problem.
Hitch oﬀers private and shared rides from Gainesville to Orlando, 
Jacksonville, Tampa, and more. 
First ride is FREE!* CODE: UFNEWS1 ridehitch.com *discount up to $50
GUNNA AND NEON TREES 
HEADLINED THE ANNUAL 
STUDENT-LED PEP RALLY
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
More than 7,000 people packed 
into the O’Connell Center as Gator 
chomps rippled through the crowd 
followed by the classic “It’s great 
to be a Florida Gator” chant. These 
were both demonstrations of what 
homecoming week is all about: 
tradition. 
This was UF’s 98th ‘welcome 
home’ event, and after a gap year due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic, Gators 
young and old were excited to unite 
in school spirit and Gators pride. 
Hordes of people showed up to UF’s 
first Gator Growl in two years. 
Gator Growl is a long-standing 
tradition rooted in the celebration of 
UF’s past and present students and 
their unwavering support for the 
orange and blue. Each year, musical 
and comedic entertainers take the 
stage to bring the Gator Nation back 
together for the country’s largest 
student-run pep rally. 
“Since I’ve graduated, I’ve only 
missed one Gator Growl,” said Jay 
Sandhouse, a 1980 UF alumnus. 
“What else would you be doing?” 
Last year’s homecoming events 
were either entirely virtual or 
modified, and Gator Growl’s usual 
lineup of big-name artists was 
canceled.
Sandhouse looked forward to 
attending the first Gator Growl in the 
O’Connell Center. In past years, the 
event took place outside at Flavet 
Field. 
“It may motivate more people to go UF homecoming traditions return after one-year hiatus
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Gavin Hughes (left), Haddie Hughes (middle), and twins Emanuel and Elijah Harmon (right) watch the UF Homecoming Parade 
approach on University Avenue on Friday, Oct. 8, 2021.
 SEE GATOR GROWL,  PAGE 6T oday’s Weather
THE APARTMENT COMPLEX 
PLANS TO DESIGNATE 
10% OF ITS UNITS TO 
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
By Meghan McGlone and 
Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writers
Low-income Gainesville 
residents may soon be living 
alongside UF students as a mixed-
use development proposal is set to 
be built next to campus.
The City Commission will 
make the final decision this 
month on the construction of an 
affordable housing and student 
living apartment building, located 
at 1227 W. University Ave. 
where Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria 
once stood. The plans include a 
10-story apartment building with 
151 housing units, 10% of which 
will be for affordable housing, 
according to a Friday city press 
release.
This follows the city’s goals set 
forth in itstheir master plan, which 
aims to provide affordable rental 
housing for Gainesville residents. 
Specific rates are unclear as of 
Oct. 10.
The rent price for the 15 
affordable units will be lower 
than surrounding apartments 
like The Standard or The Hub, 
Commissioner David Arreola said. 
Gainesville Housing Authority 
CEO Pamela Davis said tThe 
affordable housing units will be 
available to people who make 
60% or below of the median 
income in the city, Gainesville 
Housing Authority CEO Pamela 
Davis said. The Gainesville 
Housing Authority may also refer 
people who make 80% or below 
the median income to live there, Davis said. The 2020 median 
family income in Gainesville was 
$69,800.
Davis said the GHA Gainesville 
Housing Authority provides 
housing for low-income families 
in the cityGainesville, and people 
can apply for affordable housing 
through GHA. It will refer people 
who qualify for affordable 
housing to Lincoln Ventures, the 
real estate firm that owns the 
property, to ensure low-income 
families are using the units.
“Housing is expensive, and 
it’s a basic necessity for families 
for stability and security,” Davis 
said. “We want to make sure 
that all of our families have an 
opportunity to be successful in 
our community.”
The apartment will have mixed-
income housing with students 
and low-income families. The 
building’s proximity to UF allows 
people to walk to classes or on-
campus jobs, City Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos said. This 
helps people save money on car 
expenses and save time on long 
bus rides.
However, there’s still a 
massive need for housing in 
Gainesville, Hayes-Santos said. 
He said he hopes the commission 
will hear an inclusionary zoning 
act later this year to mandate 
affordable housing in new housing 
developments.
Fred Sowder, a 51-year-old 
UF alumnus born and raised in 
Gainesville, said the building 
could improve the interaction 
between Gainesville residents and 
UF students.
“Students need to start 
immersing themselves in other 
cultures and being around 
other people's socioeconomic 
backgrounds,” he said.Sowder said he feels having 
only 10% of the housing units 
being available to low- income 
families is too low.
“It's a good start, but I think 
that the city can hopefully either 
do more projects like that in the 
future or bump up that percentage 
a little bit,” he said. 
Kim Tanzer, a former UF 
architecture professor and 
licensed architect, said she 
remains unconvinced that the 
apartment will be marketed 
toward low-income families.
“The affordable housing that's 
being provided by the Gainesville 
Housing Authority will be not 
for those desperately low-income 
families, but rather for people 
in their 30s or 40s who want to 
live near where they work at the 
university,” she said.
She said she doesn’t believe a 
family with children would want 
to live in that area with hundreds 
of other students.
“I don't think a family with 
children would benefit from living 
in a building with 600 students,.” 
she said.
Tanzer also raises the question 
of whether the Gainesville 
Housing Authority should be 
involved with a development 
company. Typically developers 
are allowed to build extra units 
with the promise that some of 
them are affordable, so this 
situation will actually benefit the 
developer, she said.
“The fact that the Gainesville 
Housing Authority is contributing 
money to a developer is 
something that I think deserves 
close scrutiny,” she said.
@meggmcglone 
@jiselle_lee
mmcglone@alligator.org
jlee@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 8
 Proposed apartment building to bring 
affordable housing closer to UF campus
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
The building that housed Felipe's Mexican Taqueria is seen on 
Sunday, Oct. 10, 2021. The lot will be used for a new student 
apartment building that will have affordable housing units.
A story in last week’s 
paper titled, “UF enters 
talks with city about 
plans for graduate 
housing” inaccurately 
reported that the 
university had approved 
a plan for a new athlete 
housing complex. The 
plan has been proposed, 
but not approved by UF’s 
Board of Trustees.MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
SMOOTHIE  
HAPPY HOUR
3 pm - Close, Every Day 
*ID Not Required
*Valid in-store only from 3 pm to close. Cannot be combined with other offers or promotions. Limit one per person. While supplies last. Only for a limited time. 50% 
OFF *4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida Vintage Market attracts 
hundreds of visitors to explore local vendors, 
food trucks and music every two weeks. 
But on Oct. 10, shoppers were met with 
limited parking availability confined to the 
handful of spots at the 4th Ave Food Park, a 
rented parking lot on Sixth Street and Fourth 
Avenue, and city parking a few blocks away.
“Please no parking in the Porters 
community. You will be towed!” and “Be 
respectful of our neighborhood: No trash 
dumping, no loud music, no parking on 
private property,” read signs located on 
every block.
During the last market two weeks ago, 
residents of Porters Quarters, a historically 
Black neighborhood established in 1884, 
came home from church Sunday and found 
dozens of cars parked on their lawns and in 
front of their driveways with no explanation.
After calling the police at the event, 
Porters Quarters residents held a meeting 
with 4th Ave Food Park to discuss concerns 
about parking. GPD spokesperson Graham 
Glover said police were present at the 
community meeting and that the issue was 
resolved.
“There are no more issues,” Glover 
said. “The Porters community and business 
owners on 4th Ave Food Park met., t 
They’ve talked., t They figured out a way to 
get traffic where it needs to be and parking 
where it needs to be.”
Faye Williams, a 66-year-old Porters 
resident, said she was horrified by what she 
saw at the market a few weeks ago.
“We could not even park in our 
driveways,” Williams said. “They had to sit 
in the car, or go somewhere else and come 
back two or three hours to get in their own 
house.” 
She said if this were to have happened 
in any predominantly white neighborhood, 
cars would have been towed and ticketed 
immediately.
And this isn’t the first time Porters 
Quarters residents have seen this happen. 
Williams recalled a similar event that happened two years ago at a Depot Park 
concert.
“The guy who lives over here couldn’t 
even get into his yard,” she said. “One of 
his friends went and slashed seven tires, 
and the guys had to come out and hold him 
back because he just lost it … This man that 
worked all night and you can’t come back 
and park in your own yards. And then they 
[the drivers] come back at 2 a.m. — most of 
them drunk and shouldn’t be driving.”
More than anything, Williams is afraid 
Porters Quarters is slowly losing its history, 
its culture and its people at the hands of 
incidents similar to what happened with 
the market as well as new residential and 
commercial developments.
“When the young people come in, mostly 
young students, they have no idea what 
they’re living on,” Williams said. “They’re 
just happy to find an apartment on Sixth 
Street … But they have no idea of the history 
of Porters.”
Nkwanda Jah, a 67-year-old East 
Gainesville resident, said she isn’t surprised 
by what happened at 4th Ave Food Park.
“It’s alright to have businesses created, 
such as those in the food park on Fourth, but 
my problem is that it’s not inclusive of the 
neighborhood that it’s located in,” Jah said. 
“I don’t think anyone from that community 
has any business in that area.”
Jah said she’s more concerned about 
developers putting up student housing on 
Sixth Street than commercial businesses.
“Those apartments are going to be way 
out of the reach of the people who were 
displaced,” she said. “Now that’s just 
gentrification. When they move a group of 
people out and they can’t afford to live in 
the neighborhood that they previously lived 
in.”
Mia Crisostomo, 4th Ave Food Park’s 
digital coordinator and event coordinator, 
said she hasn’t had much interaction with 
the Porters Quarters community and parking 
has not been an issue in the past.
She knew the founders of The Florida 
Vintage Market because of her own 
experience as a vendor, and she invited them 
to host their market at 4th Ave Food Park.“We also have a lot of food vendors that 
are local businesses here that would be able 
to benefit from the traffic that the market 
would bring,” Crisostomo said.
She said she thinks the local market scene 
has grown a lot during the last three years 
she has been involved and the turnout for 
the previous The Florida Vintage Market was 
one of the largest since COVID-19 started.
“We haven’t really had any complaints to 
the extent that we did at The Florida Vintage 
Market,” she said. “We really were shocked 
by the turnout. And we didn’t intend for 
people to park in the community. We didn’t 
know that people were parking in the 
Porters community until cops literally came and talked to me about it.”
Crisostomo said the Food Park attempted 
to divert people to the Southwest Parking 
Garage and city street parking that are free 
on the weekends.
The Florida Vintage Market posted a map 
on Instagram to show shoppers where they 
need to park.
“DO NOT PARK IN THE PORTERS 
COMMUNITY OR OTHER SURROUNDING 
NEIGHBORHOODS, YOU WILL BE TOWED!” 
market organizers wrote on Instagram.
But, as Williams and Jah said, the 
conflict is far from over as students continue 
to infiltrate the area surrounding their 
communities.
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgPorters Quarters residents meet with local officials to express parking concerns
Residents expressed concerns about trespassing and parking
PARENTS CAN SUBMIT THE 
FORMS STARTING OCT. 19
By Bryce Brown
Alligator Staff Writer 
In the ongoing masking battle be -
tween the Florida Department of Ed -
ucation, the Alachua County School 
Board and public school parents, the 
school board signaled the beginning 
of the end. 
Despite some parents’ opposition 
to the county’s public school mask 
mandate until Oct. 19, the Alachua 
County School Board decided on 
Oct. 5 to extend it for at least another 
four weeks.
But now, parents can exempt 
their high school students from 
masking requirements beginning 
Oct. 19 by submitting opt-out forms 
to exempt their children from wear -
ing masks. 
However, no mask opt-out forms 
will be accepted for kindergarten 
through eighth grade students. Only 
medical exemptions in rare cases 
where students have a develop -mental or physical disability will be 
accepted as a reason to unmask at 
school.
Although the School Board con -
sidered allowing exemptions for stu -
dents at least 12 years old  instead of 
just high school students, it ultimate -
ly decided it would be too compli -
cated to navigate in middle schools.
Leanetta McNealy, School Board 
chair, said masking is the reason be -
hind the declining COVID-19 cases in 
the Alachua County school system.
Despite being pro-mask, she said 
the board has to juggle the interests 
of two types of parents: those who 
believe parents have the right to de -
cide if their child wears a mask and 
those who believe everyone should 
wear a mask to ensure their child is 
protected. 
This decision comes after Jeff 
Childers, the attorney who suc -
cessfully stalled Gainesville’s city 
employee vaccine mandate, filed a 
lawsuit against the county’s mask 
mandate. Childers will represent 22 
petitioners from Alachua and Duval 
counties. The school district had un -
til Oct. 8 to respond to the lawsuit. It’s unclear as of Oct. 10 whether the 
county has responded.
Pro-masking and anti-masking 
parents alike came to the Alachua 
County School District building in 
downtown Gainesville to voice their 
opinion on the mandate at the school 
board meeting on Oct. 5.
Sarah Rockwell, a mother of two 
homeschooled children, said she at -
tended the rally to advocate for the 
continued masking in the school dis -
trict, especially while children under 
12 years old are still unable to get 
vaccinated 
Her children have been enrolled 
in Florida Virtual School at home be -
cause her daughter’s health is at-risk 
should she contract COVID-19. 
“That’s why I’m wearing an 
N-95 mask outside in the Florida 
heat,” she said. “My daughter has 
sacrificed almost all of her social 
interactions and my son, too, for 18 
months. That’s an actual sacrifice. 
Having to wear a mask is a mild in -
convenience.”
Rockwell said under Florida’s 
Parents’ Bill of Rights, masks do not 
qualify as medical devices or treat -ments. The bill established a par -
ent’s right to direct his or her child’s 
upbringing, education and health.
“Requiring a child to wear a cloth 
face covering is just like requiring 
them to wear close-toed shoes,” 
Rockwell said. “It might not be the 
most comfortable thing, but we do it 
because it keeps everyone safe just 
like wearing close-toed shoes keeps 
us from having trip-and-fall acci -
dents and foot injuries.”
She said Childers’ lawsuit is 
laughable, and she questions his 
qualifications to be influencing med -
ical policy in the school district.
Other parents believe it’s time to 
repeal masking requirements.
Teresa Steele, a mother of a first 
-grade student and a fourth -grade 
student at High Springs Community 
School, said she supports Childers’ 
lawsuit. 
“I hope he is successful in doing 
that because the School Board, like I 
said, is just dragging their feet, and I 
think they’re politically motivated at 
this point,” she said. 
Steele said parents should be able 
to make decisions about their own children’s health. She agrees with 
the state Department of Education 
for withholding funding.
“The whole school board needs 
to be fired for being insubordinate,” 
she said. 
Steele said it’s unfair that only 
high school students can opt-out of 
the mask mandate and not all stu -
dents. If Steele’s family had the op -
tion, they would not wear masks.  
David Kaplan, who has a third 
-grade daughter at Carolyn Beatrice 
Parker Elementary School, said he 
viewed the rally as an opportunity to 
express support for the safety mea -
sures the school board has taken for 
students, such as the mask mandate 
and new air filtration. 
“To move forward on improving 
our schools, we need all parents in -
volved in putting their voice in sup -
porting the initiatives that they think 
are going to help their kids,” Kaplan 
said. “Many hands make light work, 
and teachers and administrators 
can’t do it on their own.”
@brycebrownnn
bbrown@alligator.orgAlachua County Public Schools to accept mask exemption forms for high schoolersAlan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
A sign is seen on the corner of Southwest Fourth Avenue and Southwest Third Street 
discouraging Florida Vintage Market shoppers from parking in the Porters Quarters 
neighborhood on Oct. 10, 2021.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
BOOK SALE
OCTOBER 23 – – 27, 2021
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, 
DVDS, VINYL RECORDS 
COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!CASH, CHECKS & CREDIT CARD
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
Because of high COVID infection levels, FOL will follow safety protocols to protect all 
shoppers and FOL volunteers.  We will monitor and limit the number of people in the 
building.  Everyone in the building must wear a mask over mouth and nose.  We ask 
everyone to practice social distancing and be patient and considerate when near others.
5001 NW 34th Blvd
352-505-6644   •   africanunique.comGrocery, Beauty, Fashion, WellnessHE WAS SENT TO THE 
HOSPITAL DURING THE FIRST 
QUARTER OF THE 
UF VS. VANDERBILT 
GAME SATURDAY  
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
A man died after being 
transported from Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium to the hospital during 
the first quarter of the Florida vs. 
Vanderbilt game Oct. 9.
Police have not confirmed 
his identity or cause of death as 
of Oct. 9, but witnesses said he 
choked on a concessions food 
item.The man was about 60 
years old and had underlying 
medical conditions that may 
have contributed to his death, 
University Police Department 
spokesperson Linda Stump said. 
It is not unusual for the elderly 
to need medical assistance during 
game days, which is why the 
university has a robust medical 
staff available, Stump added. 
The man was seated in section 
321 with his family. He was 
choking on a pretzel or a hotdog, 
said Jorden Moats, a 22-year-old 
Tennessee resident and off-duty 
police officer. 
Moats, who was seated near 
him in section 320, said he helped lift the man up while a family 
member performed the Heimlich 
maneuver to help get the food out 
of his throat. He said an off-duty 
nurse also helped in unsuccessful 
attempts to revive him.
“I was kind of holding him 
up because I could tell he was 
choking,” Moats said. “Once 
people in the area knew what was 
going on a lot of people came over 
to try to help.”
When paramedics arrived, 
Moats said they brought a stair 
stretcher to remove him from the 
stadium quickly while still trying 
to revive him. 
Isaac Freeman, a 36-year-old 
Gators fan, wrote in a message that he was in the same section 
when the man was being given 
CPR.
“It really took the crowd out of 
the game,” Freeman wrote. “We 
could tell pretty quickly that it 
was a serious situation.”
Freeman wrote the incident 
lasted about 15 minutes. 
“[The] gentleman was 
convulsing and foaming at the 
mouth,” Freeman wrote. “Once 
other EMT arrived they started 
CPR immediately.”
He wrote that CPR lasted for 
several minutes but it seemed he 
had already passed away. 
Alexis Moats was also at the 
scene while her fiance, Jorden Moats, assisted the man. They 
traveled to Gainesville for the day 
as Vanderbilt fans.
Alexis, a 20-year-old Tennessee 
resident, ushered the children 
away from the man choking 
because she believed he was their 
grandfather. She said her main 
priority was to get the children 
away from the scene.
“They were scared,” Alexis 
said. “They were crying, they were 
upset, they were overwhelmed. 
So I just took it as my job to make 
sure that they were comfortable 
and that they were not seeing it 
firsthand.”
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgGators fan dies after receiving CPR at Florida football gameTHE NEW FEATURE ALLOWS 
STUDENTS TO AVOID CONSTANTLY 
MONITORING CLASSES 
FOR OPEN SEATS
By Max T aylor
Alligator Staff Writer
The upcoming Spring semester 
registration will feature a new option to 
make it easier for students to register for 
their classes.
UF will add an “Add to Waitlist” button 
to its ONE.UF course registration page 
for next semester. Students will have the 
option to add themselves to a list that 
reserves spots for full classes. As students 
drop the class, those on the waitlist will 
have the option to enroll in the course. 
The waitlist feature will start as soon 
as enrollment opens on Oct. 25 or Oct. 19 
for Honors students. It will continue until 
the last day of the drop/add period on Jan. 
11. Only certain departments will enable 
the waitlist option for their courses. It is 
unclear as of Oct. 10 which departments 
will offer it.
As soon as a spot opens up, students 
have a limited time to accept their seat, otherwise they will be removed from the 
waitlist. From Oct. 25 to Dec. 27, students 
will have 24 hours to accept. From Dec. 28 
to Jan. 4, students will have 12 hours to 
accept. During the drop/add period, Jan. 
5 to Jan. 11, students will have just four 
hours to officially enroll in the course.
The new feature is a welcomed 
change for students like Adriana LaVopa, 
an 18-year-old materials science and 
engineering freshman, who had trouble 
finding open seats for her desired class in 
August. 
She checked the openings during drop/
add week — once in the morning and once 
at night — but she never saw a seat open 
up for a Secrets of Alchemy course she was 
interested in.
“I feel like that’s a thing that should 
have been always in place,” LaVopa said. 
She said if she can’t get the classes she 
wants for the Spring, she will use the new 
waitlist feature.
To successfully enroll in a waitlist 
and to register for classes, students have 
to clear any holds on their account and 
meet class prerequisites. After enrolling, 
students receive notifications about their 
waitlist status via phone or UF email. “During drop/add period a lot of people 
drop the class and then there’s open spots 
in the class but you don’t really know about 
it,” said Andy Rodriguez, an 18-year-old 
biochemistry freshman. “The hardest part 
is finding the right period because they fill 
up pretty fast.”
After students accept their spot, they will be dropped from any other waitlists 
for other sections in the same course. 
However, waitlists can fill up and will 
show up as “Full” on the waitlist button. 
Students can monitor their waitlist 
status on ONE.UF, in a new “Wait-Listed 
Classes” section under the “My Schedule” 
tab.
@MTaylor_Journ 
mtaylor@alligator.orgUF adds waitlist option for Spring 2022 registration
Melanie Peña / / Alligator Staff
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
because it’ll be more comfortable not sitting 
on the grass,” Sandhouse said. “I think 
there’ll be a better perspective in terms of 
seeing the entertainment.” 
This year’s host was WWE star and 
former Florida football player Titus O’Neil. 
He led the crowd of students and alumni 
in countless cheers — getting the audience 
ready for the comedic and music talents 
to come — and prepared the crowd for an 
eventual Gators win against Vanderbilt Oct. 
9. 
Daphnique Springs, a Florida native 
who’s toured with Katt Williams and Cedric 
the Entertainer, took the stage after O’Neil’s 
introduction. The audience welcomed the 
comedian’s jokes with warm laughter.
Gunna and Neon Trees were the music 
headliners for the event. Florida Blue Key and Student Government Productions did 
not disclose how much each artist was paid 
to perform. SG also did not provide how 
much of the SG budget was spent on the 
production. 
As each artist took the stage, the crowd 
went wild, and attendees with floor seating 
rushed to the front of the stage. 
During both of their sets, Gunna and 
Tyler Glenn, Neon Trees’ lead singer, went 
into the crowd at the front of the stage 
amplifying the already electric energy of the 
night. 
Neon Trees ended its set with their hit 
song “Everybody Talks,” and the crowd 
screamed the lyrics back to the band so 
loudly they stopped playing and let the 
audience take over. 
This was UF’s second concert event of 
the semester, following BROCKHAMPTON 
and Deb Never’s appearance organized by SGP Aug. 23, the first day of school. 
Homecoming and Gator Growl 
collaborated with SGP to create a diverse 
lineup of genres and acts for the event, 
Brady Alexander, Gator Growl executive 
producer, wrote in an email. 
The goal of inviting Gunna and Neon 
Trees to perform was to attract different 
audience demographics, Madeline Wells, the 
producer of public relations for Homecoming 
and Gator Growl wrote in an email. 
As of the day before the event, over 7,000 
tickets were sold out of 7,300 available, 
Alexander wrote. 
Students were excited to add a piece of 
their college experience back into their lives. 
Olivia Burgess, a 21-year-old UF graphic 
design junior, first attended Gator Growl her 
freshman year, which she said was exciting. 
“It was really disappointing that we didn’t 
get to have one last year,” Burgess said. “I 
think it’s really cool that they brought in two 
headliners. I think they’re trying to make up 
for last year and make it really special for 
us.” Another major component of homecoming 
week is the annual homecoming parade. The 
parade was canceled altogether last year, 
and people were encouraged to “parade 
from home” by decorating their properties 
for the occasion. 
But on Oct. 8, traffic stopped, streets were 
closed, schools were out, and people lined 
the sidewalks to watch the hour-long parade 
honoring the Gator Nation once again. 
Fire trucks, ambulances and police 
motorcycles lead the way with dozens of 
floats, cars and people following. 
The event was full of dance performances, 
marching bands, public figure appearances 
and more. Each participant was equipped 
with a smile and wave ready for the parade 
spectators.
The parade set the bar for the energy 
sustained throughout the day and into the 
night at Gator Growl.
Allessandra Inzinna  contributed to this report.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgGATOR GROWL,  from pg. 1UF’ s 98th ‘welcome home’ event
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Gunna performs during Gator Growl at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on 
Friday, Oct. 8, 2021. The annual homecoming event featured Neon Trees and 
comedian Daphnique Springs.
Eli Nino / / Alligator Staff
Scooby Williams (left), Chief Borders (middle) and Nick Elksnis (right) wave at 
paradegoers during the UF Homecoming Parade on Saturday, Oct. 9, 2021.
THE INCREASE IN CASES 
FOLLOWS A NEAR FLU-
FREE YEAR DURING THE 
COVID-19 PANDEMIC
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
Coughs, runny noses and 
sore throats are now common 
symptoms for many UF students. 
After a decrease of flu cases in 
2020, students are once again 
catching the “Gainesville Plague” 
three months into the semester. 
Cold and flu season reaches UF 
every year and is often referred 
to as the “Gainesville Plague,” 
said Ronald Berry, director of 
the Student Health Care Center. 
Students seem to use the label 
because the illness spreads 
quickly, leaving many sick in a 
short span of time, he said.
However, last year there 
were fewer flu cases worldwide 
because of precautions taken to 
protect against COVID-19. The 
number of cases last flu season was so small Berry said the SHCC 
didn’t keep track of how many 
there were.
Flu cases are rising now partly 
because of a lack of mandated 
precautions at UF, such as mask 
wearing and social distancing, 
Berry said. 
Jack Nelson, a 20-year-old UF 
graphic design junior, said he’s 
noticed students in his graphic 
design program falling ill. In the 
last three weeks, the attendance 
in Nelson’s class dropped to 
almost half, he said.
He said he has been sick for 
about a month, since the day of 
the first UF football game, with a 
sore throat and congestion.
“Since then I’ve had those 
same symptoms, they’ve gotten 
a little worse here and there,” 
Nelson said. “It feels like I’m 
basically just on cruise control.”
In September, 1,440 students 
with symptoms were seen at 
UF’s infection units, which were 
created when COVID-19 first hit, 
Berry said. The unit performed 545 COVID-19 tests: 5% came 
back positive. Of all strep tests, 
16% were positive, and of all 
flu tests, just 1% were positive. 
Most of the students probably 
have colds, Berry said.
UF set up several infection 
units across campus to reduce 
spread as flu season began, and 
the Student Health Care Center 
added appointment slots for flu 
shots. More students have been 
visiting the units this past month, 
Berry said. 
To stay safe as illnesses 
spread, Berry said students 
should continue to wear masks 
and social distance. With a rapid 
flu test, students can receive flu 
medicine within the first couple 
of days of infection for a faster 
recovery. Berry also recommends 
students get their flu shot and 
COVID-19 vaccine.
“We recommend getting the 
flu shot early in the flu season, 
which is the fall,” Berry said. 
“That covers you into the spring.”
It’s possible the flu could get worse, he said. Flu cases 
in Gainesville usually peak in 
January when students return 
to campus from Winter break 
because it spreads more easily in 
cold weather. 
In Fall 2019, there were 191 
flu cases through December. 
January 2020 also saw 191 cases, 
followed by another 100 total 
cases in February and March. 
During that flu season, 60% 
of all cases were in the Spring 
semester, he said. 
But right now, students like 
Jeremy Rutenberg, a 21-year-
old UF mechanical engineering 
junior, said he has friends 
who’ve been sick for the past two 
weeks with cold symptoms, such 
as a runny nose, coughing and 
headaches. However, he isn’t 
worried about getting sick.
“I stay away from people who 
are sick; definitely wash my 
hands regularly,” Rutenberg said.
Kyle Giovanniello, a 19-year-
old UF aerospace engineering 
sophomore, said he’s worried about the “Gainesville Plague” 
continuing to spread, even though 
he first heard of it this semester. 
Because his three roommates got 
sick with it quickly, he thinks it’s 
highly contagious.
“But it doesn’t seem like 
it’s that bad, so I’m not too 
worried about the severity of it,” 
Giovanniello said.
Jacob Hutchinson, a 21-year 
old UF instrumental performance 
senior, said he isn’t worried 
about the sickness either. He 
said some might think the spread 
is worse than it is because people 
are more aware of symptoms 
with the COVID-19 pandemic.  
For example, more people could 
be self-quarantining when they 
have symptoms.
“I don’t think that I would 
avoid going out or anything for 
the ‘Gainesville Plague’ alone,” 
Hutchinson said.
@joprison 
joprison@alligator.org‘Gainesville Plague’: Flu symptoms widespread on campusMONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
THURSDAY 
OCTOBER 14
6 PM | at the
Harn Museum of Art
RE FRAMING 
image: Kurt Markus, Derrick Cage, Vicksburg, Mississippi, 1988
Sponsored by UF Student Government and the OOce of the Provost. Sponsored in part by the State of 
Florida, Department of State, Division of Cultural AAairs and the Florida Council on Arts and Culture. 
FREE ADMISSION
FREE FOOD
OPEN MIC WITH 
DOPENMIC
DJ WAX ATOM
R
REFRAME 
YOURSELF 
PHOTO BOOTH
ART TOURS
THE
LENS
visitevisite   alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/                         o escanee el código QRo escanee el código QRBy Karene Hermon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Wherever Cassie Dang goes, 
her small companion follows. The 
companion documents his routine 
on social media and sometimes 
makes multiple posts a day. 
Students — and even professors 
— who follow him on Instagram 
flock to him for photos as he strolls 
around campus attached to his 
signature pointy orange hat and 
blue clothes. They cradle him and 
pose, hoping to be featured to his 
almost 1,000 followers.But he’s no regular social media 
influencer. He’s the size of a hand, 
he can’t speak and his name is 
Gnomey.
The person who speaks for him is 
Dang, his self-proclaimed manager. 
She created Gnomey’s online 
persona to document her time at 
UF as she studies with friends and 
attends classes. 
“I think people are having fun 
with him,” Dang said. “I tried to 
show the genuine experience at UF, 
and I think people like to see that.” 
Dang, a 19-year-old UF public 
relations freshman, sculpted Gnomey out of clay before she 
arrived at UF for the Summer B 
term. She also manages Gnomey’s 
Instagram page, which has more 
than 250 photos of him exploring 
UF, Gainesville and Alachua County.
Gnomey’s backstory originates 
in a pottery studio near West Palm 
Beach called Craft House, where 
Dang previously worked. Employees 
could claim pottery if a customer 
didn’t pick them up within two 
months. That’s how Dang began to 
collect more than 90 gnomes.
Since then, her bearded buddies 
have multiplied. They’re even 
scattered around her dorm room 
like extra school supplies.  
“I literally brought so many 
gnomes to college,” Dang said. “And 
I didn’t even bring them all. My 
friend counted them all. I brought 
91 to college, and I’m gonna bring 
more when I go home.”
And of those 91 tiny bearded 
men she packed for college, Gnomey 
tagged along — kickstarting his 
influencer lifestyle on July 7.
While Dang has to carefully wrap 
him in a blanket to move around, 
he has met dozens of people. He 
has even popped up at Ichetucknee 
Springs and the Brockhampton 
concert at UF Aug. 23. 
Gnomey regularly crashes 
student photoshoots before their 
night out. 
Camila Celaya held him in 
her palms while dressed in dark 
clothing for an Emo-themed 
party. The 18-year-old UF media 
production freshman was the page’s 
first follower, which she boasts on her Instagram.
“As long as the gnome is there, 
we will take pictures with the 
gnome, and then Cassie always 
comes up with the best captions,” 
Celaya said.
Lucy de Greling, also finds 
Gnomey’s online personality 
humorous. He shares photos and 
stories with raunchy captions.
He’s quite bold. He knows exactly 
what he wants — and how to get 
it. Under a photo posted July 27, he 
wrote “hide your boyfriends… why? 
it’s because i’m hollow… hot and 
sexy… and i’m up real late tonight.” 
The 18-year-old UF graphic 
design freshman met Dang during an 
art history lecture class, and the pair 
parted ways to their discussion class 
until Dang remembered she needed 
a photo. She grabbed Gnomey from 
her bag, and de Greling was first spotlighted on the page Aug. 26.
Running the account has not only 
been a way for Dang to document 
her time at UF; it also helps her gain 
experience in public relations and 
meet people like de Greling.
“PR is basically building 
relationships and making 
connections with others, so I think 
the gnome helps me out with that 
a lot,” Dang said. “I’ve gotten to 
meet new people and then become 
friends with them because of the 
gnome.” 
Dang has done just that. She 
has swayed almost 1,000 people to 
follow — and care for — Gnomey’s 
journeys, which will coexist with 
her own.
Karene Hermon is a contributing 
writer for The Alligator.UF students document college experience through handmade gnome
Courtesy to The Alligator
Graffiti of the UF gnome painted in August is seen inside the 
tunnel near Norman Hall. Courtesy to The Alligator
Gnomey attends the BROCKHAMPTON concert hosted by 
Student Government Productions on Monday, Aug. 23, 2021 at 
the Stephen C. O’Connell Center.
The hand-sized clay gnome has garnered a following 
of almost 1,000 followers on its Instagram pageKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Shelton’s singles success
Florida sophomore Ben Shelton’s storybook college career 
continued with a victory in the ITA All-American singles, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
AS PART OF ITS BLOOD RUNS COLD 
TOUR, THE BAND PERFORMED AT 
THE PLACE ITS JOURNEY ALL BEGAN  
By Luigi Bencosme
Alligator Staff Writer
Alongside flashing multicolored lights, fog 
and heavy instrumentals at High Dive added 
to the crowd’s euphoria Oct. 8. Packed like 
a can of sardines and unable to contain their 
excitement, the fervent fan response for The 
Hails’ headlining return to Gainesville was huge.  
As one of Gainesville’s premier live music 
venues, many local acts call High Dive home. 
The Hails, which formed just a few years ago, 
is no exception.
The band returned to its Gainesville roots 
as part of its first tour since the COVID-19 
pandemic began. This Blood Runs Cold tour, 
which features Miami band The Polar Boys, 
spans five different cities across Florida and 
ends Oct. 14. 
“It’s always great to come back to where we 
started at the high dive,” The Hails wrote in an  
Instagram post. 
However, returning to Gainesville feels quite 
unusual for the band. Robbie Kingsley, the lead 
vocalist, said their friends were their fans when 
they started performing in 2017. Now, as these 
friends graduated and moved away, there’s a 
different fan base to perform for.
“It’s funny how we go from, ‘The fans 
of Gainesville are our friends,’ and now it’s 
a younger generation where … most likely, 
they’re someone that we have no idea who they are,” Kingsley said. 
Although the city has changed since they 
were last here, Kingsley said High Dive remains 
the same as when they first performed there 
four years ago. 
When it started off, The Hails were singing 
covers at High Dive and performing at different 
fraternities and house shows. But since 
graduating, things have significantly changed as 
the band members have relocated to different 
cities.
“It’s been weird because we’re actually 
not together all the time. And obviously, the 
pandemic has made that completely worse, but 
we kind of figured out how to use technology to 
our benefit,” Kingsley said. “We get on Zoom, 
and we’re able to produce together in the 
weirdest way, but it works.” 
The band, which has amassed more than 
215,000 monthly Spotify listeners, has released 
three singles in anticipation of its upcoming EP. 
While it hasn’t yet confirmed a release date, the 
band said this project embodies an overarching 
theme that’s detailed in the singles’ artwork. 
“I think with the project there are themes of 
love and hope and glamour, but it all becoming 
twisted and broken,” Kingsley said. 
Franco Solari, a guitarist and vocalist for 
the band, said even the creation of this EP has 
been consistent with the theme of the project, 
which he said revolves around the breakdown 
expectations for them as a band. 
One of these unanticipated choices was the 
first single from the upcoming EP, a double 
release of the songs “Fake a Frown” and “Till I 
See You Again” –– the latter written in 1975 by 
guitarist Dylan McCue’s uncle. “Till I See You Again,” which was sent over 
to The Hails’ producer before it was presented 
to Kingsley, was potentially going to be given to 
another band.
“I had very low expectations,” Kingsley said. 
“Then he sent me the song, and I was blown 
away. I was like, ‘This is amazing.’” 
After initially hearing the song, which 
Kingsley described as a merge of different 
musical styles, he said he knew he had to jump 
on the song and sing it.
“I did the weirdest bootleg recording of 
vocals,” Kingsley said about the band adding 
their own flair to “Till I See You Again.”
The recording involved hanging up various towels throughout the room and singing within 
them. Kingsley said the band decided to release 
the song as a double single alongside “Fake A 
Frown.” 
The band released the third single “In the 
Strangest Way,” Aug. 5. Now, they’re back on 
the road. 
When the Blood Runs Cold tour concludes, 
The Hails are headed to the Okeechobee Music 
& Arts Festival March 3 through 6, 2022 to 
perform alongside industry giants like Megan 
Thee Stallion and Tame Impala. 
“That’s another theme of our year is that our 
plans have completely changed,” Kingsley said. 
“We’re running on fumes but also switching 
lanes at the same time.”
lbencosme@alligator.orgLocal band The Hails returns to Gainesville 
MUSICMUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Hails performs at High Dive on Friday, Oct. 8, 2021.
EL CAIMÁN
LA NUEVA FUNCIÓN 
PERMITE QUE LOS 
ESTUDIANTES EVITEN 
MONITOREAR 
CONSTANTEMENTE LAS 
CLASES EN BUSCA DE 
ASIENTOS ABIERTOS
Escrito por Max T aylor
Escritora de El Caimán 
Traducido por Saira 
Gonzalez
Escritora de El Caimán
El próximo registro del semes -
tre de primavera contará con una 
nueva opción para facilitar a los 
estudiantes que se registren en 
sus clases.
UF agregará un botón “Agregar 
a la lista de espera” a su página 
de registro de cursos ONE.UF 
para el próximo semestre. Los estudiantes tendrán la opción 
de agregarse a sí mismos a una 
lista que reserva lugares para 
clases llenas. A medida que los 
estudiantes abandonen la clase, 
aquellos en la lista de espera ten -
drán la opción de inscribirse en 
el curso.
La función de lista de espera 
comenzará tan pronto como se 
abran las inscripciones para el 
próximo semestre, el 25 de octu -
bre o el 19 de octubre para los 
estudiantes de Honores, y con -
tinuará hasta el último día del 
período de soltar/añadir el 11 de 
enero. Solo ciertos departamen -
tos habilitarán la opción de lista 
de espera para sus cursos. No 
está claro qué departamentos of -
recerán la opción a partir del 10 
de octubre. 
Tan pronto como se abre un 
lugar, los estudiantes tienen un 
tiempo limitado para aceptar su asiento; de lo contrario, serán 
eliminados de la lista de espe -
ra. Del 25 de octubre al 27 de 
diciembre, los estudiantes ten -
drán 24 horas para aceptar. Del 
28 de diciembre al 4 de enero, 
los estudiantes tendrán 12 horas 
para aceptar. Durante el período 
de eliminación / adición, del 5 de 
enero al 11 de enero, los estudi -
antes tendrán solo cuatro horas 
para inscribirse oficialmente en 
el curso.
La nueva característica es un 
cambio bienvenido para estudi -
antes como Adriana LaVopa, una 
estudiante de primer año de ing -
eniería y ciencia de materiales de 
18 años, que tuvo problemas para 
encontrar asientos disponibles 
para sus clases en agosto.
Revisó las vacantes durante la 
semana de drop / add, una vez 
por la mañana y una vez por la 
noche, pero nunca vio un asiento abierto para un curso de Secrets 
of Alchemy que le interesaba.
“Siento que eso es algo que 
debería haber estado siempre”, 
dijo LaVopa.
Dijo que si no puede obtener 
las clases que quiere para la pri -
mavera, usará la nueva función 
de lista de espera.
Para inscribirse con éxito en 
una lista de espera y para in -
scribirse en las clases, los estu -
diantes deben eliminar las reten -
ciones en su cuenta y cumplir 
con los requisitos previos de la 
clase. Después de inscribirse, los 
estudiantes reciben notificacio -
nes sobre el estado de su lista de 
espera a través de su número de 
teléfono o correo electrónico de 
UF.
“Durante el período de elimi -
nación / adición, mucha gente 
abandona la clase y luego hay es -
pacios abiertos en la clase, pero realmente no se sabe”, dijo Andy 
Rodríguez, estudiante de primer 
año de bioquímica de 18 años. 
“La parte más difícil es encontrar 
el período adecuado porque se 
llenan bastante rápido”.
Después de que los estudi -
antes acepten su lugar, serán 
eliminados de cualquier otra lista 
de espera para otras secciones 
del mismo curso.
Sin embargo, las listas de 
espera pueden llenarse y apa -
recerán como “Completo” en el 
botón de lista de espera.
Los estudiantes pueden moni -
torear el estado de su lista de es -
pera en ONE.UF, en una nueva 
sección “Clases en lista de espe -
ra” en la pestaña “Mi horario”.
@MTaylor_Journ
mtaylor@alligator.org
sgonzalez@alligator.orgUF agrega la opción de lista de espera para el registro de primavera de 2022BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
Warehouse Lien Notice of Public Sale 
Relinquished property of AEROSPACE 
PRECISION, INC. sold by Landlord, Jenna 
Property Holdings, LLC
Located at 2851 Evans Street, Hollywood, 
FL 33020
Auction ends: Oct 25, 2021 at 10:00 A.M.
 Auction will consist of: OEM repair, over-
haul and manufacturing equipment, vari-
ous testing equipment, specialized aircraft 
maintenance tooling, custom built pneu-
matic component stand, alternator genera-
tor regulator starter test stand production 
equipment, custom built hydraulic compo-
nent stand, magnetic particle inspection 
stands, black lights, dye penetrant sta-
tions, extensive inventory of aircraft parts 
including OEM manufacturer components, 
machine shop equipment, forklift, vehicles, 
electronics, racking/shelving units, office 
furniture/equipment and related inventory.  
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at 
https://moeckerauctions.com/2021/08/09/
aerospace-precision-inc/
Preview: 10/22 by appointment. Call for de-
tails (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS   
Online bidding only (no onsite attendance) 
AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin     10-11-1-101For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath-
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680    
11-8-21-5-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE 
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER 
CHEST $199: WE HAVE OVER 300 
MATTRESSES IN STOCK: SAME DAY 
DELIVERY: WE DELIVER: COME TO 
OUR LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH AVE 
GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953        10-11-1-6©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    ________  bbeenncchh
11..    SSttoocckkyy  mmaarrssuuppiiaall  55..    ________  aacctt
22..    FFiixx  ffiirrmmllyy66..    MMyytthhiiccaall  TTiittaann
33..    CCoommiicc’’ss  bbaannee77..    ________  JJoohhnnssoonn  
44..    ________  ppuuzzzzlleeHHGGWWTTEEII
AAOOWWBBMMTTGGCCMMAAII
SSTTAAAALL
AAIIGGIINNNNRR
EECCRRLLHHKKEEEEWWDDAARRNN
SSWWJJIIAAGGAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--WWeeiigghhtt    55AA--MMaaggiicc    66AA--AAttllaass    77AA--AAnnddrreeww
11DD--WWoommbbaatt    22DD--IInnggrraaiinn    33DD--HHeecckklleerr    44DD--JJiiggssaaww    BB--LLaattiinn  AAmmeerriiccaa1100--1111--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  iiss  hhoommee  ttoo  aabboouutt  
665500  mmiilllliioonn  ppeeooppllee..  BONUS● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-13
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RV’s 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response- Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                        10-11-6-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org12 Autos 10 For Sale
By Fred Piscop
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/11/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/11/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, October 11, 2021
ACROSS
1 Dull paint finish
6 Make furious
11 Cry loudly
14 Handle on a rap 
sheet
15 Short and sweet
16 Actress Longoria
17 “Born to Be Wild” 
rock band
19 Mo. after 
February
20 Like a poor loser
21 Figure in red ink
22 Submit tax 
returns online
24 Single-handedly
26 Clear kitchen 
wrap
28 One of the 
political Bushes
31 Cold-weather 
neckwear
35 Is crazy about
37 FDR’s successor
38 Pants, in slang
39 Gives the 
thumbs-down
40 Egyptian  
boy-king
41 Gesture while 
giving directions
42 “__, Brute?”
43 __ out: depress
44 Texas border city
45 Flash of lightning
48 Part of the Trinity
49 Aired again
50 Former
52 Flag maker Ross
54 In Touch Weekly 
twosome, usually
56 Film spool
60 Every bit
61 Gobble down 
food, and hint 
to the ends of 
17-, 31- and 
45-Across
64 Fail a polygraph 
test
65 River of Lyon
66 Role player
67 __ Cruces,  
N. Mex.
68 Less loony
69 V-formation fliers
DOWN
1 Sunday service
2 Voice above tenor
3 Stadium level4 Cassettes and 
eight-tracks
5 Sixth sense 
letters
6 When both hands 
are straight up
7 Anchor’s delivery
8 Icky to the max
9 Bilingual subj.
10 Mentions, with 
“to”
11 Schools for 
ministers-to-be
12 Mirror shape
13 Uncarpeted
18 New York 
Harbor’s __ 
Island
23 The “F” in SPF
25 Hasn’t paid yet
27 Music or dance
28 Pop star Jackson
29 Writer Wharton
30 Hard-shelled 
terrarium pets
32 “Opposable” digit
33 Lively sonata 
movement
34 Bed that’s easily 
stored
36 Attends 
homecoming, 
say40 Activate the TV, 
say
41 New England 
NFL team
43 Arthur of “The 
Golden Girls”
44 Andean pack 
animal
46 Laundromat 
array
47 Bottle cap 
remover
51 Feud ender52 Matzo __ soup
53 Kazan who 
directed “On the 
Waterfront”
55 Fork prong
57 One-named Art 
Deco notable
58 Erotic god
59 Ancient harplike 
instrument
62 “Caught ya!”
63 Witchy woman of 
folklore
By Craig Stowe
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/05/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/05/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, October 5, 2021
ACROSS
1 Tie named for 
an annual race 
venue
6 Destroy, as one’s 
hopes
10 Spanish hero 
El __
13 Land at the 
water’s edge
14 Look at rudely
15 Genetic 
messenger
16 *Ground-beef-
and-gravy dish
19 Out of sorts
20 Ginormous
21 Actor Eckhart of 
“Sully”
23 Hefty slice
25 *Penny-pincher
28 Completely 
wrecks
30 Pastry with a 
crust
31 Long-jawed fish
32 Shorthand 
crackerjack
33 2019 comedy  
“__ It Romantic”
35 Cuban coin
36 *“Ode to a 
Nightingale”  
poet
39 Numbers game
42 Where about 
one-third of 
Istanbul residents 
live
43 Yellowjackets, 
e.g.
47 George Harrison 
memoir “__ Mine”
48 Only partner?
49 “Border” breed
50 *Hung in the 
balance
54 Cat breed from 
an Irish Sea isle
55 101 course, 
typically
56 Commanded
58 T’ai __
59 Different points 
of view ... and a 
hint to the ends 
of the answers to 
starred clues
63 NFL receivers
64 “Crikey!” is a mild 
one
65 Soccer shoe
66 Dreyer’s partner 
in ice cream
67 Miss Muffet fare
68 Flocks’ relativesDOWN
1 Basketball stats
2 Bulb in a 
vinaigrette
3 Collect and 
put in order, as 
document pages
4 “You do it, __ 
will!”
5 Radio host John
6 Bread-to-be
7 See eye to eye
8 Wily
9 Fellows
10 Sound from an 
old staircase
11 Steamed up
12 Montana 
neighbors, with 
“the”
17 Tampa NFL 
team
18 Shock, as a perp
22 Emperor after 
Claudius
24 Steve Martin’s 
instrument
26 Sleep clinic  
study
27 Falafel holder
29 John in the Albert 
Hall
33 Atlas 
enlargement
34 Enjoy the slopes
35 Song of praise37 Oscar-winning 
composer 
Zimmer
38 Weeks in a 
fortnight
39 New Zealander
40 Flow (from)
41 Cuddled up
44 One shirking 
work
45 “Angels 
dancing” site, 
in a theological 
question46 Gender-biased 
sorts
48 Oklahoma tribe
49 Formally give up
51 Pretentious
52 Let up, as a storm
53 “My Life on the 
D-List” comic 
Griffin
57 Carve in stone
60 Use oars
61 “Don’t think so”
62 Microbrewery 
brew
10/04/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
Through it all,
you've been 
there
done that
seen it
and 
even read
about it
in
thealligatorTo The Girl With The Beautiful Blue Eyes 
It has been 41 years since our first 
Homecoming at UF.  We cannot celebrate on 
campus, but we will be celebrating with Little 
Blue Eyes and her husband at their delayed 
wedding reception!  Our story and our family 
has grown over the years.  Although tempered 
with loss, we have been so fortunate with our 
journey.  My love for you and Little Blue Eyes 
only grows stronger each day and each year.
ILY,
Liarface
20 Events/Notices
NOTICE OF ON-SITE/VIRTUAL HYBRID 
PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a hybrid -on-site and virtual 
public meeting via communications media 
technology to which all interested persons 
are invited.
DATE AND TIME: October 25, 2021 at 3:00 p.m.
ON-SITE John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium, 
County Administration Building, Gainesville, 
Florida
VIRTUAL: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, 
Facebook and the Alachua County Video on 
Demand Website [link below]
www.alachuacounty.us/video
Live Broadcast Public Comment Call-In - 
Call 1-800-876-7516
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained 
by visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org 
(click Metropolitan Transportation Planning) 
or may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th 
Place, Gainesville, Florida one week prior 
to the meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area will conduct a hybrid on-site and virtual 
meeting via communications media technology. 
Public participation for this meeting on-site for 
this meeting is accommodated, but is limited 
due to social distancing requirements. On-site 
public participants are encouraged to wear 
a face-covering mask at all times. For on-site 
public comment, participants will be prompted 
and should follow the direction of the Chair to 
participate. The public is encouraged to par -
ticipate in the virtual public meeting. The pub -
lic may submit comments to the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area through email 
(escalante@ncfrpc.org) or by calling into the 
public comment message line when prompted 
to call during the meeting. Public comment will 
be taken by telephone for all non-ministerial 
items on which the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area votes. Once public comment 
is opened for an item under discussion, please 
call the public comment telephone number. 
In addition, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization will open telephone 
lines for a public comment session for the 
public to discuss items not on the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area agenda. Virtual 
Citizens Comment agenda item calls should be 
limited to transportation planning issues within 
the Gainesville Metropolitan Area. Duration of 
the Citizens Comment agenda item may ex -
tend as long as calls are received. For all Call-
In Comments, Callers will be put in a queue, 
and prompted when it is their turn to speak. 
TO AVOID FEEDBACK, CALLERS TO THE 
PUBLIC COMMENT MESSAGE LINE MUST 
TURN DOWN THEIR MEETING SOUND 
WHEN ADDRESSING THE COMMISSION. 
Both call-in and on-site participants should state 
their names and limit comments to three min -
utes. The public is encouraged to submit any 
written or photographic documents prior to the 
meeting to escalante@ncfrpc.org. Any ques -
tions regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area Office at 352.955.2200, extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser -
vices (free of charge) should contact Michael 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at 
least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.
10-11-1-2019 Connections 20 Events/Notices 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-13
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Yard work &/or light household duties. 5-6 
hrs a week, flex schedule, $10-$13 depend -
ing on experience, If interested please call 
352.278.8071                            11-22-21-7-14
15 Services
Like a 2nd Job. BBB A+Rated, HUD-
Approved NonProfit offering Hardship/
Pandemic-related Loss Assistance for 
Credit Card & Mortgage Payments. Free 
Confidential Consultation. 561-472-8000 
Debthelper.com                                10-11-2-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
WANT TO ENJOY COLLEGE LIFE WITH REAL 
PEACE OF MIND? Searching for a simple, 
proven and stress-free approach to healthy, 
cleaner air? Then CLICK HERE: https://
lp.constantcontactpages.com/cu/h4i6bD1/per -
sonalairpurifier or email: admin@cazebiz.com
10-18-21-4-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
solution  belowWhen cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
Notice of Plan of Dissolution for the Florida 
Coalition Against Domestic Violence 
Foundation, Inc. and Florida Coalition Against 
Domestic Violence, Inc. A Plan of Dissolution 
was entered by the Circuit Court of the Second 
Judicial Circuit in Leon County, Florida under 
case no. 2020 CA 00437. The plan may af-
fect a creditor’s or party-in-interest’s rights. 
The Plan may be obtained by emailing info@
moecker.com or calling 954-252-1560. Any 
objection to the Plan must be filed with the 
Court on or before December 30, 2021, or the 
objection is waived.                         10-11-2-20
Notice To All Creditors of the Florida Coalition 
Against Domestic Violence Foundation, 
Inc. (the “Foundation”) If you are a credi-
tor of the Foundation, to assert a claim for 
payment, claim forms can be obtained by 
emailing info@moecker.com or calling 954-
252-1560. Completed claim forms must be 
mailed to Michael Moecker & Associates 
Attn: Mark Healy 841 Prudential Drive 12th 
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32207 or emailed to 
mhealy@moecker.com. Questions related to 
potential claims can be directed to Mark Healy 
at 904-210-7023. All claim forms must be sub-
mitted by January 31, 2022, or any right to a 
potential distribution may be waived.    
10-11-1-20
Notice To All Creditors of Florida Coalition 
Against Domestic Violence, Inc. (“FCADV”) If 
you are a creditor of FCADV, to assert a claim 
for payment, claim forms can be obtained 
by emailing info@moecker.com or calling 
954-252-1560. Completed claim forms must 
be mailed to Michael Moecker & Associates 
Attn: Mark Healy 841 Prudential Drive 12th 
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32207 or emailed to 
mhealy@moecker.com. Questions related to 
potential claims can be directed to Mark Healy 
at 904-210-7023. All claim forms must be sub-
mitted by January 31, 2022, or any right to a 
potential distribution may be waived.     
10-11-2-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/We realize the importance of our voices only when we are silenced.
— Malala Yousafzai
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
advertising@ alligator .org
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
MEN'S TENNISTHE TWINS TOOK A LONG 
AND TWISTING PATH TO 
DIVISION I FOOTBALL 
SIDE BY SIDE
By Michael Hull
Sports Writer
Head coach Greg Lilly gathered 
his team in one of Benedictine 
College Preparatory School’s 
lecture halls. He turned to one of 
his players and asked a question. 
Halfway through his answer, 
another player jumped in and 
completed his thought. Lilly still 
remembers linebacker Ellis Brooks’ 
reaction to the scene.
Yeah, that’s just creepy.
The team turned to face Marco 
and Antonio Ortiz. They were 
seeing double. 
The identical twins shared more 
than just their appearance. They 
both played football for the BCPS 
Cadets, towered over most of their 
classmates at 6 feet, 4 inches tall 
and were National Honor Society 
members.
Years removed from high 
school, the duo still share many 
similarities, and both became 
starting Division I long snappers. 
But now, they play for different 
teams — Marco for the Gators 
and Antonio for Texas Christian 
University.
The Ortiz twin robots, as Lilly 
dubbed them, were inseparable 
growing up. Mother Cindy Ortiz 
remembers how much her sons 
relied on their copy.
“They're always pushing each 
other,” Cindy said. “It was like a 
silent kind of support because they 
didn't always have to say anything. 
It was just the way they acted and 
were around each other.”
The pair were driven, both in 
the classroom and on the field. Once, Lilly said Marco had a 4.41 
GPA. Marco quickly corrected him, 
countering that it stood at 4.43.
Each brother came with his own 
personal measuring stick, always 
competing with the other in any 
activity.
“We just both want to be good 
people,” Antonio said. “We want 
to be the best in everything that 
we do… There were times, I think 
it was middle school, we would 
play basketball like every day 
after school. Honestly, it led to a 
bunch of arguments and fights, just 
because we would go so hard.”
The relationship between the 
pair spilled over to the gridiron 
and the hardwood. They played 
many sports growing up, including 
Amateur Athletic Union travel 
basketball. 
Like Michael Jordan and Scottie 
Pippen, the twins seemed to have 
a sixth sense for where the other 
would be on the court at all times.
“It was so fun to watch them 
because they literally could feed off 
of each other,” Cindy said.
The brothers played football for 
as long as they could remember, 
even though they didn’t like it much 
at first. They started as offensive 
linemen in flag football until one 
question led them to a hiatus from 
the sport in seventh grade.
Man, when can we get the ball?
The duo didn’t pick the pigskin 
back up until their freshman year of 
high school. They used to split time 
between basketball and football 
until Marco didn’t see much 
playing time and Antonio broke his 
wrist their sophomore year, which 
ended both of their hoops careers.
They both started out as tight 
ends and defensive ends. The 
Cadets even won the Virginia 
high school state championship 
during the Ortizes freshman and 
sophomore years.“We were younger on the team, 
but it was cool to watch the older 
guys set the standard of what we're 
supposed to do as student athletes,” 
Marco said. “I think that's part of 
the reason what's helped me be 
successful here at UF.”
Despite the state championship 
rings, neither brother received 
many reps their first two seasons. 
Disgruntled with their playing time, 
the twins jumped at an opportunity 
to see the field: The Cadets needed 
a long snapper. 
Their father, Fred Ortiz, faced 
a similar situation when he was in 
high school. He played tight end 
and defensive end before picking 
up long snapping. Fred eventually 
went on to long snap at the 
University of Texas at Arlington.
So, he trained his sons. They 
were thrust into game action, 
switching off snaps late in their 
sophomore year and continuing as 
upperclassmen. 
When recruitment season rolled 
around, neither twin received 
interest they wanted from schools 
to play tight end or defensive end. 
Fred told them the story of Nate 
Boyer, a student-athlete who joined 
the military but later walked on to 
the University of Texas team as a 
long snapper.
“There’s other ways to get to the 
next level,” Fred told them.
The brothers delved into a 
research frenzy until they came 
across Rubio Long Snapping. The 
organization, founded by Chris 
Rubio, helps long snappers get 
noticed and play college football. 
Fred remembers when the 
twins turned to him and said they 
yearned to see their names on the 
list of top long snappers. Cindy 
drove the boys to a long-snapping 
camp in Charlotte, North Carolina, 
the following weekend. 
They both left the camp ranked within the top 15. After camps in 
Las Vegas and Tampa, they climbed 
up to the top five — and schools 
began reaching out. The duo heard 
from Georgia, Virginia Tech, North 
Carolina State and Oregon.
The camps helped the pair get 
noticed despite their lack of high 
school tape. After all, they split 
the Cadets’ long-snapping duties 
between the two of them.
They had started switching off 
based on the situation: Antonio 
would work punts, and Marco 
would handle field goals. As they 
improved and aged, they switched 
off every game.
“We just kind of let them do 
what they wanted to do,” Lilly 
said. “There was no detailed plan 
by me. It was just basically ‘Marco 
and Antonio, they can both do it. It 
doesn’t matter who’s doing it.’ Half 
the time, I wasn't even sure which 
one I was looking at.”
Lilly quipped that he and the team’s kicking coach would glance 
at each other in mutual confusion.
Who snapped?
I don’t know. 
I thought you knew?
Despite their common cases 
of mistaken identity, Marco 
and Antonio quickly branded 
themselves as top long snappers. 
But the position came with its 
challenges: You only get one shot, 
one opportunity.
Miniscule mistakes, Lilly said, 
quickly compound into costly 
errors.
“You're doing the same thing all 
the time, so your muscle memory 
has to be so good,” Lilly said. “If 
you're off just a little bit, it can be 
catastrophic.”
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@Michael_Hull33
mhull@alligator.org
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Florida’s Ben Shelton made school history 
Oct. 10 when he defeated San Diego’s August 
Holmgren, 6-3, 6-4, to clinch the International 
Tennis Association (ITA) All-American 
Championships singles title. The sophomore 
became the first Gators men’s tennis player to 
ever claim the crown.
Shelton, the son of UF head coach Bryan Shelton, defeated six ranked opponents in 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, on his way to the title 
without dropping a set. 
The first round opened with Shelton 
scheduled to battle No. 29 Martim Prata of 
Tennessee. The young Florida star dispatched 
the Volunteer 6-4, 6-2. 
South Carolina’s Daniel Rodrigues, the No. 
3 seed and NCAA singles runner-up this past 
season, awaited Shelton in the next round. 
After a first-set victory, Shelton advanced 
when Rodrigues retired due to injury.The Gainesville native’s run continued 
with another SEC victory over No. 24 Ronnie 
Hohmann of LSU, 6-3, 6-2, to advance to the 
quarterfinals. Ohio State’s JJ Tracy, the No. 99 
seed, pushed Shelton to a tiebreaker in the first 
set, but the Gator prevailed 7-6 (7), 7-5.
The second-year star blew past No. 72 
Clement Chidekh of Washington, 7-3, 7-0, 
to book his duel with Holmgren for the title 
match. 
“Super proud of Ben for his play throughout 
this tournament,” his father and coach said in a release from the team. “He played with 
passion, poise and confidence against some of 
the best in college tennis.”
Shelton became the first debutant to claim 
the singles title since North Carolina’s William 
Blumberg in 2017. Since his first tournament 
representing Florida last October, Shelton 
contributed to a conference title, clinched the 
winning point of a national championship and 
now owns an ITA singles tournament triumph.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgSeeing double: Marco and Antonio Ortiz share bond on and off the field
Shelton becomes first Gator to win ITA All-American singles titleSamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Marco Ortiz stands on the sideline during the Gators’ 
42-0 victory over Vanderbilt on Oct. 9.
The sophomore clinched the trophy with a victory in the final Oct. 1012   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2021
FOOTBALL
FLORIDA BEAT UP ON 
INFERIOR VANDERBILT 
SATURDAY BUT NOW LOOKS 
TO GEORGIA AND LSU
By Michael Hull
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators tallied 
479 total yards, and quarterback 
Emory Jones tossed a career-high 
273 yards and four touchdowns 
to help UF blank the Vanderbilt 
Commodores 42-0 Oct. 9.
In other words, Florida 
accomplished what it was expected 
to do: cover a 39-point spread 
against the bottom-feeders of the 
SEC.
As UF enters its toughest 
back-to-back set of games on the 
schedule, what does a beatdown 
of college football’s version of the 
Bad News Bears prove?
Florida showed one big positive 
it needs to take from Vandy into 
Death Valley and Jacksonville: 
Head coach Dan Mullen opened 
up the offense against the lowly 
Commodores, allowing Jones to 
throw the ball downfield. The 
quarterback averaged 12.4 yards 
per attempt, a vast improvement 
from the season average of 6.45 
yards per attempt and completed 
five passes over 25 yards — including a 61-yard touchdown 
— after not completing one such 
throw against Kentucky last week.
It was far from a perfect game 
for the Gators, though, as they 
looked like two different teams 
from the first half to the second. UF 
barely outgained the Commodores 
in yards at halftime (215-200), and 
good ol’ Vandy missed three field 
goals and had a drive stall at the 
1-yard line. This game could have 
been much closer.
The first 30 minutes looked 
sloppy, as the Commodores 
reached Florida territory four times 
in a row, converted five of 11 third-
down attempts and held the ball 
for almost twice as long as Florida 
in the first half (19:50 to 10:10). 
For comparison, in its 62-0 
loss to the Bulldogs last month, 
Vanderbilt crossed Georgia’s side 
of the field three times, converted 
two third downs and gained 77 
yards the entire game.
Florida’s offense didn’t look 
its best early. It scored quickly on 
its opening two possessions and 
added one more score before the 
half to lead 21-0 heading into the 
locker room. All good, right? 
Not so fast, my friend. The 
Gators turned the ball over twice, 
and their 215 total offensive 
yards in the first half were the least Vanderbilt allowed in a 
first half against a Football Bowl 
Subdivision opponent this season. 
The second least? Last week 
against Connecticut, when the 
Commodores allowed 222.
“There’s things that I can circle 
in the first half that were great, 
and there’s things that I can circle 
in the first half that were just not 
up to our standards,” Mullen said. 
“Our job as coaches is to make 
sure we are at our standard on 
every snap.”
Florida rallied to score three 
touchdowns in the first seven 
minutes of the second half, 
effectively ending the game in the 
third quarter. The defense shored 
up, allowing 87 yards, and Vandy 
crossed midfield just twice and 
converted three of nine third-
down attempts in the closing two 
quarters.
The Gators can’t expect to start 
slowly and still find success the 
next few weeks against LSU and 
Georgia. The Bulldogs, specifically, 
boast the nation’s top defense, 
allowing just two offensive 
touchdowns all season and 5.5 
points per game. Offensively, UGA 
outscored its last three opponents 
— Vanderbilt, No. 17 Arkansas 
and Auburn — 133-10. 
While the 2021 edition of LSU might not play like the 2019 
version, the Tigers still average 
29.7 points and 379.5 yards per 
game on offense this year — much 
better than Vandy’s marks of 13.3 
points and 310.7 yards per game. 
Tiger Stadium also ranks as a 
notoriously hostile environment. 
Florida committed 15 penalties for 
115 yards in its first true road game 
of the year last week in Lexington, 
Kentucky. The Gators managed to 
cut that number in half against the 
Commodores, committing eight 
penalties for 80 yards, but neither number will get the job done 
against upper-SEC talents. 
“That’s going to be on me to 
make sure we’re disciplined and 
we’re not getting penalties called 
on us when we’re playing at a 
higher level,” Mullen said.
Credit to Florida for doing its 
job this week, but the team needs 
to prove results like this one are 
the rule over the next few games 
rather than the exception.
@Michael_Hull33
mhull@alligator.orgGators take care of business, still have loose ends to tie up
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Emory Jones (5, center) and Michael Tarquin (70) 
prepare for a play during a game against Vanderbilt Oct. 9.
