We Inform. Y ou Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperAlachua County Republicans
Following the storming of the Capitol,  some  voters decided to 
change parties, pg. 4
Recharge Days
With no Spring Break,  UF is offering recharge days for students 
and teachers to rest, pg. 2Sister sister
The Goelz sisters grew up immersed in softball, 
but their college careers diverged when Kinsey 
went to play at Mississippi State. Last season, 
they reunited at Florida and are looking to their 
first full season together in Gainesville , pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 18
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
People gather at the Chabad UF Jewish Student Center for a memorial service in honor of Sophia Lambert 
on Friday, Jan. 22, 2021. Lambert was an 18-year-old UF student and sister of the Delta Phi Epsilon sorority 
who died after a recent car crash on West University Avenue.
SOPHIA LAMBERT WILL BE 
REMEMBERED FOR HER 
COMMITMENT TO HER FAITH, 
FAMILY, FRIENDS AND GIVING 
BACK TO THE COMMUNITY.
By Abigail Hasebroock
“Do good, and say ‘I love you,’” 
is the phrase echoing through the 
UF community in honor of Sophia 
Lambert, a first-year UF theatre 
and psychology major who died 
Jan.16 after a fatal crash on West 
University Avenue that sent five 
others to the hospital. She was 18 
years old.
By doing good deeds with Lam -
bert’s name in mind, her soul can 
be elevated, and her presence will 
continue in the physical world, UF 
Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student 
Center Rabbi Berl Goldman said.
“She was friendly. She was 
humble. She was spiritual. She 
was charitable. She was studious,” 
he said. “All of those elements are 
a reflection of her essence.” 
In a Jewish Gator Greek Unity 
Shabbat memorial service held Fri -
day at the Lubavitch-Chabad Jew -
ish Student & Community Center 
to honor Lambert’s life, several 
Delta Phi Epsilon sisters faced a 
crowd of more than 400 students 
during a dinner and reflected on 
Lambert’s legacy.
“To our beautiful sister So -
phia Lambert, may her life for -
ever shine,” Shoshanna Halperin, 
an 18-year-old UF health science 
freshman, said. “When I think of 
her beautiful face, I see her smile. I 
see her radiant smile.” 
Before the memorial, students 
from more than 10 sororities and fraternities shared hugs and en -
gaged in solemn conversation as 
they waited for the service to be -
gin. During the memorial, rabbis 
read passages from the Hebrew 
Bible and participants lit candles 
and observed Shabbat services. 
Rabbi Goldman asked every -
one to rise before a recitation of 
the “Prayer for the Soul of the De -
parted,” or the Kel Maleh Racha -
mim – first in Hebrew and then in 
English – a part of which reads: 
“Therefore, may the All-Merciful 
One shelter her with the cover of 
His wings forever, and bind her 
soul in the bond of life. The Lord 
is her heritage; may she rest in her 
resting place in peace; and let us 
say: Amen.”
Delta Phi Epsilon President 
Drew McNally stepped forward 
during the service to give a state -
ment on behalf of the sorority. 
“Thank you all for coming to -
night to celebrate her beautiful 
soul that’s here,” McNally said. 
“Please keep hugging your friends 
oh so tight, always say I love you, 
and keep doing good for Sophia.” 
Lambert’s love and care for oth -
ers ran deep, Mackenzie Farkas, 
one of Lambert’s closest friends, 
said. 
“She was just the most lov -
ing, warm-hearted kind of person 
who wanted to change the world,” 
the 18-year-old UF health science 
major said. “She just had such 
big dreams to care for everyone 
around her.”
After growing up with a passion 
for the stage and helping children, In honor of Sophia Lambert: Tell your friends and family you love them 
MAGGIE PAXTON WAS 
A LOVING DAUGHTER, 
SISTER AND FRIEND
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Margaret “Maggie” Paxton 
often went out of her way to 
brighten the days of those who 
crossed her path.
UF housing cleaning staff 
once left a note for her mother recounting Paxton’s kindness. 
The guard at Paxton’s neighbor -
hood residential gate described 
their conversations as the high -
light of her day. 
Paxton, an 18-year-old UF 
natural resource conservation 
first-year, died Dec. 9 in a hit-
and-run crash on West Univer -
sity Avenue. She will be remem -
bered for her encouraging nature 
and selflessness, her mother, 
Lisa Paxton, said. Her favorite 
saying was, “Progress over per -fection.” 
“She had such a bright light 
about her that will never dim,” 
Lisa said. “I’ll make sure of 
that.” 
Paxton was born and raised in 
Jacksonville Beach, Florida. She 
loved to laugh and create Tik -
Toks with her sister and friends. 
She was also a competitive ath -
lete  — playing soccer for many 
years until one too many concus -Remembering Maggie Paxton
THE DECISION COMES AFTER THE 
HIGH VOLUME OF CITY CRASHES 
AND RECENT UF STUDENT DEATHS 
ON UNIVERSITY AVENUE
By Anna Wilder and Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer
After two UF students died following car 
crashes on West University Avenue in less 
than two months, city and police officials are 
taking steps to increase traffic safety on West 
University Avenue.
On Jan. 20, the Gainesville Police Depart -ment announced the Gator Special Traffic En -
forcement Program (STEP) to conduct high-
visibility traffic enforcement along roadways 
adjacent to UF. 
A day later, the Gainesville City Commis -
sion voted to approve a traffic safety plan that 
includes creating a task force to provide short-
term safety solutions on University Avenue, 
including a speed limit reduction, barriers and 
flashing lights at intersections.
The changes came less than a week after a 
car hit five students standing on the sidewalk 
at the corner of NW 17th Street and West Uni -
versity Avenue. The crash killed 18-year-old 
UF student Sophia Lambert and sent five oth -er people to the hospital. On Dec. 9, 18-year-
old Maggie Paxton was killed in a hit-and-run 
a few blocks west on the same road. 
As part of Gator STEP, Gainesville police 
will also conduct a crash analysis of the area 
between 1300 W. University Ave. and 2200 
W. University Ave. to identify the types of 
crashes that occur there and any preventive 
measures that can be taken. 
The increased presence of patrol officers 
will be found along West University Avenue, 
Southwest Archer Road, Southwest 34th 
Street, Southwest 13th Street and other city 
roadways. The focus will be on crosswalks, 
pedestrians, speeding and scooter safety vio -lations, according to a press release. GPD and 
University Police will work together to enforce 
traffic laws in these areas.
Law enforcement recorded at least 85 
traffic violations from Jan. 20 to Jan. 23 on 
portions of West University Avenue, South -
west Archer Road, Southwest 34th Street and 
Southwest 13th Street near UF, according to 
data from GPD’s Daily Bulletin as of Jan. 24. 
In the week prior to the STEP program’s intro -
duction, from Jan. 16 to Jan. 19, there were at 
least 27 traffic violations recorded in the same 
areas, as of Jan. 24.
This is only the first step in creating a safer Gainesville Officials respond to fatal crash with traffic enforcement programsSEE SOPHIA,  PAGE 6
SEE MAGGIE,  PAGE 6
SEE GPD,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the VOLUME 115 ISSUE 18
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
THE TWO OPTIONAL DAYS 
OFF WERE CREATED TO GIVE 
STUDENTS A REST AFTER 
THE CANCELLATION OF 
SPRING BREAK
By Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writer
With another semester of 
Zoom fatigue and pandemic para -
noia looming over their heads, 
students and faculty fear they 
won’t have enough time to re -
charge their academic batteries 
in a term with only one official 
day off. 
Because of this, D'Andra Mull, 
the UF Vice President for Student 
Affairs asked faculty to suspend 
their classes and exams for two 
days this Spring. The proposed 
Spring recharge days –Thursday, 
Feb. 25 and Wednesday, Mar. 
24 – were created as an oppor -
tunity for students to rest during 
the Spring semester after UF can -
celed March Spring Break.
Although not a formal require -
ment, UF administration urged 
faculty to take the days off to en -
courage student health and well-
being in an email sent on Dec. 
21. 
“We believe this will be much 
appreciated and needed by our 
students,” Mull wrote. 
UF Student Affairs is teaming 
up with UF Performing Arts, Aca -
demic Affairs’ Wellness Collab -
orative and Student Government 
to bring socially distanced events 
and activities to campus on the 
recharge days, Mull wrote. The 
specifics of these activities are 
not currently available, but the 
email promised more information 
would be available to students 
soon. 
“Our hope is that our Gator 
Recharge Days will allow stu -
dents to take a well-deserved 
and much-needed break to renew 
their energy mid-semester,” Mull 
wrote in a statement.
In another email sent to stu -
dents on Jan. 22, Mull shared several programs and initiatives 
to improve student experiences 
throughout the semester, includ -
ing recharge days. Other enrich -
ment programs will begin in the 
following weeks. UF will hold a 
Financial Wellness Week full of 
workshops and presentations to 
promote students’ financial skills 
starting Monday, Jan. 25. 
Another program, a student 
training course on Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion as part of 
UF’s anti-racism initiatives, will 
become available soon. A third 
initiative is Gator STEP, a traffic 
enforcement program meant to 
strengthen safety on the streets 
surrounding campus.
“Promoting balance and sup -
porting students' holistic well -
ness is a primary focus for this 
spring,” Mull wrote. 
Maria Victoria Muñoz, a UF 
Spanish literature graduate stu -
dent and an introductory Spanish 
class instructor, said she thinks 
recharge days are the second best 
option since Spring break was 
canceled. 
Although many faculty were 
informed of these recharge days 
after finalizing their Spring syl -
labi, Muñoz – along with many 
others – chose to include the 
days off anyway. As both a grad -
uate student and an undergradu -
ate teacher, Muñoz believes re -
charge days will be beneficial to 
both groups.
“As students, we are also hav -
ing recharge days, which makes 
it perfect,” she said. “If as an in -
structor you have the day off but 
not as a student, then there’s no 
recharge.” 
Students in asynchronous 
classes are also worried about ex -
periencing burnout this semester.
Bianca Barroso, an 18-year-
old psychology freshman, is tak -
ing two asynchronous classes 
and one synchronous class that 
requires watching recorded lec -
tures before class on the stu -
dents’ own time. She said the 
professors of her asynchronous classes won’t decrease the num -
ber of assignments for that week, 
leaving students with nearly the 
same workload as a normal day 
of class. 
Although the planned activi -
ties are meant as a way for stu -
dents to let off steam amid the 
busy semester, Barroso said she 
plans to spend the days catching 
up on work, not recharging as UF 
intended.
J.D. Varn, a 19-year-old UF 
animal sciences sophomore, said 
it’s nice that UF is allowing stu -
dents and faculty to rest.
However, only two of Varn’s 
five professors are implementing 
the recharge days, so he won’t 
get any additional days off of 
class this semester. Since he’s 
working at a consistent pace with 
his online classes, he said getting 
50 extra minutes off isn’t enough 
for him to recharge.
“I think having a whole day 
off, which would also give pro -
fessors a break, would probably 
be better for everyone than just 
having a couple periods sprin -
kled around,'' he said.
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.orgUF encourages new recharge 
days for Spring 2021 semester
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Marc Fiol, Alexander LaJulia Andersen, Zackary Archer
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Project Manager
Senior Copywriter
Account ExecutiveBismarie Plasencia, bis.plasencia@gmail.com
Alejandro D'Agostino , alejandro.dagostino1@gmail.
Michael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges, brian.gurges@gmail.com
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Kate McNamaraDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.org
UF recommended 
professors to give 
students the 
following days off:
• Thursday, Feb. 25
• Wednesday, March 24  
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
grifolsplasma.comNew Plasma Donors EARN $300 for 4 donations!*
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!004IA
New donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.Be a Plasma Responder.
 Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Make an EXTRA BONUS
with our Specialty Programs!*
* when applicable
*fees subject to change without notice. We DO NOT pay by WEIGHT!
004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cFB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 7/16/20   12:27 PM7/16/20   12:27 PM
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
FEATURE
TAYLOR  HILL-MILES  RECEIVED 
THE AWARD FOR HER 
DEDICATION TO 
COMMUNITY SERVICE
By Daniella Sevares
Alligator Staff Writer 
Taylor Hill-Miles learned her empathy 
and love for community service from her 
grandmother at a young age. 
“From there, I developed just a love 
and passion for helping others,” Hill-Miles 
said. 
The 17-year-old Eastside High School 
senior has volunteered more than 500 
hours at Malcom Randall VA Medical Cen -
ter, GRACE Marketplace and the Farm 
Share — all while being the captain of her 
cross country and soccer teams and stu -
dent body president with a 4.7 GPA. 
Hill-Miles also received this year’s Edna 
M. Hart Keeper of the Dream Scholar -
ship Award, given annually to an Alachua 
County high school senior who exemplifies 
outstanding achievement and leadership. 
She delivered a keynote speech when she 
accepted the scholarship at Citizens Field 
on Martin Luther King Jr. Day. 
In her speech, she highlighted the im -
portance of racial equality and called on 
the audience to consider the impact of po -
lice brutality on the Black community.
“Now is the time to choose to love 
one another instead of hating and fight -
ing against each other, because King said 
that hate cannot drive out hate,” Hill-Miles 
said. “Only love can do that.”
Hill-Miles cares deeply for her commu -
nity and feels a responsibility to help those 
in need. She saw people in her community 
living paycheck to paycheck and how that 
affected them, she said. 
“I try to help others who are in similar 
situations so they don’t have to go through 
that,” Hill-Miles said. 
Hill-Miles said she is interested in bio -
medical engineering and would love to 
work for a humanitarian aid organization to create low-cost, high-quality technology 
for developing countries. 
Some of the colleges she applied to 
include UF, University of South Florida, 
Emory University and Georgia Institute of 
Technology.
Hill-Miles said everything she’s accom -
plished could not have been done without 
the support of her parents, teachers and 
friends. 
Janice Early, Hill-Miles’ mom, describes 
her daughter as unique, happy and self-
driven. As a little girl, Hill-Miles set high 
expectations for herself and that hasn’t 
changed. In high school, Early said she no -
ticed Hill-Miles developed a strong sense 
of independence. Now, Hill-Miles often 
tackles projects without telling her mom 
first. 
“I find out about a lot of things she’s 
doing after the fact,” Early said, chuckling.
Gabrielle Gonzalez, Hill-Miles’ best 
friend, said she is an amazing friend and 
student. 
Gonzalez loves Hill-Miles’ positive at -
titude and said Hill-Miles motivates her to 
be a better person. 
On her soccer team, Hill-Miles exempli -
fies leadership by setting an example for 
her teammates, said Terrie Ellerbe, dean of 
Eastside High School and the head coach 
of the girls soccer team. She considers Hill-
Miles a role model for the freshmen and 
sophomores.
“Her dedication to the sport just tran -
scends to others, which is just impeccable 
to me,” Ellerbe said, adding that Hill-Miles 
gained the respect and admiration of her 
peers as the student body president. 
She even organized homecoming and 
united the entire student body to create a 
“flawless masterpiece,” Ellerbe said. 
To Ellerbe, Hill-Miles has a bright future 
ahead of her and will leave an impact on 
society when she graduates high school.
“We will hear about her again,” Ellerbe 
said. “We definitely will.”
@DaniellaSevares
dsevares@alligator.orgMeet the Edna M. Hart Keeper of the Dream Award winner
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Taylor Hill-Miles, this year’s winner of the Edna M. Hart Keeper of the Dream Award, 
gives a keynote speech at Citizens Field on Martin Luther King Jr. Day. She talked 
about the importance of demanding justice for the Black community.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021IT’S THE LARGEST DEPARTURE 
FROM THE REPUBLICAN PARTY 
IN ALACHUA COUNTY 
IN THE PAST YEAR
By Corbin Bolies, Lianna Hubbard 
and Kevin Maher
Alligator Staff Writers
Mason Pitts grew up embracing the Re -
publican Party. Donald Trump’s attacks on 
the 2020 election led him to abandon it.
Pitts, a 22-year-old UF economics grad -
uate student and Gainesville native, is part 
of a large number of Republican voters in 
Alachua County who have switched politi -
cal parties in the wake of the Jan. 6 attack 
on the U.S. Capitol, which left five people 
dead and more than 100 people arrested.
“Trump’s actions, most recently espe -
cially with COVID and continuing to give 
misinformation about having a fraudulent 
election, kind of gave me the motivation to 
officially change my party,” Pitts said. “I 
would not change it back.”
Between Jan. 8 and Jan. 20, 147 peo -
ple in Alachua County left the Republican 
Party, according to data from the Alachua 
County Supervisor of Elections.
Almost 54% of those switched to no 
party affiliation, while the rest joined new 
parties: 27 joined the Democratic Party, 37 
joined the Independent Party of Florida and 
four joined the Libertarian Party of Florida.
For Alachua County, the weeks follow -
ing the insurrection marked the largest de -
parture from the Republican Party in the 
past year, pointing to an uncertain future 
for the party following the Trump presi -
dency and the start of Joe Biden’s presi -
dency.
Trump lost to Joe Biden in Alachua 
County by more than 38,000 votes last 
year, according to Alachua County election 
data. Turnout was the highest since 2008, 
with about 75% of registered voters par -
ticipating in the election.
Alachua County’s party affiliation trends 
parallel Central Florida’s, where hundreds of people have left the Republican Party 
since Jan. 6, the Orlando Sentinel reported.
This month’s departures also surpassed 
the 95 Alachua County residents who left 
the Republican Party after the Nov. 3 elec -
tion, according to voter registration data by 
the Florida Division of Elections. 
State data from last year shows  33 peo -
ple joined the Republican Party in January 
2020 amid Trump’s first impeachment.
Mason Pitts switched his voter registra -
tion to no party affiliation, which he said 
is more in line with his moderate values. 
But it was Trump’s incitement of an insur -
rection on the U.S. Capitol that confirmed 
his decision to leave the Republican Party.
At a rally the morning of the attack, 
Trump urged his supporters to walk down 
Pennsylvania Avenue to the Capitol and 
“fight like hell” against the certification of 
President Joe Biden’s win.
“I was thinking that a lot of the people 
that warned about Trump and that he was 
legitimately dangerous were probably cor -
rect at that point,” Pitts said. “He’s kind 
of created this bubble that’s doing nothing 
but dividing America.”
Between Jan. 5 and Jan. 7, the days 
surrounding the attack on the Capitol, 78 
people changed their party affiliation — 58 
of those leaving the Republican Party for 
a total of 205 defections since the week of 
Jan. 6.
While over 200 Republicans have 
switched parties since the week of the at -
tack, only 15 Alachua County voters have 
joined the Republican Party: Five switched 
from no party affiliation, seven switched 
from the Democratic Party, three switched 
from the Independent Party of Florida and 
two switched from the Libertarian Party of 
Florida.
David Ashwell, a 53-year-old Gainesville 
attorney and world history teacher at Lin -
coln Middle School, said he changed his 
party affiliation from Republican to Demo -
crat after the Jan. 6 riot. He was a regis -
tered Republican for about 15 years.
“This had been something I’d meant to 
do at least since Donald Trump emerged on 
the national political stage back in the 2016 race,” Ashwell wrote in an email. “But re -
cent events gave the matter some urgency, 
as I want nothing further to do with the 
GOP.”
Ashwell felt Trump incited the riot, 
which he said posed an existential threat 
to democracy.
The House of Representatives delivered 
its second impeachment of Trump a week 
after the insurrection, citing how Trump’s 
statements “encouraged and foreseeably 
resulted in lawless action at the Capitol.” 
Ten Republicans joined Democrats in im -
peaching Trump, making it the most bi -
partisan impeachment and the first time a 
president has been impeached twice.
His trial is set to start Feb. 8, Senate Ma -
jority Leader Chuck Schumer announced 
Friday.
Trump, whose initial comments on the 
attack reiterated his claims of a stolen elec -
tion and led to a ban of his accounts on 
most social media platforms, has since 
condemned the violence.
Stephen Craig, a UF political science 
professor who specializes in public opin -
ion, sees party switches after the Capitol 
riot and a second impeachment as symp -
toms of internal divisions within the Re -
publican Party — those favoring the 
party’s traditional values versus Trump’s 
devout supporters. It’s a battle that could 
push some to abstain from a party affilia -
tion entirely, he said.
“No party affiliation can be considered 
a halfway house for Republicans who have 
become disaffected with what the political 
party has come under Trump,” he said.
What these party switchers mean for 
the Republican Party in the long term isn’t 
clear, Craig said. It’s uncertain if a larger 
party switch could be coming or if some 
Republicans will wait in NPA purgatory 
until the party sorts itself out.
“We’re gonna have to wait till the 
smoke clears,” he said.
Ed Braddy, chairman of the Alachua 
County Republican Party, said he fears los -
ing the 205 Republicans will cause a down -
ward trend in the party’s plans for the 
next election. He believes voters shouldn’t judge the entire party on the actions of a 
few rioters.
“You saw the action of probably fewer 
than 1,000, maybe fewer than 500,” he 
said. 
Federal authorities believe roughly 800 
people stormed the Capitol, The Washing -
ton Post reported Saturday.
Braddy condemned the Capitol riots 
as “unsettling” and “unlawful” but hopes 
Trump supporters will keep their energy 
with the party to help win seats in the 2022 
midterm elections.
Some Republicans may be leaving be -
cause of Trump’s makeover of the party, 
but others could be leaving because it 
didn’t change enough, Braddy said.
“Someone might leave the party be -
cause they believe the party is not Trump-
like enough,” he said. “The other mindset 
is that the party has become too Trump-
like.”
While Trump caused some to leave the 
party, Carter Mermer, president of UF’s 
Turning Point USA chapter, believes the 
GOP can survive beyond him. Turning 
Point USA is a conservative nonprofit that 
caused controversy at UF in 2019 by host -
ing Turning Point founder Charlie Kirk.
“Trump was the face of the Republican 
Party, but he’s not the Republican Party,” 
said Mermer, a 22-year-old UF business 
administration senior. “The conservative 
movement is going to change and adapt 
over time.”
Mermer said those who sympathized 
with the Republican Party before Trump 
should give it another chance.
“If people want to come back to the Re -
publican party, that’s good,” Mermer said. 
He just wants them to make up their 
minds.
@CorbinBolies 
cbolies@alligator.org
@Hubbard.Lianna
lhubbard@alligator.org
@kevinmaheruf
kmaher@alligator.orgMore than 200 Alachua County Republicans left the party since the week of US Capitol attack
Ashley  Hicks / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
352-226-5976      |      supremebeautyllc.com
Wigs, Eyelashes, Clothes    
a n d  M o r e !      THE PARTNERSHIP CREATES 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR WORKING 
FAMILIES FACING 
HOUSING INSECURITY  
By Michelle Holder 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A long blue ribbon stretched 
out in front of a newly renovated 
housing unit as Gainesville com -
munity members celebrated the 
success of their project. 
Family Promise of Gainesville, 
a shelter and housing program for 
families who have experienced 
homelessness, and Rebuilding 
Together North Central Florida, 
a home repair program for home -
owners with lower income, of -
ficially opened their affordable 
multi-family housing quad Friday 
morning. 
The one-building property, lo -
cated at 4327 SW 71st Terrace, 
includes four units, two of which 
are ready for tenants to move in 
Feb. 1, said Shari Jones, the pro -
gram director of Family Promise 
of Gainesville. The complex fea -
tures a red brick exterior and a 
renovated interior, with marble 
kitchen countertops and quality 
donated furniture.  
The units are for the families that are part of the Family Prom -
ise of Gainesville programs. 
Low-income housing is hard to 
come by in the city and Alachua 
County, Jones said. The purpose 
of these units is to help families 
and promote closer family rela -
tionships. Mothers in the Family 
Promise program often work two 
or three jobs to make ends meet, 
limiting the time they can spend 
with their children.
While some units in the coun -
ty charge more than $1,000 for a 
two-bedroom apartment, the rent 
at Family Promise housing costs 
around $650.
“These families are not looking 
for a handout; they’re looking for 
a hand up,” Jones said. “We’re 
hoping that through our projects 
that we can empower these fami -
lies so that we can break this cy -
cle of survival and change into a 
cycle of thriving.”
The TD Charitable Foundation, 
which is part of the TD Bank, do -
nated $125,000 toward purchas -
ing and renovating the property, 
said Jayne Moraski, the execu -
tive director of Family Promise of 
Gainesville. Other local funders 
include First Federal Bank and 
the Alachua County CARES grant for shelter renovation.
In the United States, there isn’t 
one metropolitan area where the 
minimum wage allows you to 
have affordable housing, accord -
ing to U.S. & World Report News. 
“There’s no way to work full 
time and actually afford a place to 
live in Gainesville if you’re mak -
ing minimum wage,” Moraski 
said. 
The COVID-19 pandemic 
brought on further financial hard -
ships for many people, leaving 
more people housing insecure. 
Once the federal eviction morato -
rium expires in March, there will 
likely be an uptick of evictions, 
Moraski said. 
Family Promise of Gainesville 
and Rebuilding Together North 
Central Florida plan to continue 
their partnership to create more 
affordable housing opportunities 
in the future.
“It takes a village to do this 
kind of thing, and that’s what 
we had, just a whole community 
supporting what we do,” Moraski 
said.
 
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.orgLUKE ANCRUM WAS 
ARRESTED AFTER AN 
ALTERCATION 
AT FAT DADDY’S
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested 
former Gators defensive line -
man Luke Ancrum Saturday 
following a confrontation at Fat 
Daddy’s, a popular Midtown 
bar. 
The 23-year-old, who donned 
No. 98 from 2015-2019, was 
charged with two counts of ag -
gravated assault as well as ag -
gravated battery, simple battery 
and criminal mischief Saturday, 
according to the GPD arrest re -
port.
When two bouncers told him 
there was a $5 entrance fee, An -
crum threw $3 at their feet and 
tried to enter the bar, according 
to the report. The bouncers then 
told him to leave, and Ancrum 
flung several drinks at one of 
them. 
Ancrum punched one of the bouncers, giving him a swol -
len left eye, according to the 
report. He then hurled a metal 
barricade toward the bouncers, 
which struck a third victim’s 
hip. The report didn’t specify if 
the victim was another bouncer 
or a bystander. 
Fat Daddy’s wasn’t spared 
from the flying barricade, and 
a window shattered on impact 
from Ancrum’s throw, accord -
ing to the report. After being 
identified, Ancrum sat in a po -
lice car awaiting transport to the 
jail. He told a friend the situa -
tion “had him hot.”
The interaction, caught on 
the police car’s footage, contin -
ued.
Peeking in the car window, 
the friend said “F*****’ around 
at Fat Daddy’s!” 
“First and last time,” Ancrum 
responded. 
Ancrum is being held at the 
Alachua County Jail with his 
bond set at $130,000. 
@GrethelAguila 
gaguila@alligator.org‘They’re looking for a hand up’: New affordable 
housing available for insecure familiesFormer Gators football 
player arrested Saturday
environment, GPD spokesperson Graham 
Glover said. While the department has re -
ceived many calls asking them to address road 
safety, by changing the speed limit or adding 
speed bumps and barriers, those actions are 
not in GPD’s jurisdiction. 
The city commission met Jan. 21 to dis -
cuss a seven-part traffic safety plan proposed 
by commissioner Harvey Ward, which passed 
in a 4-3 vote.
Mayor Lauren Poe and commissioners 
Reina Saco and Adrian Hayes-Santos voted 
against the plan. Poe said he isn’t confident 
barriers would make the busy road any safer 
and might even encourage higher speeds.
Because University Avenue is a state road, 
the city is unable to make permanent changes 
without the Florida Department of Transpor -
tation’s input, so Gainesville can only educate 
and enforce the law, Poe said.
“Nothing will change unless the state of Florida says so,” he said.
The commission said it plans to receive up -
dates from City Manager Lee Feldman, who 
will approach the state department to discuss 
turning over responsibility of University Av -
enue and its intersection at 16th Street to the 
city of Gainesville.
If FDOT doesn’t agree to this, Commission -
er David Arreola said, lobbying might be the 
next course of action.
“I believe that the families deserve to ex -
haust every single opportunity,” Arreola said.
Commissioner Ward discussed temporar -
ily closing two blocks on the intersection of 
University Avenue and 17th Street while the 
city collects information on how to make the 
area safer. Ward said the traffic deaths in re -
cent years are enough reason to close the in -
tersection.
Lisa Paxton, the mother of Paxton, spoke 
during the public comment section of the 
meeting.
“I appreciate the work you’re doing as 
commissioners, but figure it out,” she said during the meeting. “This is not okay and 
we’re not going anywhere.”@Anna_wilderr 
awilder@alligator.org
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.orgGPD,  from pg. 1 
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
A white Honda Accord involved in the car crash on West University Avenue that 
killed Sophia Lambert and hospitalized five others on Saturday, Jan. 16, 2021. A 
memorial service in honor of Lambert was held at the Chabad UF Jewish Center 
on Friday, Jan. 22, 2021.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021
the Miami native stepped onto UF’s campus 
Fall 2020 as a double major in theatre and 
psychology, Farkas said. 
“Her energy and charisma is what attract -
ed people to her,” she said. “She has such a 
bright light that anyone who even just met 
her for the first time is just so attracted to.” 
Lambert was a passionate person with a sincere and influential connection to her 
faith, Farkas said. As an active member of 
the UF Jewish Gator community, the Delta 
Phi Epsilon sorority and Dance Marathon, 
her involvement at UF was reflective of 
these qualities.
In a Facebook post shared shortly after 
Lambert’s death, the sorority called her a 
“bright light” within the sisterhood who 
“cared for others and loved deeply.” 
“Sophia’s passion for theatre and in -volvement in Dance Marathon, Chabad, Hil -
lel, politics and Delta Phi Epsilon is a true 
testament to her character — beautiful in -
side and out,” according to the post.
Outside of her involvement at UF, Lam -
bert spent her Memorial Day weekends in 
high school as a volunteer for Camp Jenny, 
a non- profit organization run through the 
Union for Reform Judaism, Camp Jenny Co -
ordinator Julie Marsh said. Lambert would 
have been on Camp Jenny’s college staff this 
year beginning in February. 
“Her campers I’m sure left camp know -
ing that she loved them,” Marsh said. “And 
without a shadow of a doubt, I truly believe 
that they left camp loving Sophia.”
Lambert usually worked with the fourth- 
and fifth-grade students whom she connect -
ed with through a shared sense of humor 
and strong mentorship skills, Marsh said.
“I really believe that she showed them 
why it’s important to be a good person to 
other people,” she said. “And I also truly be -
lieve that the impact and the positivity that 
she brought to their lives will last a lifetime.”
In a statement made Wednesday, the 
Gainesville Police Department said it is ear -
nestly investigating the accident, and the 
Traffic Homicide Investigation Unit is seek -
ing to determine the contributing factors to 
the incident.  
Two petitions were created urging for in -
creased safety measures on University Av -
enue. As of Sunday, the traffic safety for UF students petition had over 21,800 signatures 
and the petition to install speed bumps on 
University Avenue had over 14,800 signa -
tures. 
Donations to Camp Jenny can be made in 
Sophia’s honor through a fundraiser set up 
by Lambert’s friends and family. 
“She did care for everyone around her,” 
Farkas said. “The world is missing out on 
one of the brightest lights it could have had.”
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org
sions forced her to quit, Lisa said. 
In high school, she joined the 
lacrosse team, where she earned 
the nickname “Pitbull Paxton,” 
close friend Kylee Borg said. 
“She may have been 5 foot tall, 
but she would knock you over 
like she was 7 foot tall,” Borg, an 
18-year-old UF criminology fresh -
man, said. 
Paxton loved UF, where she 
was proud to be accepted as a 
student, Lisa said. She began 
Summer 2020 as an environmen -
tal engineering sciences major 
and later switched to natural re -source conservation. 
She was motivated and dedi -
cated, especially when it came to 
school, her 16-year-old sister Hol -
ly said. Paxton was Holly’s best 
friend — they did everything to -
gether. When she hears “Jukebox 
Hero” by Foreigner, Holly remem -
bers playing Guitar Hero with her 
sister on a cruise, she said. 
“I feel like she knew me more 
than I knew myself,” Holly said. 
“She always had the best advice 
for me.” 
Paxton joined UF’s Kappa Kap -
pa Gamma sorority in August af -
ter she was drawn to the sisters’ 
genuine natures, Lisa said. The 
chapter posted a statement about Paxton’s death Dec. 11 on Insta -
gram. Kappa Kappa Gamma also 
placed a stone marker for Paxton 
outside of the chapter’s house, 
Lisa said.
“Maggie is so special to all of 
us and has impacted the lives of 
each person who had the honor 
of knowing her,” according to the 
post. “To know Maggie is to love 
Maggie.” 
But Paxton should be remem -
bered as more than just a UF stu -
dent, Borg said. She was also a 
daughter, an older sister and a 
best friend, Borg said. 
Paxton and Borg —  lifelong 
friends — were both born Aug. 
25, 2002, in the same Jacksonville 
Beach hospital, Borg said. Paxton 
genuinely listened and always 
knew what to say, Borg said. 
“Even if you only met her 
once, you really remember her 
just because the way she would 
look at you and make you feel 
like you were being heard,” Borg 
said. “It was a privilege, honestly, 
to get to know her, even if it was 
only for a little bit.” 
Paxton was passionate about 
the environment, women’s rights, 
mental health and other social 
issues, Haley Mainwaring, a 
20-year-old UF behavioral and 
cognitive neuroscience sopho -
more, said. Paxton and Mainwar -
ing met in August through Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, and Mainwaring 
later became Paxton’s big sister 
within the sorority, she said. 
“She was just one of those 
kinds of people that when you 
meet them, it just kind of feels 
like you’ve known them your 
whole life,” Mainwaring said.
The Gainesville Police Depart -
ment released a statement Jan. 
20 regarding Paxton’s death and 
the death of UF student Sophia Lambert, who died Jan. 16 after a 
car struck Lambert and four oth -
ers on West University Avenue. 
According to the statement, GPD 
initiated the Gator Special Traffic 
Enforcement Program, or Gator 
STEP, which is a program aimed 
toward increasing safety mea -
sures for Gainesville residents 
and students. 
A “Gators Against Student Pe -
destrian Deaths” Facebook page 
and petitions have been created by community members to make 
University Avenue safer and pre -
vent this from happening in the 
future, Lisa said. 
“You guys should feel safe 
walking across the street, and 
that place is nuts,” she said. “And 
they need to do something about 
it.”
 
@juliana_f616 
jferrie@alligator.orgSOPHIA,  from pg. 1
MAGGIE,  from pg. 1More than 400 attended memorial service
‘Her light will never dim’
Meghan McGlone / / Alligator Stafft
Photo of Maggie Paxton’s memorial stone plaque at UF’s Kappa 
Kappa Gamma house. Paxton died in a hit and run along West 
University Avenue in December.Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
A girl recites a blessing after lighting a candle at the Jewish Greek Gator Unity Shabbat 
at the Chabad UF Jewish Student Center, Friday, Jan. 22, 2021.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Maggie Paxton, an 18-year-old UF natural resource conservation 
first-yearCourtesy to the Alligator
Sophia Lambert, a first-year UF theatre 
and psychology major
MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Heating up
The lacrosse team will kick start its season next month after a 
premature ending brought by the COVID-19 pandemic, pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE OUTDOOR CONCERT 
SERIES PRIORITIZING 
COVID-19 SAFETY KICKED 
OFF SATURDAY
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
 
Local music’s best-kept secret 
might be right down the road.
 Sub Rosa Shows, a new 
outdoor concert series, kicked off 
at the Prairie Creek Conservation 
Cemetery Saturday. Conceived as 
a means to enjoy live music in a 
safe environment, the series will 
be making stops in various natural 
spaces around Alachua County. 
The catch? Aside from the performers and ticket holders, no 
one knows where exactly the show 
will take place.  
 The series is part of a larger effort 
to reintroduce live music while 
also abiding by COVID-19 safety 
guidelines. Sub Rosa will enforce a 
mandatory mask policy and 6 feet 
of distance between each group of 
people attending the show together. 
Guests will sign a waiver agreeing 
to the terms before attending, said 
Sub Rosa organizer Chelsea Carnes. 
Carnes, a 32-year-old outreach 
project specialist at Santa Fe 
College, helped organize the series 
as a replacement for the annual 
Riverine Reunion, a part-retreat, 
part-festival weekend of indie folk-
rock performances in O’Leno State 
Park. When Riverine 2021 was called off due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, Carnes and her team 
developed Sub Rosa as a way to 
keep the essence of Riverine in a 
safer environment.
 “The spirit’s still there,” Carnes 
said. “It’s still going to be a really 
beautiful setting, which is a huge 
part of Riverine.” 
 Carnes is a musician herself, 
a member of the local bands Wax 
Wings, Palimony, Rancho La Chua 
and Mourning Glories. Palimony, 
along with country-rock artist Kyle 
Keller, performed at Saturday’s 
show with Carnes on trumpet and 
violin. These artists, both rooted in 
Southern rock, match the intimacy 
of the event, Carnes said.
 Sub Rosa Shows won’t involve 
the usual “singing around fires and 
dancing in a barn,” as Carnes said 
Riverine Reunion typically entails.  
She said this year’s events still 
maintain the sense of community 
and togetherness that Riverine 
elicits – just with a little distance.
 “It’s COVID-19,” she said. “You 
have to do what you can without 
putting people in danger.”
 That sense of intimacy will be 
supported by the shows’ secrecy. 
‘Sub Rosa’ is Latin for ‘under the 
rose,’ which describes a secret 
meeting place the flower marks, 
and this sentiment can be seen in 
the series’ execution.
 To enforce the audience 
capacity, only the performers and 
attendees will know the show’s 
location, which will rotate through 
various natural spaces in Alachua 
County throughout the series. Guests will only receive the location 
via email after they’ve purchased 
their tickets.
 “We don’t want randos showing 
up,” Carnes said. “And, since we’re 
outdoors, it’s not like we have a 
door that people have to get in 
through.”
 After being awarded a $500 
grant Oct. 2020 from the Alachua 
County Arts Council, Sub Rosa 
partnered with MusicGNV, a local 
nonprofit dedicated to supporting 
artists creatively and financially, 
and the Alachua Conservation 
Trust (ACT), a nonprofit created 
to “protect the natural, historic, 
scenic, and recreational resources in 
and around North Central Florida,” 
according to their website.
 Heather Obara, a 33-year-old 
outreach coordinator with the ACT, 
said the idea of bringing back live 
music while still promoting safety is 
what drew the group to partner with 
Sub Rosa.
 Along with preserving the 
natural resources of 16 counties in 
North Central Florida – as far north 
as Hamilton County and as far south 
as Sumter County – the ACT also 
works to educate the public about 
conservation and the nature in the 
area. 
Obara said the secret shows will 
not only allow the audience to enjoy 
live music but also offer an up-close 
and personal experience of nature.
 “I think that the really cool 
concept is you don’t know where 
you’re going, but you’re going 
somewhere potentially new that 
you’re going to learn about,” Obara said.
 Sub Rosa has tentative plans for 
another show at the end of March, 
after which they’ll decide whether 
to continue the series. With a 
capacity of 50 audience members, 
Sub Rosa is a decidedly smaller 
event. But Carnes said the quick 
sellout – tickets for the Jan. 23 show 
were gone in just 24 hours – was 
indicative of the greater longing for 
live music.
 “It’s just a dose of joy and 
happiness and art and music,” 
Carnes said.
More information on Sub Rosa’s 
upcoming shows can be found on 
its Facebook Page.
 
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.org
VANESSA VILLARREAL WORKED 
WITH LEE JEANS TO GIFT 
CELEBRITIES NINE 
HAND-PAINTED JACKETS
By Katie Delk
Avenue Staff Writer
Vanessa Villarreal cried when she read the 
email.
About a year after her first pop-up sale with 
Lion’s Den Creative, the 23-year-old UF alumna 
received a request to collaborate with Lee Jeans. 
A representative from the label wanted her to 
paint nine denim jackets to gift influencers for 
the holidays.
As a self-proclaimed “jean hoarder,” Villar -
real started Lion’s Den Creative in September 
2019, handpainting designs on items of her ex -
tensive denim collection. 
Villarreal’s best friend, Aniyah Morinia, was 
one of the first to hear about the Lee Jeans email. 
Morinia, who described herself as a behind-the-
scenes public relations person of Lion’s Den Creative, said she knew the message was urgent 
when she received a text from Villarreal of her 
name in all capital letters. 
“It was just really sentimental and a moment 
that we’ll definitely always remember, espe -
cially as bigger things happen,” Morinia said. 
“We were also grateful that her business had 
grown to this level where she could get recog -
nized from a major denim company; that’s like 
the dream.”
Villarreal spent over 50 hours adding her 
unique art to the jackets for celebrities such as 
Sam Smith, Jessica Alba, Heather Morris and 
Stephen “tWitch” Boss. 
During the collaboration, Villarreal said Lee 
Jeans gave her creative freedom. She sketched 
two designs for each celebrity, which were in -
spired by their respective social media color pal -
ettes and talents. From there, she sent the ideas 
to a representative who offered suggestions.
Although working with denim isn’t a new 
medium for Villarreal, she had to adapt her 
process for this project. Normally, she paints 
jean pockets white as a base layer to sketch her 
design on. Since the jackets were dark denim, pencil drawings weren’t visible, so she had to 
place trust in her hands. 
For the pieces she sells at Lion’s Den Cre -
ative, Villarreal said small flaws eat her up. But 
for this project, she didn’t have time to find 
faults. She only had five days.
Each jacket took her five hours to paint, 
except the one for Sam Smith, which took 15 
hours. 
For Smith’s, Villarreal originally drew simple 
flowers inspired by their merchandise. Howev -
er, without the luxury of a thin brush, she said 
the flowers looked “like blobs.” Rather than 
start over, she decided to make the design intri -
cate and added more color and lines. 
“That one was super stressful, but I’m really 
happy with the product,” she said. “And to see 
that Sam Smith reposted it, it was completely 
worth it.”
Heather Morris also publicly recognized Vil -
larreal’s work. The dancer and actress posted 
a picture with her jacket, and she messaged 
Villarreal, saying sometimes her son steals the 
jacket from her closet.
From the time Villarreal read the first email to when celebrities celebrated her work, she felt  
disbelief. And the timing, she said, was divine.
“When it comes to Lion’s Den, I just have 
to give glory to God for all that’s happened, 
because it definitely wasn’t my doing indepen -
dently,” Villarreal said. “I was just taken aback. 
Again, this is like a ‘God, is this you?’ type mo -
ment.”
Although she has made handiwork since she 
was four, like lined-paper bird houses and cro -
cheted blankets, she didn’t begin painting until 
two and a half years ago. She didn’t study art 
either. So for a long time, Villarreal said the title 
“artist” felt like it didn’t fit right. But the Lee col -
laboration allowed her to believe it.
“I’ve come to the realization, in reality, I am 
an artist. I’m a creator. I create. I paint,” she 
said. “And I’m pretty good at it.”
With orders shipped from California to New 
York, and now to celebrities’ homes, Villarreal’s 
art — and her belief in it — only continues to 
grow.
@katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.orgSub Rosa Shows is secretly bringing back live music
UF alumna behind Lion’s Den Creative collaborates with Lee Jeans
MUSICMUSIC
FASHIONFASHIONScan to listen to songs 
from our favorite 
influential artists in the 
Gainesville music scene.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Courtesy to The Alligator
Saturday’s show at Prairie Creek Conservation Cemetery, 
one of the natural spaces under the protection of 
the Alachua Conservation Trust, featured Gainesville 
psychedelic country group Palimony.
LUNES, 25 DE ENERO DE 2021
www.alligator.org/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones so El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/elcaimanRead more online
El Caim án is the Spanish-Language version of The Alligator. Read more at 
Alligator.org .El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un twet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
CÓMO LOS ESTUDIANTES 
HISPANOS PUEDEN 
APROVECHAR EL AÑO 
NUEVO Y ENCONTRAR SU 
SEGUNDO HOGAR
Por Kristine Villarroel
Escritora de Caim án
Para muchos estudiantes, el In -
stituto de Culturas Latinas/Hispanas 
cumple el rol de una segunda casa 
en el cual pueden congregarse con 
la comunidad local de estudiantes 
afines. La Casita, el afectuoso nom -
bre dado por tal comunidad a la sede 
del instituto ubicada en 1504 W Uni -
versity Ave, ha funcionado como un 
espacio seguro para la socialización 
de estudiantes hispanos en UF por 
décadas. 
“La gente venía a pasar el rato 
en los sofás, tomar siestas, estudiar, 
comer juntos, salir al patio”, ilustra 
Angie Todd, embajadora de HLA y 
estudiante de psicología de segundo 
año en UF de 19 años.
Hoy este espacio tiene una cara 
distinta. La luz entrando por los ven -
tanales en el primer piso del edificio 
ilumina la mayormente desolada 
sala principal de La Casita. La edi -
ficación, tal como el resto de espa -
cios de congregación disponibles 
para estudiantes, ha visto una gran 
reducción en cuanto a números de 
visitantes dada la actual pandemia 
del COVID-19. 
“Ahora ves a lo mejor a dos o tres 
personas venir a lo largo de varias 
horas, y usualmente se mantienen 
en las salas de estudio. Ya no ves a 
personas interactuando en los sofás como antes”, continúa Todd. “La 
pandemia pegó bastante fuerte”. 
El uso obligatorio de mascarillas 
faciales, enforzamiento del distan -
ciamiento social a seis pies de dis -
tancia, registración virtual al entrar 
al edificio, reducción de la capacidad 
y el cierre temporal de algunos espa -
cios son algunas de las medidas de 
seguridad que se pueden encontrar 
al visitar La Casita. Al llegar, emba -
jadores de HLA le dan la bienvenida 
a los visitantes y les ofrecen un breve 
recorrido por los espacios de La Casi -
ta. Dentro de las paredes del edificio 
se puede sentir el espíritu de comu -
nidad e inclusividad que inspiró la 
creación del instituto.
En el segundo piso del edificio 
se encuentra un gran mural detal -
lando la trayectoria e historia de la 
comunidad hispana en UF y el con -
texto histórico del surgimiento de La 
Casita como espacio seguro para la 
congregación y socialización de estu -
diantes hispanos. 
Establecida en 1994, La Casita es 
el resultado del activismo vigoroso 
y organización efectiva por parte de 
los estudiantes latinos e hispanos 
de UF. Con el enfoque primario de 
servir no sólo como un espacio de 
convivencia sino también como un 
espacio en el que se fomenta la edu -
cación comunitaria, La Casita tiene 
una larga historia como ambiente 
para conversaciones abiertas y hon -
estas sobre las distintas experiencias 
compartidas por los estudiantes que 
ocupan este espacio. 
Una de las metas principales del 
instituto ha sido combatir la alien -
ación y aislamiento que los estudi -
antes latinos e hispanos enfrentan al salir de regiones altamente hispanas 
tales como el Sur de Florida y llegar a 
una institución predominantemente 
blanca como lo es UF. Al proveer un 
espacio seguro y abierto para estos 
estudiantes, La Casita enfatiza el 
sentido de comunidad y unidad den -
tro de la universidad. Sin embargo, 
luchar contra este sentimiento de 
soledad en medio de un año de dis -
tanciamiento social y aislamiento 
preventivo resulta un desafío sin 
precedentes. 
“Ser un estudiante de primer año 
en este tiempo es tan difícil, y los 
que somos estudiantes de años supe -
riores sabemos como todo cambio,” 
comentó Victoria Grant, presidenta 
de la Asociación de Estudiantes 
Hispanos – HSA por sus siglas en 
inglés – y  estudiante de neurocien -
cia de cuarto año en UF de 21 años. 
“Hay muchísimas oportunidades de 
involucrarse y conocer gente, pero a 
veces vas a tener que hacer un voto 
de confianza y confiar que tienes lo 
que se necesita y que vas a encontrar 
gente que es afín a ti, que tiene una 
mentalidad similar a la tuya, y con 
esa confianza salir al mundo”. 
Mediante una gran variedad de 
eventos virtuales, la comunidad la -
tina e hispana de UF ha mantenido 
el espíritu de colaboración y con -
gregación que se retrataba en los es -
pacios de La Casita en los tiempos 
pre-pandemia. 
Grant hace énfasis en la her -
ramienta de Gator Connect como 
puente entre los estudiantes y las 
distintas oportunidades de partici -
pación en la comunidad, sugiriendo 
contactar directamente a los miem -
bros de la directiva de cualquier organización en la que esté intere -
sado. También menciona el rol de 
las redes sociales y el sitio web de 
HSA como recurso para encontrar in -
formación sobre la organización así 
como las organizaciones afiliadas a 
HSA. “Encuentra un lugar que fun -
cione y encuentra un hogar allí; y si 
no lo encuentras en un lugar lo en -
contrarás en otro, solo toma tiempo 
y esfuerzo”. 
Aparte de proveer un espacio físi -
co para fomentar la comunidad, La 
Casita también sirve para conectar a 
los estudiantes a los distintos recur -
sos a su disponibilidad dentro del 
campus. Como edificio, La Casita of -
rece espacios de estudio, una cocina 
a disponibilidad de los estudiantes y 
salones de conferencia en los cuales algunos profesores ofrecen instruc -
ción auxiliar. 
“Como embajadora, amo cuando 
la gente viene y me pregunta [sobre 
los recursos disponibles] porque me 
da mucho placer darle a todos los 
mismos recursos que yo tuve”,  co -
mentó Todd. “Definitivamente diría 
que vengan y pidan un recorrido, e 
inmediatamente te sentirás incluido 
en una gran familia. No tienes que 
conocer a nadie aquí; todos son tan 
amables y abiertos que se va a sentir 
como una segunda familia”.
La Casita está abierta de lunes a 
viernes las horas entre 10 a.m. y 5 
p.m.
kvillarroel@alligator.org.
LAS PRUEBAS QUINCENALES, EL 
RASTREO DE CONTACTO Y LAS 
ALTERNATIVAS DE 
HYFLEX REVOLUCIONAN
 LOS ESTUDIOS PRESENCIALES
Por Manny Rea, Sofia Echeverry y 
Valeria Pagnani
Escritores de Caim án
Traducido por Valeria Pagnani
Los esfuerzos de distribuir pruebas 
de COVID-19 de UF se han mantenido 
constantes durante la primera semana 
y media de clases. Durante los últimos 
siete días, las tasas de positividad se han 
estancado en un promedio de alrededor del 
2%.
La universidad recibió 2.663 pruebas 
negativas de profesores, personal y 
estudiantes más 37 pruebas positivas 
recogidas de sus laboratorios el lunes. El lunes pasado, 4.547 dieron negativo y 47 
positivo.
Los resultados positivos totales de 
COVID-19 en los afiliados de la UF 
alcanzaron los 7.562 y el número de 
personas en cuarentena se redujo de 1.286 
el jueves a 925 el martes, según el tablero.
Esta primavera, el 40% de los estudiantes 
se están preparando para clases presenciales. 
Con 350 salones disponibles y 4,908 clases 
presenciales para primavera, los estudiantes 
y la facultad de UF están confiando en 
protocolos como pruebas obligatorias, uso 
de mascarillas y distanciamiento social para 
permanecer a salvo del COVID-19.
¿Qué ocurre si alguien en una clase 
presencial da positivo para COVID-19? 
Las clases presenciales no se moverán 
a en-línea, pero los individuos que den 
positivos se unirán a una alternativa en-
línea o HyFlex mientras que esperan por 
el OK en su estatus One.UF de “regreso a 
las instalaciones”, escribió la Directora de Asuntos Estudiantiles, Sara Tanner. 
Los individuos que den positivo deben 
autoaislarse durante 10 días desde el inicio de 
los síntomas. Los individuos asintomáticos 
deben autoaislarse durante 10 días después 
de su colección de laboratorio, según la 
línea directa Screen, Test & Protect. Ellos 
tampoco serán obligados a hacerse pruebas 
nuevamente durante 90 días debido a que 
cualquier prueba positiva resulta del cuerpo 
deshaciéndose del virus. 
Los estudiantes en la clase no serán 
notificados de que alguien en su clase dio 
positivo a no ser que han estado en contacto 
cercano con un estudiante positivo para 
COVID-19. El contacto cercano se define 
como la distancia de 2 metros (6 pies) por 
al menos 15 minutos a partir de las 48 horas 
antes del inicio de los síntomas hasta que la 
persona esté aislada, escribió Tanner. 
De ser este el caso, los oficiales de salud 
pública se comunicarán con las personas 
de infección sospechosa o confirmada para recordar a quien sea que han podido 
contagiar y alertar a esos contactos, según 
la iniciativa de Screen, Test & Protect de 
UF Health. Personas con contacto cercano 
tendrán que autoaislarse durante 14 días. 
Los miembros de la facultad tendrán 
acceso a ver quien ha sido autorizado para 
asistir a clases, pero la aplicación de la 
ley por permanecer fuera de clase recaerá 
en la responsabilidad de cada individuo 
o sanciones escolares como suspensión y 
expulsión, escribió Tanner.
“El ayudar a mantener a nuestra 
comunidad sana es una responsabilidad 
compartida”, escribió. “Es la responsabilidad 
del individuo seguir las normas y quedarse 
en cuarentena/aislamiento como es 
apropiado”.
En el otoño, no hubo casos de 
propagación comunitaria en el aula, 
escribió Tanner. En el otoño se vieron un 
35% de clases presenciales o híbridas en las 
secciones de cursos de pregrado, posgrado 
y profesionales.
Lea el resto en línea en alligator.orgComo estudiantes Latinos pueden usar los recursos de La Casita esta primavera 
¿Qué pasa si mi compañero de clase tiene COVID-19?Isabella Barnet / / Alligator Staff
Un foto de La Casita.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
NEW DISCOVERY ELIMINATES COMMON
SEXUAL PROBLEMS!
All Natural Male Enhancement
Product Increases Staying Power, 
Performance, & Pleasure.
Risk Free 60 Day Guarantee &
FREE SHIPPING
15% Discount with coupon perform09
Visit: TryProZyte.com
1-25-1-16
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
solution on page 10The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         2-15-21-6-14
Now you can easily submit Now you can easily submit 
your classified ad for print your classified ad for print 
and/or web editions right and/or web editions right 
through our website!through our website!
just go to:just go to:
www.www.alligatoralligator .org.org
We are seeking current 4-40 & 2-20 licensed 
insurance producers for a new Property and 
Casualty Agency opening soon in the Ocala and 
Gainesville areas. Must have license before hire. 
Flexible schedule, competitive pay, base wage 
plus commission and bonuses. If interested 
please email amandamree@gmail.com with 
your contact information to set up an interview.
3-8-21-8-141For Rent
furnished15 Services
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                      2-1-21-4-2
4x2 HOUSE, 2 BLOCKS 2 UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands areas. Immed oc -
cupancy. ABSOLUTELY HUGE! Gorgeous 
Wood Floors, cent AC/HT, dishwasher, laun -
dry room, fenced, pets OK $1,795 per month. 
352-665-8166                               1-26-20-6-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
★★LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION ★★
2 bedroom houses & apartments 
all price ranges
pets arranged
text or call 352-359-2304
2-8-21-5-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 
or visit RefrigerantFinders.com 
1-25-1-1313 Wanted
answers on pg 101. GEOGRAPHY: The United States shares a land 
border with how many countries?
2. HISTORY: When did the Great Fire of London 
take place?
3. MEASUREMENTS: What does a sphygmoma -
nometer measure?
4. FOOD & DRINK: What kind of food has varieties 
called castelvetrano, manzanilla and nyon?
5. TELEVISION: What was the name of the Cone -
heads' home planet ("Saturday Night Live")?
6. MOVIES: How many versions of "A Star Is Born" 
have been made?
7. LITERATURE: The title of William Faulkner's 
novel "The Sound and the Fury" is taken from 
which of Shakespeare's plays?
8. SCIENCE: What does the acronym DNA stand for?
9. MUSIC: What is a diggeridoo?
10. CURRENCY: Whose likeness is depicted on the 
U.S. $50 bill?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
By Craig Stowe
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/25/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/25/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, January 25, 2021
ACROSS
1 Hesitant sounds
4 Grand __ Auto: 
video game
9 A and B, for 
blood
14 Long of “Third 
Watch”
15 Gung-ho
16 Finnish bills
17 Method
18 Entirety of a 
manufacturer’s 
goods
20 Sent out
22 Inspiring Greek 
group of nine 
sisters
23 U.S. Forest 
Service mascot 
since 1944
26 __ and found
29 Peace of mind
30 Hightailed it
31 Namesake of a 
new wing, often
32 Dolphin 
communication 
method
35 Oregon city south 
of Salem
36 4, in 2 + 2 = 4
39 Indoor tanning 
aid
41 Reuben bread
42 Put-down
44 Inception
46 Lighter brand
47 Degree for a 
CFO
48 [Purchase  
at your own  
risk]
52 Floride, par 
exemple
53 Out-of-office 
investigator
56 Late-night host 
O’Brien
58 Whip (up), as 
grub
59 Tumbling seed, 
and a hint to each 
row of circled 
letters
63 AAA service
64 Author Asimov
65 Lawful
66 Night before
67 Rock or pop
68 Traditional piano 
key wood
69 Like half a deck 
of cardsDOWN
1 Not prudent
2 Swamp gas
3 Final approvals
4 Conical home
5 “Jude the 
Obscure” author 
Thomas
6 Big head on the 
set
7 Nourished
8 Writer Capote
9 Lunar New Years
10 Holiday fireplace 
blazer
11 “Orange Is the 
New Black” extra
12 Geological 
period
13 Toronto-to-D.C. 
dir.
19 Mangy dog
21 Hawaiian strings
24 __ flakes: cereal
25 Body part 
thoughtfully 
tugged on
27 PlayStation 
maker
28 Sloth’s hangout
31 Fool
33 Norsk 
Folkemuseum 
city
34 Macadamia __35 Pair of madmen?
36 Evaluate, with 
“up”
37 Army outfit
38 Female ’80s 
arcade sensation
40 Like neat freaks
43 As good as 
expected
45 Graffiti 
signatures
47 Mix at a party
49 Irish pooch
50 Smitten51 Slow-boiled, as 
prunes
53 Convection oven 
need
54 Water escape 
route
55 Unc’s spouse
57 “Good one!”
59 “The __ is up!”
60 Employ
61 Tot’s mealtime 
protector
62 Prefix with 
friendly
By Steve Marron and C.C. Burnikel
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/20/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/20/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2021
ACROSS
1 Guthrie’s “Today” 
co-host
5 Apple tablet
9 Easily bruised 
Cajun veggie
13 Collectively
15 Possessive shout
16 Currency with 
Khomeini’s 
picture
17 “Same here!”
18 Greek salad 
ingredient
19 Out of sight
20 It takes getting 
used to
23 Note dispenser
25 Large tea 
dispenser
26 Geese cries
27 Native American 
leaders
31 Put a cap on
32 One of its first 
customers was 
a collector of 
broken laser 
pointers
33 IRS forms expert
36 Just slightly
37 Brown ermine
39 Born and __
40 Theater backdrop
41 High time?
42 “Shrek” princess
43 Exuberant 
compliment
46 Some blue jeans
48 Sea-__ Airport
49 Observe
50 Morning news 
deliverers ... 
or based on a 
hidden word 
in each, what 
20-, 27- and 
43-Across are?
54 Late notice?
55 “The __ Report”: 
1976 bestseller
56 Bangkok natives
59 Ticket stub abbr.
60 Meadow mamas
61 Fires off
62 Programmer’s 
alternative to “if”
63 Yom Kippur ritual
64 Heavy homework 
amount
DOWN
1 Most common 
surname in Korea2 Half of snake 
eyes
3 Ryokan floor 
cover
4 Political alliance
5 “Everything’s 
OK”
6 Berth place
7 Initial poker 
payment
8 Tie on a track
9 Instruments with 
stops
10 Key-cutting site
11 Raging YouTube 
posts
12 Sheltered from 
the wind
14 Plumlike Asian 
fruit
21 GoDaddy 
purchase
22 Boris Johnson, 
e.g.
23 Book with insets
24 Clichéd
28 Auction action
29 Africa’s  
Sierra __
30 Trade name 
letters
33 Flaky bakery 
product
34 Tubular pasta35 “Opposites 
attract,” e.g.
37 Kitchen bigwig-
in-waiting
38 A.L.’s Blue Jays
39 Show __
41 Black, in Biarritz
42 Rhinestone 
surfaces
43 __ Nicole Brown 
of “Community”
44 Taking a breather
45 Monet’s May46 Record company 
imprint
47 Heroic tales
50 Sit for a portrait
51 Bygone audio 
brand
52 66 and others: 
Abbr.
53 Flightless bird of 
the pampas
57 Altar affirmation
58 Phishing target, 
briefly
01/19/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.answers below1. What NFL wide receiver holds the record 
for most yards from scrimmage in a game 
with 336, set in the 1989 season? (Hint: 
Despite his nickname, he never played for 
the Miami Dolphins.)
2. What ABC sportscaster had the 
unfortunate task of reporting "They're all 
gone" in the aftermath of the 1972 Munich 
Olympics hostage crisis?
3. The Autodromo Internacional do Algarve 
is a racetrack located in what country?
4. Name the 1980 Scripps National Spell -
ing Bee champion who became the event's 
official pronouncer in 2003.
5. What two English Premier League foot -
ball clubs play each other in the Second 
City Derby rivalry match?
6. What Michigan Wolverines running back 
was selected by the New York Giants in the 
first round of the 1995 NFL Draft?
7. What Oklahoma City Thunder player 
led the NBA in blocks per game for two 
straight seasons from 2011-13?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-15-21
24 Pets
FROZEN RAW BEEF
In Bulk For Your Pets.
$1.50/lb. Call Mike, 334-414-7297.
1-25-1-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
11..    HHaaiirrppiieeccee  
11..    WWhheenn  rreeqquuiirreedd  55..    ________  lleeaaff
22..    MMaannyy66..    RReemmoovvee
33..    RRaaiissee77..    RReevveerrssee
44..    IInnssttaannccee  UUEEPPTTEEOO
IIMMYYLLEETTEELLMMPPAA
EESSEEAARR
UUTTMMPPNNEEEE
AAEEEEVVLLTTEERRIINNTTEEVV
NNMMOOEEMMTTAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TToouuppeeee    55AA--MMaappllee    66AA--EErraassee    77AA--IInnvveerrtt
11DD--TTiimmeellyy    22DD--UUmmpptteeeenn    33DD--EElleevvaattee    44DD--MMoommeenntt    BB--PPaappeerr  mmoonneeyy11--2255--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  wwaass  ffiirrsstt  uusseedd  iinn  CChhiinnaa  dduurriinngg  
tthhee  SSoonngg  DDyynnaassttyy  ((AADD  996600--11227799))..
BONUS
Sports Quiz  answers1. Willie "Flipper" 
Anderson. 
2. Jim McKay.
3. Portugal.
4. Jacques Bailly.5. Aston Villa F.C. 
and Birmingham 
City F.C.
6. Tyrone Wheatley.
7. Serge Ibaka.Trivia Test  answers1. Two, Mexico and Canada
2. 1666
3. Blood pressure
4. Olives
5. Remulak6. Four
7. "Macbeth"
8. Deoxyribonucleic Acid
9. An Australian wind instrument 
10. Ulysses Grant: PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
 alligatoralligator
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
CryptoQuote  answer10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021
The more unintelligent a
man is, the less mysterious
existence seems to him.
— Arthur Schopenhauer
pleaseplease   recyclerecycle
 this newspaper. this newspaper.
thank you.thank you.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
Gaining Momentum
Lacking marquee players, the men’s basketball 
team is fourth in conference play with a 5-4 record. 
Scan the QR code to read more.After an 0-5 start in 
conference play, the women’s 
basketball team won two 
straight in an attempt to turn 
their season around before the 
SEC Conference Tournament.FEATURE
KINSEY AND AVERY GOELZ WILL 
SUIT UP FOR THE ORANGE AND 
BLUE FOR THE FIRST TIME ON 
FEB. 13 AGAINST USF
By Zachary Huber 
Sports Writer
It’s rare to witness siblings become Division 
I athletes. The chances are even slimmer to see 
them compete side by side. But Avery and Kin -
sey Goelz are an unusual duo — even if it’s 
not obvious when they step out on the softball 
diamond. 
The powerful pairing almost didn’t come to 
fruition, but they’ll now both suit up in orange 
and blue this spring.
Avery and Kinsey weren’t the first Divi -
sion I athletes in their family. Their parents, 
T.J. and Liz, played baseball and softball at the 
University of North Florida, where they met 
during a workout.
T.J. said they met in the weight room. To -
ward the end of baseball’s workout, softball 
came in.
“She came in, and I said, ‘Who’s that?’” T.J 
said.
Their relationship blossomed and a fairytale 
romance turned into 25 years together.
Shortly after their marriage, the Goelz be -
came pregnant with their first child. Five 
months into the pregnancy, Liz’s routine 
checkup became a rush to the hospital. Doc -
tors told T.J. his wife was in labor. 
“I almost fell down after hearing the news,” 
he said.
He then glanced down at his smart watch, 
realizing it was four months too soon. 
While at the hospital, doctors did every -
thing they could to delay the birth because the 
baby’s lungs weren’t fully developed yet, he 
said. 
If the baby were born at 24 weeks, her 
chances of survival would increase from 10-
15% to 40%, he said. He met with clergy while 
doctors were doing everything they could to 
stop Liz from going into labor.
“That was pretty eye-opening,” he said. 
“They wanted me to make funeral arrange -
ments just in case the baby didn’t make it.”
On April 30, 1999, the baby girl was born — 
10 days after the doctors started treatment to 
slow down her pregnancy. T.J. and Liz, while 
admiring their new baby girl through a neona -
tal intensive care unit incubator, were flipping 
through a baby names book. They stopped at 
the sight of the name Kinsey, meaning victori -
ous in Middle English.
“We needed her to win that battle and be 
victorious so that she could live,” T.J. said.
And that baby was Kinsey Goelz, who still 
had to fight for her life. 
She was born at 1 lb., 8 oz., and lost 4 oz 
after her birth. At two months, she had eye 
surgery, weighing only 2 lbs.  She was so small 
that T.J. could take his wedding ring and slide 
it over her hand and onto her shoulder. 
After 88 days in the neonatal intensive care 
unit, the Goelz strolled out of the hospital and 
into the parking lot for the first time as a fam -
ily. 
Despite waves of emotions with Kinsey’s birth story, T.J. and Liz welcomed Avery, their 
second daughter, without complications on 
June 21, 2002. 
***
Growing up, the sisters, while different, 
shared an inseparable bond. 
As a 4-year-old, Avery tried to give herself 
a haircut — a story among Kinsey’s favorites. 
Kinsey said Avery picked up scissors and 
gave herself an impromptu haircut. The first 
time she did, she was only missing strands 
in some spots. A couple of weeks later, she 
messed her hair up in the front. 
“She had to get her haircut basically like a 
boy,” Kinsey said. “I remember my dad saying 
that if she ever got ahold of the scissors again, 
that they would just shave her entire head, so 
she never cut her hair again.”
Kinsey always lived life by the book, T.J. 
said. Avery was always outgoing and spunky.
“We think she’s (Avery) going to be a good 
lawyer because she makes really good argu -
ments quickly on her feet,” he said. “There’s 
times where we tell her something and she 
comes back with something, and I’ll look away 
and go ‘Damn, she’s right.’”
The sisters see parts of who they are in their 
parents.
Kinsey said she inherited her father’s 
blonde hair and has to work to get good grades 
in school like her mother.
Unlike Kinsey, Avery said she’s book smart 
like her father. She also has her mother’s per -
sonality quirk of not backing down in an argu -
ment. 
On the softball field, Avery inherited her 
mother’s athleticism and speed, Kinsey said. 
“I’m nowhere near as athletic as Avery,” 
Kinsey said. “I always joke that I got my dad’s 
athleticism because he was a pitcher and didn’t 
have to do all the super-athletic stuff that a 
middle infielder would have to do.” 
***
As time went on, their connection only 
grew.
In 2015, the sisters were in a travel ball 
tournament championship game in California. 
It was one of the few times the duo played on 
the same team because of their four year age 
difference.
Kinsey came up to bat late in a scoreless 
game with a runner on third. Avery watched 
in the dugout as Kinsey sent a chopper over 
the third baseman’s head, scoring the game-
winning run. 
Avery said she was jumping and scream -
ing in the dugout, repeating ‘That’s my sister! 
That’s my sister!’
The sisters also fondly reflect on when 
they both clobbered an out-of-the-park home 
run on Kinsey’s senior night. The game was 
memorable, they said, because they shared the 
spotlight. 
But 700 miles limited their dynamic.
When Kinsey graduated from Lakewood 
Ranch High School in Bradenton, Florida, she 
committed and enrolled to play softball at an -
other SEC school — Mississippi State.
While on a visit, Avery realized she wanted 
to be a Gator and committed in ninth grade even though her father was a diehard FSU fan.
Despite telling her Gator fan mother she 
could never go to Florida, she realized UF was 
a solid option for academics and softball. Her 
father, she said, was supportive and wanted 
her to do what she wanted, so she wouldn’t 
have to transfer like Kinsey. 
Kinsey left Mississippi State for Florida after 
two years as a Bulldog. During her freshman 
fall, the infielder suffered an elbow injury. In 
the last game of the fall season, Kinsey played 
shortstop when a slapper hit the ball up the 
middle. She knew she had to field and throw 
the ball quickly because the batter was a 
speedster. After she fielded the ball, she threw 
it sidearm, getting it to the first baseman in 
time to get her out. 
When she released the ball, she felt a pop 
in her elbow.
The trainer told her to ice it, but the pain 
persisted. The next week, she returned to the 
trainer and told her that her elbow still didn’t 
feel right. 
Another week went by and it was the end 
of the fall season when all infielders had to 
complete a velocity test. Her throwing speed, 
she said, was 10 mph slower than normal. 
That’s when Kinsey knew something was 
wrong. The trainer, however, still wouldn’t let 
her see a doctor about her elbow.
She decided to go to her head coach Vann 
Stuedeman, who yelled at her and insisted 
that she didn’t need to see a doctor about her 
elbow, she said. Eventually, Stuedeman com -
promised and allowed her to see a doctor to 
help her recover from her injury mentally and 
physically. 
Meanwhile, Kinsey kept her family updated 
on what was going on in Starkville, Missis -
sippi, T.J. said.
“They almost kind of blew it off like they 
thought it wasn’t real,” he said.
When Kinsey came home for Christmas 
break, T.J. said he had to get involved after 
seeing Kinsey in pain. 
“I had to go back up there and basically 
insist that she gets checked out and get a full 
MRI,” he said. “I think that they (Mississippi 
State) even got mad at me for that, but I’m su -
per thankful that I did.”
Even after the MRI revealed that Kinsey 
had a partial tear in her elbow, the coaches 
and training staff tried to convince her that she 
didn’t need to redshirt.
Kinsey is a shortstop and throwing is a piv -
otal part of her position. T.J. said he told the 
coaching staff that she would get Tommy John 
surgery and miss the season.
Kinsey didn’t have to miss a full year after 
the surgery, but she was still sidelined for half 
the year, T.J. said. 
Frustrated by the coaching staff, T.J. said 
Kinsey’s injury wasn’t taken seriously even 
though she would do anything for her team.
He recalled a fall showcase game that he 
coached where she ran for a long foul ball on 
a windy day while playing shortstop. The ball 
kept blowing away from her but she stayed 
with it and ran face-first into the fence and 
caught the pole. She somehow managed to 
make the spectacular catch while T.J. hurried 
over to make sure she was alright. 
“She got up and she’s bleeding and her 
teeth are all messed up, and she’s just trying to spit and she’s like, ‘I’m okay, Dad. I’m okay.’”
He told Kinsey that he’d substitute someone 
for her even though she didn’t want to leave 
the field. 
“For them to assume that she was faking it 
or that it wasn’t a real injury is crazy,” he said.
The Alligator made several attempts to 
reach out to Mississippi State University athlet -
ics for comment but the phone calls and emails 
went unreturned. Stuedeman was relieved of 
her coaching duties after the 2019 season. She 
currently isn’t coaching softball.
When she decided to transfer, Kinsey said 
the road to Florida was a “no-brainer” because 
her sister was already committed.
***
Unlike Kinsey, Avery overcame her biggest 
obstacle before she laced her cleats to compete 
at the collegiate level.
Her high school softball team, the Lake -
wood Ranch Mustangs, coached by her father, 
were undefeated and considered the country’s 
best high school softball team. 
Their hopes for the 2020 season shattered 
when the COVID-19 pandemic swept across 
the nation. 
Avery was heartbroken. She felt like all the 
stars aligned for the Mustangs to win a state 
championship based on their key players re -
turning. Their roster had seven players who 
were committed to play Division I college soft -
ball. They also had won 38 out of their last 39 
games.  
“I cried about it for a little bit,” she said. “I 
never knew that would be my last high school 
game. There's no senior night. There's no state 
championship. Like, we're just done, like, 
there's nothing we can do to make that up.”
However, the Goelz family is thrilled that 
the sisters are on the same team again. Liz and 
T.J. said they’ll covet Feb. 13. It will be the 
first time they get to see them take the field 
at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium for the first 
time — together.
“It’s going to be pretty emotional,” T.J. 
said. “It was incredibly special for them to get 
the opportunity to be at the same school and 
playing together again.” 
Florida head coach Tim Walton said he’s 
thankful to have the Goelz sisters suit up for 
the Gators. 
“They have a unique opportunity in front 
of them that not all siblings get to share at this 
level,” he said. “I look forward to seeing them 
grow as players, as people and as sisters com -
peting together for championships as Gators.”
Feb. 13 will be a marvelous moment for the 
Goelz family after all the heartache they’ve en -
dured. 
Avery and Kinsey will climb the concrete 
dugout steps, emerging from the Florida dug -
out for the National Anthem when the Gators 
play the University of South Florida. They’ll 
line up along the third base side with the rest 
of the Florida players, but Avery and Kinsey 
will stand out because of what’s stamped on 
the backs of their jerseys: Goelz.
 
 @zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgSoftball is a family affair for the Goelz sisters12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2021
LACROSSE
US LACROSSE MAGAZINE 
PREDICTS THE GATORS 
TO BE RANKED EIGHTH 
AFTER RANKING SIXTH 
LAST SEASON
By Karina Wilson
Sports Writer 
The last time the Florida lacrosse 
team laced up was March 10, 2020 
against Navy at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium. 
It was an emphatic 17-9 win over 
the No. 19 team in the country. How -
ever, UF’s dominant victory would be its last in 2020, before the season 
was cut short due to the COVID-19 
pandemic.
The squad finished the season 
ranked sixth in the nation with a 6-2 
record. Now, the Gators are more 
than ready for 2021. 
“Our team is coming off of a 
strong fall and is ready to take on 
the spring,” head coach Amanda 
O’Leary said. “Across the board, 
people made some giant strides for -
ward individually, and I think as a 
team we’ve made some really posi -
tive strides forward.”
US Lacrosse Magazine has the 
Gators ranked eighth. O’Leary, how -ever, anticipates a lot of challenges 
for the upcoming season. 
“We are on the road for the first 
eight games, so we’re going to have 
to make sure we’re focused,” she 
said.
While seniors were stripped of 
their season, defender Cara Trom -
betta will be returning to the lineup 
with the extra year of eligibility she’s 
been granted due to the pandemic. 
“I didn’t really feel finished yet,” 
Trombetta said. “I didn’t want all 
that hard work to amount to noth -
ing.” 
Trombetta finished the 2020 sea -
son with six honors. The defense -
man made Inside Lacrosse’s Division 
I Preseason All-America First Team 
as well as the Tewaaraton Watch 
List. She was also the AAC Defend -
er of the Week Feb. 10 and 17 and 
March 2. 
Her performance off the field 
and in the classroom landed her on 
Spring SEC Academic Honor Roll 
and the AAC All-Academic Team. 
She closed out the brief season on 
ILWomen’s All-America First Team.
“I still get up, work out, go on the 
fields with my teammates and work 
hard every day,” Trombetta said. “I 
want to win the national champion -
ship. That’s something that means 
so much more to me than individual 
awards.”
Senior midfielder Shannon Kava -
naugh also has high expectations for 
the 2021 season.“I’m definitely excited just to get 
out on the field again,” Kavanaugh 
said. “So, I’m definitely looking 
forward to being able to play some 
good competition again.”
Kavanaugh was the player to beat 
last season, finishing with eight ac -
colades.  Similar to Trombetta, Kava -
naugh began 2020 on the Tewaara -
ton Watch List as well as Inside 
Lacrosse’s Division I Preseason All-
America Second Team.
Player of the week is Kavana -
ugh’s specialty, as she was US La -
crosse’s National Player of the Week 
Feb. 17 and IWLCA’s National Of -
fensive Player of the Week Feb. 18. 
Kavanaugh was the AAC’s midfield -
er of the week Feb. 10 and 17 and 
March 2 and 9.
Academically, she made Spring 
SEC Academic Honor Roll as well 
as the AAC’s All-Academic Team. 
She ended 2020 on ILWomen’s All-
America First Team. 
Heading into 2021’s season, Ka -
vanaugh is eager to pick up where 
the team left off last March.
“Going into each game and just 
focusing on winning each one is 
what’s going to be most important,” 
Kavanaugh said.
To O’Leary, the pandemic is the 
biggest concern. She said she has 
urged her players about the impor -
tance of staying safe during the off -
season. 
“Playing our season is the main 
priority, so we need to do everything we can to make sure that we’re tak -
ing all precautions,” O’Leary said. 
However, Florida’s head coach is 
optimistic about the spring season. 
O’Leary’s roster remains nearly 
identical, adding only seven new re -
cruits. 
Brie Catts is a two-time Georgia 
state champion and four-time Under 
Armour Underclass All-American. In 
2017 and 2018, the midfielder was 
invited to Nike Elite 120 and Under 
Armour 150 — two invite-only re -
cruiting events. Catts was a varsity 
starter all four years of high school. 
Goalkeeper Elyse Finnelle made 
Inside Lacrosse’s Top-40 Young 
Gun Junior Watch List. The Heather 
Leigh Albert Award finalist was an 
Under Armour All-American Balti -
more Champion in 2019-20. She was 
a four-sport varsity athlete in high 
school.
The duo will be joined by fellow 
freshmen midfielder Josie Hahn, at -
tacker Emma LoPinto, defenseman 
Celeste Forte, midfielder Macy Za -
ban and defenseman Alexa Waters. 
Going into its 12th year, the pro -
gram is ready to chomp.
“We have the same goals that we 
always do. We want to win a con -
ference championship, we want to 
compete for a national champion -
ship,” O’Leary said.
@kk_rinaa
kwilson@alligator.orgA look ahead to the Gators lacrosse season 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Midfielder Shannon Kavanagh cuts toward the goal during a 15-14 
win over Maryland last season on Feb. 15. She scored a career-high 
eight goals in the upset win in the Field Hockey and Lacrosse Complex 
at College Park, Maryland.
