We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperFIELD MAINTENANCE AND 
EQUIPMENT MANAGERS 
WORK HARD TO ELEVATE 
THE FOOTBALL PROGRAM
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer
Game days are cherished traditions 
at The Swamp, and preparations to 
maintain UF’s reputation as the great-
est on the field are not taken lightly. 
The players are expected to play their 
best, but others are in charge of ensur-
ing they have the means to do so.
The field maintenance crew is vital 
to the Gators’ game day presentation 
as it is the first thing a fan encounters. 
About 86,000 fans were greeted Sept. 4 
with the vibrant colors of orange and 
blue, exuding the Gator pride. 
In the week leading up to a game, 
the field maintenance staff works 
about 80 hours to set the stage, Jason 
Smith, UF’s director of sports turf, said. 
Before the season opener, the mainte-
nance staff works substantially more: 
about 100 hours in the week.
Each day of the week leading up 
to a game is spent on distinct tasks. 
On Monday, field measurements are 
made. Tuesday, the staff lays out sten-
cils and strings to sketch the logos. 
Wednesday is the first day paint hits 
the field starting with a white base 
coat. Thursday and Friday are the big 
paint days where all finishing touches 
are made.
“I’ll get up here really early mow-
ing, spraying some liquid nutrients like iron that greens the grass up,” Smith 
said. 
The maintenance team usually 
paints on both the Thursday and Fri-
day before a home game from 6 a.m. 
to noon so the paint has adequate time 
to dry before sunset, Smith said. 
On the weeks the Gators are on the 
road, Smith and his staff spend time 
sweeping and levelling the field, as 
well as using rakes to perk the grass 
back up. Repairing the field is more of 
a priority than painting it, he said.  
To get a jumpstart on the next 
week, the field staff stays an additional 
three to four hours after players and 
fans leave the game, Smith said. 
“The faster we can get it back in 
shape, the more time we have for it to 
heal and recover,” he said. 
At the end of the day, Smith said 
the most rewarding part of the job is 
to step back and see the finished prod-
uct. 
It is crucial that the players’ stage 
is always ready for the spotlight, but 
a performance is never complete with-
out the proper costume. 
Similar to Smith’s pre-game week, 
Jeff McGrew, the director of football 
equipment, also spends a considerable 
amount of time on preparations for the 
coveted show — game day. 
McGrew and his staff put out all 
the game apparel for the players such 
as shoulder pads, helmets, cleats and 
game gloves. Additionally, they also 
lay out the game day apparel for all of 
the football coaches and staff.
“We usually have our staff in four 
to five hours before kickoff,” McGrew 
Gators offense offers highs and lows in debut
Florida runs rampant over Owls but can’t find 
rhythm through the air in first game.
Find this story on pg. 11Pandemic freshmen
New UF students find their place, pg. 6
Baby Gators exposed to COVID-19
Dozens of toddlers are now in quarantine, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 3
Photo by Elena Barrera
Field maintenance staff add the final touches to the Steve Spurrier-Florida Field in preparation 
for game day on Friday, Sept. 3, 2021.
BEHIND-THE-GAME
THE JOUST BETWEEN 
SCHOOL DISTRICTS AND 
THE STATE GOVERNMENT 
OVER MASKS CONTINUES
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Public Schools 
is joining the growing list of Florida 
school districts entering legal bat-
tles with state agencies over mask 
mandates.
The lawsuit is a result of an 
ongoing battle between school 
districts and the state government 
over masking in schools. As Gov. Ron DeSantis attempts to disman-
tle any attempt by local districts 
to implement mask mandates in 
schools, some districts are fight-
ing back. The results of the current 
stage of the masking saga could 
determine the future of COVID-19 
regulations in schools for this aca-
demic year.
ACPS’ lawsuit was filed on Sept. 
3 in conjunction with Broward and 
Orange counties against the Florida 
Department of Health.
The lawsuit challenges a rule, 
signed by Florida’s Surgeon Gen-
eral Scott Rivkees on Aug. 6, aimed 
to sharply limit schools’ abilities to 
enforce students wearing masks by allowing parents or legal guardians 
to opt-out their children from the 
schools’ mask mandates. The rule 
goes hand-in-hand with DeSantis’ 
July executive order to ban mask 
mandates.
The lawsuit states FDOH acted 
inappropriately by issuing the rule. 
It also states the department con-
tradicted itself by calling for CO-
VID-19 protections in schools, such 
as encouraging handwashing and 
ensuring that students who have 
tested positive for the virus stay 
home, while simultaneously allow-
ing parents to prevent their chil-
dren from wearing masks for any 
reason. ACPS’s lawsuit confronting the 
state government comes after a 
similar lawsuit filed by parents on 
Aug. 6. Days after Desantis’ execu-
tive order in July, Alachua County 
went against state rules and insti-
tuted a mask mandate for the first 
weeks of this academic year. 
In the parents’ suit, Judge 
John Cooper of Leon County ruled 
against the state government’s abil-
ity to prevent school districts from 
enacting mask mandates — setting 
a precedent for the new lawsuit 
filed by ACPS. 
Carlee Simon, the ACPS super-
intendent, released a statement on 
Friday proclaiming that, although the school district was not involved 
in the parents’ lawsuit, Judge Coo-
per’s ruling is relevant to ACPS’ 
own fight against the state.
“Judge John Cooper’s written 
order confirms what we’ve said 
all along, which is that our mask 
mandate does not violate Florida 
law,” Simon wrote. “As Judge Coo-
per has written, ‘…the Parents’ 
Bill of Rights permits local school 
boards to enact policies relating to 
health care and education, includ-
ing mask mandates.”
oateyah@alligator.org
@OAteyah.Alachua County Public Schools files lawsuit against Florida Department of HealthBringing Gators 
football to life
SEE GAMEDAY,  PAGE 5T oday’s WeatherSubscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 3
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber, zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, gaguila@alligator.org
THE UNIVERSITY 
CHANGED PARKING 
WITHOUT WARNING 
STUDENTS ON THE FIRST 
WEEK OF THE SEMESTER
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
Sophie Clark, a 19-year-old UF 
astrophysics sophomore, purchased 
a Park and Ride pass before the se-
mester started. But on the first day 
of classes when she drove into the 
Flavet Field parking lot, she was 
met with new signs allowing only 
students with green decals to park.
The day before classes, the same 
signs showed she could park there. 
The change happened overnight.
“So I basically purchased an $80 
parking pass, and now I can only 
park in a parking lot that’s about the 
same distance to my apartment,” 
Clark said.
Clark called UF’s Transportation 
and Parking Services to see if she 
could get a refund for her Park and 
Ride pass but received no response 
as of Aug. 31.
Now, undergraduate students 
are upset as two Park and Ride lots 
are no longer available for them to 
park on campus. Many discovered 
the changes during the first week 
of classes when they went to park. 
Neither UF or TAPS had alerted 
students before the first day of the 
semester.
Twenty-year-old UF account-
ing junior Jenna Zabin purchased a 
parking pass because she lives off-
campus. Before classes started, she 
looked up where she would be able 
to park, but was met with two maps 
displaying two different pieces of 
information.
She decided to test her luck on 
the first day of class. Just like Clark, 
she found the two lots were no lon-
ger available for Park and Ride stu-
dents.
“I get 50 emails a day from UF, 
but not a single one of them is about 
transportation,” she said.
Zabin said she now pays the 
same amount of money as Red One 
decal parking for a lot that is 2 to 3 
miles away.
“$160 for it to take 30 minutes 
to get to my classroom — I feel like 
it’s ridiculous,” she said. “But then I 
am put in a position where if I don’t 
pay that, then I can’t go to school.”
Zabin said if UF TAPS does not 
plan to incorporate more parking 
lots, then they should at least re-
duce the decal prices.
Red One and Park and Ride de-
cals both cost $160 annually and 
$80 per semester, according to 
TAPS. But Red One decals are only 
available for students with 50 or 
more credit hours and who live on 
campus. 
Eligibility for student parking de-
cals is based on the number of cred-
it hours earned as well as living on 
or off campus, according to TAPS. 
Students who purchase a decal are 
not guaranteed a parking space.The two Park and Ride lots that 
changed this Fall include the Flavet 
Field parking lot, which was re-
stored to student green decal park-
ing, and the commuter parking lot 
next to Garage 14, which is perma-
nently closed because it is currently 
a construction site and will later 
be the site for the new Central En-
ergy Plant Project, according to UF’s 
Campus Master Plan.
Now, Park and Ride students can 
only park in lots such as the Cul-
tural Plaza parking lot, which is in 
front of the Southwest Recreational 
Center, the Bledsoe Drive parking 
lot and the Orthopedics parking lot, 
which is near the Hilton Hotel.
However, these lots are not re-
served specifically for Park and Ride 
students. They are open to anyone 
with a parking decal at UF. There 
are no parking lots exclusively re-
served for Park and Ride decals on 
campus anymore.
Natalie Barber, a 19-year-old UF 
biology and psychology sophomore, 
said the removal of the Park and 
Ride lots makes it impossible for her 
to be safe from COVID-19.
She said she planned to drive to 
campus in the mornings to avoid 
putting her health at risk taking RTS 
buses, which are often full.
“My core classes are required in 
person and as an immunocompro-
mised person, there is no way for 
me to attend class or get to and from 
class in a way that is safe,” she said.
One student started a petition in 
hopes UF and TAPS could respond 
to demands for more parking.
The petition calls for the real-
location of the lost Park and Ride 
parking spots in places like Parking 
Garage 14, which usually has 1,000 
empty spots, according to the peti-
tion.
As of Monday, the petition has 
garnered over 1,000 signatures. 
Senior Director of TAPS Scott 
Fox said the department makes 
some parking accommodations for 
Park and Ride students every Sum-
mer as there is more available park-
ing close to campus.
“Rather than see it sit empty, we made certain areas available to Park 
and Riders so they can park closer 
to campus,” he said. 
However, as TAPS had antici-
pated near normal levels of campus 
activity and demand for parking this 
semester with more faculty, staff, 
graduate and professional students 
on campus, Fox said they had to 
revert these changes to their typical 
Fall semester allocations.
“When we reverted to ‘normal,’ 
we needed to recreate that balance 
for all of our different customer 
groups and we needed to return 
Park and Riders to Park and Ride,” 
he said.
Fox said this is usually done 
with little or no communication ev-
ery summer by changing the signs, 
and it has never been a change that 
caught people off guard or raised 
any issues or complaints.
But with the pandemic, Fox 
wrote in an email TAPS now realiz-
es it should have offered more com-
munication this year since many of 
them are returning, not just from 
the summer, but from a seventeen-
month absence.
TAPS apologizes for any incon-
venience or frustration students 
may have experienced, Fox wrote.
“Our mission is to try and make 
parking as clear and understandable 
as it can be in what is certainly a 
challenging parking landscape,” he 
said. “And we’re open to raising 
the bar and doing better, and if stu-
dents’ suggestions help us do that 
then we’re receptive and our minds 
are open.”
Both maps have been updated as 
of Aug. 17, and student decals may 
be returned to the TAPS office by 
Sept. 15 for a full refund, Fox said.
cpereria@alligator.org
@CamilaSaPereira.UF cuts designated Park 
and Ride lots for Fall, 
frustrating students
Photo by Kiara Cline
A car exits the parking lot across from Southwest Recreation 
Center on Thursday, Sept. 2, 2021.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
THOMPSON DIED OF 
COVID-19 AFTER A 20-DAY-
LONG BATTLE IN UF 
HEALTH SHANDS HOSPITAL
Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
Akeem Thompson lit up the 
room with his smile and hyped up 
crowds like no other. With his goofy 
persona and sick beats, Thompson 
brought laughter, joy and rhythm to 
Gainesville.
Despite being fully vaccinated, 
Thompson, better known as DJ Ter-
rah from 98.9 JAMZ, passed away 
Aug. 19 from COVID-19 at age 39. 
The Type 2 diabetic was admitted to 
UF Health Shands Hospital July 30 
after struggling with kidney dialysis 
for five years.
The family has set up a GoFund-
Me page in Thompson’s name and 
held a commemoration at Bo Did-
dley Plaza for him Sept. 4. As of 
Monday, the family has raised more 
than $3,000. 
Teary eyes and longing smiles 
filled Bo Diddley Plaza Saturday as 
booths and tents aligned the plaza 
to raise money for the family. Four 
major Gainesville DJ’s — Ardell 
Wright, DJ Zoo Hendrix, DJ Statuz 
and DJ Franco — mixed up the 
turntables to celebrate Thompson’s 
legacy as a DJ. 
Standing on the main stage, 
Gainesville City Commissioner Har-
vey Ward designated Sep. 4 as DJ 
Terrah Day in his honor as a COV-
ID-19 rapid test tent sat in the corner 
of the plaza to encourage people to 
get tested.
Thompson sprouted the name DJ 
Terrah as a play on the word terror-
ize, his aunt Kim Daniels said. He 
wanted to terrorize the ones and 
twos — the names for the respective 
turntables. 
Daniels remembered when she 
made cameos on a radio segment he 
held called “Health Tips from Nurse 
Kim,” where the two discussed ways 
to obtain a healthy lifestyle. Thomp-
son was passionate about helping 
others stay happy and healthy. In his final Facebook post, 
Thompson urged people to get the 
COVID-19 vaccine and attributed it 
to saving his children’s lives when 
he fell ill. 
Thompson’s kids are in his fam-
ily’s custody. Daniels recalls when 
Thompson took his daughter Justice 
into the recording studio to make 
sound bites for his radio show. 
Daniels, a UF Health case manag-
er, was one floor below Thompson 
when he was admitted to the hospi-
tal. Throughout the 20 days he spent 
at Shands, she said she raised her 
hand up to the ceiling and prayed for 
his health.
“You couldn’t say nothing bad 
about him,” Daniels said. “Even 
the DJ’s who were always in com-
petition couldn’t say nothing bad 
about him.”
Daniels also will miss Thomp-
son’s humor. She recalls a memory 
in a New York subway where Dan-
iel’s daughter, Grace, talked about 
her desire to move to the Big Apple. 
Grace shrieked when she saw a large 
rat, and Thompson joked around 
with her, causing the entire train sta-
tion to erupt in laughter. 
“We gonna miss the funny,” 
Daniels said. “That joker was a trip.”
Desean Thompson, DJ Terrah’s 
36-year-old brother, is also grieving 
the loss of Thompson.
The duo rose up together in the 
music industry, as Thompson be-
came the vice president of Go Le-
git Entertainment, Desean’s record 
label.
DJ Terrah discovered his love for 
the turntables at age 10 after watch-
ing the 1992 movie “Juice,” Desean 
said. Thompson attentively sat in 
front of the TV, watched DJ battles 
and learned the ins-and-outs of be-
ing a DJ. 
Across his career, Thompson 
took most pride in his appearance 
on BET’s “Rap City Tha Basement” 
in 2008, a show that displayed hip 
hop music videos, aired rapper inter-
views and held occasional DJ guest 
appearances.
Outside of DJing, Thompson pri-
oritized his kids, Justice, 11, Jada, 
14, and AJ, 12, Desean said. He 
wanted the best for them and sought out every opportunity to uplift them.
“He loved them a lot,” Desean 
said. “He just wanted to be the best 
father he could be.”
Lisa Canton, DJ Terrah’s 59-year-
old mother, is heartbroken at the 
loss of her eldest child. However, 
she’s proud of what her son brought 
to her family and the Gainesville 
community.
“I would never see him walk 
through the door again,” Canton 
said. It hurts her knowing that his 
kids won’t be able to grow up with 
a father.
She will always cherish his witty 
humor and contagious, sweet spirit. 
“He was a gentle giant,” she said.
Canton remembers Thompson 
as a religious man. He constantly 
prayed for his children, attended 
church online and loved the Lord, 
she said. 
He never smoked or drank, and 
he pushed his children and family to 
stay healthy, Canton said. 
Canton was Thompson’s biggest 
fan, as she watched her son bloom into a powerhouse DJ. Thompson 
went by the slogan “if you are on 
time, you are late” — he was a hard 
worker. 
“I enjoyed watching my son work 
his passion,” she said. “Akeem knew 
from the time he was 13 he wanted 
to be a DJ.”
Jessica Williams, 39, saw Thomp-
son as a brother. The two met at a 
Kappa Alpha Psi party at UF in 2001, 
where Thompson worked as the DJ.
Williams said his DJ skills 
brought him to local celebrity status 
— almost every student at UF recog-
nized Thompson’s name from 2000 
to 2010.
However, she feels Thompson 
wasn’t aware of his impact on the 
community.
“I’m teared up because if he 
knew a piece of what he did,” Wil-
liams said. “He had no idea.”
She vividly remembers his 
infectious laugh and clown per-
sona. When she got the news of 
his passing, she was on the phone 
with her sister and couldn’t help but let out a scream.
Thompson and Williams were 
close from the start of their relation-
ship. The pair had each other’s backs 
and often mused about life.
“He always saw the light at the 
end of the tunnel,” she said. “My 
heart broke ... I gained a brother that 
I didn’t even know I had.”
Thompson’s fans in the area are 
also feeling the weight of his loss. 
Gainesville resident Cherie Kelly 
went on 98.9 JAMZ in May as part 
of the Library Partnership of the Ala-
chua County Library District. During 
her interview with Thompson, Kelly 
said he was warm and kind. 
“He was just very hospitable,” 
she said. “He was exciting, very wel-
coming and hospitable.”
Thompson’s daughter Justice will 
always remember her dad’s legacy. 
He will always be close to her heart.
“He was always honest about 
his opinion,” she said. “We love 
you, daddy.”
fbuckley@alligator.org
@_faithbuckleyTerrah-rizing the turntables: Remembering Akeem “DJ Terrah” Thompson
Photo by Alan Halaly
Four of Akeem Thompson’s friends and family bow their heads in prayer at Bo Diddley Plaza on Saturday, 
Sept. 4, 2021. Rev. Karl Anderson of Upper Room Ministries led the group by delivering a sermon.
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021MILDRED RUSSELL WAS 
APPOINTED BY GOV. RON 
DESANTIS AFTER HE FORCIBLY 
REMOVED DIYONNE MCGRAW
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County School District contin-
ues to butt heads with Gov. Ron DeSantis, pro-
longing conflict over the mask mandate, two 
lawsuits and a removed school board member.
Mildred Russell was sworn into the District 
2 seat on the Alachua County School Board 
Aug. 26, replacing former school board mem-
ber Diyonne McGraw.
McGraw won the August 2020 election with 
52.36% of the vote, totaling 30,151 votes. Her 
supporters felt cheated out of their vote and 
blindsided by DeSantis’ appointment of Rus-
sell. 
“I did not vote for her. No one voted for 
her. I voted for Diyonne McGraw who won the 
race,” Jaana Gold wrote under an ACPS Face-
book post. 
“This woman is not a teacher. She home-
schooled her son. Her grandchild attends a 
charter school,” Tonks Hale commented under 
the post.
DeSantis announced Russell’s appointment 
Aug. 18 — two months after he filed executive 
order 21-147 declaring McGraw’s seat vacant 
and leaving only four board members on the 
school board.
The school board set a districtwide mask 
mandate for students beginning Aug. 10. The 
Florida Department of Education said the four 
school board members who defied DeSantis’ 
ban on mask mandates will have their salaries 
withheld. Therefore, Russell will not have her 
salary withheld because she was not a part of 
that decision.
Even if she were able to vote, Russell said 
she would not have voted to implement the 
mandate. She said parents should make a deci-
sion on masking on an individual basis.
“None of the school board members are 
doctors,” Russell said. “We’re not in the medi-cal profession. It’s not the government’s job to 
take that away from parents. And that’s what 
the governor was trying to say: let the parents 
decide if they opt out. And I would have voted 
for that.”
Regardless, Russell said her first week has 
been “busy and exciting” as she gets acclimat-
ed to the role.
Russell’s district encompasses the north-
western areas of Gainesville, from Lake Alice 
to Northwest 53rd 
Avenue. Originally 
from Paducah, Ken-
tucky, she has lived 
in Alachua County 
for 39 years. Russell 
graduated with an ac-
counting degree from 
Western Kentucky 
University.
Before moving to 
Florida, Russell and 
her husband created 
the organization Mir-
acle Life Ministries in 
1990, and they have 
started more than 
350 churches over 
the years. Russell and 
her husband have 
traveled the world 
together ever since, doing missionary work in 
countries like Indonesia, China and Russia.
When Russell must make hard decisions 
as a school board member, she said she will 
remain committed to her faith. Although she 
recognizes she’s not there to spread the word 
of God, it’s reflected in her morals.
“I trust the Lord that he will give me wis-
dom … I pray about everything, so this would 
be no different,” she said. “I’m not there to 
proselytize … I’m just there to be a Christian 
school board member.”
She also has a history of campaigning for 
Republican candidates: holding positions with 
the Alachua County Republican Executive 
Committee, the Florida Women for McCain 
Campaign and the McCain for President Cam-
paign.Russell homeschooled her two children, Re-
bekah and Jaeson, until high school. She later 
sent Rebekah to Buchholz High School, where 
she graduated, and Jaeson to Gainesville High 
School briefly before they eventually pursued 
dual enrollment and learned at home.
She fondly remembers teaching her chil-
dren at home.
“My heart’s desire is for every child in the 
Alachua County Public Schools to have the 
same kind of positive 
experience in loving 
to learn and enjoying 
learning,” she said. 
“[Jaeson] was eager 
to learn, so it was a 
really pleasant expe-
rience. My daughter 
was a little more un-
cooperative. But we 
had a good experi-
ence, nevertheless.”
Some residents 
like Elaine Al-
mond, a 45-year-old 
Gainesville resident 
and ACPS parent, are 
hopeful about Rus-
sell’s appointment.
“I would like to 
have somebody in 
that leadership position that uses more com-
mon sense,” Almond said. “To me, a lot of 
people are using more political reasons of why 
they do things, and they don’t tap into what 
God gives us, which is the common sense of 
being able to look at everything objectively and 
be able to look at both sides of the situation.”
Almond, who resides in District 2, did not 
vote for McGraw, saying McGraw’s “extremist 
views” deterred her from doing so.
Like Russell, Almond does not agree with 
the school board’s decision to enforce a mask 
mandate.
“I’m not against masks at all, and I would 
have chosen to mask my kids,” Almond said. 
“But I would have liked to have the right. The 
law states that we have a right, and, unfortu-
nately, the school board over and over again this past year has not been following the law.”
Diyonne McGraw, Russell’s predecessor, 
ran her campaign around her experiences with 
racism in ACPS as a student in the 1990s. She 
said she wanted to work toward closing the 
district’s achievement gap, improving the read-
ing comprehension and learning for students at 
a younger age, helping students find personal-
ized pathways to success and looking for ways 
to make reopening schools safer.
Social media users eventually found Mc-
Graw’s home address on her Candidate Oath 
and debated whether McGraw lived in the 
district she served. McGraw’s opponent in 
the November election, Khanh-Lien Banko, 
sued McGraw and the Alachua County Super-
visor of Elections Kim Barton because of the 
controversy. A Change petition was created 
three months ago by user “Concerned Alachua 
County Parents” to remove McGraw from the 
school board.
The Alachua County Supervisor of Elec-
tions Office later verified McGraw’s address 
was located in District 4, not District 2. Mean-
while, community organizer Chanae Jackson 
created another Change petition three months 
ago to keep McGraw in her position.
“The attorney that represented Khanh-Lien 
dropped the case,” Jackson said. “And now we 
will see what happens now that the complaint 
has been dropped. For me, I’m still not wor-
ried. Even if Diyonne does not win in court, 
which I think she will, we will just run a special 
election and get her reelected. And this case is 
such a horrible case, it will motivate people to 
the polls to ensure that she gets reelected.”
On Aug. 19, McGraw shared a Facebook 
post revealing she had taken this case to the 
Alachua County Court System and will be 
represented by her lawyer Richard Keith Alan 
II. In the screenshot of an email, McGraw’s 
spokesperson Avis W. Butler claims the gov-
ernor had no right to vacate her position and 
should not have had Russell sworn in.
“The truth shall set you free! I have faith in 
our Court System!” McGraw wrote.
jlee@alligator.org
@jiselle_lee.
THE LACK OF AN ONLINE 
OPTION MIRRORING 
A REGULAR SCHEDULE 
LEAVES PARENTS WITH 
FEWER OPTIONS FOR 
THEIR CHILDREN DURING 
THE PANDEMIC
By Bryce Brown
Alligator Staff Writer
After a year of Alachua County 
Public School students having the 
choice to learn from home, parents 
now have one less remote option. 
Following the COVID-19 out-
break in 2020, schools were advised 
to develop an innovative learning 
model in order to provide quality 
online education. Adapting to the 
new technological needs of an era 
of social distancing, Alachua Coun-
ty adopted what became known as 
Digital Academy. 
While students had the option to 
attend classes virtually or in person, 
many teachers taught live and on-
line classes simultaneously through 
a HyFlex format.  
With the full return to in-person 
classes this year and a lack of re-
sources, the state eliminated the 
Digital Academy option, said ACPS 
spokesperson Jackie Johnson.Johnson said the expectation 
is to see normal numbers of stu-
dents learning in-person again. The 
county’s mask mandate will reduce 
classroom spread, keeping students 
in face-to-face classroom settings, 
she said. 
“It’s not an ideal situation, cer-
tainly. We would love to be able to 
have other options for families, but 
the state has eliminated the option 
for Digital Academy,” Johnson said. 
“We are fortunate in this commu-
nity that we have the Alachua eS-
chool. Not all school districts offer a 
local online school.”  
If interested in continuing a re-
mote education, ACPS students can 
either utilize eSchool or Florida Vir-
tual School — two online learning 
options based locally and statewide 
respectively. FLVS and eSchool op-
tions provide more independence 
to students as they do not follow a 
rigid schedule.
Christopher Roberson, a 45-year-
old Gainesville resident, enrolled 
his children in Digital Academy last 
year. His third -grade son attended 
Meadowbrook Elementary School 
and his eighth -grade daughter at-
tended Fort Clarke Middle School. 
Roberson said his children suc-
ceeded far more in Digital Academy 
than they ever did during in-person 
schooling. This year, his children attended in-person classes; how-
ever, his son transferred to Alachua 
County eSchool because of a posi-
tive COVID-19 case in his class. 
“[eSchool] doesn’t hold up to 
Digital Academy,” he said. “At least 
with the Digital Academy the kids 
were actually on a schedule.”
Robertson believes his son ben-
efited from teachers’ guidance five 
to six hours a day — a routine that 
doesn’t exist in eSchool. 
He said rising COVID-19 cases 
and an increasing number of bomb 
threats at the local schools add to 
his concern over bringing students 
back to in-person classes without 
having the option of Digital Acad-
emy. The at-home option adds a 
semblance of safety, he said. 
“Not having an option is really 
just terrible for the kids and for their 
safety, and I think that it’s clearly 
unfair,” he said. “It’s unfair to the 
parents, especially the single par-
ents who work and cannot neces-
sarily take off and be able to teach 
their kid every day.”
As of the start of school Aug. 
10, 536 middle and high school stu-
dents and 499 elementary school 
students were enrolled in eSchool 
— not a sharp increase compared 
to pre-COVID-19 numbers, she said. 
The option had already been grow-
ing in popularity, Johnson said, and some eSchool students still take in-
person courses. 
Some parents may have chosen 
eSchool because of the district’s 
mask mandate.
Diana Donnelly, a copywriter 
and mother of a first -grade child 
at Hidden Oak Elementary School, 
said much of the negative response 
to the mask mandate from parents 
online is not representative of the 
larger population. 
Donnelly’s husband works at UF 
Health Shands Hospital, so she feels 
close to the frontlines where health 
care workers are again grappling 
with rising numbers of COVID-19 
patients.  
While Donnelly didn’t utilize 
Digital Academy last year and 
doesn’t intend to use it in the Fall, 
she acknowledged the hardships 
proposed to parents and teachers 
alike at a time like this. 
“We’re all trying really hard in 
a really difficult time,” she said. “I 
will say right now it feels harder 
than ever being a parent or a teacher 
dealing with the kids in the school 
system since the pandemic started.”  
Shaveena Washington, a health 
care worker at The Village at 
Gainesville and a mother of four 
children in the ACPS system, wish-
es Digital Academy was still offered.   
Washington’s son has severe al-lergies that prevent him from receiv-
ing a COVID-19 vaccine now and 
potentially in the future, and her 
family takes all necessary precau-
tions to create a safe environment 
for him at home. She attributes 
mask-wearing and hand-washing 
practices as the reason not a single 
member of her family tested posi-
tive for COVID-19.  
“Working in health care and 
seeing the things that I see at work 
every day, I am for the mask man-
date,” Washington said. “It’s very 
important.”
Jackie Johnson, ACPS spokes-
person, said the majority of parents 
she has heard from have supported 
the mask mandate and have been 
receptive to the online learning op-
tions available to them. While she 
understands some parents are upset 
by the lack of a Digital Academy 
option and the mask mandate, the 
district is continuing to follow the 
science.
“We have to do what we think 
is best for the vast majority of stu-
dents, employees and families,” she 
said. “That includes those families 
who feel that they have a right to 
send their child to an environment 
that is as safe as possible.”
bbrown@alligator.org
@brycebrownnnNew school board member sworn in amid concerns about her appointment
Alachua County Public Schools parents and students lose structured online learning optionGraphic by Manna Robertson
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
VISA GIFT CARDS ARE BEING 
OFFERED IN AN ATTEMPT 
TO INCREASE VACCINATION 
RATES ACROSS THE COUNTY 
THROUGHOUT SEPTEMBER
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County commission-
ers are trying a new tactic to 
bolster vaccination rates. After a 
unanimous vote Aug. 24, every-
one who receives their full vac-
cinations in September will now 
be $50 richer. 
As of the week of Sept. 3, 66% 
of the county is fully vaccinated. 
Although this is one of the high-
est county vaccination rates in the 
state,  County Manager Michele 
Lieberman wants to see 75% of 
Alachua population vaccinated. 
To achieve that goal, any resi-
dent of Alachua County — even 
transient students without a per-
manent county address – are eli-
gible for payments. 
“We don’t view citizens as 
transient,” county spokesperson 
Mark Sexton said. “They live in 
Alachua County, then they are 
residents of Alachua County.” 
The Alachua County Commis-
sion finalized its decision on the 
execution of payments Aug. 31: 
anyone who gets vaccinated in 
the county starting Sept. 1 will 
receive $25 Visa gift cards for ev-
ery shot they receive, including booster shots, regardless of the 
manufacturer. 
Those already vaccinated in 
the county are not eligible for 
payments. Sexton said it would 
cost too much if the county was 
to backlog all residents who have 
received their shots.
All county employees already 
fully vaccinated will receive $500. 
Unvaccinated county employees 
will be eligible to receive $250 in 
gift cards per shot or get $500 for 
the Johnson & Johnson shot. They 
will also receive a $10 reduction 
in their insurance premium for 
every family member vaccinated 
each month. A vaccinated family of five will get a $50 monthly re-
duction in insurance costs. 
The commission unanimously 
agreed to make the gift amount 
larger for the county employees. 
Lieberman hopes this plan further 
prevents employees falling ill. 
If every county employee be-
came fully vaccinated and was 
given the payments, it would cost 
just over $1 million, Lieberman 
said. 
“One person in the ICU with 
COVID-19 would have a medi-
cal bill of half a million dollars 
or more,” Lieberman said. “Two 
unvaccinated people in the ICU 
is the cost of incentivizing every county employee to be vaccinat-
ed.” 
Lieberman said the incentives 
are only available in September to 
deter people from putting it off. 
She said the next 30 days are cru-
cial because depending on how 
high vaccination rates increase 
from the plan, the commission 
will reconvene to discuss extend-
ing the payments another month 
or ending the program. 
Saretha Smokae, a 62-year-old 
Gainesville resident, believes the 
incentive program will change 
people’s minds.
“I think more people will go 
with it now, instead of remain-ing without the vaccine,” Smokae 
said. 
The money used for the incen-
tive plan comes from American 
Rescue Plan funds, Lieberman 
said. Ameris Bank, located at 
3631 N. Main St., partnered with 
the board and will be selling the 
gift cards to the county for $1 
each. The $25 gift cards will be 
distributed at participating ven-
dors throughout Gainesville. 
The county is still making an 
effort to include college students 
in this initiative. They’ve dis-
cussed having payments avail-
able on UF and Santa Fe College 
campuses to make them more ac-
cessible for students to receive a 
shot while walking to class or if a 
student does not have a means of 
transportation. 
There is no proof of residence 
required to get the gift cards, 
making students with no perma-
nent county address eligible for 
the gift cards. 
“We must do what is neces-
sary to keep our community and 
our employees safe,” Sexton said. 
The 20 locations include two 
Winn Dixie stores, 14 CVS Phar-
macies, two Hitchcock’s Pharma-
cies, West End Pharmacy and the 
Department of Health. A smaller, 
local vendor participating is Wis-
es Pharmacy, located at 708 SW 
Fourth Ave.
tmyers@alligator.org
@Troy_Myers1Want an extra $50? Get vaccinated in Alachua County
Graphic by Melanie Peña
A TWO-WEEK LONG 
QUARANTINE PERIOD WAS 
ENFORCED
By Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
Hannah Vander Zanden, 40, pre-
dicted she would eventually be ex-
posed to COVID-19 during the school 
year. What came as a surprise was 
having to watch her 2-year-old son be 
quarantined two weeks before the start 
of the Fall semester.
Over the month of August, dozens 
of toddlers from Baby Gator — a child-
care center for UF affiliates — were 
sent home for two weeks to quaran-
tine as a result of a COVID-19 outbreak 
within the school. Parents were left un-
informed about the details of the situa-
tion and were overwhelmed with their 
new responsibilities.  
Vander Zanden, an assistant biol-
ogy professor at UF, was one of many 
parents whose children attended Baby 
Gator and was sent home to quarantine. 
“It’s just really frustrating as a par-
ent, when you try to do everything that 
you can to protect your child, and some-
one else’s choice to mask or vaccinate 
can jeopardize the health of your child 
and the rest of your family,” she said.Vander Zanden said Baby Gator in-
formed her that her child would have 
to be quarantined because of contact 
with an infected person on Aug. 21, 
but staff members did not provide any 
additional explanation or resources to 
the parents.
“You can’t really ask somebody 
else to take care of a child that needs 
to be in quarantine, or to find a bab-
ysitter,” she said. “Basically, half of 
the workday is wiped out the calen-
dar, and I have to try to make up for 
it in the evenings, and so I definitely 
haven’t been sleeping as much as I 
would like over the last two weeks, 
and I’ve fallen behind.”
Biology graduate student Javiera Ru-
dolph said her frustrations lie beyond 
the disruptions the quarantine has had 
on her daily life.
“Baby Gator is not only failing their 
students and other parents but they’re 
also failing their own staff by not pro-
viding clear guidelines and clear pro-
tection to them,” she said.
Baby Gator believes masking and 
vaccines are vital to the safety of stu-
dents and staff, but they can only echo 
UF leadership in urging masks and 
vaccines without enforcing either, UF 
spokesperson Cynthia Roldán said. “Practicing physical distancing 
with young children can be difficult,” 
Roldán said. “However, Baby Gator’s 
method of keeping children in the same 
groups with the same teacher every day 
helps reduce the risk of exposure to the 
virus for all.”
Baby Gator had previously imple-
mented several safety procedures 
into their day-to-day routines, she 
said. Playgrounds are limited to one 
classroom at a time, handwashing is 
encouraged throughout the day and 
air conditioning systems have been 
assessed to ensure proper ventilation, 
she said.
Although upset with having her 
child exposed to the virus, Andrea Fer-
reira, UF Portuguese lecturer and moth-
er of 2-year-old Maria, said Baby Gator 
is doing its best to ensure the safety of 
students and staff, despite limitations 
from UF COVID-19 policies.
“I’m very grateful for Baby Gator 
and the service they provide,” Fer-
reira said. “I feel for the administra-
tion because they are powerless over 
this issue. The power that they do 
have is to communicate to parents 
that they’re powerless.”
merwin@alligator.org
@mayaerwin3Baby Gator toddlers exposed to COVID-19, 
parents are upset by lack of transparencysaid. “That’s when the bulk of the rest of our student man-
agers come in and we start doing our final game day preps.”
Game day consists of a variety of tasks, like tidying up 
the lockers, setting the sidelines up with equipment trunks 
and putting out benches and chairs, he said. 
“Usually that takes about a two-hour ordeal, and about 
that time is when the team shows up, and then it’s pretty 
much game mode from there,” McGrew said. 
After the game, McGrew and his staff complete tasks 
such as collecting all the uniforms and pants from the play-
ers and game clothes from the staff, he said. 
“We have a laundry guy that comes in; he starts wash-
ing all that stuff to get it ready and flipped around for next 
week,” McGrew said. 
Overall, the most challenging part of his job is keeping 
up with everyone in the program, McGrew said. Within the 
football program there are about 120 players, about 50 to 
60 full time staff, plus all the student managers and train-
ers, he said.
McGrew is in charge of maintaining lists that document 
each individual’s personal preferences within the entire 
football program. Every shirt, pant, cleat, jersey size and 
much more are noted and organized for every person. 
“We keep a lot of files… keeping up with all the different 
size changes, and everybody’s personal preferences, and try-
ing to get as much of that as accurate as possible,” McGrew 
said.
To help manage the workload, he has different depart-
ments in charge of specific equipment details. 
“One of my assistants, he is in charge of helmets … and 
basically that’s one of his main goals as far as helmet fit-
ting — keeping the helmets up to date, checking them for 
repairs and getting them game ready,” McGrew said.  
At the end each week, the field maintenance and equip-
ment management staff spend countless hours ensuring 
that every uniform and blade of grass is as much of a top 
performer as the athletes are. 
ebarrera@alligator.org
@elenabarreraaaGAMEDAY,  from pg. 1NEW UF STUDENTS FIND 
COMFORT IN ADAPTING TO AN 
UNFAMILIAR ENVIRONMENT 
TOGETHER
By Melanie Pena
Alligator Staff Writer
Every year, wide-eyed freshmen stumble 
through Turlington, bookbags strapped to their 
back. 
A few steps north, Chem Lab. A few steps 
south, the McCarty A, B, C and D maze. 
Google Maps claims CSE is mere steps away, 
but where is the A101 lecture room tucked?
The campus bustles with the new arriv-
als and their collective confusion, but wel-
comes them warmly before the barrage of 
exams begin.
This year reflects any other year — except 
scattered faces donning masks. In-person class-
es, extracurriculars and hangouts spots picked 
up as if it were 2019 again. Pandemic fresh-
men are getting a taste of a somewhat normal 
college life, and sophomores are emulating the 
freshman year that could have been.
The pandemic gap left students keen 
to explore, connect and find their place in 
Gainesville whether through social media, 
crowded buses or places of worship. 
Jaylen Thomas
As he crawled in the bulky glass doors of 
the J. Wayne Reitz Union, Jaylen Thomas’ 
eyes drifted to every corner. Students filled the 
building’s crevices in bee-like swarms.
The 18-year-old biology freshman shuffled 
with purpose to meet new people at a Friday 
Gator Night. With his close friend Maria Bu-
zaianu beside him, he charged through the 
flourishing forest of students until they found 
a group of girls who also wanted to make new 
friends. 
The group chatted the night away until they 
craved a sweet snack. Their midnight roam 
ended at Insomnia Cookies on West University 
Avenue, where Thomas ordered some classic 
chocolate chunk cookies.
Socializing hadn’t been what Thomas ex-
pected at all, and he hadn’t realized how dif-
ficult it could be.
“Once I actually got here, I was so ner-
vous,” he said. “I thought I was social and this 
would be easy, but it’s so different than what 
I expected.”
His alienation wasn’t all that different from 
his days at Stanton College Preparatory School in Jacksonville. As a homebody, he mostly 
kept to himself.  
“Back at home, I didn’t really hang out with 
friends that much just because it’s so incon-
venient, almost,” he said. “When your friends 
are right on campus, you can just go and walk 
out.”
Then, he found Greenhouse Church on In-
stagram. 
“I’m Black and church for Black people is so 
different, but the atmosphere here is great,” he 
said. “It was way better than what I expected.” 
When he attends service on Sunday, he 
leaves surprised to have learned a new song. 
Sometimes worshippers rave, leaping with 
the music and waving their hands in the air. 
Thomas wasn’t accustomed to the thumps 
shaking the wooden floors, but he has grown 
to appreciate them. 
In those weekly stomps, he found a 
community. 
Deborah Rodriguez 
Deborah Rodriguez disembarked from her 
car onto the apartment parking lot. Her mother 
mimicked her daughter’s steps. The duo ex-
changed glances for a second. 
“What, you’re not going to start sobbing or 
anything?” Rodriguez asked her mother. 
Rodriguez and her mother were like puzzle 
pieces, filling in what the other lacked. She 
didn’t display her 
emotions. Her mother, 
always full of them.
Her mother’s 
laughing smile 
masked the strong 
wave of emotions 
brewing. They then 
said their goodbyes 
as quickly as they ar-
rived.
The 19-year-old 
health science sopho-
more climbed up the 
apartment steps. Each 
step led her closer to 
her future life as an 
in-person student. Yet 
before she unlocked 
her apartment door, 
she felt an unfamiliar 
feeling. For the first 
time, she realized she 
was alone.
“I closed the door, 
and I turned around 
where she’s not facing 
me,” she said. “I liter-
ally just started bawl-
ing and crying.”
The goodbye had 
been delayed by a 
year. Rodriguez decided to stay home to com-
plete her first year at UF.
“My grandpa was alive at the time, and I 
was really close with him,” she said. “I wanted 
to stay by him, and I didn’t want to come here 
and then visit back home and get them sick.”
Rodriguez initially disliked her grandfa-
ther for always teasing her. They grew close 
when he moved into her house after his Al-
zheimer’s worsened and a stroke damaged his 
Broca’s area, an area in the brain responsible 
for speech. 
“It broke my heart to see someone who 
used to mess with me all the time and be the 
most heavy-hearted and spirited person really 
struggle,” she said.
Between online classes and assignments, 
Rodriguez shared meals and watched tennis 
and SpongeBob with her grandfather. He of-
fered her anything he owned from his food to 
retro clothes — something Rodriguez treasured 
as a collector.
His generosity survived beyond the pro-
gression of Alzheimer’s disease, when faces 
and names no longer meant anything to him.  “He emptied 
out his entire closet 
to give to me, and 
every time that 
he had a meal, he 
would always offer 
me his food even 
if that meant that 
he didn’t have any-
thing to eat,” Rodri-
guez said.
While she trea-
sures the extra time 
she spent with her 
grandfather, being 
a full-time online 
student muffled her 
extroverted person-
ality. 
Walking onto 
campus for the first 
time, Rodriguez 
navigated through 
the labyrinth of or-
ganization booths. 
Each looked more 
enticing than the 
last. Her eyes wan-
dered to medicine-
related clubs and Gator Salsa. 
Although Rodriguez longs for her Puerto Ri-
can family back in Tampa, she found a slice of 
home in the Gainesville Hispanic community.
“It’s really cool seeing so many Hispanics 
here because they kind of all have the same 
culture growing up, but it’s also cool being 
around people who have literally opposite cul-
tures,” she said.
Dana Tegegn
When Dana Tegegn researched UF online, 
the mechanical engineering program lured her 
in.  So did the warm Florida weather.
Her first time under the cool breeze and 
warm sun on a RA-led tour of campus electri-
fied a surge of joy and excitement. 
It was the first time the 18-year-old me-
chanical engineering freshman explored the 
campus. She made a voyage to take it all in, 
having moved from Uganda just days before.
“I’ve always lived in tropical countries, so 
finding that climate that isn’t super cold was 
something that I wanted,” she said.
Tegegn, whose parents are Ethiopian, lived 
across Asia throughout her life. The fam-
ily mostly based itself in India, Thailand and 
Uganda.As a global citizen, she effortlessly strikes 
up conversation with new people from all over 
the world.
“I’m also a lot more eager to learn about 
people’s cultural backgrounds and how people 
become who they are because pretty much 
everyone that I would meet prior to college 
always had a super intricate backstory, and it 
all made sense to who they are,” she said. “I 
always try to look for that in people.”
Tegegn found her place in ordinary conver-
sations — whether in class, her dorm or Plaza 
of the Americas. She’s always out on the prowl, 
hoping to listen to others share their stories.
Isabella Garcia
Dazed eyes perched above blue medical 
masks greeted Isabella Garcia as she stepped 
onto the charcoal steps of the bright blue-and-
orange RTS bus. 
Shuffling toward an empty seat, her mind 
raced with worry.
Is this the right stop? Where do I get off? 
Will I make it to class on time?
“Are you a freshman?” a stranger beside 
her asked with a warm smile radiating under 
their mask.6   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
Pandemic freshmen and sophomores detail their on-campus journeys
Photo by Catherine McCarthy
Deborah Rodriguez, 19, UF health sciences sophomore, sits outside of 
Marston Science Library on Monday, Sept. 6, 2021. Rodriguez uses the 
bus to travel around campus, loves meeting new people and enjoys the 
studying environment at Marston. Rodriguez said that she is getting used 
to adulting and balancing school with her social life.
Photo by Alan Halaly
Jaylen Thomas, 18, UF biology freshman, stands in front of the entrance 
to Weimer Hall on Friday, Sept. 3, 2021. Thomas has been spending his 
time getting to know the city and UF these past two weeks.
Photo by Catherine McCarthy
Danawit Tegegn, 18, UF mechanical engineering freshman, stands outside of Marston 
Science Library on Monday, Sept. 6, 2021. As an international student, Tegegn said she enjoys 
experiencing American football games and meeting students she connects with culturally. 
CONTINUED  ON PAGE 7The 18-year-old political science freshman’s 
nerves began to calm as she chatted with the 
stranger and realized they were an older stu-
dent. Others checked into the conversation. 
Soon, boisterous laughter overwhelmed the 
bus.
“I have never been so close to so many 
people, but at the same time, made so many 
friends so easily,” Garcia said. “I think more 
than the buses being packed, the people and 
the camaraderie between Gators has been the 
most memorable my first week here.”
Once she tackled the buses and became 
more comfortable getting around, she found 
solace in exploring Gainesville. 
“I’m finding my favorite spots to get coffee 
and hanging out with friends,” she said. “I feel 
like it’s a really good balance of the college ex-perience and academics.”
While she became more familiar with the 
city, Garcia still felt added pressure as a sec-
ond-generation Cuban American. 
“Being of Hispanic descent, I know it might 
sound a little foreign to some people, but leav-
ing for college isn’t really the norm,” she said. 
“I feel like I need to do my best, and I need 
to get the most out of my education because I 
went ahead and took the step to leave.”
Garcia’s anxieties melted away as classes 
started. However, culture shock consumed 
her. Beans, coffee and classic Latinx products 
were placed in the international section. In Mi-
ami, her hometown, they’re everywhere.
But despite Gainesville’s supermarket prod-
uct placement, the city and UF made up for it 
with lots of places to explore — and the free 
time to do so.
Dylan Reed
Riding his bike through Depot Park, Dylan 
Reed felt the viridescent leaves carry a breeze 
past his cheek. The park became more and 
more familiar to him as he explored Gainesville 
over the late summer.
The 18-year-old was accepted into UF’s 
Pathway to Campus Enrollment program.
He often used his bike rides as a period of 
reflection. He decided he would visit the Harn 
Museum of Art the next day. Between the hours 
spent analyzing paintings and installations, 
Reed realized what truly inspired him was art. 
Before classes even began, he switched from 
a business major despite his knack for small 
business projects. 
As a graphic design student, Reed can go 
into class for his Workshop for Art Research 
and Practice course. He found it to be one of 
the most interesting and intensive classes he 
has ever taken. But it’s still nerve-wracking. 
“My friend asked the class one time while 
we were on a break, ‘How many people don’t 
have a clue what we’re doing right now? How 
many people are super stressed?’ Everyone 
raised their hand,” he said. “It was nice to 
know that we were all lost, but at the same 
time, very excited to get started.” Reed moved into Gainesville prior to class-
es to have more time to adjust to the area. He 
came from Palm Beach Gardens, seeking new 
places and friendships. Instead, he ended up 
finding something quite different — the Delta 
variant. 
His first thought was that he got a nasty 
cold. After he spent a week in bed, his parents 
urged him to get tested. And when the result 
came back positive, Reed headed over to the 
UF Emerging Pathogens Institute.
“I got it before we started knowing about it 
because I was fully vaccinated with Moderna,” 
he said. “I didn’t really know about it, and then 
I got sick.”
Despite Reed’s summer sickness — now 
long gone — he found his place in Gainesville’s nature trails, museums and food parks.
Although the past year of pause has made 
the UF experience unique, students can find 
comfort in adapting to an unfamiliar environ-
ment together. 
The odd bright yellow spikes outside of the 
Computer Sciences and Engineering building 
become the French Fries and the Plaza of the 
Americas becomes the perfect shortcut to get 
to class quickly.
As incoming students explore Gainesville, 
they find the people who make them feel wel-
come and places that captivate their interests, 
all while becoming Gators.
@MelanieBombino
mpena@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!
NEW donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.
grifolsplasma.comNEW Plasma Donors 
EARN $500
for 5 donations!*
2315 NW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Bring Valid Student/Military ID to 
qualify for additional BONUSES!
*fees subject to change without notice004IA3
004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 9/2/21   5:27 PM9/2/21   5:27 PM
¿hablas ¿hablas 
español?español?
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
leelee
Photo by Lauren Witte
Dylan Reed, 18, UF graphic design freshman, stands in the middle of 4th Ave Food Park on 
Thursday, Sept. 2, 2021. Reed likes to get a drink at Opus Airstream before studying at Depot 
Park. Reed said he is excited to find a new routine now that he is not living at home.
Photo courtesy of Isabella Garcia
CONTINUED,  from pg. 6TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Return of the tailgate
After the year without tailgates, Florida fans littered campus 
on Saturday once again, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on SpotifyTHE SMALL-BATCH LATIN 
INSPIRED ICE CREAM 
COMPANY WANTS TO 
TAKEOVER THE ICE 
CREAM INDUSTRY
By Anushka Dakshit
Avenue Staff Writer
Walk up to 4th Avenue Food 
Park and you’ll see acoustic perfor-
mances and vintage thrift vendors 
sitting among scattered wooden 
benches condensed with sunlight. 
In the buzzing scene, a bright aqua-
marine and orange truck stands in 
the corner serving delicious treats.
The truck belongs to Feliz Fla-
vors, a small-batch Latin-inspired 
ice cream company, parked at 409 
SW 4th Avenue. 
With the sweltering heat and 
scent of sweet milk, customers can’t 
help but walk towards it. 
Before opening Feliz Flavors, 
the owner, Joshua Broadhead, and 
his wife, Jasmine Broadhead, ran 
a Brazilian martial arts after-school 
program. When the COVID-19 pan-
demic hit, a martial arts program 
wasn’t feasible, Joshua Broadhead 
said.  While sitting in their kitchen 
during quarantine, the couple de-
veloped the idea of bringing Latin-
inspired ice cream to Gainesville. 
“I was looking for something that 
I could be creative with,” he said. “I 
started making ice cream and real-
ized that I like this, because I can 
be really creative. It’s like this blank canvas that you can 
turn into anything 
you want.” 
Feliz Flavors has 
only been open for 
three months, but 
the team is already 
reaping the success-
es of the business’ 
distinctiveness. 
Having just passed 
their first quarter, 
they have already 
outgrown their 
commissary kitch-
en, where they pre-
pare the ice cream, 
and are in the pro-
cess of moving to 
their own produc-
tion facility.
Originally, they 
planned to move 
into one of the 
storefronts at the 
food park. How-
ever, Joshua Broad-
head and the Felix Flavors crew 
learned that customers enjoy the 
ice cream truck concept  that Feliz 
Flavors offers. 
“People really enjoy the experi-
ence of going up to an ice cream 
truck rather than an ice cream 
store,” Joshua Broadhead said. 
“It adds a lot of value to the food 
park here.”
They plan to upgrade their 
trailer to a nicer, remodeled truck. 
The vision for the truck is for it to 
look, “really classy, something in 
between modern and nostalgic” Joshua Broadhead says, something 
that exudes an “old-timey” feeling 
customers get when they go to Feliz 
Flavors, he said. 
Joshua Broadhead hopes that 
within the next six months, the 
upgraded truck will be finished 
and ready for business. The idea 
is for the upgraded truck to be 
parked at 4th Avenue Food Park 
while the current truck drives 
across Gainesville. 
Feliz Flavors isn’t stopping 
there; the plans extend to taking 
over the ice cream industry.“We are on a 
mission to destroy 
grocery store ice 
cream for every-
body,” he said, “so 
once we get our 
production facility 
in place the process 
to start doing pints 
is going to be the 
next step.” 
Joshua Broad-
head wants to get 
Feliz Flavors ice 
cream into super-
markets, and the 
company has al-
ready started selling 
pints to businesses 
around town. 
Unlike grocery 
store ice cream, Fe-
liz Flavors doesn’t 
use preservatives, 
emulsifiers or arti-
ficial syrup flavor-
ings. Feliz Flavors’ 
uses real fruit and fresh ingredients. 
“It comes out in 2 ½ quart 
batches and it’s a three-day pro-
cess to get one batch of ice cream,” 
Joshua Broadhead said. “It’s really 
hard to make but we love it and 
we’re really proud of it.”
While there are many places to 
get ice cream in Gainesville, it’s 
rare to find desserts from other 
cultures and regions that aren’t 
American, he said. Joshua Broad-
head found that even though 
there were diverse food options in 
Gainesville, there weren’t many diverse dessert options. 
Joshua Broadhead’s first career 
was in culinary arts, where he be-
gan cooking at 16 years old and 
gained experience managing restau-
rants. Since he didn’t know much 
about running a business, he left 
the restaurant industry and food 
became a hobby. After years of run-
ning a martial arts studio and other 
business ventures, Joshua Broad-
head accumulated business skills 
and strategies that he and his wife 
now use to run Feliz Flavors.  
With Joshua Broadhead’s con-
nection to Brazil and his wife’s Cu-
ban heritage, Feliz Flavors offers a 
unique twist on ice cream flavors. 
Instead of your everyday chocolate 
or rum raisin, Feliz Flavors offers 
flavors like Guanàbana and Tama-
rind, flavors that he successfully 
adapted from his time in Brazil. 
“My favorite part about Feliz Fla-
vors is their dedication to bringing 
authentic Latin flavor to the city,” 
said Eliza Lee, a 24-year-old UF 
public relations junior. “My fiancé 
is Colombian and Feliz has fruit fla-
vors from Colombia, like Lulo and 
Guanàbana. It tastes like home.”
Not only does Feliz Flavors of-
fer a way for those who are not 
from Latin America to experience 
authentic Latin culture through 
the art of ice cream, but it also 
offers a piece of home for the 
Gainesville community.
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.orgFeliz Flavors doesn’t plan on cooling down any time soon
FOODFOOD
Photo by Alan Halaly
Ryan Ealy, 20, Feliz Flavors shift lead, hands off two 
small ice creams to customers on Sunday, Sept. 5, 
2021. The truck is located at 4th Ave Food Park and 
has flavors that range from matcha to passion fruit.
TRAILBLAZERS MARKS THE 150 
YEARS OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
FROM SOME OF FLORIDA’S MOST 
FAMOUS WOMEN
By Alexis Carson
Avenue Staff Writer
The Trailblazers: 150 Years of Alachua 
County Women exhibit highlights the sto-
ries and accomplishments of 11 women from 
Alachua County. The women highlighted in-
clude Daphne Duval Williams, Sarah Ham-
ilton Matheson, Dr. Sarah Lucretia Robb, 
Marjorie Harris Carr, Vivian Washington 
Filer, Judith Brown, Margaret Tebeau, Mar-
jorie Kinnan Rawlings, Clara Backus Floyd 
Gehan, Mary Etta Hancock Cubberly, and 
Emmaline Hardy Buchholz.
The exhibit has been open since last spring 
at the Matheson History Museum located in 
downtown Gainesville. 
The Trailblazers exhibit was initially sup-
posed to open March 24, 2020, to celebrate 
the 100th anniversary of women’s suffrage in the United States, where the 19th Amendment 
was ratified in August 1920. However, due to 
COVID-19, the Matheson closed March 17, 
2020, and the museum did not reopen until 
April 2021.
Kaitlyn Hof-Mahoney, the museum’s cu-
rator of collections, described the goal of the 
historical museum.
“Our mission is to preserve and interpret 
the history of Gainesville, Alachua County 
and the surrounding regions,” she said. 
Hof-Mahoney said she hopes the Mathe-
son will serve as a central hub for Gaines-
ville’s history, both for locals and those brand 
new to town. 
“We want this to be a place where people 
can see themselves and their community in 
the museum and always be a place where 
people feel welcome and want to learn,” 
she said. 
In the exhibit, text panels and photographs 
describe some of the 11 women’s major ac-
complishments. Some of those accomplish-
ments include Clara Floyd Gehan graduating 
from the University of Florida College of Law, Dr. Sarah Lucretia Robb being the first female 
physician in Alachua County and Sarah Ham-
ilton Matheson being the founder and past 
president of the Alachua County Historical 
Society. There are also physical objects in the 
exhibit, such as a signed copy of one of Mar-
jorie Kinnan Rawlings’ books, a reproduction 
of one of Sarah Matheson’s passports and a 
painting by Emmaline Buchholz.
Aug. 14 was Kaylinn Escobar’s, a pub-
lic health sophomore at UF, first time at the 
Matheson History Museum. She originally 
came to see the McCarthy Moment: The Johns 
Committee in Florida exhibit and stumbled 
upon the Trailblazers exhibit during her visit.
Escobar mentioned the importance of what 
the Trailblazers exhibit stood for.
“It’s actually very nice that they were 
able to get this information and make it ac-
cessible,” she said. “It made for a good ex-
perience.”
She continued to reflect on the impacts of 
the women featured in the exhibit. 
“As a college student, it may not have 
been the community I was raised in,” she said. “Ultimately, women contributed to the 
community I live in now and have sort of the 
privilege to live in now.”
Escobar also talked about how through this 
experience, she was able to “walk through 
time.” 
She noted the museum shows the environ-
ment these women were in and what shaped 
them. Escobar said she saw they would get 
married, and that would determine what they 
did with their lives.
“Which sort of was an interesting experi-
ence because I would think that these wom-
en would be so independent, individualistic, 
but it actually made it a lot more interest-
ing,” she said. 
Matheson’s History Museum is open from 
Wednesdays to Saturdays from 1 p.m. to 4 
p.m. Trailblazers: 150 years of Alachua Coun-
ty Women does not have an official closing 
date yet, but it will be open for the rest of 
2021. Admission is free to all of those who 
visit the museum.
a.carson@alligator.org
@Alexis_Carson99Matheson History Museum celebrates historic Alachua County womenBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
Timed Online Public Auction 
RLS LIGHTING, INC. 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 
Lots begin to close: Sept 15th, 2021 at 10 AM 
Auction will consist of press brakes, lathes, 
forklift, aluminum alloy T6061, welding equip-
ment and machinery, jet mills, pallet racking, 
scrap metal, residential and commercial light-
ing fixtures, warehouse equipment, aluminum 
park benches, trash receptacles, decorative 
street signs, bicycle racks and related inven-
tory. Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com.
Pick-up/removal: 635 NW 4 Avenue, 
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33311 
Preview: 09/14 by appointment. 
Call for details (954) 252-2887
(800) 840-BIDS  
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin
9-7-1-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-121For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE- 
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN 
SETS $149 KING SETS $199 NEW 6 
DRAWER DRESSERS $220 NEW 5 
DRAWER CHEST $199 WE HAVE OVER 
300 MATTRESSES IN STOCK: SAME DAY 
DELIVERY: WE DELIVER COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH AVE 
GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953          9-07-5-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
 say: "I found it in the alligator!"©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    LLeevveell,,  eevveenn  
11..    FFiigguurree  ________55..    AArreeaa  ooff  aaccttiivviittyy  
22..    MMaannaaggee  66..    FFaannttaassttiicc  
33..    FFllaatttteenn77..    TToo  tthhiiss  wwrriittiinngg  
44..    ________  ssppeeaakkeerrss  TTHHSSOOMMOO
RREESSAAKKTTAAEENNAARR
RRPPSSEEUU
EEOOSSVVEEEERR
AAPPMMTTLLRREEHHOOEEEERRTT
SSOOEEEETTRRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSmmooootthh    55AA--AArreennaa    66AA--SSuuppeerr    77AA--HHeerreettoo
11DD--SSkkaatteerr    22DD--OOvveerrsseeee    33DD--TTrraammppllee    44DD--SStteerreeoo    BB--TToomm  HHaannkkss99--77--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  ttuurrnneedd  ddoowwnn  tthhee  
ttiittllee  rroollee  iinn  ““JJeerrrryy  MMaagguuiirree..””
BONUS● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Rich Proulx
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/07/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/07/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, September 7, 2021
ACROSS
1 All-inclusive
5 Inked indication 
of approval
10 Son of Seth who 
lived to 905, per 
the Bible
14 “Moi? Never!”
15 Hang in midair
16 __ San Lucas: 
Baja resort
17 Queen dowager 
of Jordan
18 Sports stadium
19 Singer Redding 
with two 
posthumous 
Grammys
20 Street in London’s 
Brixton Market
23 Caveman Alley
24 Ways in or out
25 Usual way in
31 Fair-hiring abbr.
32 “Old MacDonald” 
refrain
33 Indian title
36 Do little
38 Take an oath
40 Travel by 
Greyhound, say
41 Three-pointers, in 
hoops lingo
43 “Amadeus” 
director Forman
45 Cuz and sis
46 Where it’s hard 
to make a wrong 
turn
49 When “light 
through yonder 
window breaks” 
in “Romeo and 
Juliet”
50 Poker pot paper
51 Way to stay safe 
... or what each 
set of circles 
represents vis-à-
vis its answer
58 Mall smooching, 
etc., initially
59 Lacking originality
60 Qualities that 
make deals 
difficult
61 Legal wrong
62 Desert respites
63 Use a scythe on
64 Targets
65 Flower holders
66 HotDOWN
1 Frank with a 
diary
2 Hammer or sickle
3 Midwest native
4 Alphabetically 
last birthstone
5 Wrinkly dogs
6 “Cornflake Girl” 
singer __ Amos
7 With, on le menu
8 Suvari of 
“American Pie”
9 Soviet 
newspaper
10 Affordable ride
11 Enjoying-the-
great-outdoors 
walk
12 Stage awards
13 Shipwreck signal
21 Trade show 
giveaway
22 Very long periods
25 Pool table 
surface
26 Raise, as kids
27 Was a bit too 
enchanting
28 Self-
transformation 
result, to the self
29 Advertising link30 Wonka creator 
Dahl
34 Romeo’s last 
words
35 Like a paper clip
37 Optometrists’ 
exams
39 Optimistic quality
42 Travel with the 
wind
44 Cease
47 Same-as-above 
marks48 Classroom tools
49 “Me too!”
52 The “E” in Q.E.D.
53 Get up
54 Part of a 
shopping list
55 “A Death in the 
Family” author 
James
56 Gently persuade
57 Athlete’s award
58 School 
fundraising gp.
By Kurt Krauss
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/31/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/31/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, August 31, 2021
ACROSS
1 Country singer 
McCann
5 Chose
10 Imitates
14 Poet’s “in a trice”
15 Legendary 
crooner Mel
16 Red inside
17 *It often runs 
through the 
center of town
19 H.S. math class
20 Year at the 
Sorbonne
21 Spare in a boot
22 DIY furniture 
giant
23 Took five
25 Clutch
27 Stereo knob
30 Corporate 
department
33 Apartment 
overseer, 
informally
36 “Homeland” org.
37 Fruit in a split
38 Japanese sash
39 *Sleeveless shirt
41 NYSE listings
42 Undo  
legislatively
44 Place for a ring
45 “Winter Song” 
musician John
46 Nottingham’s 
river
47 Goofs
49 Stuff, as a  
turkey
51 Zero chance
55 Root for a luau
57 Supply-and-
demand sci.
60 Turkish coins
61 Cheese couleur
62 Like oceanside 
resort property 
... and what 
the starts to 
the answers to 
starred clues can 
have?
64 Football’s QB 
rating, for one
65 Modeling 
adhesive
66 Arrogance, in 
slang
67 Fleshy fruit
68 Tivoli’s Villa __
69 HeadlinerDOWN
1 Rapper Kendrick
2 Mindless
3 Meat cuts
4 “Being Julia” 
co-star Bening
5 Old-time baseball 
slugger called 
“Master Melvin”
6 Dessert wine
7 It beats a deuce
8 Come forth
9 Put a damper on
10 Craftsperson
11 *Monopoly 
property three 
squares before 
Go
12 Toledo’s lake
13 Big name in 
computer games
18 Fortuneteller
24 Image-transfer 
item
26 “Now!”
28 Coal holder
29 Staples Center 
player
31 Slaughter on the 
diamond
32 Pageant body 
band
33 Database 
command34 Above, in Berlin
35 *Bit of wishful 
thinking
37 B in chem class
39 London art 
gallery
40 Old salt
43 On the way
45 Vacation 
souvenirs
47 Break out
48 Massage 
therapeutically50 Put in stitches
52 “Are you in __?”
53 Bamboo muncher
54 Aromatic 
compound
55 1/2 fl. oz.
56 Choir part
58 Platte River 
people
59 Preceded in 
line by only one 
person
63 Bar staple
08/30/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
Car Wash Help Wanted
Earn up to $20/hr! Now hiring for general car 
wash labor. Part time/Full time shifts avail-
able. Must have valid FL license. 
Apply online @ parkplacecarwash.com.         
9-27-21-7-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille
Spurrier's is searching for a team member to 
receive inbound calls & emails prior to open -
ing each day.  This position will take mes-
sages & provide callers with basic info, book 
reservations & answer questions.
Minimum 4 hrs/day from 11 am-3 pm Wed-Sun.
Apply at spurriersdraft.com
9-7-21-2-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille Servers
Spurrier's is looking to hire servers! We are 
open & we have a great team of servers. 
Now we want to add you! Work in a friendly, 
fast paced environment where real friends & 
connections are made! Looking for FT & PT. 
Great pay and benefits. 
Apply at spurriersdraft.com 
9-13-21-3-14
Responsible driver needed to pick up 
our young adult (with Down Syndrome) 
from her training program, assist in after-
noon activities and deliver home. M-TH, 
3pm to 5pm. Background check required. 
Contact Vicki at vickigervickas@cox.net.
9-7-21-2-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21 answers below1. What Philadelphia Flyers goaltender 
was killed in a car accident in 1985 and 
posthumously selected to the NHL All-
Star Game the following year? 
2. Name "The Fight Doctor" who served 
as Muhammad Ali's physician and cor -
nerman from 1962-77 .
3. The Carolina Courage, Philadelphia 
Charge and San Diego CyberRays were 
teams in what women's soccer league 
that played three seasons from 2001-03?
4. What is the bowling term for a ball 
that crosses over to the other side of the 
head pin opposite the side it was thrown? 
5. Name the journalist/sportswriter 
whose column "Hey, Rube" appeared 
on ESPN.com from 2000-05?
6. What sanctioning body for the mo -
torsport of drag racing was founded by 
Wally Parks in 1951?
7 . Remington Products CEO and spokes -
man Victor Kiam was principal owner 
of what NFL team from 1988-91?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.14 Help Wanted 24 Pets 13 Wanted
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. 
Your donation helps fund the search for miss-
ing children. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & 
RV's too!  Fast Free Pickup-Running or Not 24 
Hour Response-Maximum Tax Donation- 
Call (888) 515-3443
9-7-1-13
Freon Wanted: : We pay$$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169  or 
visit Refrigerantfinders.com
9-7-1-13 
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-21-13-14
Personal Care Assistant
Part time help needed to assist 30yr old fe-
male with wheelchair transfers, personal 
care, food prep, etc. $12 per hour. Located on 
62nd Boulevard.  Great experience for health 
care students. Contact pcajob3@gmail.com.  
9-13-21-2-14
Mi Apa Latin Cafe Servers & Managers
Mi Apa is hiring servers & managers. Servirs 
can make $18+/hr, MGRs can make $55+/yr. 
Apply @ miapajobs.com or at the Jonesville
location between 10am-12pm.  
10-4-21-6-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '21  
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-7-21-6-14
Enthusiastic companion Female to work with 
developmentally disabled adult. Must have re-
liable, safe transportation. Background check 
required, $15/HR, 2 days/WK & Sat. 9am - 
3pm contact 352-339-6265 by text only please. 
9-13-21-2-14
AIM After-school staff: Must be 18 & avail-
able weekdays 2-6:30 pm; motivated, en-
gaging, fun, energetic, communicative.
Send resume to:
program@acesinmotion.org.   
9-7-21-2-14
Hiring New Team Members
Looking for a full time and part time mainte-
nance man. Mostly handy man type work. Also 
looking for full and part time housekeepers.  
Housekeepers are paid by the room and thus 
can make more per hour.
Please apply in person at the Comfort Inn, 
3440 SW 40th Blvd Gainesville.
No phone calls please. Thank, we hope you 
will join our outstanding team.
9-20-21-4-14
Sports Quiz  answers1. Pelle Lindbergh.
2. Ferdie Pacheco.
3. Women's United Soccer Associa -
tion (WUSA).
4. Brooklyn.5. Hunter S. Thompson.
6. National Hot Rod Association 
(NHRA).
7. The New England Patriots.CryptoQuote  solutionHow strange that nature
does not knock, and yet
does not intrude!
—Emily Dickinson
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE1 1: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSubmit your ad to one of the following categories today!   Contact us:  alligator.org/ classifieds   | classified@alligator.org  |  (352)373- FIND
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for 
injury or loss arising from contacts made through ad-
vertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
solution  belowOPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
found found   
something? something? 
place a place a FREE FREE   
"found""found" ad  ad 
in thein the
alligatoralligator   
classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
- - - - - - - - spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - -spoiler alert - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - -spoiler alert - - - - - - - - -1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
RUNNING GAME SHINES WHILE 
AERIAL ATTACK SPUTTERS
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Florida redshirt freshman backup quarter-
back Anthony Richardson placed the ball in 
redshirt senior Malik Davis’ gut as he watched Florida Atlantic’s Ryan Veingrad crash toward 
the middle in an attempt to tackle his running 
back. 
The Gainesville product read the play like 
a book, yanked the rock from Davis and fol-
lowed redshirt senior tight end Kemore Gam-
ble outside. Gamble flawlessly executed a kick-
out block on the Owls’ Zyron Gilbert, gifting 
Richardson a wide-open chasm into daylight.
He outraced five FAU defenders down the 
right sideline for 73 yards to the end zone to 
put the exclamation point on Florida’s sea-
son opener on Sept. 4. Richardson and Davis 
torched the Owls for 264 yards on the ground 
combined as Florida ran for 400 yards as a 
team in a 35-14 victory over FAU. 
“We just saw that they couldn’t stop us, 
honestly,” Davis said about the game. “Every-
thing we wanted to do, we did it.”
Head coach Dan Mullen said Davis played 
like himself. He admired how hard he ran, 
which helped him break tackles, and the vision 
he displayed to find seams to exploit. 
The offense Florida fans witnessed opening 
night was a complete U-turn from 2020, when 
now-Buccaneer quarterback Kyle Trask helped 
the Gators pace the nation with 378.6 passing 
yards per game. 
Mullen reiterated his commitment to put-
ting his team and his players in the best posi-
tion to succeed. “We’re gonna do what our guys do well,” 
Mullen said. “Our explosive plays came on the 
ground tonight… If we need to lead the nation 
in rushing, we’ll do that.”
It’s a stretch to predict Florida will become 
one of the country’s rushing leaders in 2021, 
but its 400-yard rushing performance Sept. 4 
was the most in Mullen’s four years with the 
Gators. 
Expect Mullen to lean on his running backs 
corps and the legs of his quarterbacks as the 
season progresses because of how the passing 
game looked — shaky. 
Starting quarterback Emory Jones failed to 
inspire fans with his arm. The LaGrange, Geor-
gia, native seemed like he wanted a do-over 
for his first start in the orange and blue after 
he tossed two picks, one of which occurred in 
the end zone. Jones completed 62.9% of his 
passes, but some of his misses occurred on 
simple routes due to poor accuracy with a ball 
thrown behind a target or skipped to the re-
ceiver’s feet. 
“I don’t really feel that good about it hon-
estly,” Jones said about his performance. “I 
definitely have to play better.”
Richardson entered the game in garbage 
time and immediately commanded Florida on 
two touchdown drives. He lasered a pass to 
redshirt sophomore wide receiver Ja’Markis 
Weston for 36 yards to enter the red zone and set up a Davis touchdown two plays later. 
The Gainesville product then scampered for 
the defining 73-yard score. The most impres-
sive play of the evening came when he juked 
two defenders in the backfield, broke a tackle 
and effortlessly hurdled another FAU tackler 
before running out of bounds on the right side-
line to cap off an 11-yard run for a first down. 
His performance left many fans wanting 
Mullen to name Richardson the starter, but the 
coach wouldn’t oblige. 
“Obviously, Emory’s our starter,” he said in 
an interview with SEC Network following the 
game. 
He said he expected Jones to miss a read or 
two in his first start but vowed to get it cleaned 
up. 
“I think our concern, we missed a couple 
little reads, and we missed some reads that we 
shouldn't miss. A couple of checks, you know? 
That type of deal is stuff that we've got to get 
cleaned up and stuff that you haven't seen a 
ton in practice but all the sudden it's different.”
Jones said after the game he was going to 
watch film right when he got home to ensure 
he doesn’t make similar mistakes on Sept. 11 
at 1 p.m. versus USF. 
zhuber@alligator.org.
@zacharyahuber.Florida offense offers mixed bag versus FAU
Photo by Samantha Harrison
Malik Davis (20) takes a handoff from 
Emory Jones (5) during Florida’s 35-14 
win over Florida Atlantic on Sept. 4.
GAME DAY
OVER 86,000 FLORIDA 
FANS GATHER FOR THE 
FIRST GATORS WIN OF 
THE SEASON
By Elena Barrera
Alligator Staff Writer
Last football season left many 
fans missing the iconic atmosphere 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, but the 
environment Florida football enthu-
siasts lost finally returned under the 
stadium lights Sept. 4. 
After a year of social distancing, 
canceled tailgates and limited-capac-
ity crowds, 86,840 Gators fans from 
far and wide packed The Swamp for 
the first game of the season against 
the Florida Atlantic Owls. The en-
ergy within Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 
was contagious, with fans chanting 
and singing in unison as the team 
began its season with a Gators win.
This energy reached its peak dur-
ing the game, but it was also present 
over the entire course of the day. 
Excitement was widespread even 
hours before kickoff, with little kids 
doing their best to catch a glimpse of 
the players as they arrived for their famous Gator Walk in 
front of the stadium 
alongside the marching 
band and mascots Al-
bert and Alberta. The 
traditional walk from 
the team bus to the 
locker room through a 
parted sea of fans also 
returned for opening 
night, yet another ab-
sence in the restricted 
2020 season.
As game time ap-
proached, fans lined up 
at every entrance, and 
everyone’s anticipation 
to enter the stadium 
again was high. They 
stood just one secu-
rity checkpoint away 
from the experience they all missed 
dearly. 
Traffic slowed and cops lined the 
streets in preparation for the surge 
of people coming. RVs camped out, 
crowds of people walked through 
campus and tailgaters’ tents took 
over, setting the scene for game day 
early on. 
After on-campus tailgating was 
prohibited during the 2020 season, Florida’s hardcore supporters could 
finally fill campus once again, and 
they found every nook and cranny 
to set up camp.
Eager to make up for loss time, 
fans and students did not miss a beat 
in bringing back the staple of pre-
game tailgates.
Many students flocked to Frater-
nity Drive to spend the afternoon 
together celebrating not only their 
team, but a sense of normalcy last year never had. 
Fraternity houses 
blared music, the 
sound of student 
voices carried 
through the air 
from every direc-
tion and cars and 
tents rooted to 
each spare inch of 
grass.
For seasoned 
visitors, a game 
day resembling 
pre-COVID-19  
times felt like a 
breath of fresh air. 
“Last season 
was hard and sad 
without the nor-
mal game and tail-
gate experience, especially since our 
son started as a freshman last year,” 
Eileen Mercier, a long-time Florida 
Gators fan, said. 
Mercier has been a Gators fan 
for over 30 years and was beyond 
excited to return to campus to cheer 
on her team with her family by her 
side, the way she always has. She 
wasn’t always sure she would have 
that chance in 2021, though.“With the Delta variant spread-
ing, I was worried the university 
would have to say no tailgating,” 
Mercier said. 
For second-year public relations 
major Cadi Schwartz, a football sea-
son with tailgates and full-capacity 
seating is exciting but also a little 
nerve-racking. 
“I’m still a little weary of ev-
erything with Delta that’s going 
around,” Schwartz said. “It makes 
me a little worried that there is no 
distancing or anything like that, but 
I feel like it can be enjoyable if you 
do your best to stay safe to your own 
standards.” 
Even though last year lacked 
the normal game day experience, 
Schwartz said she still had an abso-
lute blast at her first home game in 
2020 despite the smaller crowds. 
Mercier, Schwartz and countless 
others spent their Saturday in The 
Swamp uniting over food, drinks 
and their love for Gators football. 
The first game day with tailgating 
since Nov. 2019 was filled with an 
air of palpable joy, excitement and 
hope for the future.
ebarrera@alligator.org
@elenabarreraaa.Florida Gators kickoff their season with a packed Swamp to cheer them on
Photo by Esha Nair
A family poses for a photo outside Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium on Saturday, Sept. 4, 2021.
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
VOLLEYBALL
THE FIRST MATCH THIS 
SEASON AT THE STEPHEN 
C. O’CONNELL CENTER 
SAW THE GATORS DEFEAT 
A TOP-10 OPPONENT IN 
MINNESOTA
Joseph Henry
Sports writer
Freshman Merritt Beason 
stepped on the court inside the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center for a 
home match for the first time on 
Sept. 5. 
With Florida trailing 23-22 in 
the fourth set, the outside hitter 
spiked home back-to-back kills to 
secure match point, which sent 
the orange and blue faithful into a 
frenzy. The O’Dome erupted with 
even more cheers when then-No. 
10 Minnesota committed an at-
tack error to seal the match for the 
Gators.
Following a disappointing end 
to the West Coast road trip and 
the first loss of Florida’s season 
against No. 14 Stanford, the team 
responded in impressive fashion, 
knocking off the Golden Gophers 
3-1 (25-20, 25-19, 22-25, 25-23).   
The Gators started off hot, feed-
ing off their crowd’s rowdy ener-
gy. After Florida jumped out to a 
6-1 lead, Minnesota head coach Hugh McCutcheon called an early 
timeout, feeling UF’s momentum 
building and trying to let his team 
regroup. 
The Gators’ attack failed to 
wilt, and they managed to main-
tain their lead for the entirety of 
the first set. Florida took the open-
ing set 25-20, highlighted by six kills from both outside hitter T’ara 
Ceasar and middle blocker Lauren 
Forte.  
Minnesota found itself reeling 
once again at the beginning of 
the second set. Two consecutive 
aces from outside hitter Thayer 
Hall built a 5-1 lead and forced 
a Golden Gophers timeout. The Gators preserved their cushion on 
the scoreboard throughout the set, 
just as they did during the open-
ing frame. Setter Marlie Monserez 
laid down a kill to get Florida to 
set point before assisting on Hall’s 
set-winning kill. The Gators took 
the second set with a 25-19 tally, 
still yet to trail in the match. 
The match started to tighten 
up in the third set, as Florida and 
Minnesota tied up the score 10 
times. The Golden Gophers put to-
gether a four-point run late in the 
frame to extend their lead to 17-
14. Gators head coach Mary Wise 
and her team needed to regroup, a 
sweep still within reach. 
Minnesota opposite hitter 
Stephanie Samedy had other 
plans. She scored the Golden Go-
phers’ final three points as they 
took the third set 25-22, keeping 
their hopes alive for another set. 
The missed chance for a sweep 
didn’t sit well with Florida. It 
quickly formed a 7-1 lead, includ-
ing a down-the-line laser from 
Hall which drew the adoration of 
Gators fans in attendance. 
Minnesota wasn’t going down 
without a fight, though. The Gold-
en Gophers strung together five 
straight points to take their first 
lead of the set, 13-12. The score 
swung back and forth the entire 
frame, and the volume inside the O’Connell Center hit its peak. 
Beason was ready to wrap the 
match up. She slammed home two 
kills to get the Gators to match 
point before the Minnesota atack 
error gave the Gators the set, 25-
23, and the match, 3-1. 
Ceasar led the way with 19 kills 
followed by Beason and Forte’s 16 
each. Monserez was everywhere 
as always, accounting for 56 of 
Florida’s 65 assists. The Gators 
ended the match with a 0.306 hit-
ting percentage, 69 kills and 21 at-
tack errors as a team.
“It felt great to have the 
O’Dome back being the O’Dome,” 
Wise said. “Do we come back and 
win that fourth set without the 
fans? I don’t know, but it was a 
great time to have them.”
Forte said Florida had to have 
extra focus in practice following 
the loss to Stanford. 
“Practices were really, really, 
really important,” she said. “Our 
scouting and all the work that the 
coaches have put in. I think we re-
ally executed the game plan and 
really showed out tonight.” 
The Gators look to ride the 
momentum of this top-10 vic-
tory when the Baylor Bears visit 
Gainesville for matches Sept. 10 
and Sept. 11. 
jhenry@alligator.org.
@Josephhenry2424.No. 7 Florida volleyball handles No. 13 Minnesota to win home opener
Samantha Harrison
Florida’s Marlie Monserez celebrates with her teammates 
during a game in 2019.
