We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -International COVID-19
While COVID-19 hit home, some UF international students 
watched from Gainesville , pg. 4
Cat Cafe
New cafe downtown features cats available for adoption,  pg. 8Gators in the Olympics
Florida has representatives in Tokyo 
for both Team USA and international 
countries. Read more on pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperTUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 38
Prize and fees are subject to change. Limited time only. See office for details.Tour and enter to win an  
Electric Scooter!
Scan to schedule a tour:Apply today and save up to $325  with zero down @
AmericanCampus.com/Gainesville
By Isabella Barnet, Julia Cooper & Jake Reyes
Alligator Staff Writers
When Stefanie Alvarez talks about her boyfriend, Moises Rodan, she 
emphasizes his empathy.
Once, he was driving down University Avenue in a heavy downpour 
when he spotted an elderly woman at an uncovered bus stop. Alvarez 
recalls how Rodan pulled over, escorted the woman in the vehicle with an 
umbrella and drove her home. 
Rodan is one of three UF alumni missing after the collapse of the Cham -
plain Towers South Condominium in Surfside, Florida. A few days after 
the collapse, a team of specialists from Gainesville and neighboring coun -
ties were deployed to Surfside to aid in rescue efforts. They returned home 
Sunday. 
Alvarez said Rodan was a positive person who always wanted to do 
good for others. He would go to the McDonald’s on University Avenue, 
buy dozens of burgers at a time and give them to homeless people nearby. 
“He would do this around three times a month and wouldn’t tell any -
one about it,” she said. “Sometimes I would find out about it, but it was 
something that filled him with joy — it was something he loved to do.” 
Alvarez said Rodan’s greatest accomplishment in life was graduating 
from UF, after receiving his bachelor’s degree in computer engineering in 
May. 
The 28-year-old UF alumnus lived on the fourth floor of Champlain 
Towers in unit 403. 
Alvarez received a call from Rodan’s mother, who told her about the 
building collapse. She immediately went to Miami to see the site in person. 
His parents, who were in Venezuela, flew to Miami to find their son. 
“Hopefully there is a miracle that someone is still alive, hopefully it is 
my Moises,” she said. “We already think he passed away, and that it was 
an immediate impact...and that gives us peace.” 
Rabbi Berl Goldman, who serves as the director of the Chabad Jewish 
Center, said Rodan served on the Chabad UF student board for three years.
“Moises is known as a very humble and incredible friend to anybody 
that knows him,” Goldman said. “He had a million dollar smile and he’s 
just really a humbled, genuine, young man.” 
Five floors above Rodan in unit 804 were Nicole “Nicky” Langesfeld 
and Luis Sadovnic. Sadovnic was also Venezuelan and married Langes -
feld, who was Argentinian, in May. The pair met at UF — now, they’re 
among the missing. 
Sadovnic graduated in 2016 with a bachelor’s degree in food and re -
source economics with a specialization in international business. After 
leaving UF, Langesfeld went on to graduate from the University of Miami 
School of Law in 2019, and was working as a full-time lawyer at Reed 
Smith. 
The two were also involved with the UF’s Chabad Jewish Center.
“They were a model couple,” Rabbi Goldman said. He said their love 
was like a fairytale.
President Joe Biden met with families of victims in his visit to Surfside 
on July 1, including Martin Langesfeld, the brother of Nicky Langesfeld. 
On June 27, Gainesville Fire Rescue sent eight of its highly trained Ur -Gainesville Fire Rescue team helps with 
efforts in the Surfside Condo collapse  
By Jake Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The Gainesville Police 
Department arrested a 
man Thursday who was 
connected with a hit-and-
run car crash that killed 
UF student Margaret 
(Maggie) Paxton in 
December.
Joshua Alexander 
Figueroa, 31, was 
charged with failing to 
stop for a crash involving 
a death. 
GPD spokesperson 
Graham Glover said 
Joshua Figueroa is 
currently being held at the Alachua County 
Jail after being charged 
with a felony. The state 
attorney’s office will 
move forward with 
the case evidence and 
prosecute him. 
On Dec. 9, 2020, 
Paxton was crossing 
the intersection at West 
University Avenue and 
Gale Lemerand Drive 
near Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium when she 
was struck by a blue 
BMW. The 18-year-old 
UF natural resource 
conservation freshman 
died at the scene of the 
crash.The driver fled the 
scene of the crash 
without stopping to give 
aid or provide personal 
or vehicle information, 
which is required by 
Florida law, according to 
a GPD press release.
GPD interviewed 
eyewitnesses, obtained 
information from 
automated license plate 
readers and executed 
search warrants for the 
location of the vehicle 
and Joshua Figueroa’s 
cell phone, which 
identified him as the 
driver.  
In December 2020, GPD executed a search 
warrant and seized the 
car from Best Motor 
Works, a mechanic shop 
that Miguel Figueroa, 
the father of Joshua 
Figueroa, owns.
Originally, Miguel 
Figueroa denied 
investigators access to 
the car.
Investigators noticed 
damage on the front of 
the car consistent with 
evidence from the scene 
of the crash, including 
blood splatter on the 
passenger side of the 
exterior of the car.
Inside the car, 
investigators found 
paperwork belonging to Man arrested in hit-and-run case resulting in death of UF studentCourtesty to The Alligator
Florida Task Force 8 members bow their heads in front of a memorial wall in Surfside, Florida. 
Gainesville Fire Rescue sent eight members to Surfside to aid in rescue efforts after the partial 
collapse of the Champlain Towers South condominium on June 24.
SEE PAXTON,  PAGE 7 SEE SURFSIDE,  PAGE 7
The Gainesville Police Department arrested Joshua Alexander 
Figueroa in the hit-and-run case that killed Maggie PaxtonThree UF alumni are missing following the collapseT oday’s Weather
GAINESVILLE RESIDENTS 
CAN PREPARE FOR SEVERE 
WEATHER EMERGENCIES 
THROUGH AVAILABLE 
RESOURCES AND FOLLOWING 
EMERGENCY GUIDELINES
By Phong Huynh
Alligator Staff Writer
Hurricane season is in full 
swing — here’s how students and 
Gainesville residents can be pre -
pared.
The season began June 1 and 
will last until Nov. 30, and the Na -
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration predicts an above-
average Atlantic hurricane sea -
son this year with about 13 to 20 
named storms and six to 10 named 
hurricanes.
Elsa, the fifth storm this year, 
is expected to make landfall in 
North Florida on July 7. The storm 
formed in the east Caribbean and 
is forecasted to travel north across 
Central Florida, based on models 
from NOAA. 
Elsa was originally labeled a 
Category 1 hurricane on Friday, 
which made it the first named 
hurricane of the Atlantic hurricane 
season, but it weakened to a tropi -
cal storm the morning of July 3.
The City of Gainesville tweeted 
residents can expect 2 to 4 inches 
of rain from the impending tropi -
cal storm, and cautioned that a 
large amount of rain in a short pe -
riod of time can result in flooding, 
fallen trees and debris. Residents 
are encouraged to report any is -
sues through the myGNV website 
or the corresponding app. 
Alachua County residents can prepare for the possible impact 
of tropical storm Elsa and future 
storms this hurricane season by 
following preparation guidelines 
before and during a storm.
The Alachua County Emer -
gency Management recommends 
having a charged NOAA weather 
radio and a sufficient supply of 
bottled water on hand and keep -
ing an emergency kit of water, 
food and medicine that can last 72 
hours. 
Residents can sign up to re -
ceive emergency alerts from the 
county about severe weather sys -
tems through a notification system 
called AlertAlachua, an emergen -
cy notification system from Ala -
chua County. It’s designed to give 
updates about a variety of emer -
gency situations such as a hurri -
cane or storm. 
UF also has weather updates 
accessible for students. Students 
can closely follow UF Alert, an 
emergency notification system, on 
its site or by the messages that are 
automatically sent to students and 
faculty via email or text. Students and UF affiliates are automatically 
enrolled to receive these alerts.  
There are no hurricane evacu -
ation zones in Gainesville or on 
campus, but shelters are offered 
during severe weather.
Emergency shelter availabil -
ity can be found by calling 311 
and through the Alachua County 
Emergency Management website. 
Campus buildings can operate 
as shelters for students and fac -
ulty when UF housing determines 
them necessary, but students are 
advised to stay in their assigned 
residence halls.
@phongphont
phuynh@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 38
 Tropical Storm Elsa signals start of 
hurricane season for North Central Florida  
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
&
Announces the opening of the following positions for the SUMMER semester:
EDITOR
A paid position as head of the Editorial Division and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
ENGAGEMENT MANAGING EDITOR
&
DIGITAL MANAGING EDITOR
Paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors
For an application, email Alligator  General Manager Shaun O’Connor 
at soconnor@alligator.org  Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. 
and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, July 1 6th.  No phone calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator  by Friday, 
July 16th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held via video conference on 
Thursday, July 22nd at 11 a.m.  
Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. 
Preference will be given to those who have experience with The 
Independent Florida Alligator .
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
Alex Brown / / Alligator Staff
FALLTUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
UF STUDENTS AND EMPLOYEES 
WILL HAVE ACCESS TO A NEW 
APP AND TRAININGS
By Makiya Seminera
Alligator Staff Writer 
This Fall, two new sexual harass -
ment prevention measures are com -
ing to UF: a revamped sexual assault 
prevention training for incoming 
students and an app to aid students 
and employees who need sexual as -
sault resources. 
The new training and app — led 
by the Office for Accessibility and 
Gender Equity — aim to educate 
the UF population on sexual harass -
ment, methods of reporting sexual 
misconduct and tools to avoid dan -
gerous situations. 
“We understand that preventing 
sexual-based discrimination and ha -
rassment and interpersonal violence 
is complex and multifaceted. So, it requires a more comprehensive, ho -
listic approach,” Jessica Baker, the 
Office for Accessibility and Gender 
Equity engagement and prevention 
coordinator, said.
The Office for Accessibility and 
Gender Equity plays a larger role in 
ensuring equal opportunity for all 
students through addressing viola -
tions to Title IX and the Americans 
with Disabilities Act — which are 
both federal civil rights laws that 
prohibit sex-based or disability-
based discrimination.
The office’s new mandatory Fall 
training for incoming students will 
work to improve sexual harassment 
education through four key tenets: 
understanding consent, identifying 
behavior that contributes to inter -
personal violence, incorporating by -
stander intervention and observing 
how personal identity and inclusion 
affect relationships. 
New trainings will also be made available for UF employees on sex -
ual assault prevention and under -
standing approaches to disclosures 
of harm. 
Launching in August, UF stu -
dents and employees will also have 
access to a new app meant to equip 
users with emergency and support 
resources on campus or in the great -
er Gainesville community. 
The app will contain various 
features to help students prevent 
unsafe sexual encounters. Functions 
on the app include a GPS-location 
contact alert and a “time to leave” 
tool, which allows the user to send 
his or herself a fake text or call to 
leave an uncomfortable situation. 
“The whole point of this app is 
to put these resources in people’s 
hands so that they don’t have to 
remember a website,” Baker said. 
“It’s all right there in an easy-to-get 
format so that when people are in 
need, they have quick and simple access to these resources.” 
In an email to students in May, 
Vice President of Student Affairs 
D’Andra Mull, Ph.D., referred to the 
Fall initiatives as a “proactive ap -
proach to prevention.” 
The development of new cam -
pus resources to prevent sexual as -
sault and harassment came after a 
2019 survey found nearly one third 
of UF undergraduate female stu -
dents experienced nonconsensual 
sexual contact by force or inability 
to give consent. 
Nationally, 81% of women and 
43% of men experience a form of 
sexual harassment of assault in their 
lifetime, according to the National 
Sexual Violence Resource Center.
The primary approach the Office 
for Accessibility and Gender Equity 
took to address the results of the 
2019 survey was through hiring Jes -
sica Baker, the engagement and pre -
vention coordinator for the office. In addition to the comprehensive 
sexual assault measures launching 
in fall, Baker leads the Gender Eq -
uity Student Advisory Board — a 
19-student panel that helps create 
new gender equity and accessibility-
related policies. 
As a way to act on her passion 
for gender issues, Marina Bolser, a 
23-year-old health education and 
behavior senior, joined the board 
for the 2021-2022 school year. She 
hopes to address issues such as sex -
ual discrimination in academic set -
tings during her time on the board. 
“This is a way that I can actu -
ally turn my opinions and beliefs 
into real action,” Bolser said. “I can 
influence things in my small cor -
ner of the world and feel a little bit 
less powerless because even small 
change is change.”
@makseminera 
mseminera@alligator.orgNew sexual assault prevention measures will launch at UF in Fall  
A BRAVO SUPERMARKET COULD BE BUILT 
ON SOUTHEAST HAWTHORNE ROAD
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
What was supposed to be a step toward 
addressing the pressing need for a grocery 
store in East Gainesville left some community 
members feeling left out of the decision pro -
cess.
Gainesville has 11 census blocks desig -
nated as food deserts, according to a report 
from the city. The U.S. Department of Agri -
culture defines food deserts as low-income 
areas where many residents have low ac -
cess to a grocery store. Walmart is the only 
grocery store in East Gainesville. Some East 
Gainesville residents have to travel across the 
city to grocery shop despite a majority of these 
households not having access to a vehicle.
Bravo Supermarket, a small food chain 
designed to cater to the needs of customers 
living in a food desert, was proposed as a 
partial solution to the food desert by Fredric 
Washington, a real estate developer, during a 
Gainesville city commission meeting on June 
17. 
The city offered a $3.3 million loan in tax money to open the store. The city commission 
passed a motion 3-2 to give the city 30 days 
to review the Bravo proposal. Within these 30 
days, the city is welcoming developers to sub -
mit a proposal for a grocery store. 
Bravo would also bring in 30 new jobs 
starting at $15 an hour with residents of sur -
rounding areas being prioritized for employ -
ment, Washington said. 
Washington said Bravo would make a 
good fit for East Gainesville’s food desert, 
defined as a neighborhood more than a mile 
away from a chain grocery store, making it dif -
ficult for residents to buy fresh food. He said it 
would attract people looking for Bravo’s fresh 
produce, freshly cut meat and shelves stocked 
with items customers specifically request. 
Tina Days, a 42-year-old East Gainesville 
resident, said she had never heard of Bravo 
Supermarket until this proposal. She and oth -
ers in the community would have liked to 
hear more about the proposal before it was 
brought to the city commission, she said.
People on the East Side are in desperate 
need of a new supermarket, but she said the 
process needs to be slower and involve com -
munity members. 
“We don’t want fast and wrong. We want 
slow and right,” she said.Bravo would be at 2286 SE Hawthorne 
Road, where a Save-A-Lot and Food Lion used 
to be before closing years prior and furthering 
the issue of grocery store access. It would of -
fer a salad bar and a cafe, along with space for 
local vendors to rent out booths to sell their 
products, Washington said. The supermarket 
would also have a credit union, which are 
scarce in East Gainesville, and would possibly 
house a medical clinic.
Bravo has also been offered as a space for 
classes for UF students. It will also be a place 
to teach minority and disadvantaged contrac -
tors how to do business with UF, Washington 
said. 
Chanae Jackson, a 41-year-old community 
activist, said she is not in favor of the pro -
posal and its partnership with UF. 
“Anytime they state they want to do some -
thing and provide services for the University 
of Florida, and they say they want to provide 
students with classes, all I see is gentrifica -
tion,” Jackson said.
Jackson said she was disappointed the city 
manager found a developer to build a gro -
cery store instead of pursuing a community 
model. She believes there hasn’t been any 
meaningful engagement with East Gainesville 
residents or organizations like Grace Grows, a non-profit organization partnered with Grace 
Marketplace to empower those experienc -
ing homelessness or food insecurity through 
horticulture. Grace Grows has conducted re -
search on food insecurity in East Gainesville.
She also said it would be frustrating to 
have a space in East Gainesville for UF stu -
dents when residents don’t have many meet -
ing spaces of their own. 
“If it’s really something that’s an initiative 
for East Gainesville, why would you not make 
meeting space be available for the rest of us 
actually over there,” Jackson said. 
Responses from the city commission were 
mixed. 
Commissioner Gail Johnson said the deci -
sion is difficult for her as she ran on the prom -
ise of a community grocery store. She said she 
believes the proposal must go through public 
process before approval, however.
“Things change when there is $3.3 million 
on the table,” Johnson said. “We have not 
given that opportunity to everybody.”
Read the rest online at alligator.org
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgA new proposal for a grocery store in East Gainesville leaves community members concerned4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021SEVENTEEN UF STUDENTS FROM 
13 COUNTRIES WITNESSED 
INEQUALITY, CIVIL UNREST 
AND VACCINE SHORTAGES
By Isabella Douglas 
& Alexandra Harris 
Alligator Staff Writers
After a year of timing phone calls between 
time zones, punctuated by pleas to “stay safe” 
as if it could be the last goodbye with their 
loved ones, international students at UF are 
watching their peers in Gainesville return to 
pre-COVID life — while the virus still wreaks 
havoc back home.
There have been over 180 million con -
firmed cases of COVID-19 worldwide since De -
cember  2020, according to the World Health 
Organization. For many Americans who now 
have access to almost 300 million vaccines, the 
pandemic is slowing down. This is not true for 
many countries outside of the US. 
Almost 6,000 international students from 
140 countries, more than half of them gradu -
ate students, attended UF in Fall 2020, accord -
ing to the UF International Center. Students 
witnessed inequality, civil unrest and vaccine 
shortages while in their home countries. Oth -
ers read about their country’s pandemic in the 
news and listened to their loved ones overseas. 
Transformed by the tragedies of the COV -
ID-19 pandemic, international students grieved 
not only for loved ones but their countries.
Dr. Sumita Bhaduri-McIntosh, UF associate 
professor and chief of infectious diseases in the 
department of pediatrics, believes the world 
can’t let its guard down without global vacci -
nation rates rising.
With her parents in India, she watched 
from afar as their lives were threatened and 
her home country devastated.
“When you have a virus that has the poten -
tial to evolve and evade vaccines over time, it 
endangers not just the people in those coun -
tries without access to vaccines, but also those 
with access to vaccines,” Bhaduri-McIntosh 
said. 
Even with nearly half of the U.S. fully vac -
cinated, she said there is little hope for the near 
future if the virus is not controlled elsewhere. 
Only 1% of people in low-income countries 
have been vaccinated with one dose, accord -
ing to Our World in Data.“Which makes the access to vaccines 
that much more important in other countries 
worldwide,” she said. “It’s not just enough to 
have access to vaccines and for most people to 
take the vaccines in the Western world.”
Grief surfaced tears for UF international stu -
dents who lost their families to the pandemic. 
Yet laughter and smiles persevered as oth -
ers found humor in solemn situations. 
On May 5, 2020, Gabrielle Quadrado tied 
the knot with her husband, Matheus Bose, in 
her hometown Rio Grande do Sul State — just 
as Brazil teetered on the brink of a grueling 
descent into chaos and tragedy.
“[It was] really early in the pandemic and 
we didn’t know how to act,” Quadrado, a 
25-year-old climate science Ph.D. student said. 
“We were so scared.”
As soon as she received her acceptance let -
ter to UF for her Ph.D. in climate science, she 
set a date.
Even with love blossoming, loss was 
around the corner. Away in Ecuador await -
ing visa approval, Quadrado received crushing 
news from home. 
Her uncle, Leandro Pereira, died from CO -
VID-19 at 46 years old on December 17, 2020.
“So young,” her voice broke. “He had a 
whole life ahead of him.”
While visiting her family before coming to 
the U.S., she said she wouldn’t hug anyone be -
cause of the virus. On the last day she spent in 
her hometown, she made an exception.
“I decided I was going to give a hug on my 
grandma and also my uncle,” she said. “And I 
didn’t know that was our last hug.”
Bolivia
While Adriana 
Rojas Muriel, a 
22-year-old UF bi -
ology junior, spent 
her summer alone 
in Gainesville, her 
mind was on Bo -
livia.
Instead of lively 
Saturday conversa -
tions during meals with her mother, sisters 
and grandmothers in her hometown of Santa 
Cruz, she listened to them describe Bolivia’s 
vaccine shortages, driving bans and protests 
against government corruption happening 
3,000 miles away.
In Gainesville, she pushed through online classes and her independent research about 
Leishmaniasis, a parasitic disease in Bolivia.
“Stay at the worst point of the pandemic 
— where you were unemployed, where one of 
your families was at the hospital, at your worst 
point — that’s the point that Bolivia is living in 
right now and is living every day and has been 
living for more than a year,” Rojas Muriel said.
Over 444,000 Bolivians have tested positive 
for COVID-19 and over 16,900 have died, ac -
cording to the World Health Organization. 
Rojas Muriel lived in Santa Cruz de la Si -
erra for 18 years before moving to Gainesville 
in May 2018, where she stayed through the 
pandemic. She planned to visit home this sum -
mer, but her parents thought she had a bet -
ter chance of surviving the virus with the U.S. 
healthcare system. 
Bolivia’s hospitals are running out of oxy -
gen supplies and hospital beds for COVID-19 
patients, according to the Human Rights 
Watch. 
Rojas Muriel saw Bolivian families break 
because of the deadly disease. Her 10-year-
long friend’s father died of COVID-19 May 27. 
Rojas Muriel’s father is still grieving the 
death of his best friend who died January 3.
“It’s not about you not getting sick or you 
not getting COVID,” Rojas Muriel said. “It’s 
about others not getting it.”
Rojas Muriel’s grandmother, an 80-year-
old hospital director, received Sinopharm vac -
cines in April because of her age. Unvaccinated 
medical students still worked with COVID-19 
patients in the same hospital. 
In late May, anti-vaccination groups spread 
false information about “satanic” vaccines. As 
of June 7, confirmed cases of COVID-19 spiked, 
according to the WHO. Less than 16.5% of Bo -
livia’s population received at least one dose.
“I don’t like when people tell me here that 
they don’t want to receive a vaccine because 
they don’t want any side effects,” Rojas Muriel 
said. “I would die for to take those vaccines 
that are not being utilized back to my country.”
While the virus still ravages the country, 
Rojas Muriel said many Bolivians also fear the 
crime that came with the pandemic.
Her family’s bicycles were stolen off the pa -
tio. She worried someone could break into her 
family’s home and threaten them.
During the pandemic, 74% of workers 
stopped working, according to a Gallup poll. 
“In developing countries like mine...they 
need help from outside governments to inter -fere, to provide vaccinations, to provide food, 
to provide just some security in their life,” Ro -
jas Muriel said.
Colombia
Dios de pan a 
quien no tiene dien -
tes. God gives bread 
to the people who 
don’t have teeth.
The Spanish 
saying reminds Or -
lando Sanchez, a 
31-year-old public 
health master’s stu -
dent, of those who 
reject vaccines dur -
ing shortages and crises. The Colombian inter -
national student witnessed some in Gainesville 
turn down the same life-saving vaccines his 
family and community needed back home. 
Sanchez lived in Barranquilla, Colombia for 
30 years before moving to Gainesville in De -
cember. 
In Colombia, there have been about 4 mil -
lion confirmed cases of COVID-19 and over 
108, 000 deaths, according to the World Health 
Organization. On average, about 27,000 new 
infections are reported each day. 
The U.S. embassy in Colombia warned 
travelers about the mass protests against the 
government last June. 
Colombian international UF students 
scoured for news about the pandemic and 
political instability tearing through their home 
country. As mass protests broke nightly cur -
fews on the Colombian streets, the students 
fumed over the unequal vaccine access be -
tween their home country and Gainesville.
The 2020 protests against government 
corruption and income inequality repeatedly 
broke Colombia’s 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew, 
which was set because of the high death toll.
Sanchez does not agree with what the gov -
ernment is doing. “The answer is not the right 
or left-wing,” Sanchez said. “None of them is 
the answer.”
About 14% of Colombia’s population has 
been fully vaccinated, according to Our Data 
World.
Sanchez worked at a hospital in Barranquil -
la. From March to May 2020, the hospital was 
at full capacity without enough respirators, he 
said. The hospital directed people to other fa -
cilities because it ran out of oxygen tanks.
When patients were being treated, COV -
ID-19 restrictions banned family visits. 
While in Gainesville he checked his Face -
book feed for news about Colombia and regu -
larly called his family.
Daniel Acosta, a 30-year-old public health 
Ph.D. student, also watched from his screen in 
Gainesville as his country protested its govern -
ment’s mishandling of the crisis. 
“People that are protesting because the 
country is not really doing well and the pros -
pects and the future of many is in jeopardy 
right now,” Acosta said. “Most of the popula -
tion are not happy with some of the decisions 
from the government and I think the pandemic 
just exacerbated that.”
At age 27 he moved to Gainesville with a 
Colfuturo Latin American scholarship to pur -
sue his Ph.D. in public health.
From 2017 to 2019, Acosta returned to 
Colombia once a year to reconnect with his 
Colombian family and culture. He grew up 
visiting the beaches and national parks of Bar -
ranquilla, but the pandemic has kept him from 
visiting for two years. 
In January, Acosta received his full COV -
ID-19 vaccination in Gainesville. It took three 
more months before his parents in Colombia 
received their first dose. 
“It’s always a striking difference with the 
U.S.,” Acosta said. “Here we have so many COVID-19
International students watch restrictions loosen in Gainesville as COVID-19 rages at home
Shelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff
SEE COVID-19,  PAGE 5Sanchez
Muriel
TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
vaccines we don’t know what to do with them 
and basically [Colombia is] just still slowly 
rolling them out — a bunch of people still wait -
ing for vaccines.”
Guatemala
At 4 years old, 
Ana Barrientos 
moved from Gua -
temala City to 
Gainesville. At age 
22, the UF interna -
tional studies senior 
received her second 
COVID-19 vaccina -
tion at UF’s Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium in 
April.
Her grandparents, both 72, lived in Guate -
mala all of their lives. They too had to travel 
to Gainesville to receive vaccines in May and 
June. 
Guatemala had over 301,000 COVID-19 
cases and more than 9,000 deaths, according 
to the  World Health Organization. Less than 
1% of Guatemala’s population has been fully 
vaccinated. 
The rest of Barrientos’s Guatemalan fam -
ily hasn’t been able to get a vaccine. Concerns 
about the quality and expiration date of the 
vaccines are widespread, she said.  
“It’s a privilege to live in the United States. 
It’s a privilege to have the vaccine already, for 
the pandemic almost to be over. That’s almost 
unheard of in other places,” Barrientos said. 
With the current numbers, the additional 
10% of the Guatemalan population will be vac -
cinated in ten months if 11,000 people are vac -
cinated every day. With over 1,400 COVID-19 
cases being recorded every day, the Barrientos 
family in Guatemala has been quarantining 
since the beginning of the pandemic.
When the pandemic started, Barrientos’s 
aunt experienced a lockdown in her neighbor -
hood in Guatemala City, which the govern -
ment blamed on a gas leak. She was told to 
stay indoors. It wasn’t until three weeks later 
her neighbors told her it was because of a CO -
VID-19 outbreak. 
”You’re losing that cultural part of social 
interaction,” Barrientos said. “Especially for 
Latin American countries where the social in -
teraction is such a big part of the culture.”
September is usually filled with parades, 
parties and feasts of traditional dishes to cel -
ebrate Guatemala’s independence from Spain. 
Celebrations were canceled last September due 
to the pandemic.
Barrientos’ cousin is a medical student in 
Guatemala who works at a hospital. She tells 
her family hospitals are still overrun with CO -
VID-19 patients and not enough resources to 
go around.
Miscommunication from the Guatemalan 
government hasn’t helped the crisis, Barrien -
tos said.  
“There was a promise of vaccines, and in 
the end, those vaccines were only available to 
certain people who had government connec -
tions and not necessarily to the general popula -
tion,” Barrientos said.
Barrientos wants vaccine providers held ac -
countable so her family can start getting vac -
cinated in their county. 
When Barrientos thinks about graduating 
from UF, she worries. She faced visa complica -
tions at the beginning of the pandemic, which 
suggested international students would not be 
able to stay in the U.S. if they were online. 
Although UF’s International Center tried 
to support her, Barrientos felt like it wasn’t 
enough. She didn’t feel heard.  
“There’s a lot of red tape when it comes to 
immigration and I feel like that’s not a conver -
sation that’s had very often,” Barrientos said. 
“The system is really skewed against people who want to immigrate to the U.S. legally.”
Saudi Arabia
Hussah Bubshait woke up crying in her 
Gainesville apartment last July. Her sister in 
Saudi Arabia tested positive for COVID-19. 
“I cried more than her,” Bubshait, a 35-year-
old UF international nursing Ph.D. student, 
said. “You feel bad because you are away from 
your family, and even when they call you, they 
will not even tell you the whole truth.”
The country has about 492,700 confirmed 
cases of COVID-19 and over 7,800 deaths, ac -
cording to the World Health Organization. 
About 5% of the population of Saudi Arabia 
has been fully vaccinated. 
The pandemic allowed Bubshait to re -
unite with her family for four months at the 
beginning of lockdown. Since moving back 
to Gainesville, she’s struggled with the 7,000 
miles separating her from her loved ones.
Bubshait was nine months pregnant 
with her second child when she moved to 
Gainesville from Dammam, Saudi Arabia with 
her husband in August 2019. She started her 
nursing Ph.D. at UF ten days after giving birth. 
“It was very hard, in the beginning, to go 
out, or deal with others or talk with others,” 
Bubshait said. “Having two kids at home 
makes you feel lonely... and doing that first 
year of Ph.D.s, it was very hard.”
In November, 
Bubshait decided 
she would rather be 
locked down with 
her family.
She traveled 
with her husband 
and two children to 
Saudi Arabia. Her 
sisters, brothers and 
their families quar -
antined together in 
her parents’ house 
for four months. Her youngest child met their 
uncles, aunts and cousins for the first time. 
“In Saudi Arabia, people are supportive to 
each other,” Bubshait said. “You will never 
feel lonely.” 
She was required to download a Saudi Min -
istry of Health app called Tawakkalna, which 
provided a history of the individual’s COV -
ID-19 status, alerted residents of curfews and 
GPS tracked them. 
“You will never be allowed to go anywhere, 
even to the supermarket or shopping mall 
without this application,” Bubshait said.
Shoppers piled outside of mall doors trying 
to present their apps with a faulty internet con -
nection, Bubshait said. 
From March to May 2020, Saudi Arabia was 
in complete lockdown with curfews. Gather -
ings of more than 20 people in households 
were not allowed and facemasks were always 
required when outside homes. 
Starting May 11, individuals who did not 
comply with COVID-19 regulations would be 
fined anywhere from $2,666 to $13,329. 
The pandemic reduced the demand for oil 
and gas, causing economic pressure for Saudi 
Arabia. People across the country felt the ef -
fects of wages and job losses, including Bubs -
hait’s cousin, who lost his job as a pilot.
Bubshait and her family returned to 
Gainesville in February to continue her classes. 
While Saudi Arabia closely monitored and en -
forced COVID-19 restrictions, the U.S took a 
different approach.
Despite being able to move more freely in 
Florida, she felt more isolated inside her home. 
Away from her support system, she stayed in 
her apartment with her kids and focused on 
her studies through Zoom. 
Bubshait longs to return to Saudi Arabia af -
ter she completes her degree. 
“I miss [my family] so much,” she wrote. 
“But I’m here for a goal and I have to finish it.” Indonesia
Christa Geraldine witnessed privilege 
change how people experienced the pandemic. 
As an Indonesian UF online student, she rec -
ognized massive disparities between America 
and the over 17,000 islands that make up her 
home county. 
Privilege determined who got the vaccine, 
which schools stayed open and which hospi -
tals received supplies, she said.
The 25-year-old digital strategy student 
joined UF online from Indonesia at the be -
ginning of the pandemic to earn her master’s 
degree. She works as an assistant lecturer of 
communication an hour outside of the capital, 
Jakarta, on Java Island. 
Indonesia has over 2,300,000 confirmed 
cases of COVID-19 and about 61,000 deaths, 
according to the World Health Organization. 
Over 42,400,000 people have been fully vac -
cinated, less than 5% of the population of In -
donesia. 
Geraldine believes COVID-19 cases in Indo -
nesia are higher and the government’s lack of 
transparency and information is to blame for 
unreported cases.
“For the last one and a half year we’ve been 
encountering undocumented cases from every -
where,” she said. “The number of the reported 
cases, they are so small when compared to the 
real exact number. We don’t even know the 
exact number.”
Geraldine believes the government lacked 
urgency in its response to the outbreaks. 
Hospitals across the country floundered 
without supplies throughout the pandemic. 
Java and many smaller islands still struggle to 
stock their ventilators and oxygen.
The government’s goal to have 40.2 mil -
lion health care workers, public officials and 
elderly citizens vaccinated by the end of April 
wasn’t accomplished, with 93% of health care 
workers and only about 8% of the elderly re -
ceiving the vaccine.  
“The first world countries are pretty privi -
leged to get the first vaccines and they have 
big doses of them,” Geraldine said. “It’s pretty 
easy compared to rural countries, especially 
underdeveloped countries.” 
Against the advice of medical experts, the 
government prioritized vaccinating healthcare 
workers, public officials and working-class 
adults over elderly citizens.
In April, some local governments held vac -
cination events for business owners, employ -
ees and law enforcement. During this time, 
some non-priority individuals bargained and 
used their connections to illegally receive vac -
cines, Geraldine said. 
“People who are privileged and have con -
nections, they already get vaccinated because 
they sneak into the crowd and say, ‘I’m from 
this shop,’” Geraldine said.
Citizens under the age of 18, who are not 
prioritized, have access to the vaccine this 
way. Geraldine said the rich take advantage of 
the loophole. 
“I can just slip in and say that, ‘Oh, I’m a 
relative of this shop so, can you please vac -
cinate me,’ and you will get through,” Geral -
dine said. “That’s kind of the corruption, that’s 
what’s happening in Indonesia.”
Areas with high tourism, like Bali, forced 
domestic visitors who violated the mask policy 
to do pushups. Last year, villagers were forced 
to dig COVID-19 graves as punishment for not 
abiding by the government’s guidelines. 
On Java, fines and punishments for not 
wearing a mask aren’t as commonplace. Peo -
ple often host parties and disobey safety pro -
tocols, she said. 
“We’re not 
really protected 
because the 
awareness of 
wearing the 
mask here, like 
facial masks 
and other pro -
tective equip -
ment are so 
low,” Geraldine 
said.Pakistan
The morning after Rubab Ajmal received 
her COVID-19 vaccination at UF’s Ben Hill 
Griffin stadium, she woke up to a Facebook 
post about her childhood classmate dying of 
the deadly virus in Pakistan. 
“It was so hard knowing that I’m at a place 
where I got the vaccine earlier,” Ajmal said. 
“Knowing their pain and not being there with 
them kind of makes you hate your own privi -
lege.”
The 25-year-old agriculture and biologi -
cal engineering master’s student lived in La -
hore, Pakistan her whole life before moving to 
Gainesville in December 2020. 
Pakistan has over 960,000 confirmed cases 
of COVID-19 and over 22,400 deaths, accord -
ing to the World Health Organization. Over 17 
million doses of the vaccine, less than 1.5% of 
the population of Pakistan.
Ajmal’s parents received their vaccines two 
weeks ago while her grandmother received 
the vaccine in Pakistan in May. On June 3, the 
government announced individuals 18 years or 
older could sign up for the vaccine. 
After coming to the U.S. in the middle of the 
pandemic, Ajmal noticed similarities between 
her home and Gainesville.
“Lahore is just like the Florida of Pakistan,” 
Ajmal said. 
In both countries, people are skeptical 
about the quality of vaccines and don’t want 
to wear masks.
Ajmal is disappointed when people refuse 
the vaccine that could have saved her friend 
and millions of others.
In Pakistan, lower-class people are jailed 
and fined for not wearing masks or social dis -
tancing, she said. For the rich, parties and so -
cial life persisted. 
After months of isolation, she can’t wait to 
go home where she has her support system all 
in one city.
“I have been placed somewhere where I 
don’t know anyone and I don’t have anyone to 
fall back on,” Ajmal said. “Having a network 
and having a place where my roots were is 
something I miss the most.”
After months with no in-person classes and 
an empty campus, Ajmal reached out to UF’s 
CWC in March. Every week, she looked for -
ward to relaxing outdoor activities with new 
friends and tips on how to cope during the 
pandemic. 
As Ajmal spent her time at UF in online 
classes away from her family in Lahore, UF 
student Fahad Rafiq was deferred a semester 
and spent the pandemic in Pakistan. 
Rafiq, a 32-year-
old UF animal sci -
ence Ph.D. student, 
lived in the city of 
Burewala for all his 
life before moving 
to Gainesville in 
May. 
In spring, he 
took synchronous 
classes in Pakistan. 
The nine-hour time 
difference forced 
him to wake up 
close to midnight to 
attend morning classes.
Throughout the day he pleaded with his 
friends and family to ignore the stigma sur -
rounding the COVID-19 vaccine in Pakistan. 
He heard a false rumor back home about the 
vaccine, where if people got vaccinated they 
would die in two years. 
“All we can do is think of others when we 
are wearing masks or getting vaccinations,” 
Rafiq said. “It is not that we are doing it just 
for ourselves, we are thinking of the illness, the 
people who won’t recover.” “One life lost is 
too many,” Rafiq said.
Read the rest online at alligator.org
@Ad_Scribendum 
idouglas@alligator.org
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgCOVID-19,  from pg. 4The pandemic isn’t over
Bubshait
Geraldine
Rafiq
Barrientos
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Players get paid
New NIL laws allow student-athletes to make money off  
endorsements and other company revenue, pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE BROADWAY MUSICAL INSPIRED 
MOVIE ACTS AS A BIG STEP TOWARDS 
LATINO REPRESENTATION, BUT FOR 
AUDIENCES, IT WASN’T ENOUGH
By Melissa Hernandez
Avenue Staff Writer
Between vibrant music and colorful danc -
ing, “In the Heights” presents a story of the col -
lective Latino struggle specifically in the Wash -
ington Heights community. 
The film highlights the endless inheritance 
of the American dream on the shoulders of first-
generation immigrants. The cast, mostly made 
up of Latinos such as Anthony Ramos and Les -
lie Grace, brings authenticity and a sense of 
representation for the Latino community. 
“Crazy Rich Asians” director Jon M. Chu 
and “In The Heights” musical creator Lin-Man -
uel Miranda merged their imaginative minds, 
inviting audiences to be part of “el barrio,” 
which is Spanish for ‘the neighborhood.’ With 
a 96% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, the film sets 
a precedent for future movie musicals — show -
ing success in the transition from Broadway to 
movies. 
The movie centers around a love story be -
tween Usnavi (Anthony Ramos) and Vanessa 
(Melissa Barrera), who are a part of a flavor -
ful neighborhood called Washington Heights. 
Alongside the romantic plotlines, the movie 
highlights other characters’ struggles, such as 
Nina (Leslie Grace), a first-generation Puerto 
Rican who finds her way out of Washington Heights. She’s the neighborhood’s superstar — 
the one who won the one-way ticket to success 
by getting into Stanford. 
As Nina returns home to Washington 
Heights after her freshman year, she realizes 
how alone she feels at Stanford with no com -
munity to keep her roots grounded. 
I share sentiments about Nina’s struggle, es -
pecially coming back from my first semester in 
college. First-generation Latino students, who 
exceed academically, often find themselves 
corralled in these predominantly white institu -
tions. The burden of achieving the American 
dream weighs heavy on their shoulders, and 
Miranda greatly executes these shared experi -
ences on screen. 
There are Caribbean influences within the 
dance styles, meals and clothing throughout 
the film – one of the first times I’ve seen Cu -
ban foods such as “ropa vieja,” (a traditional 
entree), crackers with guava and cheese, and 
tamales so beautifully represented in Holly -
wood. There’s an honest reflection in Abuela 
Claudia’s (Olga Merediz) home that translates 
through the screen. 
It all comes together at the peak of the 
movie, where the “Carnaval del Barrio” occurs. 
Flags representing Cuba, Dominican Repub -
lic, Mexico and Puerto Rico, along with typi -
cal dances and clothing, meld together during 
one of the movie’s iconic scenes. “Carnaval Del 
Barrio” gave a feeling of togetherness and unifi -
cation regardless of nationalities.  
Despite the feelings and themes of a unified 
Latino community, Chu and Miranda’s vision 
excludes a significant group who are the real foundation of Washington Heights. 
The block referred to as the “Little Domini -
can Republic” in real life missed the opportu -
nity to highlight darker-skinned Dominicans. 
There were also voids of Dominican-inspired 
music like Dembow, Bachata and Merengue. 
Without these sounds, the movie fails to up -
hold the Dominican culture prevalent in the 
real Washington Heights. The film represent -
ed the collective Latino culture and seeping 
through that fictional facade were the Latino 
community’s ties to colorism. 
Soon after the movie successfully arrived in 
theaters and streamed on HBO Max June 10, it 
received backlash about the lack of Black Do -
minicans as lead characters. Some celebrities, 
such as Puerto Rican icon Rita Moreno, who 
found success in the original “West Side Story” 
Broadway show, came to the defense of Mi -
randa. 
“You can never do right, it seems. He is the 
man who literally has brought Latino-ness and 
Puerto Rican-ness to America,” Moreno said on 
Stephen Colbert’s Late night show. “I’m simply 
saying, ‘can’t you just wait a while and leave 
it alone?’” 
Many people on social media were angered 
about Moreno ignoring the importance of dark-
skinned Latino representation in Hollywood. 
Moreno later apologized for her remarks 
on Twitter soon after Miranda recognized the 
movie’s issues with colorism in his apology. “In 
the Heights’’ failed to represent Afro-Latinos as 
the leads were light-skinned or white Latinos, 
meanwhile the dark-skinned characters were 
reserved for background representation. Aside from lackluster Dominican represen -
tation, it was surprising to see how buried Dan -
iela (Daphne Rubin-Vega) and Carla’s (Stepha -
nie Beatriz) relationship was in the plot. They 
arguably received a couple of lines of dialogue 
during the end of the movie, leaving their queer 
relationship up for interpretation. Daniela and 
Carla’s relationship is a perfect example of the 
plotlines the film compromised in order to fin -
ish the love story between Usnavi and Vanessa. 
Yet, the movie excels in highlighting a sense 
of community within the block. Impressive so -
los such as Abuela Claudia’s song “Paciencia y 
Fe” on the subway invokes emotional tears. For 
Sonny (Gregory Diaz IV), one of the younger 
characters, finding out about his undocument -
ed status is a direct call out to those protected 
by the DREAM Act, often called “Dreamers,” 
touching on a personal perspective regarding 
immigration. 
Miranda and Chu tried to encompass all 
parts of Latino struggles and culture but fell 
short by leaving loose ends on the character’s 
storylines. Sonny, Nina, Daniela, Carla and 
Benny (Corey Hawkins) were sidelined by Van -
essa and Usnavi’s love story. 
Ultimately, the movie delivered a piece of 
flavorful and catchy music with the right inten -
tions but wrong effects.  
Rate: 7/10 . A satisfactory feel-good movie 
that serves as the first step in Latino Hollywood 
representation.
@mhernandezdlc
Mhernandez@alligator.org
UF STUDENTS REFLECT ON 
THE BROADWAY INSPIRED 
FILM’S REPRESENTATION  
By Alexis Carson 
Avenue Staff Writer
 
UF’s Latino community discussed 
film representation upon the release 
of the “In the Heights” movie.
Launched in theaters and on HBO 
Max June 10, the movie is based on 
Lin Manuel Miranda’s 2008 Tony 
award-winning Broadway hit, “In 
the Heights.” 
Miranda wrote the musical when 
he was 19 years old, and the story -
line centers around the lives and ad -
ventures of a Latino community in 
Washington Heights, New York.  
Now told on the silver screen, the 
musical marks a moment of repre -
sentation for the Latino community 
and the beloved, loyal musical the -
atre fans. 
UF Hispanic Student Associa -
tion president Kevin Trejos, 21, said there’s yet to be a movie that fully 
represents his nationality, making 
“In the Heights” an impactful film.
“It’s not too often you get to see 
a movie that tries to represent His -
panic/Latino culture in the best way 
that it can,” he said.
Trejos said the support UF’s HSA 
offers is meant to help deal with 
things similar to what Nina’s charac -
ter (Leslie Grace) faced at Stanford, 
who struggled to find her home in 
college because she felt like her His -
panic roots were underrepresented. 
He said the lack of being sur -
rounded by people you can connect 
to is a problem he hopes to conquer 
with HSA.
“Well I guess Stanford doesn’t 
have an HSA, because that’s what 
we try to do at HSA is make sure 
that every Hispanic person, every 
Latino person, anyone who is inter -
ested in Hispanic/Latinx culture can 
find a place where they can express 
themselves, learn about the culture 
and surround themselves with peo -
ple that have the same kind of pas -sions,” he said. 
HSA Vice President of Communi -
cations Nick Suriel, 20, comes from 
Dominican and Puerto Rican descent 
and has family that lives in Washing -
ton Heights. 
Suriel also related to Nina and 
said he felt overwhelmed coming 
to UF, a predominantly white insti -
tution. He noted HSA is where he 
found his home and hopes others 
can, too. 
Suriel added that Latino represen -
tation, which “In the Heights” had, 
was long overdue and hasn’t been 
given in American society.
“The conversation has always 
been focused around more general 
stereotypes or has been focused on 
things that are not really pertinent,” 
he said. 
Not only has “In the Heights” 
created a platform of representation 
for Latinos, but theater fans were ex -
cited to see a meaningful musical on 
the big screen.
Maria Gutći, 22, a third-year pub -
lic relations major at UF, was in a “In the Heights” production her senior 
year of high school.
Being Venezuelan and a lover of 
theater, Gutic said “In the Heights” 
was particularly special to her. 
“It just rings so close to my heart, 
of course, because of the storyline 
but also because I was part of the en -
semble of ‘In the Heights’ in my high 
school production of it,” she said. 
“I feel like in every single number 
that we did for that musical, all of 
us were bawling our eyes out. And 
people thought, ‘What phenomenal 
actors,’ when in reality, we’re just 
relating to the stories. They hit too 
close to home.” 
The film received backlash re -
garding issues of colorism in casting 
choices, where audiences preferred 
to see more dark-skinned Latinos. 
But Gutic said she was more ex -
cited to see any sort of representa -
tion, which she felt while during her 
school’s version of the musical. 
“I feel like that’s when we really 
got the most knit together, not only 
because, again, we’re all Hispanic, we relate to the stories that are said 
but it was just like one of the best 
memories I have from high school,” 
she said.
Despite the backlash, Suriel said 
not everything is going to come out 
perfect.
“Everything requires a little bit of 
work, so now that we have this good 
start, how can we build off that to 
continue having this representation 
but again just being more inclusive 
in who we’re casting?” 
Trejos said overall, the storyline 
of the movie makes him feel grateful 
to be at UF.  kk
“It reminded me of the fact that 
here I am at HSA, here I am at the 
University of Florida and here we all 
are at UF studying at such a fantastic 
university,” he said. “And we have 
our opportunity to give back to our 
families that struggle to get here and 
to the families that are still back at 
home.”
@Alexis_Carson99
acarson@alligator.org Rate and Review: ‘In the Heights’: Latinos taking one step forward but three steps back
‘In the Heights’ through the eyes of Latino students
THEATRETHEATRE
LATINXLATINXTUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
ban Search and Rescue Specialists 
in an effort to locate missing people 
in the rubble of the 12-story condo -
minium. 
The eight GFR specialists are part 
of a broader rescue team, Florida 
Task Force-8. The team also has res -
cue specialists from Marion County 
Fire Rescue and Ocala Fire Rescue. 
GFR Interim Deputy Fire Chief 
Joseph Hillhouse said these rescu -
ers are trained for state catastrophes 
and emergencies, such as hurricanes, 
structural collapses and vehicle res -
cues. 
The eight Florida task forces 
formed after 9/11.
Marion County Fire Rescue 
spokesperson James Lucas said 29 members of FLTF-8 were deployed to 
Surfside. The team worked 12-hour 
rotations — noon to midnight — un -
til they left Sunday. 
In these shifts, rescuers used jack -
hammers and saws to pull through 
debris. They also had microphones 
to listen for voices.
“The work is very physically, 
mentally and emotionally taxing,” 
Lucas said. 
After their shifts, FLTF-8 mem -
bers slept in tents among other res -
cuers that were deployed to the col -
lapse site. The tent camp is equipped 
with food, water, personal protection 
equipment and rescue tools, accord -
ing to a GFR Facebook post. 
Hillhouse said FLTF-8 made prog -
ress in their search efforts since they 
started at noon on June 28, recover -
ing multiple bodies at the site. As of July 5, 27 people are con -
firmed dead and 118 remain missing. 
Hillhouse said it meant a lot for 
GFR to be part of the search efforts 
in Surfside.
“You get into the emergency ser -
vices business because you want to 
help people,” he said. “You’re not go -
ing to be able to save everybody, but 
hopefully they will be able to bring 
closure to some families during that 
recovery effort.” 
While FLTF-8 was in Surfside, 
the team was ‘positive’ and ‘upbeat,’ 
focusing on the rescue mission, but 
there’s always a human element of 
sorrow in their work, Lucas said. 
“Many of the men and women 
that are down there right now have 
children of their own,” Lucas said. 
“So it was especially hard when the 
team recovered the bodies of two 
children.”
Dr. Benjamin Abo, an EMS phy -
sician and GFR medical director, helped maintain the well-being of 
FLTF-8 while in Surfside. He catered 
to their mental health while mending 
any physical injuries that rescuers 
may have suffered on duty. 
“I was basically working 22 out of 
24 hours a day,” he said.
The eight GFR responders have 
begun four days of rehabilitation to 
reset and destress before going back 
to their normal emergency response 
jobs, according to a GFR press re -
lease. 
Among those coming together 
to help Surfside are volunteers from 
across Miami-Dade and Broward 
County who work out of Casa de Je -
sus, or CASA, church.
About every two hours, volun -
teers are escorted by police to offer 
food, drinks and prayers to rescuers. 
The operation has been set up to give 
aid “since day 1,” Jessica Guzman, 
a volunteer with Tabernáculo de Su 
Presencia in Kendall, Florida said. Mary Djan, 56, a resident of Surf -
side for about 20 years and former 
immigration paralegal who worked 
on the 100th floor of the World Trade 
Center around the time of the 9/11 
attacks, said her community is not 
giving up hope. 
“When you give up, when you 
have no hope, when your hope di -
minishes — that’s when you’re suf -
fering,” she said. “I was there in the 
World Trade Center, so I know. Life 
is precious.”
@frlJakeReyes
jreyes@alligator.org 
@JuliaArinCooper
jcooper@alligator.org
Ibarnet@alligator.org
Joshua Figueroa.
GPD also executed a search warrant for 
Joshua Figuerora’s cell phone records, but 
it’s unclear when this occurred.
Records revealed Joshua Figueroa called 
a friend, Marc Painton, 15 minutes after the 
crash and admitted he hit “something or 
someone.”
On June 29, 2021, GPD interviewed 
Painton where he said he told Joshua 
Figueroa to meet him at Lillian’s Music Store 
during the phone call. When he arrived, 
Painton said Joshua Figueroa was upset 
and drank alcohol, according to the police 
report. 
The men went outside to look at the car 
until Painton told Joshua Figueroa he didn’t 
want to know anything else about the crash. 
Joshua Figueroa was arrested Thursday 
after he came in for questioning, Glover said. 
It’s unclear whether he came willingly or if 
GPD called him in. The investigation has been ongoing for more than seven months. 
William Mulligan, the lawyer for Maggie 
Paxton’s family and the family of Sophia 
Lambert, said it’s taken “all hands on deck” 
to figure out who the driver was. 
The car was owned by the suspect’s 
father, Miguel Figueroa, but Mulligan said 
it was more likely Joshua Figueroa was 
driving.
The next step is to add Joshua to the civil 
lawsuit filed by the Paxtons, Mulligan said. 
He also hopes to obtain more information, 
such as witness statements, from the 
criminal case. 
Mulligan, a UF graduate, said it’s been 
hard for him to be in Gainesville while 
representing both cases.
“I’ve crossed that same crosswalk, that 
same road that Maggie was crossing that 
night, many, many, many times. It hits 
home with me as well,” he said.  
Mulligan said Lisa and James Paxton, 
Maggie Paxton’s parents, will cry during 
some phone calls, and they had mixed 
emotions following the arrest. They are happy the arrest was made but sad nothing 
can bring their daughter back.
“Lisa and James are incredible 
individuals,” Mulligan said. “They’re 
incredibly strong, they’re passionate and 
every time we speak on the phone with 
them, they’re well-spoken and educated.”
Ann von Thron, Maggie Paxton’s aunt, 
also appreciated the news. The 57-year-old 
retired pediatrician said the past several 
months have been difficult. 
“I have watched my brother and my 
sister-in-law have their hearts ripped out 
without anesthesia,” she said. “I have been 
heartsick for eight months now. This arrest 
gives us a sense of relief.”
Although Joshua Figueroa was arrested, 
von Thron believes officials should prioritize 
pedestrians rather than cars on West 
University Avenue. 
“If they’re going to put so many enticing 
reasons for students to go enjoy themselves 
and to get stuff done, they need to provide 
a safe way back,” von Thron said. “Maggie 
was walking home on a legal crosswalk to 
go to bed early because she had a test the 
next day—everything her parents had taught 
her to do. It wasn’t enough.”Kailey Kiss, 21, the founder of Florida 
Not One More and Maggie Paxton’s sorority 
sister in Kappa Kappa Gamma, said she was 
delighted by the announcement of the arrest. 
“It’s long overdue,” she said. “I’m very, 
very happy that the Gainesville Police 
Department was able to bring justice to 
Maggie and her family and her friends.”
She said she founded Florida Not One 
More, a student-led organization that 
advocates for pedestrian safety and road 
reforms, because of Maggie Paxton.
“She just had an energy about her that 
was just so kind and passionate,” she said. 
“She’s smart, caring and beautiful. It’s really 
devastating to see just amazing girls like 
Maggie taken over things that could have 
been prevented.” 
Although several reforms have been 
made on West University Avenue, Kiss 
believes there’s more work to be done, such 
as redesigning the road.
“We’re far from over,” she said. “I wish 
that we were, but if I’m being honest, it’s 
going to be at least a couple years.”
@frlJakeReyes
jreyes@alligator.orgSURFSIDE,  from pg. 1
PAXTON,  from pg. 1GFR aids in rescue efforts
Arrest made in University Ave. crash8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021
THE FEELINE GOOD 
CAT CAFE PROVIDES A SPACE 
FOR GUESTS TO PLAY WITH 
ADOPTABLE CATS
WHILE GRABBING 
FOOD AND DRINKS
By Joelle Wittig
Alligator Staff Writer
A brown and gray, tiger-striped 
tabby cat hid in a cat tower by the 
window of the Feeline Good Cat 
Cafe. After 20 minutes of head pat -
ting and coaxing from her future 
owner, she emerged from her hid -
ing place.
Rachel Selby, a University of 
Central Florida digital media soph -
omore, went to the Feeline Good 
Cat Cafe at 201 SE Second Place 
near the Hippodrome State The -
atre on June 26 and left with Nali, 
the newest addition to her family.
“When I went to go leave to go 
get something from the cafe, she 
followed me,” she said. “That’s 
when I realized, ‘Oh my gosh, 
I think she might slightly be at -
tached to me,’ which is nice be -
cause it’s hard to make bonds with 
cats, especially when you first 
meet them.” 
The cafe opened on June 21 and 
gives guests a chance to interact 
with cats that are up for adoption. 
The first floor has a coffee bar with 
muffins, cookies, tea and coffee, 
and a separate room for people to 
visit the cats, decorated with a cat tree, climbing shelves and window 
perches. The second floor is filled 
with tables and couches for guests 
to lounge and study.
The cats are provided by the 
Humane Society of North Central 
Florida, which has 30 adult cats 
available for adoption as of July 
3. The room at the cafe allows a 
maximum of 10 cats at a time but 
has stayed between five and seven 
so far.
Margot DeConna, the 35-year-
old director of advancement for 
the Humane Society, said they pro -
vide cats that will be comfortable 
around the other cats at the cafe.
“We basically have been bring -
ing over fully vetted, spayed, neu -
tered, microchipped, vaccinated, 
adoptable adult cats to the cat cafe 
where they live and wait to find 
their forever home,” she said.
The collaborative effort makes 
the adoption process easier. In the 
cat room, a QR code leading to the 
adoption application allows the 
process to be done entirely online 
with an adoption cost of $75.
Francesca Hall, the 23-year-
old founder and owner, said more 
than a dozen new cats have been 
brought over since the cafe’s open -
ing. She grew up around cats and 
was inspired by the Witty Whisker 
Cat Cafe in St. Augustine, where 
she got her second cat.
Hall said she still gets photos 
from people who adopt cats from 
her cafe.
“The most rewarding thing so far has been the feedback of their 
cats in their home,” she said. “Just 
seeing them happy and healthy.”
Hall’s family helped bring her 
dream to life by helping her reno -
vate and decorate the space after 
she signed the lease on Jan. 21. 
Her dad and 26-year-old sister, 
Gabby Hall, who serves as the 
cafe’s social media manager, have 
been a big help in getting the busi -
ness off the ground during opening 
week, she said.
“It’s been very busy — super busy,” Gabby Hall said. “Between 
the three of us we’ve been able to 
manage it pretty well.”
Both Francesca and Gabby Hall 
adopted cats from the cafe. Fran -
cesca Hall adopted a 2-year-old 
orange tabby named Que, and 
Gabby Hall took home Andre, an 
8-year-old black cat.
Andrew Poirier, a Florida State 
University computer engineering 
sophomore, adopted Apollo, a 
5-year-old white and gray cat, for 
his girlfriend.“Since it was her first cat ever, 
we were thinking of getting a 
calm, older cat that wouldn’t be as 
difficult to take care of,” he said. 
“This cat would sleep all the time 
so that’s also what made the deci -
sion really easy.”
After adopting a cat, the new 
owner can take a polaroid with it 
to go on the wall at the cafe. Selby 
said she took two photos so she 
could take one home.
“I have a polaroid wall of spe -
cial memories,” she said. “Now, 
we have Nali on the wall, too.”
@JoelleWittig
jwittig@alligator.org Cat cafe opens in downtown GainesvilleBy Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
On May 26, five rescued poodles shrunk to half 
their size after groomers shaved off several pounds 
of matted fur. Unrecognizable before the shavings, 
the dogs were brought in to be groomed after their 
owner died.
Several other dogs now also have a chance for a 
new start. Scenthound, a wellness-centered groom -
ing service, launched a partnership with the Hu -
mane Society of North Central Florida on July 1. 
They will help groom and care for rescued dogs, 
including taking care of health concerns such as 
matted fur, which is when overgrown fur becomes 
knotted and tangled.
Kathryn Pizzurro, the co-owner of Scenthound 
Gainesville, said the ‘Clean Start’ program offers 
one free grooming to each dog adopted from the Hu -
mane Society, as well as free grooming services to 
dogs that have been rescued and await adoption. 
The service includes a bath, ear cleaning, nail trim -
ming and teeth brushing.
“The Clean Start program essentially acts as a re -
ward or a ‘thank you’ for adopting a dog,” she said.
Humane Society kennel technician Sally Ross ad -
opted her beagle, Bessie, four months ago and ad -
vocates for adoptions from the no-kill shelter. She 
believes the new partnership will encourage people 
to adopt more dogs.
“It is a nice service because it gives you the op -
portunity to introduce your dog to a new groomer 
without knowing anything [about grooming],” she 
said. “It opens that door to you.”Margot DeConna, the director of advancement at 
the Humane Society of North Central Florida, said 
the Pizzurros reached out to them in March asking 
about forming a partnership, and the Humane Soci -
ety was thrilled at the opportunity.
Scenthound co-owner Joseph Pizzurro said the 
idea for the partnership came from  Scenthound’s 
South Florida branches, which partnered with the 
Peggy Adams Animal Rescue League, another adop -
tion service for dogs.
“We have a lot of alignment within our mission 
statements… so a partnership made a lot of sense,” 
Joseph Pizzurro said.
Laur’en Cocozello, a 21-year-old UF finance se -
nior, adopted a Labrador Pitbull mix named Dasani 
from the Humane Society during her freshman year. 
She is hopeful the new partnership will increase 
adoption rates.
“Seeing how some of those dogs show up there, 
they deserve nothing but great treatment and what -
ever they want,” Cocozello said. “It’s really nice 
that you can go and get them taken care of and 
groomed.”
While Scenthound and the Humane Society are 
excited about the new partnership, both hope this 
new initiative will lead to more partnerships in the 
future.
“If this partnership helps to remove some of the 
barriers to the dogs being adopted and for their 
proper health and care after they are adopted, then 
everyone benefits in the end,” Joseph Pizzurro said.
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.org‘Clean Start’ program provides grooming to rescued dogs 
Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Sarah Headley, a pet groomer at Scenthound, sprays water on 
Daisy, the dog, on Tuesday, May 25, 2021.
Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
A white cat sits at the window of the Feeline Good Cat Café on Sunday, July 4, 2021. At the café, 
visitors can pet cats while enjoying beverages.
A local grooming service is partnering with 
the Humane Society of North Central FloridaBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-12
13 Wanted
I am looking to work in private residence.
I am available for house cleaning, child care, 
or elderly care. Pay expected minimum $15.00 
per hour. Please respond by text to Luba at 
(352) 283-3146 Thanks                  7-6-21-1-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-131For Rent
furnished
2 bed/2 bath condo adjacent to campus 
w/ss appliances & w/d pool/gym rts bus 
walk to campus shands $1400/mo+util 
annl/lease ask about move-in special! 
Tom @ 941-216-8665                  7-12-21-4-1  
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
2 bed/2 bath condo adjacent to campus 
w/ss appliances & w/d pool/gym rts bus 
walk to campus shands $1200/mo+util 
annl/lease ask about move-in special! 
Tom @ 941-216-8665                    7-12-21-4-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            8-15-21-13-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail-
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod-
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.  
8-1-21-9-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
11..    DDeetteerrmmiinnee  oorr  sseettttllee  
11..    DDeelliibbeerraattee,,  ddiissccuussss  55..    TToo  ssoouunndd  lloouuddllyy  
22..    RRoolllleerr  ________66..    GGooooddyy,,  ddeelliigghhtt
33..    PPaacciiffiicc’’ss  ccllaaiimm  ttoo  ffaammee77..    FFrreeee
44..    RRaannkkEECCDDIIEEDD
TTEEDDEEAABBEERRBBAALL
TTAARREETT
EEOOCCRRAATTSS
PPDDSSTTEEEEEEIISSRRGGTTAA
UUAATTTTSSSSAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--DDeecciiddee    55AA--BBllaarree    66AA--TTrreeaatt    77AA--GGrraattiiss
11DD--DDeebbaattee    22DD--CCooaasstteerr    33DD--DDeeeeppeesstt    44DD--SSttaattuuss    BB--BBaallttiicc  SSeeaa77--66--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: AAtt  tthhee  ttiimmee  ooff  tthhee  RRoommaann  EEmmppiirree,,  tthhiiss  
wwaass  kknnoowwnn  aass  tthhee  MMaarree  SSuueebbiiccuumm..
BONUS
scan to subscribe scan to subscribe 
to the to the alligatoralligator   
newsletternewsletter
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RV's 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          7-6-8-1313 Wanted 6 Furnishings
By Paul Coulter
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/06/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/06/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, July 6, 2021
ACROSS
1 NYC theater 
award
5 Jackson 5 hairdo
9 Blue Ribbon 
brewer
14 Caleb’s twin in 
“East of Eden”
15 Bank claim
16 Acquiesce
17 Natural’s ability
19 Bank offerings
20 Willie Nelson 
album of pop 
standards
21 Has coming
22 Banned bug 
spray
23 Wrap for 
sandwiches
24 Cerium or yttrium
30 Acted alarmed, 
as a horse
31 Designer 
Saarinen
32 Pretoria’s home: 
Abbr.
33 Under-the-wing 
fuel containers
34 Decrease
36 Like thick, green 
lawns
37 Suffix with meth-
38 Ex-Yankee with 
696 career HRs
39 French equivalent 
of the Oscar
40 Like prisons for 
not-the-worst 
criminals
44 Scandal-plagued 
energy giant
45 Musician Brian
46 Composer Berlioz
48 Roads that avoid 
downtown
53 Carrier that 
added “ways” to 
its name in 1997
54 Famous
55 ABBA’s “__ Mia!”
56 Vowel-heavy 
baseball family 
name
57 Vowel-heavy end 
of a court game
58 Holmes smoked 
them
59 Chimed
60 Confined, with 
“up”DOWN
1 Dinghy movers
2 Tough tyke to 
handle
3 “Field of Dreams” 
setting
4 __’acte: 
intermission
5 Hint at, with “to”
6 Party with a 
piñata
7 Cost of living?
8 Toronto’s prov.
9 Sicilian seaport
10 Ancient Greek 
meeting places
11 FDR advisory 
group
12 Dispatched
13 Melanie’s 
“Working Girl” 
role
18 Said further
21 1984 Olympic 
slalom champion
23 Editor’s “Let it 
stand”
24 French wine 
region
25 Military assistant
26 Dorm, briefly
27 Aptly named 
English novelist28 Test, as ore
29 Cowardly Lion 
portrayer Bert
30 Inbox  
annoyance
34 Knight’s “suit”
35 Cap’n’s mate
36 Floral necklace
38 Natural light 
shows
39 Frog sound
41 Punctually
42 Sri Lanka, once43 Disconnect from 
the socket
46 Camel feature
47 Actor Morales
48 Composer Bartók
49 “Oh, __!”: “Whoa!”
50 Exclusive
51 Obi-Wan 
portrayer 
McGregor
52 Agitated state
54 High-card-wins 
game
By Gary Larson
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/29/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/29/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 29, 2021
ACROSS
1 Reaction to a bad 
joke
5 Mary’s was little
9 Hip-hop 
headgear
14 Armory supply
15 Plus
16 How many single 
people live
17 Singer McEntire
18 Kooks
20 Where 
fingerprints may 
be analyzed
22 2020 Super Bowl 
number
23 Beehive State 
native
24 Another name for 
the peyote cactus
26 Significant times
30 Yemen’s capital
32 Paid in advance, 
as costs
34 Ancestry.com 
concern
36 Michael of 
“Arrested 
Development”
37 “Got __ ideas?”
38 Like a well-
trained pet, and a 
hint to each set of 
circles
41 Pub order
43 Gets with effort, 
with “out”
44 Witness
45 Knights __: “The 
Da Vinci Code” 
group
47 White house?
51 Canadian gas
52 Populated with 
trees
56 Spanish Main 
treasure
57 Tax preparer, for 
short
59 Cheerleading 
team
61 Contest with a 
puck
65 Money drawer
66 Boo-boos
67 Diaper rash 
cream additive
68 Vacation spot
69 Green sauce
70 Phishing targets: 
Abbr.
71 Is worth it
DOWN
1 Neiman’s 
business partner2 Mafioso code of 
honor
3 Sleep aid brand
4 Linguist 
Chomsky
5 Soup scoop
6 Butch Cassidy 
or the Sundance 
Kid
7 24-hour news 
service
8 Marshy region
9 Surrealist 
Salvador
10 Twist who asked 
for some more
11 Harry’s pal 
Weasley
12 Director Lee
13 Some fridges
19 Top NFL players
21 Common temple 
name
25 Violinist Leopold
27 Stable color
28 Raggedy doll
29 Snorters’ 
quarters
31 Brouhaha
33 Docs with 
doctored birth 
dates, say
35 “Shoot”
36 Letterman’s last 
network
38 Skirt lines39 Architect 
Saarinen
40 Neurologist’s 
readout: Abbr.
41 Had a bite
42 “__ Misérables”
46 Pool player’s 
target
48 “Little Women” 
author __ May 
Alcott
49 How much 
medication is 
taken50 Loads
53 Milky gems
54 Possessed 
person’s 
possessor
55 Sporting blades
58 Mexican money
60 Medicine cabinet 
swab
61 Jump on one leg
62 Have bills to pay
63 Prefix with 
gender
64 Tank filler
06/28/2021answers on page 101. GEOGRAPHY: How many 
states are in Australia?
2. LITERATURE: The charac -
ter of Miss Havisham appears 
in which 19th-century novel?
3. ASTRONOMY: What is 
the name of the boundary 
between Earth's atmosphere 
and outer space?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What creature was a hood or -
nament on the 1933 Hudson 
Essex Terraplane car?5. TELEVISION: What were 
the names of the boys on 
the 1990s sitcom "Home Im -
provement"?
6. MUSIC: The Jug saloon 
was the setting in which 
Lynyrd Skynyrd song?
7. MOVIES: What was Char -
lie Sheen's nickname in the 
1989 movie "Major League"?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: 
What are the offspring of 
echidnas (Australia) called?
9. U.S. STATES: What is the 
state flower of West Virginia?
10. FOOD & DRINK: Which 
country produces Gouda 
cheese?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by FifiRodriguez
answers on pg. 101. Name the player from Senegal who was the first-round 
pick for the Cleveland Cavaliers in the 2001 NBA Draft.
2. Before Phil Mickelson won the PGA Championship at age 
50, who was the oldest golfer to win a major tournament?
3. What racecar driver, nicknamed "Lone Star JR," won the 
Indianapolis 500 in 1974, '76 and '80?
4. What Detroit Tigers right-handed pitcher had a 31-6 win-
loss record in 1968?
5. "El Derbi Madrileno" is a match between which two rival 
Spanish football clubs?
6. What Irish stick-and-ball sport is similar to hurling but is 
traditionally played only by females?
7. What rapper and Toronto Raptors superfan got into a ver -
bal altercation with the Cleveland Cavaliers' Kendrick Per -
kins in Game 1 of the 2018 Eastern Conference semifinals?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
the 
independent 
florida
we inform. you decide.
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE:  This newspaper as -
sumes no responsibility for in -
jury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who re -
sponds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arrang -
ing meetings or investing money.16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 21 Entertainment
Say:Say:  " "I FOUND IT INI FOUND IT IN     
thethe  alligatoralligator""HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-15-21-13-15
HELP WANTED - PART TIME.
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact:  fairoaks1879@aol.com   
8-30-21-8-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Join our team!
Hiring committed individuals for our
out of school program for girls ages 5-14.
Applicants must be available M-F.
Schedules vary during summer and
afternoons during the school year. 
Apply at: http://girlsplace.net/employment/
7-26-21-5-14
P.K. YONGE ASSISTANT SWIM COACH
HS swimming experience required. 
Collegiate or club experience preferred. 
Must be available weekday afternoons. Send 
email of interest to karadawson2@gmail.
com    7-6-21-2-14
Leasing Consultant 
CMC is looking for full-time and part-time 
dedicated individuals to join our leasing 
team! The leasing consultant is responsible 
for general office duties, conducting tours of 
apartments & property amenities, qualifying 
prospects, and ensuring completion of lease 
agreements. Must be customer service and 
sales oriented, have excellent communica -
tion skills, be able to work weekends and 
must pass background and drug screen. 
CMC offers a benefits package including 
generous paid time off! Apply at cmcapt.com 
or email katie.castelli@cmcapt.com.   
7-19-21-4-14
Trivia Test  answers1. Six
2. "Great Expectations," Charles 
Dickens
3. The Karman line
4. A griffin
5. Brad, Randy and Mark6. "Gimme Three Steps"
7. Wild Thing
8. Puggles
9. Rhododendron
10. The NetherlandsSports Quiz  answers1. DeSagana Diop.
2. Julius Boros (1968 PGA Championship at age 48).
3. Johnny Rutherford.
4. Denny McClain.
5. Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid.
6. Camogie.
7. Drake.10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021
found found   
something? something? 
place a place a FREEFREE   
"found""found"  ad  ad 
in thein the
alligatoralligator   
classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
solution  below
solution  below
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE5: REAL ESTATE
6: FURNISHINGS6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE10: FOR SALE
11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS12: AUTOS
13: WANTED13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES15: SERVICES
16: HEALTH SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES20: EVENTS/NOTICES
21: ENTERTAINMENT21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS22: TICKETS
23: RIDES23: RIDES
24: PETS24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUND25: LOST & FOUND
Visit:Visit:
and submit your ad to and submit your ad to 
one of the following one of the following 
categories today!categories today!
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
advertise in the:
new 
student
edition
August 16, 2021
advertising@alligator.org
for more infoscan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:get 
VACCINATED!TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.TEAM USA
INTERNATIONALTHE GATORS HAVE FIVE TRACK AND 
FIELD OLYMPIC BERTHS AFTER THE 
U.S. OLYMPIC TRIALS   
By Kaitlyn Wadulack
Sports Writer
Five Olympic rings. Five Gators going for 
gold. 
Florida track and field athletes past and 
present competed in the U.S. Olympic Trials 
from June 18 to June 27 in Eugene, Oregon. 
Current Gator Taylor Manson and former 
Gator greats Will Claye, Cory McGee, 
Marquis Dendy and Grant Holloway all 
booked their tickets to Tokyo. 
Taylor Manson will make her Olympic 
debut in the 4x400 relay. The redshirt junior 
missed the individual qualification for the 
400 when she finished seventh in the final 
round despite a new personal best 50.79, 
the third-best time in school history. 
Manson ran the first leg of UF’s 4x400 
relay team this year, earning silver at SEC 
Outdoors. The team was the country’s 
top seed going into nationals and ended 
the 2021 season fourth overall at NCAA 
Outdoors. 
Two-time Olympian Will Claye looks 
to add a fourth Olympic medal to his 
collection. Claye made Team USA for the third consecutive Games after finishing first 
in the triple jump finals with a 17.21 meter 
(56-5 ¾) mark. 
 2012 was a triumphant year in Claye’s 
career. He took home gold at the World 
Indoor in the triple jump and became the 
USATF Indoor triple jump champion. 
He went to his first Olympics to cap his 
victorious summer, where he secured silver 
in the triple jump and bronze in the long 
jump. Claye became the first American 
since 1904 and the first man since 1936 to 
win Olympic medals in both the long and 
triple jumps after his London appearance. 
Claye also had a podium finish in the 
Rio 2016 Olympic Games with a second 
consecutive silver medal in the triple jump. 
UF record holder Cory McGee joins 
Team USA in the 1,500. She placed second 
in the 1,500 finals with a 4:00.67 time, six 
seconds faster than her 2013 school record. 
At Florida, McGee collected bronze at the 
USA Outdoor Championships and finished 
as a two-time NCAA Outdoors runner-up in 
the women’s 1,500. She also won six SEC 
titles as a middle-distance runner.
Marquis Dendy makes his Olympic 
comeback in the long jump. The 2015 
Bowerman winner logged a season-best 
8.38 meter (27-6) mark in his second 
attempt and obtained a second-place finish. 
He qualified for the Rio 2016 Olympics but withdrew prior to the Games due to a lower 
right leg injury. 
Dendy was the champion of champions 
in his time as a triple and long jumper at 
UF. On top of holding the school record 
in both the long and triple jumps, he is a 
four-time SEC Indoor Champion, three-time 
SEC Outdoor Champion, three-time NCAA 
Indoor Champion and four-time NCAA 
Outdoor Champion. The Middletown, 
Delaware, native was also named the 2015 
USTFCCCA Indoor and Outdoor National 
Field Athlete of the Year and struck gold at 
the 2015 USATF Outdoor Championships. 
Reigning world champion Grant 
Holloway is adding the Olympics to his 
astounding resume. Holloway clocked in 
at 12.81 seconds in the 110-meter hurdles 
semifinals, the second-fastest time in world 
history. He secured his Olympic ticket 
after sprinting a 12.96 in the finals, the 
only runner to crack 13 seconds in either 
attempt. 
“The main goal was to set myself up and 
to let everybody know that I'm here to win,” 
Holloway said. “I didn't come to this party 
to sit on the wall, I came here to dance.” 
The Olympics are scheduled to open 
July 23.
@kwadulack
kwadulack@alligator.org
FIVE FLORIDA TRACK 
AND FIELD COMPETITORS 
ARE MAKING OLYMPIC 
APPEARANCES FOR THEIR 
HOME COUNTRIES  
By Kaitlyn Wadulack
Sports Writer
One current Gator and a handful 
of Gator greats punched their tickets 
to the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics 
for their respective countries. 
Redshirt freshman Joseph Fahnbulleh 
and former Gators Eddie Lovett, 
Lloydricia Cameron, Yanis David and 
Genevieve LaCaze Gregson are set to 
compete in the prestigious games. 
Fahnbulleh makes his Olympic 
debut for Liberia, the country 
his parents emigrated from, in 
the 200-meter dash. He had an 
impeccable season for the Gators 
this year, reigning in a second-
place finish at SEC Outdoors and 
SEC Indoors while finishing third 
at NCAA Indoors in the 200-meter 
dash. Toward the end of the season, 
Fahnbulleh earned his first national 
outdoor title in the 200 with a 19.91 
time. 
Lovett will make his second Olympic appearance this summer, 
representing the U.S. Virgin Islands 
in the 110-meter hurdles. In the 2016 
Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Lovett 
placed 30th in the preliminary with a 
13.77 time, 0.38 seconds longer than 
his UF record of 13.39 in the 2013 
NCAA East Preliminary.
Lovett had a stellar freshman 
season at UF in 2011. He was the SEC 
Indoor champion in the 60-meter 
hurdles after a 7.73-second sprint. 
His regional performance awarded 
him the honor of SEC Men’s Indoor 
Freshman Track and Field Runner of 
the Year. He continued the year with 
two more podium finishes at SEC 
Outdoors: gold in the 4x100 relay and 
silver in the 110-meter hurdles. 
In total, Lovett is a four-time SEC 
Outdoor titleholder in the 110-meter 
hurdles, four-time SEC indoor 
champion in the 60-meter hurdles, 
two-time national indoor titleholder 
and placed second at NCAA Division 
I National Championships in 2013. 
He also holds the second-best and 
third-best time in school history in 
the 60-meter and 110-meter hurdles, 
respectively. 
Cameron will compete for 
Jamaica in the shot put. The former 
Gator won the shot put title at SEC Indoors and the Jamaican Senior 
Championships in 2018 and finished 
runner-up at SEC Outdoors in the 
discus throw that same year. 
Cameron’s name is littered over 
UF record books. She holds the third-
best discus throw and the fourth-best 
mark in the indoor and outdoor shot 
put on UF’s Women’s All-Time Top 
10 lists. 
David joins Team France in the 
long and triple jumps. Her collegiate 
career was one for the ages and 
featured two NCAA championships 
and four SEC championships. 
Internationally, she is a two-time 
gold medalist at the 2016 CARIFTA 
Games U20 Division, and her gold 
rush continued in the 2016 IAAF 
World U20 Championships, 2017 
European U23 Championships and 
2018 Mediterranean Championships. 
David racked up the hardware in 
her final season at UF in 2019. She 
was a Bowerman finalist, the Honda 
Sport Award winner for track and 
field and was named the regional 
and national Indoor and Outdoor 
Women’s Field Athlete of the Year. 
She holds the school record in the 
indoor and outdoor triple jump with 
14.11 meter (46-3 ½) and 14.35 
meter (47-1) marks, respectively, as well as the outdoor long jump with 
a 6.84 meter (22-5 ¼) mark and the 
fourth-best mark in the indoor long 
jump. 
Gregson, who competed at 
UF under the last name LaCaze, 
represents Australia in the 
3,000-meter steeplechase for her 
third Olympics. She finished ninth 
in her second Olympics in Rio de 
Janeiro in 2016. 
As a freshman in 2009, Gregson 
won the steeplechase at SEC 
Outdoors in just her second time 
competing in the event. She also held 
the top steeplechase mark in the SEC 
during her freshman season. 
Fast forward to senior year, 
Gregson was the 2012 NCAA runner-
up and broke the school record four 
separate times in the 3,000-meter 
steeplechase that year alone. She was 
named SEC Co-Runner of the Year. 
Gregson holds the top steeplechase 
time in school history, which she 
earned in the 2012 Olympic Games, 
her first Olympic competition. 
The Summer Olympics are 
scheduled to open July 23.
@kwadulack
kwadulack@alligator.orgFlorida has five track and field stars Tokyo bound for Team USA
Gators past and present set to represent their respective countries in Tokyo
Courtesy to The Alligator
Florida's Joseph Fahnbulleh 
competes during the SEC 
Indoor Track and Field 
Championships on Feb. 27, 
2021 in Fayetteville, Arkansas.Courtesy to The Alligator
Florida's Taylor Manson competes during 
the Pepsi Florida Relays on April 3 in 
Gainesville.
FLORIDA ATHLETES WASTED NO TIME 
FINDING WAYS TO BENEFIT FROM THE 
NEW NAME, IMAGE AND 
LIKENESS BILL THAT WENT 
INTO EFFECT JULY 1
By Joseph Henry
Sports Writer
It did not take long for many Gators athletes 
to take advantage of the new opportunities 
available under the name, image and likeness 
bill which went into effect July 1. 
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis signed a bill in 
June of 2020 that would allow college athletes 
in the state to profit off of endorsements and 
other company revenue. The Florida legislation 
was set to go into effect July 1, 2021. Eventually 
the whole nation got on board, and the NCAA 
announced all athletes would be eligible to be 
paid starting July 1. The NCAA decision also 
opens the door for profit from autographs and 
personal advertising campaigns. 
Student athletes across the country quickly 
explored their new options under the NIL rule, 
including many in the UF community. 
Merchandise has been the hottest item on 
the market for members of the Florida football 
team.  
Wide receiver Jacob Copeland got the party 
started June 30 when he took to Twitter to 
unveil a t-shirt with a new personal logo. The 
insignia features his initials and a hyena. There 
was a strong positive response from Gator 
fans, and the redshirt-junior promised a link to 
buy the shirt would be available soon. Running back Malik Davis created an 
instagram account called MD Apparel and 
offered a look at his first shirt June 30. The 
design features his number, initials and 
lightning bolts all in orange and blue. The 
redshirt-senior also encouraged his followers to 
“get at [him]” with a repost of a news update 
about the NIL bill. 
Emory Jones’ likeness can be found 
alongside 12 other DI quarterbacks on shirts 
for QB Takeovers merchandise shop, an online 
store created by renowned quarterbacks coach 
Quincy Avery.
Safety Trey Dean III launched TD3 Clothing. 
His branding features his initials. The site 
offers a black and white version of a shirt, both 
listed at $45.
Defensive lineman Gervon Dexter tweeted 
out a link to his new clothing brand G9apparel 
July 1 featuring four shirt designs. Three 
designs feature his new logo and the other is 
branded with the phrase “counted out.”
Defensive end Zachary Carter, safety Rashad 
Torrence II and safety Kamar Wilcoxson 
created accounts on Jenloop, a service where 
fans can request customized shoutouts on the 
athlete’s Twitter and Instagram. Depending 
on the social media platform and type of post, 
prices fall between $20 and $80. 
Quarterback Anthony Richardson, 
defensive tackle Antonio Shelton, defensive 
end Jeremiah Moon, wide receiver Jordan 
Pouncey, safety Mordecai McDaniel and 
Dexter all became a part of Dreamfield — a 
platform where fans can purchase face-to-face 
interactions with athletes. Their hourly rates range from $50 to $500.  
Cornerback Avery Helm and Torrence II 
announced they partnered with Yoke, an app 
that gives athletes an opportunity to charge 
fans to play video games with them. 
Some Gators found an avenue to explore in 
food promotion. 
Freshman defensive tackle Desmond 
Watson is an official athlete of Spencer’s 
Jerkin’ Jerky. Gymnast Savannah Schoenherr 
and infielder Colby Halter teamed up with 
GoPuff, a consumer goods and food delivery 
service. Both athletes posted tweets featuring 
a $25 referral link. Schoenherr highlighted her 
favorite chips, while Halter used the service to 
get a ballpark staple: sunflower seeds.Barstool Sports also became a prominent 
component of the NIL era after founder Dave 
Portnoy offered all student-athletes a brand 
deal via Twitter. The company is bringing on 
a plethora of athletes, including many Gators. 
Barstool athletes can be found on Florida’s 
football, basketball, baseball, soccer, lacrosse 
and swimming teams. 
The NIL bill changes the landscape of 
collegiate athletics forever. Players of all 
popularity levels are taking their shot to use the 
platform they have, and they’re just scratching 
the surface less than a week into this era.
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021
Karina Wilson / / Alligator Staff
The NCAA logo at NCAA D1 Women’s Lacrosse Tournament on May 14. The NCAA 
announced increased NIL freedoms for the entire country starting July 1.
NCAA
NIL bill ushers in new era of college athletics