We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperWest University Avenue
Gainesville could gain control over a portion of the road,  pg. 5
Santa Fe College vaccines
Some Santa Fe community member received their second dose 
of the COVID-19 vaccine,  pg. 4In on the trend
Cycling is surging in Gainesville. Read more 
about how residents and students are 
staying in shape,  pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 23
GATOR WON 46 SEATS IN 
SENATE, AND 
CHANGE WON THREE 
Alligator Staff Report
 
The Gator Party won its second 
executive ticket and maintained 
a majority in Senate Wednesday. 
There were 6,650 total ballots 
cast, Supervisor of Elections Haley 
Price announced on a livestream 
Wednesday. 
Student Body President-elect 
Cooper Brown and Student Body Vice President-elect Faith Maniti 
won with 4,629 votes, or 69.78% of 
the vote. Student Body Treasurer-
elect Giovanna Mompremier won 
with 4,515 votes, or 68.85%.
Gator won 46 Senate seats. The 
Change Party won three seats in 
the College of the Arts, College of 
Design, Construction and Planning 
and a graduate seat. The veterinary 
medicine seat was a tie because no 
one voted for the seat. 
Gator currently holds a superma -
jority in Senate with 81 senators, ac -
cording to the Senate roster. Change 
holds five seats, the Inspire Party holds one and there are two inde -
pendent senators.  
Brown will be the first Pathway 
to Campus Enrollment (PaCE) stu -
dent to serve as the Student Body 
President.
The parties usually convene in 
the Reitz Union to watch the results; 
however, this year, the UF SG Face -
book page live-streamed it because 
of COVID-19. Brown said he had 
a special and intimate watch party 
with his mom and his close friends.
About two hours after results THE AVERAGE GPA FOR 
ADMITS WAS 4.51
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
UF invited 15,220 applicants to 
become Gators on Friday. 
The number of applicants contin -
ues to grow each year, with 52,513 
applications this year, compared to 
49,401 applicants last year. UF also 
accepted more applicants this year, 
outpacing last year’s accepted co -
hort of 14,561. Of those accepted in 
2021, 3,248 will start in Summer B 
and 11,972 will start in Fall. 
The number of admits for the 
Pathway to Campus Enrollment 
program, or PaCE, decreased this 
year to 3,607 compared to 3,719 last 
year. Meanwhile, the Innovation 
Academy welcomed 624 admits, 
roughly the same number as last 
year.
The average GPA for admits was 
4.51 along with an average SAT 
score of 1392 and an average ACT 
score of 31.
UF expects 6,400 students to en -
roll, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email. A full breakdown 
of the diversity of students will be 
available next week.
Last year, incoming freshmen at -
tended Preview — UF’s orientation 
event — virtually. But the university 
is still unsure whether it will be held 
virtually this year too, UF spokes -
person Cynthia Roldán said. It’s 
also unclear whether classes will be 
in person this Fall.
However, UF officials began dis -
cussing plans for Summer B classes 
to be held in person with normal ca -
pacity levels this year. The univer -
sity will consider its decision based on vaccine and virus conditions at 
the time. It’s unclear if Summer Pre -
view events will be in-person, fol -
lowing the university’s classes.
Lana Gabryluk, a 17-year-old 
senior at Lake Nona High School in 
Orlando, said she jumped out of her 
chair with excitement and called 
her mom, a UF alumna, as soon as 
she found out she got accepted to 
UF for Fall.
Gabryluk lives in Orlando and 
wants to major in electrical engi -
neering at UF.
“One of the main things I’m re -
ally looking forward to is actually 
just finally having a school experi -
ence again because I haven’t been 
in person since basically sophomore 
year,” Gabryluk said. “I’m just ex -
cited to have a new start and be at 
UF.”
Chloe Oakes, an 18-year-old se -
nior at Bishop Moore Catholic High 
School in Orlando, said she started 
crying when she found out she got 
in. The first person she broke the 
news to was her mom, who is a UF 
alumna.
“Going to UF has just always 
been my dream, even when I was 
really little,” Oakes said. “I practi -
cally grew up on the campus.”
Zoe Schuler, a 17-year-old se -
nior at Hillsborough High School in 
Tampa, got her decision Friday and 
committed to attending UF in the 
Fall. She wants to major in applied 
physiology and kinesiology.
“I’ve always been a Gator since 
my dad went there,” Schuler said. 
“I feel like if I would’ve gone any -
where else it wouldn’t have felt like 
home.”
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.orgGator Party wins executive ticket for 
the second year in a row and gainsUF welcomes more than 
15,000 to the class of 2025
MAGGIE PAXTON’S AND SOPHIA 
LAMBERT’S FATHERS FILED THE 
SUITS WITHIN A DAY 
By Anna Wilder 
Alligator Staff Writer
The families of Sophia Lambert and 
Maggie Paxton — two UF students who died 
in pedestrian crashes on West University 
Avenue about a month apart — filed 
wrongful death lawsuits against the drivers 
and car owners on Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Andrew Yaffa, one of the main attorneys 
representing both families, said the cases 
involved drivers who were violating a variety of laws and regulations. The lawsuits are 
seeking over $100,000 in damages. Lambert’s 
case also lists Uber as a defendant, as one of 
the drivers was on a Uber Eats delivery trip 
at the time of the crash.  
Yaffa noted that the road itself –– 
University Avenue –– is part of a larger 
pedestrian safety problem.
“Clearly we need to take action to ensure 
that we make this road safer,” Yaffa said. 
“And that’s what we’re attempting to do, 
while at the same time hold the drivers 
responsible for their actions,” Yaffa said.
Since Lambert and Paxton’s deaths, 
advocacy groups such as Florida Not 
One More and Gators Against Student Pedestrian Deaths have advocated for safer 
roadways, lower speed limits and other 
traffic safety devices. City, state and UF 
officials have discussed solutions, and police 
have instituted a program for more traffic 
enforcement.
According to court records, James Paxton, 
Maggie Paxton’s father, filed a wrongful death 
suit against 53-year-old Miguel A. Figueroa 
on Wednesday afternoon after police found 
Figueroa’s car that reportedly hit Maggie and 
fled the scene where she died. 
Figueroa, an Alachua County resident, did 
not immediately respond to The Alligator’s 
requests for comment. 
Paxton, an 18-year-old UF natural resource conservation first-year student in Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, died Dec. 9. That evening, 
she was at Midtown, a popular plaza across 
the street from campus that students visit 
with restaurants and bars before heading to 
her dorm around 10:50 p.m.
According to the police report and court 
records, Paxton was crossing University 
Avenue on the crosswalk at the intersection 
with Gale Lemerand Drive when a speeding 
BMW hit her and fled the scene. By the time 
police and emergency personnel arrived, 
Paxton had died due to injuries from the 
crash.
According to the complaint, police found Families of UF students killed on West University Avenue file lawsuits for wrongful death
SEE SG, PAGE 3
SEE SUITS,  PAGE 5
Wynton White (left) and Amy Nicholas (right), Change 
Party's candidates for Student Body president and 
treasurer, watch a live stream of the UF Student 
Government election results on Feb. 24, 2021. Gator 
Party won the executive ticket.
Chasity Maynard // Alligator StaffELECTION NIGHTT oday’s Weather
NO OTHER PEOPLE WERE 
INJURED, POLICE SAID
By Michelle Holder 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Editors note: This story includes 
descriptions of suicide. If you or 
someone you know is considering 
suicide, contact the National Suicide 
Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 
or the Alachua County Crisis Center at 
352-264-6789. 
A 48-year-old man from Myrtle, 
Mississippi, died by suicide after he 
jumped from the Millhopper Road 
bridge into oncoming northbound 
traffic on I-75 Feb. 25, according to 
police. He was pronounced dead at 
the scene of the crash due to vehicle 
impact from a 2019 Kenworth truck 
tractor. No other people were injured, 
Alachua County Sheriff's Office 
Spokesperson Sgt. Frank Kinsey 
said. 
At 3:35 p.m., the 911 commu -
nication center operator received 
a call about a disturbed and upset 
person on the bridge, Kinsey said. 
The center received several calls af -
ter, and an ACSO officer was sent to 
the scene before the man jumped. 
Kinsey said the first ASCO offi -
cer saw the man standing atop the 
bridge and tried to talk to him, but 
he jumped and landed on I-75. 
All northbound I-75 traffic lanes 
were closed from about 4 p.m. un -
til 7:40 p.m. while officials investi -
gated the scene, Kinsey said. Traffic 
was directed to 39th Avenue to get 
the cars off the interstate. 
This traffic homicide will be a 
thorough and lengthy investigation, 
said Florida Highway Patrol Troop-B Public Affairs Officer Patrick Rior -
dan.
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 23
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
THE GAINESVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENT IS 
INVESTIGATING THE INCIDENT AS A 
TRAFFIC HOMICIDE
By Emil Munksgaard Grosen
Alligator Staff Writer 
A 3-year-old boy died after he was hit by a truck 
Feb. 24  The boy was hit by a truck driving southbound 
while crossing Northeast 15th Street on a toy scooter 
around 6 p.m..
Following the crash, the boy was rushed to UF 
Health Shands Hospital in critical condition, accord -
ing to a Gainesville Police Department press release. He died as a result of his injuries shortly after arriving 
there.
Two Alachua County Sheriff's Office deputies 
who arrived at the scene performed CPR and lifesav -
ing efforts on the boy, according to the release. When 
Gainesville Fire Rescue arrived, they took over.
As of Feb. 25, GPD is investigating the incident as 
a traffic homicide and has not provided information to 
The Alligator about any arrests.
GPD spokesperson Graham Glover said there was 
no more information available including details about 
the driver, vehicle involved or the child’s identity.
@EmilMunkGrosen
emgrosen@alligator.org
UF NOTIFIED STUDENTS OF THE 
ASSAULT VIA EMAIL
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
Editors’ Note: This story 
includes mention of 
sexual assault.
UF sent out a public safety alert 
about a reported rape at a fraternity 
house that occurred last weekend.
On Feb. 26, UF issued a timely 
warning email to notify the campus 
community of the incident, which took place at an unknown frater -
nity house Feb. 20. Because the 
Campus Security Authority did not 
provide more information, UF has 
been unable to take action, accord -
ing to the alert.
The university is required to 
send out “timely warning messag -
es” under the Clery Act — a federal 
law that requires universities to no -
tify students and faculty of campus 
threats, such as sexual assault and 
gun violence.
UF provided the victim with 
support and resources, the email read.
“The University of Florida 
strongly believes that no person is 
responsible for harm inflicted by 
another person,” the email read. 
“Sexual assault, domestic violence, 
dating violence, and stalking are 
prohibited and will not be toler -
ated.”
As of 7 p.m. Feb. 28, UF spokes -
person Steve Orlando said he does 
not have any additional informa -
tion and the University Police De -
partment is working on tracking 
the incident.
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgMan jumps from Millhopper Bridge
Three-year-old dead after being hit by a truck in Gainesville
Rape reported at UF frat house
MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 Esta es una exhibición bilingüe.Slow your roll! 
at the 
Florida 
Museum 
FREE for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
were announced on the evening 
of Feb. 24, Alligator reporters saw 
Brown and other Gator Party mem -
bers maskless in a crowd of about 
50 people at an event at Downtown 
Fats, a Gainesville bar. 
Brown declined multiple re -
quests from The Alligator to join 
their watch party, writing in a text 
that it would be a “really small and 
intimate” event, and he, Maniti and 
Mompremier “don’t feel comfort -
able having reporters there.” 
The party’s platform advocated 
for a “safe, responsible” in-person 
graduation ceremony for students. 
During the SG Executive Debate, 
Brown also said he advocated for 
in-person programming once a CO -
VID-19 vaccine is available.
It was an honor to be elected, 
he said, and he plans on getting to 
work the day after the election.
“This is not a win for me,” Brown 
said on a phone call after his vic -
tory. “This is a win for the Student 
Body, and we’re going to make that 
clear throughout the next year.”
His first priority is implement -
ing the traffic safety plans from the 
party’s platform, as well as putting 
together a team for SG cabinets, 
Brown said.
Maniti said she cried when the results were announced, and she’s 
still processing their win. 
“It is just a title at the end of the 
day,” Maniti said. “I’m so excited 
and so blessed, so grateful for this 
opportunity to be able to just con -
tinue my work.”
Price said 1,146 ballots were 
cast Feb. 23. Last Spring, before the 
COVID-19 shutdown, 7,091 ballots 
were cast on the first day of SG elec -
tion day voting, and 11,128 ballots 
were cast in total. 
Election results were scheduled 
to be broadcasted at 9:30 p.m. on 
Wednesday, but a delay pushed the 
time back to about 10 p.m. Price did 
not answer an email about why the 
results were delayed. 
Gator’s 17-point platform advo -
cated for traffic safety measures, 
conservation area protection, 
changes to the Counseling and 
Wellness Center and an increase 
in accessibility for student services, 
among other things. 
Students who voted for Gator 
said they valued the party’s lead -
ership capabilities, its emphasis on 
keeping base tuition costs low and 
the party leaders’ overall judgment. 
Minority parties Change and the 
Union Party combined on the last 
day of slating to create a stronger 
party and increase the chances of seizing a win against Gator. Ulti -
mately, Change was unsuccessful, 
as Gator maintained the executive 
ticket and a majority in Senate.
Change’s platform advocated for 
increased sustainability measures 
on campus, pedestrian safety struc -
tures for University Avenue, acces -
sible opportunities for first-gener -
ation and international students 
and changes to the Counseling and 
Wellness Center. 
The party gathered on the top 
floor of the Rawlings Hall parking 
garage to witness the election re -
sults come in on Change’s field di -
rector Valerie Sheehe’s laptop. After 
losing the executive ticket and most 
of the Senate seats, a few members 
cried as they hugged one another.
Wynton White, Change’s Stu -
dent Body presidential candidate, 
thanked everyone who was pres -
ent, including his running mates, 
Student Body vice presidential can -
didate Matthew Rodriguez and Stu -
dent Body treasurer candidate Amy 
Nicholas. 
“Unfortunately, we didn’t get 
the result that everybody wanted 
tonight. But this isn’t over. This is 
just the beginning,” he said. “And I 
want all of you guys to go home and 
be really proud of what you guys did 
because it was very special. A lot of 
sleepless nights for a lot of people.” 
White said he plans to go home, 
take his dogs Thirty and Shiesty out 
and then get something to eat. 
“I’ll take a little nap, and we’ll 
move forward from there,” he said. 
“I’m gonna keep on using my voice 
and my platform.”
Change filed a complaint contest -
ing the election results Wednesday 
because of “shady” behavior, White 
said. He claimed fraternities and so -
rorities forced members to vote. 
“We contested the results be -
cause we expected what would hap -
pen,” White said. 
The SG Election Commission 
heard Change’s complaint Thurs -
day, which stated that three fraud -
ulent balloting practices occurred 
during the election this year. The 
complaint was dismissed unani -
mously by the commission.
First, a screenshot of the Kap -
pa Delta sorority Facebook group showed a member stating that SG 
would come to pick up absentee bal -
lots from houses, which Change ar -
gued was an unfair advantage. Price 
wrote in an email to Ryan Wiele, the 
election commission chair, that no 
one from her team picked up ballots 
and the complaint was dismissed. 
Change also provided screen -
shots of other sorority group chats 
and Facebook groups where mem -
bers told those in the sorority to 
request absentee ballots to be sent 
to sorority houses. Change argued 
that having absentee ballots sent 
to places where people don’t live is 
voter coercion, and having sorority 
members collect and deliver absen -
tee ballots would compromise the 
privacy of voting.
This complaint was dismissed 
because the commission concluded 
there was no evidence to show Price 
had violated any election codes, and 
students should be able to request 
their ballots to be sent to any loca -
tion they believe to be most conve -
nient for them. 
The commission also determined 
that an investigation was not neces -
sary and validated the election re -
sults.
Gator also defeated the Keg Par -
ty, which is a new party this Spring. 
Keg advocated for student stimulus 
checks, increased alcohol availabil -
ity on campus and rental electric 
scooters. Keg Student Body presiden -
tial candidate Michael Ackerman 
grinned and shook with anxiety 
as he listened to the results. When 
Gator won, he and Student Body 
vice presidential candidate Braeden 
Allen said they were somewhat dis -
appointed. 
But Ackerman said he was hap -
py with the results and that he had 
fun with the campaign. He said if 
Keg comes back next election, it 
will begin campaigning earlier and 
recruiting Senators. 
Allen said people showed inter -
est in joining the Keg Party for the 
next election cycle.
“That quote, genius is 1% inspi -
ration and 99% perspiration. Our 
campaign was like the opposite,” he 
said. “It was all inspiration, and yet 
we didn’t have to work that hard.” 
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.org
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.org
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.org
@Vantonshchuk
vantonshchuk@ufl.eduSG,  from pg. 1Students casted total of 6,650 ballots
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Students line up to cast their votes at the J. Wayne Reitz Union 
voting station on Feb. 23, 2021.
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Grace Shoemaker and her brother Sam Shoemaker work on 
homework during the Change gathering to await Student 
Government election results on Feb. 24, 2021.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021EXPERTS AND 
ACTIVISTS SAY IT COULD 
STRENGTHEN FOOD 
SECURITY IN THE AREA
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
Some East Gainesville residents 
may no longer have to travel across 
the city to shop at a grocery store 
thanks to a newly approved city ini -
tiative.
On Thursday, Commissioner 
Gail Johnson, policy experts and 
community activists proposed a 
plan for the city to look into cre -
ating a community grocery store 
in East Gainesville, where several 
neighborhoods qualify as food des -
erts. The commission unanimously 
passed the plan.
“It’s time for us to fully commit 
to economic development on the 
east side of town after years and 
years of stonewalling and saying 
no,” Johnson said.
The USDA defines a food desert 
as a low-income area where a sub -
stantial number of residents have 
low access to a supermarket or 
large grocery store. In Gainesville, there are 11 census blocks where  
a majority of households are with -
out a vehicle, yet residents are lo -
cated more than a half-mile from a 
supermarket, a USDA Food Access 
Research Atlas report showed. East 
of Southwest Sixth Street, the only 
USDA-approved grocery stores are 
a Publix, a Walmart and a Winn 
Dixie. 
The new proposal will prompt 
GRACE Grows, a community gar -
den organization targeting home -
lessness, to move forward with a 
community engagement project to 
gauge resident opinion on the ideal 
location and model for the grocery 
store. 
If the project continues to garner 
support and moves forward, it is 
expected to take about two to three 
years to complete, Johnson said. 
The plan passed unanimously 
with Commissioner Harvey Ward 
absent during the vote. Commis -
sioner Adrian Hayes-Santos voted 
against a part of the proposal that 
would prompt city consideration of 
$3 million to $5 million funding for 
the community grocery store. 
Johnson said she got the fund -
ing estimate from the Evans Center, 
a similar community store in Palm Bay, Florida, which cost about $3.5 
million to create. But Hayes-Santos 
expressed concerns over commit -
ting to using that amount of money 
before the city considers more de -
tails. 
“As far as budgeting a certain 
amount at this time — I’m not ready 
to do that,” Hayes-Santos said. “We 
need to figure out what model we’re 
going to use and budget according -
ly.”
There aren’t many existing mod -
els to help the city decide what is 
best for East Gainesville, Mayor 
Lauren Poe said. One community 
grocery store in Baldwin, Florida, 
is government-owned. Another in 
Chicago, Illinois, resides in a public 
housing complex and created jobs 
for local residents. 
“I’m cautiously enthusiastic,” 
Poe said. “Because of the talent we 
have directly involved with the lo -
cal food system, I have a high de -
gree of confidence that we can fig -
ure it out.”
Erika Clesi, a policy fellow with 
the Office of the City Clerk, said 
the limited grocery options in East 
Gainesville indicate a lack of access 
to affordable and nutritious food in 
those areas.The city’s food insecurity rate 
was close to 14% in 2018 but rose 
to almost 17% in 2020 due to prob -
lems posed by the COVID-19 pan -
demic, according to Clesi’s policy 
research.
The proposal will also have city 
staff conduct an economic leakage 
study, which will look into spend -
ing outside of East Gainesville that 
drains wealth from the area.
Commissioner Hayes-Santos 
pointed to how much of the issue 
with food insecurity in Gainesville 
has to do with zoning that prevents 
grocery stores from being built in 
certain areas.
An item was added to the pro -
posal to look into zoning issues be -
fore it was approved. 
Commissioner Gigi Simmons 
said there are deeper, psychologi -
cal impacts of not having access 
to a grocery store. She encouraged 
Johnson and the policy team to 
speak with a sociologist to get more 
insight.
During public comment, a hand -
ful of residents expressed their sup -
port for the grocery store. One resi -
dent likened food deserts to “food 
apartheid,” saying the issue is root -
ed in racial disparities. Currently, the city is developing 
a master food security plan with 
several initiatives such as mobile 
farm stands and increasing support 
for the city’s community garden 
program. The grocery store propos -
al was added to the growing list of 
efforts. 
Commissioners argued over 
which of their initiatives should 
take priority during this fiscal year 
and decided there should be a mix 
of long- and short-term solutions. 
They agreed County support is es -
sential to the completion of these 
projects.
Civic Collaboration Specialist 
Karissa Raskin, who builds city-
community partnerships, said she 
would need extra staff to work on 
so many different projects. Howev -
er, she said some of these initiatives 
may go hand-in-hand to develop 
a sustainable community-driven 
model for a grocery store. 
“I think the opportunity to take 
the knowledge that we’re gaining 
from one project and building it into 
the planning stages of the other — 
to me, they’re linked,” Raskin said.
 
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org235 EMPLOYEES, RETIREES AND STUDENTS AGED 
65 OR OLDER WERE VACCINATED 
By Juliana Ferrie and Manny Rea 
Alligator Staff Writers 
The Alachua County Department of Health administered 
second doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine to 
some members of the Santa Fe College community Feb. 26. 
The event took place in Santa Fe’s gymnasium on the 
Northwest Campus from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Recipients were 
given their first dose Feb. 5, and in total, 235 people aged 65 
or older were vaccinated at the first event, Director of Human 
Resources Lela Frye said. “It was wonderful because people were so appreciative of 
the opportunity,” Frye said.
Among the recipients were employees, retirees, students 
and “the expanded SF family” — relatives of Santa Fe com -
munity members who live in the same household and meet 
the criteria for vaccination, she said. 
In addition, about 20 faculty and students providing front -
line patient care also received the vaccine, she said. 
Santa Fe office receptionist Bonita Reddig, 73, said she 
got the vaccine to protect herself and her husband who had 
a liver transplant in 2000 that left him immunocompromised. 
He has since received both of his doses at UF Health Shands 
Hospital. 
“I feel confident that everything is going to be okay now,” 
Reddig said. “Maybe we can meet with the grandkids again.”Terry McMahan, 71, came with Donna Waller, 76, a re -
tired Santa Fe political science professor. McMahan said he 
patiently waited to be eligible for the vaccine after the first 
doses were administered mid-December. 
“It’s a greater sense of safety,” McMahan said.
Members of the UF Student Health Care Center at Santa Fe 
also showed up to bring awareness to the renovated facility. 
The center — which was rebuilt and reopened days before 
the pandemic closed campus in March 2020 — offers free ser -
vices to college students who may typically be low-income, 
Dawn Blizzard, a program assistant, said. It has served five to 
10 students a day, four days a week since August. 
Santa Fe President Paul Broadie mingled with vaccine re -
cipients and staff. Recipients bided their time with a paper-
filling, phone-browsing and solitaire-playing observation 
period. Although some had never met Broadie before, they 
were eager to thank him as they left.     
“We couldn’t be happier giving our employees the oppor -
tunity to be vaccinated against this dreadful pandemic and 
have some sense of safety and security,” he said. 
Retired army military police Col. Bob Quint, a 67-year-old 
Santa Fe adjunct professor, lost his 91-year-old father to the 
virus Jan. 22. He contracted the virus from a doctor’s office 
and died within seven days, Quint said. 
“This is not something that’s going to go away, it’s only 
going to get worse if we ignore it,” Jo Quint, Bob’s 66-year-
old wife, said. “I would tell anybody that they need to get 
vaccinated. It’s not worth your life.” The couple, now mar -
ried 44 and a half years, received their second doses Feb. 26.
Santa Fe biology professor Greg Jones said the vaccine pro -
vides a safeguard for himself and his in-person students.“A 
lot of them are apprehensive,” Jones, 61, said. “Anytime they 
feel a bit of a cough or a sniffle, they’re worried that they may 
contract the virus. It puts everybody on edge a little.”
Under 65 but with respiratory issues, Jones said he made 
administrators aware of his situation and was eventually able 
to schedule an appointment. 
“Santa Fe’s always had a long tradition of taking care of 
their people,” Jones said. “It’s one of the things that makes 
working at Santa Fe as nice as it is.”
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org
@ReaManny
mrea@alligator.org
Grocery store may be built in East Gainesville following City Commission voteSanta Fe community receives second dose of COVID-19 vaccine 
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
Janée Gilliam, a nurse for the Alachua County Department of Health, injects Linda Tyson, 65, a Sante Fe 
biology professor, with the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine Feb. 26, 2021 at Santa Fe College. “The 
college has done us a great service,” Tyson said about the vaccine distributions.
MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
FDOT AGREED TO 
BEGIN TRANSFERRING 
RESPONSIBILITY 
OF THE ROAD
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Florida Department of 
Transportation will transfer control 
of a section of West University Av -
enue near UF campus to the city of 
Gainesville.
City and county officials met 
with department representatives 
Feb. 22 at a meeting of the Metro -
politan Transportation Planning 
Organization, a joint operation 
between Gainesville and Alachua 
County Commissions for transporta -
tion planning in and around the city.
Jim Hannigan, an FDOT district 
traffic operations engineer who manages the county’s state roads, 
said the department is willing to 
hand over control of the stretch of 
West University Avenue from 34th 
to 13th Street, but is waiting on the 
city’s request for a section of the 
road to continue the transfer pro -
cess.
Gainesville City Commissioner 
and MTPO chair David Arreola ex -
changed excited glances with the 
other commissioners in the room 
upon hearing this news. Gain -
ing jurisdictional control over the 
state road has been a priority for 
Gainesville for the past month.
“That is something I am very 
glad to hear,” Arreola said.
Hannigan listed some of the 
“low-hanging fruit” measures FDOT 
has implemented since efforts 
arose to make the road safer after 
the deaths of two UF students less 
than two months apart, including tree trimming to increase visibility 
on the road and retiming traffic sig -
nals to slow vehicles. Longer-term 
changes such as a speed limit reduc -
tion won’t be implemented until the 
summertime, he said.
Starting March 1, FDOT will 
pave special emphasis crosswalks 
with more striping to make pedes -
trians more visible, Hannigan said.
Other future plans include rede -
signing crosswalks, adding tempo -
rary speed tables, which are raised 
sections of roads that intend to slow 
traffic, and lowering the speed limit 
to 25 mph.
Two raised crosswalks on West 
University Avenue with pedestrian 
signals will be added near Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium and west of 13th 
Street. These crosswalks — which 
are meant to stop cars while pedes -
trians cross high foot traffic areas — 
should be completed in the summer.“We’re chopping up University, 
state road 26, into short blocks, 
and that’s going to have the effect 
of making motorists basically stop 
more often,” Hannigan said.
The temporary speed tables will 
be 21 feet long and raised about 3 
inches above the rest of the road. 
Hannigan said they should be in -
stalled before UF’s Fall 2021 semes -
ter starts.
He said FDOT is required by law 
to do an engineering assessment of 
a road before it can reduce the speed 
limit.
“Putting up a sign does not 
change somebody’s speed. Period,” 
Hannigan said. “You have to make 
them want to change.”
This can be done, he said, by re -
ducing the driver’s comfort in driv -
ing over a certain speed.
For this reason, the speed limit 
on West University Avenue won’t 
be lowered until the temporary 
speed tables are installed and driv -
ers slow down.
Commissioner Reina Saco ex -
pressed worry that if the temporary 
speed tables are installed when stu -
dents aren’t on campus, it could 
skew the results of the speed limit 
assessment.
Hannigan said even with less 
congestion on the road, the speed 
tables should be enough to warrant 
lowering the speed limit.
“Regardless of whether there are 
students in there or not, University 
Avenue carries a lot of traffic,” he 
said.
Hannigan said the Gator STEP 
program, a recent push for greater 
enforcement of traffic laws around 
UF campus, has shown that nearly 
100 people are still speeding “after 
months of public outrage and weeks 
of enhanced enforcement.”
GPD issued 84 speeding tickets 
from February 15 to 22, according 
to Gator STEP data released by the 
GPD.
“All lowering the speed limit 
means is that you can issue more 
tickets, and that doesn’t slow people 
down,” Hannigan said.
Hannigan told Gainesville May -
or Lauren Poe that FDOT was not 
working on a street redesign plan, which is outside his own responsi -
bilities.
FDOT owns very little sidewalk 
space near the businesses lining 
West University Avenue, so rede -
signing the road to prioritize pedes -
trian traffic would require having 
fewer lanes, Hannigan said. These 
changes would create traffic jams 
on UF football game days.
“We very much appreciate the 
short- and mid-term solutions that 
are being offered, but it will not 
solve the long-term challenges that 
we have on that corridor,” Poe said.
Saco also asked if the road could 
be made into an “enhanced penalty 
zone,” which adds $50 to speeding 
tickets written within the zone.
The legislative process in mak -
ing the zone requires evidence that 
crashes are caused by speeding, 
Hannigan said. Most crashes on Uni -
versity Avenue have been caused by 
one car entering another’s right of 
way, he said.
Alachua County Commissioner 
Anna Prizzia said moving traffic 
from West University Avenue might 
divert it to Williston and Waldo 
roads. She said there have already 
been safety issues in the area, men -
tioning a hit-and-run in December 
that killed a cyclist at a crossing near 
Hawthorne Trail.
“I don’t want to push that prob -
lem out to our eastern community 
and end up with deaths over there 
where we don’t have the power 
of the university and the power of 
student organizations to organize 
around an issue,” she said.
Mayor Poe said these additional 
road changes would cost more than 
the MTPO can spend and more than 
what FDOT would likely be able to 
fund. He recommended holding a 
countywide town hall to discuss a 
transportation surtax.
“We clearly have emerging tran -
sit challenges,” Poe said.
The MTPO did not move forward 
with the tax. Its next meeting is set 
for April 26.
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.orgGainesville will take over control of a stretch of West University
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
A cyclist crosses West University Avenue on Wednesday, Feb. 3, 2021.
parts of the BMW that had been left in the 
roadway. The parts, witness statements and 
surveillance footage led investigators to the 
BMW. 
It took investigators over two months to 
find Figueroa. 
Figueroa was identified as the owner 
of the car, but police have not determined 
who was driving the car when it hit Paxton. 
After getting a warrant to look for the car, 
investigators found the blue 2003 BMW 
positioned between rows of cars at a car 
shop he works at, the complaint read. 
Investigators found the BMW with blood 
and damage on the passengers’ side hood 
at Best Motor Works & Sports, an auto 
repair shop located at 65 SE 10th Ave. in 
Gainesville, according to the complaint. 
As of Sunday evening, Figueroa — whose 
previous citations include driving his vehicle 
unsafely, speeding and not wearing a seatbelt 
— has not been arrested, according to court records. 
Just a day before, Lawrence Lambert, 
Sophia Lambert’s father, filed a wrongful 
death lawsuit against Uber, Uber’s subsidiary 
Portier LLC and the drivers and owners of 
the cars involved in his daughter’s death. 
Lambert, an 18-year-old UF theater first-
year in Delta Phi Epsilon sorority, died 
following a two-car crash Jan. 16 that hit her 
and four other UF students she was with on 
the sidewalk. The five students and driver of 
the car that hit them were hospitalized. 
Benjamin A. Piper, a 28-year-old Uber 
Eats driver, was speeding in a 2007 grey 
Honda Civic eastbound on University 
Avenue to pick up an order, according to the 
complaint. Boris Stoyanov, a 19-year-old UF 
architecture sophomore, was driving a 2015 
white Honda accord westbound and turning 
left onto Buckman Drive. 
Yaffa said Piper was trying to beat a light 
that was changing, and Stoyanov violated 
the right of way when he made a left-hand 
turn in front of Piper. 
The two cars collided, causing Piper’s vehicle to skid out of control, hit a pole, 
Lambert and her friends on the sidewalk. 
Lambert was thrown more than 30 feet 
through the air and hit a brick bench, 
according to the complaint. She died shortly 
after she was transported to the UF Health 
Shands Hospital. 
Yaffa said Uber Eats drivers and delivery 
drivers tend to rely on an app to direct them to 
delivery and pickup locations they’ve never 
been to. That can be dangerous, especially 
when they are distracted by the app, he said. 
“Many times they’re not focused on the 
roadway and where they’re going, they’re 
looking at the app to figure out how they 
can get there as quickly as they can,” Yaffa 
said. “The quicker they deliver the food, the 
bigger the tip.”
Uber declined to comment on the pending 
litigation but sent a general statement that 
said the company is committed to road safety 
and continuing to build products and raise 
awareness about practices that can lead to 
safer streets for all — regardless of the mode 
of travel.Yaffa said both families are devastated 
with the loss of their daughters and know that 
the drivers made critical errors and decisions 
that led to their daughters’ deaths. However, 
he said they believe University Avenue, a 
location where students are traveling all the 
time, is not safe. 
Yaffa said Paxton and Lambert are not 
the first to lose their lives on this street, but 
the families and their lawyers are committed 
to making the changes necessary so that 
nobody else does. 
The FDOT will hand over control of a 
stretch of the road to the City of Gainesville, 
from 34th to 13th street but is waiting for 
the city’s request for a section of the road 
to continue. Starting Monday, FDOT will 
pave special emphasis crosswalks to make 
pedestrians more visible. 
“These are senseless deaths that were 
totally preventable,” Yaffa said. “There’s 
no reason why another student or another 
family has to lose their life or suffer this loss.”
 
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgSUITS,  from pg. 1The suits seek over $100,000 in damagesKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
THE BAND SAYS THEIR NEW 
SINGLE SOUNDS LIKE SUMMER
By Katie Delk
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville band Driveaway is all about 
moving forward.
From their recent song “Is This Letting 
Go?” to a song in progress with a chorus 
that echoes “let it go,” Driveaway makes it 
clear that progress guides them. The band is 
signed to UF student-run record label Swamp 
Records. In “Summer Song,” which was 
released Feb. 26, Trenton Ropp sings, “I’m 
holding on too tight, I’m sinking in plain 
sight.” 
Most of the lyrics originate in their 
personal prose, bassist Tanner Ropp, Trenton 
Ropp’s brother, said. “Summer Song” draws 
on lines from Trenton’s two-page journal 
entry last summer.“If the lyrics feel scary for me to read 
them out loud to someone, then it’s the right 
direction to go,” Trenton said. 
For him, the “Summer Song” lyrics were 
embarrassing in conversation.
“But singing them is just so different,” he 
said.
While Driveaway moves forward with 
motifs, the new song is a minimalistic melody. 
A lot of the songs begin with a strong drum 
pulse, Trenton said, but the drums weren’t 
working in this one. So, for “Summer Song,” 
they muted them. 
The result is mostly acoustic, with less 
synthesizer than they usually use. The guitar 
part was done in one take, guitarist Kyle 
Tapley said, with one note.
Rather than adding extra production, 
Tanner said they just wanted the song to be 
good and catchy, like “Billie Jean” by Michael 
Jackson, Tapley added.
The electronic ending of the song was 
originally a joke, Trenton said.“This thing that I’m like, ‘Oh, what if 
we just put this crazy dance beat under this 
acoustic guitar,’ and then it ends up being the 
most cathartic part of the song,” he said. “It’s 
a big release.”
The trio recorded the song in their two-
story house. Often, they departed to their 
rooms with their guitars to process ideas 
individually. But with guitars and chords 
lined up in the closet outside the living room, 
the trio worked there. Tapley and Trenton 
built soundproof wood panels with Home 
Depot nursery insulation and placed them in 
the room’s corners. Trenton formed a cave 
with the panels and sang in them, creating a 
better sound, he said.
With all their equipment in one place, 
they spat out words, collabing and ad-libbing. 
Their ad-libs ranged from whoops to Tapley 
saying, “Oh, my mom’s here. I gotta go.” The 
words are still in the song, but are pitched 
down, Trenton said.“It was a lot easier for creativity to flow 
around just cause all the tools needed were 
just already set up everywhere,” Tanner said.
As Swamp Records’ co-branding director, 
21-year-old UF advertising senior Cam Hunter 
has aided Driveaway’s social media since 
2019, and they have become friends through 
that time. For months, Hunter said Trenton 
has sent audio files of “Summer Song” to get 
their opinion. Hunter said it’s their favorite 
Driveway song yet.
“I think it has a really good chorus that 
a lot of people will be able to really vibe 
with,” Hunter said. “I love the guys’ personal 
connection with the song.”
Hunter said they can imagine people 
blasting the song in their car with the windows 
down. Listeners can enjoy themselves as they 
drive away to a new place.
“Summer Song” is available on all 
platforms now.
@katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.org
IT WAS THE VENEZUELAN 
ARTIST’S FIRST IN-PERSON 
SHOW SINCE AUGUST
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
In her latest single, “Solita,” 
Marianella Rojas proclaims, “Can -
to lo que vivo, vivo lo que siento” 
– “I sing what I live, I live what 
I feel.”
This sentiment is at the core 
of her songs and her ethos – 
honesty, connection, undeniable 
vulnerability and a true love for 
music. It shows up in the high -
est of highs, like her triumphant 
2019 debut album “Voy,” and in 
the lowest of lows, like the halt -
ing of all her touring activities 
following the onset of the CO -
VID-19 pandemic. It is steadfast 
and unchanging through seasons 
of massive unpredictability and 
upheaval. It is the epicenter of 
the Venezuelan singer’s work – to 
sing what she lives, to live how 
she feels.
Rojas, known professionally 
by the mononym Nella, took the 
Phillips Center stage Friday with 
this transparency in tow. The 
Latin Grammy-winning artist 
performed in her first in-person 
show since August as part of the 
“UpStage at the Phillips Center” 
series, organized by UF Perform -
ing Arts.The UpStage series sees art -
ists and audience members all 
gathered on the Phillips Center 
stage for an up-close and person -
al performance and a “jazz club 
atmosphere.” Friday’s show was 
performed live to a limited-capac -
ity audience and livestreamed for 
those watching at home. 
Sam McKee, a marketing and 
communications specialist with 
UFPA, said Nella’s set was “pure 
magic.”
“Nella’s talent is totally unde -
niable,” McKee said.
From an early age, Nella said 
she knew music was the path for 
her. She grew up taking cues from 
the pop juggernauts of the day, 
singing hits from artists Mariah 
Carey to Christina Aguilera to Ce -
line Dion, but decided that she 
would pursue jazz in hopes of be -
coming “the next Ella Fitzgerald.”
Nella moved from her home -
town of Isla Margarita to Caracas, 
the capital of Venezuela, at the 
age of 17 to study music, a deci -
sion she had also made early on. 
She said attending a university, 
being not just a performer but a 
true student of music, had always 
been a priority. 
While studying in Caracas, one 
of Nella’s teachers recommended 
she apply to Berklee College of 
Music in Boston. Berklee, notori -
ously intense and competitive, is 
one of the most prestigious mu -
sic schools in the world – which is exactly why Nella said she 
wouldn’t be applying.
“This is just for geniuses. I 
don’t think I’ll be able to be ac -
cepted,” she said. 
But she thought wrong. After 
flying to Boston for an audition 
and interview, Nella was accept -
ed. 
She didn’t attend the school 
until two years after her accep -
tance, though, when her parents 
could afford to send her to Boston 
for only one semester. They told 
her there was no guarantee of fu -
ture semesters, but just the prom -
ise of one was enough for Nella. 
“Before they finished the 
phrase, I was already on the air -
plane with my bags,” she said. 
One semester turned into two, 
two turned into four, and Nella 
graduated from Berklee in 2015. 
While there, her musical focus 
shifted from jazz and R&B to the 
sound of the Andalusia region and 
her traditional Venezuelan roots.
With constant collaboration 
from Javier Limón, producer and 
artistic director of the Mediterra -
nean Music Institute at Berklee, 
Nella has infused Venezuelan 
folklore with classic Latin instru -
mentation. Though her produc -
tion does have touches of modern 
influence, Nella’s songs are un -
doubtedly rooted in tradition. 
As reggaeton music continues 
to dominate the airwaves, Nella 
said the other styles of Latin mu -sic have taken a back seat to this 
more pop-centric sound. Though 
it has opened the door for Latin 
visibility in the United States, 
Nella said there is so much more 
to offer. 
“I think that we should take 
advantage of that and show this 
other palate of colors,” she said.
Among this other palate is 
Nella’s 2019 debut album “Voy,” 
which was released to critical ac -
claim and earned her a Best New 
Artist win at the 2019 Latin Gram -
my Awards. With an album that 
didn’t follow the Top 40 format, 
she said it was an honor just to 
be nominated among her more 
radio-ready contemporaries. The 
win, she said, was “incredible,” 
and proved there was a place for 
her traditional sound in the mod -
ern music landscape.
After embarking on a 2019 tour 
across the U.S., on-the-road activ -
ities came to a standstill with the 
onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
But the year 2020 wasn’t entirely 
lost – Nella joined Sony Music 
Latin and began working on her 
next full-length album. 
The first taste of the next re -
cord, “Solita,” leans more toward 
modern R&B production, but still 
maintains the essence of Latin 
music. Translating to “alone,” 
the track tackles the isolation of 
quarantine living, but instead of 
approaching the situation through 
the lens of pessimism, Nella chose to celebrate the newfound 
opportunity to rediscover who 
she is. 
“Some days were hard, but it 
was also a beautiful time to be 
with myself,” she said. 
But after getting reacquainted 
with herself in isolation, Nella 
said she’s ready to reconnect with 
her audience. Though her music 
is entirely in Spanish, she said 
the relationship she has with the 
crowd overpowers the language 
barrier.
“It’s beautiful to see that peo -
ple really connect even though 
the lyrics are not their language,” 
she said.
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Early enrollees
Several new faces made their appearances on Florida’s football 
team this spring as early enrollees. Read the team’s impression 
of the newcomers, pg. 11 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Scan to listen to the 
Avenue’s second pop 
culture news roundup.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Grammy-winning artist Nella takes Phillips Center stage
MUSICMUSICLocal band Driveaway releases ‘Summer Song’  
MUSICMUSICJENICE BUSHNELL AND HER 
DAUGHTER LISA BLUM, REMEMBER 
THE LAST 27 YEARS OF THEIR 
FAMILY BUSINESS
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
After 27 years of selling UF merchandise 
to fans, students, families and tourists, Gator 
Mania closed its doors at Butler Plaza for the 
final time.
Gator Mania was one of the last local 
family-owned UF merchandise stores in 
Gainesville. In the last year, the city has seen 
the closing of many other staple businesses 
near the university, such as The Swamp res -
taurant and Daybreak Pleasant Street.
This week, the store is auctioning off all 
of its merchandise and store fixtures, which 
include shelves and racks that hold items, 
through Kincaid Auction Realty, a service in 
Lakeland.
Gator Mania and Kincaid held an in-per -
son live auction on Feb. 20 and 21, where 
about 80 bidders visited the store to partici -
pate.
The business released a preview for the 
merchandise online Feb. 19. Online auctions 
will continue throughout the week until ev -
erything has been claimed. Winners can pick 
up their items at the store this week until the 
auction’s end. As of Feb. 23, the online auc -
tions received more than 430 bidders.
Gator Mania’s owner, Jenice Bushnell, 
said more than 75% of all merchandise has 
been sold; however, there is still a large num -
ber of items such as clothing, accessories 
and home appliances to sell. Store fixtures, 
such as shelves, racks, fans and security tags 
sold out on Feb. 22.
In 1995, Bushnell and her ex-husband 
opened their first Gator Mania kiosk at The 
Oaks Mall. By the time their store reached its 
peak popularity at the mall, they had 10 ki -
osks, each of which sold different categories 
of UF merchandise — men’s clothes, wom -
en’s clothes, baby clothes, Nike products, 
home appliances and more. In 2005, Bush -
nell became the sole owner of the store, and 
Gator Mania found its permanent location in 
Butler Plaza.Randy Kincaid, founder of Kincaid Auc -
tion Realty, said the COVID-19 pandemic 
has been very hard on small businesses like 
Gator Mania. His company has held around 
eight auctions with small businesses that 
were directly affected by the pandemic.
Kincaid has been almost exclusively hold -
ing online auctions for the past two years.
“We have very few live auctions any -
more, but we thought there would be a lot of 
attention and attraction by the local residents 
because Gator Mania is located right here at 
the University of Florida,” he said.
Gov. Ron DeSantis issued a statewide 
stay-at-home order in April, and Gator Ma -
nia had to shut down as a non-essential busi -
ness. After the lockdown, the store owed 
three months of rent with no sales to pay for 
it.
“We weren’t the only ones affected by 
COVID,” Bushnell said. “Money was real 
tight for a lot of our normal customers as 
well. Instead of coming in and maybe buy -
ing three or four different items, they would 
only buy one, or maybe they couldn’t come 
in and buy anything at all.”
The cancellation of many UF events also 
affected Gator Mania’s sales.. The business 
got a small Paycheck Protection Program 
loan to cover payroll for eight weeks. But, it 
still had no sales after the University Athletic 
Association canceled its 2020 Orange & Blue 
Debut game and UF canceled student gradu -
ations, tailgating parties, parents’ weekend 
and homecoming.
Gator Mania also relied on the surplus in 
sales during football season to hold the busi -
ness over during its typically slower months: 
January, February and March.
“When we came out of Christmas, and 
we didn’t have any savings, we knew we 
couldn’t continue,” Bushnell said. “We were 
still in the pandemic. We were still working 
with shortened hours, and there was no end 
in sight.
Since the store’s relocation in 2005, Bush -
nell’s oldest daughter, Lisa Blum, has been 
an operations manager at Gator Mania. Blum 
said she’s worked at Gator Mania her entire 
life.
“I grew up there,” she said. “Even when I 
was a 6-year-old kid, on game days I was in the back hallway pricing shirts.”
Blum, 32, began working full-time at 
Gator Mania after she began dual-enrollment 
at Santa Fe High School in her junior year. 
She worked there throughout college, gradu -
ating from UF with a master’s degree in in -
formation systems and operations manage -
ment in 2011.
“I loved working with my mom,” she 
said. “I think that’s been the hardest part of 
closing because my favorite part of my job 
was getting to work with my mom and my two kids.”
Blum’s 5-year-old son Blake and her 
2-year-old daughter Grace came to work 
with her every day until they started school.
For more than two decades, Gator Mania 
has been a community staple. Although the 
family-owned business closed its doors once 
and for all, Bushnell and her family will have 
a generation of memories to keep forever.
  
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
Family-owned UF apparel store Gator Mania goes out of business
Courtesy to The Alligator
Lisa Blum, Jenice Bushnell and Randy Kincaid stand in front of their family-owned 
Gator Mania store with a 12’ fiberglass alligator.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021
THE MACHINE IS A PART OF 
A SMALL BUSINESS FROM 
JACKSONVILLE
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
Mia Thomas loves to feel 
beautiful in bright, expensive 
wigs. She wants college students 
in Gainesville to feel the same at 
an affordable price.
On Feb. 13, the 23-year-old 
Edward Waters College student 
opened a vending machine that 
sells wigs, hair bundles and false 
eyelashes in the Oaks Mall, Tomi -
ka Kay, Thomas’s assistant, said. 
She chose Gainesville to make 
her products more accessible and 
affordable for other college stu -
dents who may struggle to get 
high-quality hair, Kay said. Lace-
front wigs can be expensive. 
Wigs are $39 each, hair bun -
dles are $10 and false eyelashes 
are $10. The machine’s opening 
comes as Thomas celebrates the 
anniversary of her business, Gurl 
U Cute Inc. Hair Boutique, in 
Jacksonville, which she opened 
after struggling to purchase wigs 
in the past, Kay said. 
Thomas bought her first bulk shipment of hair for $5,000 and 
sold out within the first two 
weeks of opening her business, 
Kay said. Soon after, she incor -
porated false lashes into the busi -
ness and now gets her products 
from a vendor in India. Thomas 
decided to begin selling her prod -
ucts in a vending machine.
On the vending machine’s first 
day, Thomas sold 40 sets of lash -
es, Kay said. She plans to return 
twice a week to check on the ma -
chine and keep track of sales. 
Reggiena Priest, 21, noticed 
the machine when she went to 
Oaks Mall Feb. 13. When she 
passed by a second time, she said 
Thomas approached her to talk 
about her business.
Thomas didn’t sound confi -
dent, so Priest wanted to help 
promote her. Priest took a pic -
ture of Thomas, wearing a long, 
blonde wig next to the machine, 
and posted it to her Facebook, 
where it soon gained attention 
and was shared in several Face -
book groups. The original post 
has more than 1,500 shares and 
over 889 reactions on Facebook.
“It’s 2021,” Priest said. “I 
know we’ve been knocked down. 
It’s time for us queens to be suc -cessful. We’re going to be suc -
cessful all year.”
Coming up with the design for 
the vending machine involved 
hiring a graphic designer, and 
Thomas herself took the images 
on the machine, which show her 
modeling colorful wigs and hair -
styles using her product. The ma -
chine is bright purple and has the 
name of her business in cursive, 
gold font on the side.
Thomas’s focus isn’t only 
on her business. In addition to 
studying criminal justice, she 
recently completed real estate 
school and works as a bond agent 
for her own bail bond office in 
Jacksonville called Get Me Out 
Bail Bonds LLC.
“This girl is a powerhouse,” 
Kay said. “She’s doing all of that 
by herself.”
Thomas’s next goal is to open 
about 10 vending machines 
throughout Florida and Georgia, 
Kay said. Thomas also hopes to 
have a franchise, where she will 
help others open their own vend -
ing machines. 
“She wants to help other peo -
ple put shoes, clothes,…whatever 
they’re passionate about and love 
to do all in a vending machine so they can help pay for their col -
lege,” Kay said. 
The vending machine sits at 
the center of the mall and you 
can’t miss it, Priest said. Thomas 
and Kay are excited to see con -
tinued support and social media posts as people “come get cute” 
–– her business’ motto ––  at the 
machine.
@LucilleLannigan
llannigan@alligator.org
THE GROUP’S GOAL IS TO INFORM 
OTHERS ABOUT THE BAND’S RICH 
HISTORY THROUGH PERFORMANCE
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
A bad hip, a job, kids and more than 30 
years without playing her alto saxophone 
didn’t stop 52-year-old Diana Obradovic 
from marching with high kicks.
“It was a reminiscent, nostalgic feel -
ing,” the Eastside High school class of 1986 
alumna and LaCrosse resident said. “Some 
of these people I hadn’t seen in 28 years.”
Obradovic is a member of the Eastside 
High School Richard E. Parker Alumni 
Band striving to carry on the legacy and 
cultural style of the school’s first band di -
rector, Richard Parker, who taught at the 
school from 1970 to 1990. Parker was the 
mastermind behind the band that people 
came from all over to see perform. He 
strived to mimic high-energy bands at His -
torically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCU), such as Florida A&M University’s 
Marching 100, fusing traditional forma -
tions and songs with Black pop culture. 
Since Parker’s death in 2016, former 
band members have come together every 
few months to honor and educate people 
about the marching band’s old style and 
community impact through performances 
at community events and street parades.
Toward the end of Parker’s career, for -
mer students said administration instruct -
ed him to turn away from the HBCU style 
and toward corps style, which is more stan -
dardized across U.S. high school marching 
bands. Parker retired shortly after, taking 
his distinctive style with him.
Obradovic said she’s had three kids go through Eastside’s band program at the 
same time, but she misses the old march -
ing style and Parker’s original arrange -
ments. 
“For years, I’ve followed along with my 
kids’ band experience,” Obradovic said. “I 
heard murmurings in the crowd of: ‘What 
are you doing? What’s going on? Oh, this 
is so sad that you guys aren’t dancing any -
more.’”
Parker’s caring attitude and high expec -
tations for students both in and out of the 
band room made a positive impact on their 
lives, said Cathy Norman who founded the 
alumni band in 2017.
Eastside, the school almost all East 
Gainesville students are zoned to attend, 
has an award-winning band program. Nor -
man said students at the school, which 
opened to serve the students of the all-
Black student population after the closing 
of Lincoln High School, found a sense of 
community in the band. 
Alumni are finding ways to mentor stu -
dents, provide support and carry on the 
legacy of the culture from when they at -
tended the school. The school’s former stu -
dents also founded an alumni association 
in December, through which they hope to 
provide mentorship and scholarship op -
portunities to current high school students.  
Norman said the school’s band while 
under Parker was “the heartbeat” of East 
Gainesville and Alachua County.
An alumna of the Class of 1983, she 
said she wanted to do something special to 
honor her former band director when the 
school planned to dedicate part of a road 
near the school in Parker’s name in March 
2017. 
She thought back to when she and other 
alumni played for Parker’s retirement cer -emony in 1989 — he grinned, stood up and 
cheered repeatedly: “That’s my band!”
Norman decided to get the band back 
together, inviting all of Parker’s former 
students to come and perform at the street 
dedication ceremony — this time without 
Parker at their side.
“Some of us hadn’t picked up our in -
struments maybe even since high school,” 
she said. “But once we did, the rest was 
history.”
Since that first performance, the alumni 
band has played many times at the school, 
at Parker’s wife’s home and in street pa -
rades. Although the COVID-19 pandemic 
has made performances harder to coordi -
nate, she said it makes them even more 
excited to perform again when the time is 
right. 
Aside from having more students aware 
of the cultural influence of Eastside’s 
band, Norman said she’d like to see more 
of Parker’s style infused back into present-
day performances.
Joseph Hughes, Eastside High School’s 
current band director, said Parker still re -
mains influential today, as he wrote the 
school’s fight song, “Ram Jam,” and their 
alma mater. Students are excited to learn 
about Parker’s legacy, he said, continuing 
his best traditions while also modernizing 
the band. 
Even those who didn’t attend the school 
have fond memories of the band when 
Parker directed it.
Byers Hickmon, a 59-year-old Navy Ju -
nior ROTC instructor at the school, said 
when he attended Santa Fe High School in 
the city of Alachua, everyone in the county 
came to see Eastside perform. 
“It picked everybody up,” Hickmon 
said. “The whole city, county and commu -nity.”
Mildred Parker, Parker’s 88-year-old 
wife, said her husband’s performance style 
was what drew crowds.
“The style he used was one that most 
people could identify with,” Mildred Park -
er said. “He was the only one doing it. But 
that was Richard.”
Another time the band came together 
was at the East Gainesville home of Mil -
dred Parker; they surprised her with a 
street performance.
“Late one evening, they came to the 
front of my house,” Mildred Parker said. 
“Then I had lots of comments from the 
neighborhood about how they enjoyed it. 
It was really a wonderful tribute.”
Norman recalled the last time she saw 
Parker at his home in 2016, which was 
close to when he died. 
“I said, ‘Mr. Parker, would you play that 
one more time for me?’” she said, referring 
to the alma mater he wrote decades before.
After fumbling through the first try, 
he teased her by playing the song seven 
more times until he did it perfectly, which 
was exactly the number of times he would 
make his students re-rehearse music.
To Norman, the group is honoring Park -
er’s legacy in the best way it knows how 
— through the magic of music.
“Every time we’re about to play it starts 
out cloudy,” Norman said softly, smiling 
under her mask branded with the school’s 
ram mascot. “But when we start, the sun 
always comes out. It’s like he’s smiling 
down at us from heaven.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgWigs, false eyelashes and hair bundles available in new Oaks Mall vending machine
Eastside High School alumni band members carry on distinctive high-energy styleJulia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
A Gurl U Cute Hair Boutique vending machine sits near the 
entrance of Oaks Mall in Gainesville on Feb. 18, 2021. The vending 
machine is filled with wig bundles and false lashes.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Part Time Asst needed for Fraternity 
Management. We handle finances, opera-
tions, and properties for Fraternities at UF.
Must be able to multi-task and have good 
attitude. Must know Microsoft and have reli-
able transportation.
Office exp. and/or Greek Life a plus but not 
req. Office hours are M-F 9-5. Approx 15hrs/
week. Start at $9.50/hr. Email resume to 
info@fratmanagement.com    
3-1-21-3-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED NOW!  Easy 
Commission Work!  Customers Asked To Be 
Contacted, Paid Daily! Choose Your Hours! 
Email:  Jessica@rent2ownservices.com    
3-8-21-4-14 
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Envir.
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training available
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501
3-1-21-5-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         4-19-21-15-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
We are seeking current 4-40 & 2-20 licensed 
insurance producers for a new Property and 
Casualty Agency opening soon in the Ocala and 
Gainesville areas. Must have license before hire. 
Flexible schedule, competitive pay, base wage 
plus commission and bonuses. If interested 
please email amandamree@gmail.com with 
your contact information to set up an interview.
3-8-21-8-14
Servers, Line Cooks Blue Hwy.
**Please apply in person**
Please apply in person Blue Highway a piz-
zeria 13005 SW 1st Rd Jonesville, Fl 32669
This is not your typical restaurant. Our dining 
room is currently closed to protect the health 
of our team during this time.
We are a tight crew with some of us working 
here for many years. We are family owned 
and operated and each individual is valued 
and appreciated.
We are team oriented.
We have integrity.
We use intentional communication.
We have a passion for excellence.
We hope to find a new member to join our 
team who shares the vision.
Check out these benefits!
• Earnings range from $15-$22 per hour be-
tween hourly wage and tip share
• Paid vacation after 12 months
• Full heath, dental, vision and life insurance 
available
• Holiday pay (Thanksgiving & Christmas)
• Bonuses available
• Meal discounts
• Flexible schedule
• Room for growth
3-1-21-1-14BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Timed Online Auction
Fuel Transport and Logistic Carrier Fleet of 
Commercial Trucks and Trailers (Tampa, FL)
Bidding closes: Thurs, March 11th, 2021 
at 10AM
Sale will consist of: International, Peterbilt, 
Freightliner, Volvo, Kenworth and Mack 
Trucks; Fruehauf and Heil Fuel Tank 
Trailers; Ford and White Fuel Tank Wagons; 
Peterbilt Tow Truck; Ford F450 Utility Truck. 
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com.
Pick-up/removal: Tampa, FL.
Preview: 03/10 by appointment. Call for 
details (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
Case No. 8:20-bk-6034-CED
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin
3-1-1-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
Look no further! Seeking roommate for a for -
mer Airbnb Super Host. Beautifully furnished 
bedroom with adjoining bathroom in a great 
location!! Utilities/Wi-Fi. Contact 352-213-
0945-$550 mo./short term avail. No smok -
ers! Ideal housemate: drama free mature 
female, reliable income and transportation.                   
3-1-21-1-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
2BR/2.5 BA Townhouse for rent
Walk or bike to UF.
$950/mo. + utilities
Call 305-443-4623 Available now or Fall     
3-22-21-4-2
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
Split Oak Firewood
Great for bonfires & fireplaces $75 for 1/4 of 
a cord stacked and delivered. Or you pick 
up in Ocala $60 for 1/4 of a cord. Call Mike 
352-572-1261.                             3-1-21-5-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-1010 For Sale
By Catherine Cetta
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/01/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/01/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, March 1, 2021
ACROSS
1 Nannies and 
billies
6 Skylit courtyards
11 Toyota Prius, e.g.
14 Tin Pan __
15 Transactions with 
interest
16 Pub pour
17 *Data 
transmission 
science
19 Khaki-colored
20 Pedal pusher
21 Full moon, e.g.
22 Cartoon maker of 
iron bird seed
23 Salinger teen 
who says, “I 
prefer stories 
about squalor”
24 *Elementary 
school  
fundraiser
26 Whistle blower
28 Piece for three 
instruments
29 They’re often 
pop-ups
32 Major artery
36 Irritate
39 Quick swim
40 Fell behind
42 Golf ball holder
43 Stockpile
45 Dig deeply (into)
46 Pigs out (on), 
briefly
47 Blacken in a pan
49 Dictator Amin
51 *Rank for TV’s 
Columbo
56 “Shoo!”
60 The “I” in MIT: 
Abbr.
61 Ceremonial 
conical structure
62 Tra-__: refrain 
syllables
63 “__, humbug!”
64 Track meet 
infractions ... 
or short words 
hiding at the 
beginning of 
the answers to 
starred clues
66 Musician Brian
67 Had the flu, say
68 Cove, e.g.
69 Tennis do-over
70 Sanctify
71 Love to piecesDOWN
1 Faux pas
2 Mixed bags
3 “Tuesdays With 
Morrie” author 
Mitch
4 Wobble
5 Leb. neighbor
6 A, as in Athens
7 Invoice word
8 Employee’s 
reward
9 Motivate
10 Biblical beast of 
burden
11 Not be fooled by
12 San Antonio 
mission
13 Continue to 
subscribe
18 Decide on
22 Z __ zebra
25 Swapped
27 Patronizes, as a 
restaurant
29 Oral health org.
30 Not bright, as a 
light
31 Many a NASA 
mission
33 “Far out, dude!”
34 White-__: formal
35 Every one37 Ref. work that 
added “YOLO” in 
2016
38 Proposer’s 
preferred 
response
41 Paperless party 
announcements
44 “__ up!”: “Quiet!”
48 Sell directly to the 
consumer
50 Manhattan or 
Staten51 Defame in print
52 Foolish
53 Woman’s name 
backward or 
forward
54 Vaulted alcoves
55 Requirements
57 Monte __
58 Raise a hemline 
on, say
59 Sample, as food
64 Tide alternative
65 Spanish aunt
By Paul Coulter
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/23/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/23/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 23, 2021
ACROSS
1 Some artists’ 
quarters
6 Come to a halt
10 About, on a 
memo
14 All-__: versatile 
machine
15 Bizet’s 
“Habanera,” for 
one
16 Handle roughly
17 Holiday bloom
19 Sketchbooks
20 USO show 
audience
21 All lathered up
22 Magical lamp 
dweller
23 Jong and 
Durance
25 Oscar winner 
Kingsley
26 Taft’s University 
of Cincinnati 
position
33 Things 
sometimes found 
under a tree
35 Wolf cries
36 1959 folk hit with 
the line “Charlie 
couldn’t get off of 
that train”
37 Burden
38 Gave out cards
39 Animal house
40 Time of your life
41 Prolonged battle
42 Number that’s 
part of a nap
43 UPS vehicle
46 __ Plaines
47 Familiarize
50 Rice or wheat
53 “Dilbert” creator 
Adams
56 Day for voting: 
Abbr.
57 Sleek, in car talk
58 Parlor pieces, 
and a hint to each 
set of circles
60 Dryer trap target
61 MLB Tiger, for one
62 Artist Max
63 Grandson of 
Adam
64 Heap affection 
(on)
65 Continues 
intensely, as a 
stormDOWN
1 Feudal lord
2 Broadcasting
3 Natural gas, coal, 
etc.
4 Atlanta-based 
station
5 Goes up and 
down
6 Pamplona parlor
7 Vacation choice
8 Like a slippery 
garage floor
9 Remit
10 Be about to 
happen
11 Palindromic 
bread
12 Designer 
Gernreich
13 “What __ can I 
do?”
18 Singer Diana
22 Hair products
24 Lions and tigers
25 Lightning flash
27 Support the  
team
28 Composer 
Carmichael
29 Young hooter
30 Online 
advertising
31 Arguing32 __ a one: none
33 Prod
34 “Bus Stop” 
playwright
38 Fizzles out
39 Centers of 
activity
41 Norse name 
similar to 
Stephen
42 To a greater 
degree
44 Numbskulls45 Campus cadets’ 
org.
48 Care for
49 Exams
50 __-force winds
51 Equestrian’s 
strap
52 River of Pisa
53 Farm storage unit
54 Tech news site
55 Shrek, e.g.
58 Bundle of cash
59 Altar in the sky
02/22/2021solution on page 10
©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.answers over there1. TELEVISION: Which 
1980s-'90s sitcom featured the 
Conner family?
2. LANGUAGE: What does 
the Greek prefix "pan" mean 
in English?
3. MOVIES: Which artist sang 
the song that inspired the 
movie title "Pretty Woman"?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the first primary color 
that babies can see?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What is the 
world's longest cave system?
6. MEDICAL: What is a 
fasciculation, the medical term 
for a common ailment?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which 
president was the only one to 
be elected a U.S. senator after 
leaving office?
8. GEOLOGY: Emerald and 
aquamarine are types of 
which mineral?
9. U.S. STATES: What was the 
first state to ratify the U.S. 
Constitution?
10. MEASUREMENTS: What 
dosing measurement (metric) 
is used to administer liquid 
medication?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.14 Help Wanted 24 Pets
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-
wich makers and bartenders. Must have a 
strong work ethic, great customer service 
skills, and reliable transportation. Applications 
can be submitted to the store located at 
2327 NW 13TH STREET in Gainesville.                                             
3-22-21-5-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-15
16 Health Services
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
1. In 1932, Phillip E. Young established what 
brand of golf equipment in Massachusetts?
2. What ailment plagued NBC sportscaster 
Bob Costas during the 2014 Sochi Winter 
Olympics broadcasts?
3. Running back Curt Warner and quarter -
back Kurt Warner both played (at different 
times) for what NFL franchise?
4. Theagenes of Thasos, Sostratus of Si -
cyon and Polydamas of Skotoussa were 
participants in what ancient Olympic com -
bat sport that was similar to modern mixed 
martial arts?5. What team selected California Golden 
Bears basketball standout Shareef Abdur-
Rahim with the third overall pick in the 1996 
NBA Draft?
6. What was the name of the first U.S.-
based team to play in the Canadian Foot -
ball League? 
7. What Asian arena was the site of James 
"Buster" Douglas' shocking 1990 knockout 
victory over Mike Tyson?
1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/section/spanishalligator.org/section/spanish
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
If you find something, you can place a FREE 
FOUND AD in our lost & found section. 
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? MegaMaze  solution
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
solution over there
answers over there©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.Sports Quiz  answers1. Titleist. 
2. Conjunctivitis (pink eye).
3. The Los Angeles/St. 
Louis Rams.
4. Pankration.5. The Vancouver  
Grizzlies.
6. The Sacramento Gold 
Miners.
7. The Tokyo Dome.Trivia Test  answers1. "Roseanne"
2. All
3. Roy Orbison
4. Red
5. Mammoth Cave, Kentucky6. Involuntary muscle twitch
7. Andrew Johnson
8. Beryl
9. Delaware
10. milliliter or ml10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/sportsFAMILIAR NAMES LEND THEIR 
PERSPECTIVES ON THE TEAM’S 
EARLY SIGNEES
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Many high school seniors spend their final 
semester worried about prom or the remaining 
days before graduation.
For 12 of the newest Gators, however, their 
spring months will consist of long workouts, 
grueling drills and their first-ever chance to 
practice in a Florida football helmet.
The early enrollees from the 2021 class 
have only been working with the team for a 
week, but several of them have already made 
an impression.
The next weapon at tight end?
Nick Elksnis, a three-star tight end from 
Jacksonville, Florida, already looks the part of 
a Division I tight end. Listed at 6 feet, 6 inches 
and 237 pounds, coaches believe Elksnis is 
playing like one as well.
“He’s a big, strong, physical guy,” tight end 
coach Tim Brewster said. “He’s got a maturity 
about him.” 
The 15th-ranked tight end in his class, 
Elksnis made the All-First Coast first team in 
2019 and 2020, with 61 catches for 1,181 yards 
and 13 touchdowns across the two seasons.“I couldn’t be more excited about a young 
guy than I am him,” Brewster said.
After the decommitment of five-star transfer 
Arik Gilbert Sunday, the tight end room will 
sorely miss star Kyle Pitts. Kemore Gamble 
and Keon Zipperer each saw time in 2020, but 
Elksnis could see the field if he continues to 
impress.
A new age in the secondary?
The Gators recruited a five-star corner 
and two four-star safeties in 2021, the biggest 
positional victory for the 13th-ranked recruiting 
class. Cornerback Jason Marshall and safety 
Corey Collier Jr. both together in high school 
and both drew Brewster’s attention after a few 
days of practice.
“They’re extremely athletic and you can see 
their coverage skills,” Brewster said. “They’re 
obviously going to make an impact on our 
defense.”
With four 2020 starters lost to the 
professional ranks, Marshall and Collier, along 
with safety Donovan McMillon, could find a 
path to the field with a great spring.
A new defensive attitude
Returning linebacker Mohamoud Diabate 
hasn’t just been impressed by one specific 
early enrollee. He’s been impressed by the 
energy all of them bring. 
“The thing I like about this young group is 
they’ve all been coming out and [attacking], every rep,” Diabate said. “They’re attacking 
every rep, every workout. They really want to 
be great.”
Diabate mentioned defensive lineman 
Justus Boone and corner Jordan Young. 
Boone, an edge rusher 
from South Carolina, 
weighs in at 6 feet, 4 
inches and 265 pounds, 
and Young is a 6-foot 
three-star recruit from 
nearby Tampa.
Their relentless 
approach endeared the 
enrollees to Diabate quickly.
“I have a great deal of 
respect, and I love all of 
them,” Diabate said. “I’m 
really excited to see what 
they do this season and the 
years to come.” 
The big man on campus
Nobody can mistake new defensive 
lineman Desmond Watson.
He weighs 432 pounds, after all.
The freshman’s size remains a hot topic. 
Head coach Dan Mullen joked Watson needed 
to lose the weight of a 13-year-old. However, 
Diabate praised the freshman’s work in the 
weight room to slim down. 
Defensive coordinator Todd Grantham had 
a different first impression of Watson — one 
that had nothing to do with his weight.
“He’s really a good athlete,” Grantham said. 
“He’s really got quick feet. He’s got the ability 
to change direction. He’s obviously going to be a guy who can hold the point.”
Grantham, however, acknowledged that 
Watson will have to lose weight, to get in 
shape for SEC football. Once he gets to playing 
weight, though, fans may see a talent they 
weren’t expecting based on the scale.
“You’re going to see a guy that will be able 
to make some range plays and maybe get from 
point A to point B a little bit better than you 
may anticipate right 
now,” Grantham said.
@ryan_dhaley 
rhaley@alligator.org
BASEBALL
FOOTBALLUF’S FIVE-GAME WIN 
STREAK FEATURES HOT BATS 
AND CLUTCH PITCHING
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Florida’s dugout swarmed Jacob 
Young while he ran down the base -
path following his walk-off single 
Sunday versus Samford as a refresh -
ing energy swept through Florida 
Ballpark’s air. 
North Florida and Samford won’t 
be mistaken for top competition, but 
the Gators played like the team pun -
dits expected.
The Gators are off to a near-
historic start at the plate. The team 
batting average stands at  .316, with 
99 hits in just eight games. The team 
has an on-base percentage of .397.
The Gators haven’t batted over 
.300 in a decade, and the highest on-
base percentage recorded since 2007 
is .393 (2009).
Young, a third-year left fielder, 
demonstrates just how historic Flori -
da’s bats can be. He extended his hit -
ting streak to 26 games Sunday. His 
.395 batting average leads the team, 
and he averages just under two hits a game (1.875).
“He’s just a really good baseball 
player,” head coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
said after Sunday’s game. “There’s a 
reason we led him off [in the batting 
order], flipped him and Jud. He’s 
certainly off to a great start.”
Jud Fabian carried his momen -
tum into the weekend series. After 
an abysmal start to the year, Fabi -
an batted .375 (6-16) the past four 
games with four home runs and 11 
RBIs. 
Fabian felt the pressure to per -
form early in the season but worked 
hard with his coaches to settle into 
the season, O’Sullivan said.
 “It just takes a little bit of time, 
but he’s certainly seeing the ball 
a lot better than he did early on,” 
O’Sullivan said.
The offense excelled against Mi -
ami, though. Florida needed more 
than that. The pitching needed to 
come alive and quickly.
The starters did exactly that 
against Samford.
Tommy Mace continued his ex -
cellent form Friday and struck out a 
career-high 11 in six innings. He al -
lowed only three hits and didn’t let a 
single run cross the plate as he now 
holds a 2-0 record with a 0.82 ERA in his two starts this year.
The third weekend starter, sec -
ond-year southpaw Hunter Barco, 
drew the most ire and concern after 
Miami. The 3.1 inning, eight-run de -
but raised a few eyebrows, especial -
ly when Barco had just a 1.40 ERA 
a year ago.
Barco retired 12 consecutive bat -
ters between the first and fifth in -
nings. He set a career-high in strike -
outs (10) and surrendered just four 
hits and a walk in five innings.
Florida’s weekend rotation com -
bined for 27 strikeouts against just 
nine hits in their 16.2 innings on the 
mound.
The Gators failed to answer ev -
ery question over the weekend. The 
bullpen continued to struggle. The 
Bulldogs scored at least four runs in 
the final four innings twice. Junior 
pitcher Franco Aleman had another 
tough outing that included more 
walks than outs Sunday.
However, the offense appears 
here to stay. If the pitchers continue 
to scratch the surface of their poten -
tial, Florida will look more like the 
alpha dog it was advertised to be.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgAfter a rough start, Florida is starting to look the part of unanimous No. 1
Fresh faces in The SwampCourtesy to The Alligator
Jacob Young rounds the bases against the University of Miami.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Dan Mullen celebrates after beating 
Georgia last season.
AlligatorSports has a podcast. The 
AlligatorSports Podcast is available 
on your preferred streaming 
platform. Episodes are released every 
Wednesday.Follow our newsletter!
Stay up to date with the sports section through the 
weekly newsletter. Scan the QR code to the right to 
stay up to date with AlligatorSports’ latest stories.12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2021
HEALTH & FITNESS
UF STUDENTS CAN TAKE 
CLASSES AT A VARIETY OF 
LOCAL BUSINESSES
By Karina Wilson
Sports Writer 
Sweat rained from pores as riders 
pedaled to their commands. 
Over upbeat music that floods 
the room, Melissa Baker shouts 
“The finish line is yours, push it.” 
Heavy breathing signals the end 
of the ride. Bikers, flooded with en -
dorphins, descend from their spin -
ning bicycles. A stationary bike pro -
vides plenty of adrenaline.
The popularity of indoor cycling, 
also known as spin, has taken over 
Gainesville. Many residents and stu -
dents have taken it up as a hobby.
People try out cycling because 
it’s trendy but ultimately stick with 
it because of the community aspect, 
Lauren Fox, a 21-year-old UF animal 
science senior said. “Everyone’s on 
their own bike, but you ride together 
as a team, hitting the beats and do -
ing all the fun choreography.” 
Fox has cycled since March 2019. 
She picked up the hobby in Tampa, 
25 minutes from her hometown of 
St. Petersburg. She recently enrolled 
in classes at CycleBar, located at 
3597 SW 32nd Court Suite 40. 
CycleBar Gainesville’s soft open -
ing was Feb. 10. Its grand opening 
and ribbon-cutting have yet to be 
announced, however, the studio is 
open for classes. 
Co-owner Henna Diaz said Cy -
cleBar is unique because of its mu -sic-driven rides.
The facility offers a different ex -
perience than going to a traditional 
gym, she said. 
Diaz said “We really want to 
create a community. It’s not just a 
workout.”
The ride isn’t strictly a cardio 
workout as CycleBar incorporates 
high-intensity interval training into 
its rides, she said. It also includes an 
upper body segment with weights 
provided on the bikes. 
CycleBar is beginner friendly and 
all fitness levels are welcome, Diaz 
said. Riders are encouraged to go at 
their own pace.
After class, riders are emailed 
their statistics and the music playl -
ist. CycleBar also provides com -
plimentary biking shoes, lockers, 
snacks, showers, and cold, lavender 
towels are given out after comple -
tion of the workout.
“We want people to walk 
through the doors, and we want to 
know their name,” Diaz said. “We 
want you to get to know your in -
structors.”
Noemi Martinez, a 21-year-old 
UF marketing junior began classes at 
CycleBar in January. Indoor cycling 
is a great way to socialize and stay 
fit, she said.
“The cycling classes are really fun 
because of the instructors and loud 
music,” Martinez said. “They’re also 
a great way to get a full-body work -
out in.” 
Cycling studios are more com -
fortable than a traditional gym, Me -
lissa Baker cycling instructor and 
GroupFit manager at Gainesville Health and Fitness (GHF) said. 
Baker said GHF places a projector 
at the front of the class that displays 
scenery from around the world.
“It takes them out of their own 
head,” she said. “It puts them into 
this thing that they can really focus 
on which makes the workout go so 
much faster.” 
GHF recently added a Les Mills 
program, fitness classes and high-
intensity interval training workouts, 
called ‘the Trick,’ she said.
The Trick is a choreographed 
routine that’s immersive, Baker said. It turns the ride into a cinemat -
ographic experience.
At GHF, the stationary bikes tell 
riders their speed, rpm, watts, gears, 
heart rate, time and miles complet -
ed. Classes last anywhere from 30 to 
50 minutes, she said.
Baker said cycling is easy on 
your joints. The ride is a total body 
workout.
“You come out of the room feel -
ing good, sweaty and feeling like 
you really accomplished some -
thing,” she said. 
Isabella Bahr, a 20-year-old UF 
political science sophomore, takes 
classes and works at Define Carroll -
wood, a spin studio in Tampa. 
“I like to call it a dance party on a bike, which makes it a fun and 
efficient workout burning hundred 
of calories in only 45 minutes,” she 
said.
Bahr said she began cycling the 
summer before her senior year of 
high school and hasn’t stopped 
since. She’s thrilled to have a Cycle -
Bar studio in Gainesville.
For some, indoor cycling is a 
journey of self-discovery.
“I honestly use cycling as a form 
of therapy,” Fox said. “It is such an 
effective way to relieve stress and 
get out any unwanted emotions.” 
45 minutes. That’s all it takes.
 
@kk_rinaa
kwilson@alligator.orgIndoor cycling flourishes during pandemic
Ashley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
