2   RIVALRY EDITION     SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021   RIVALRY EDITION    3 
By Michael Hull
Alligator Sports Writer
The No. 1 Georgia Bulldogs have been 
downright dominant so far this season. 
Their suffocating defense has allowed 
just 6.6 points and 207.1 yards per game. 
Georgia outscored its last three opponents 
— Arkansas, Auburn and Kentucky — 
101-23. It has clearly lived up to its top-
ranked billing entering Jacksonville.
It’s been a long time since either team 
entered “The World’s Largest Outdoor 
Cocktail Party” on top of the college 
football world. In fact, you have to go back 
to 2009 to find the last time either team 
was No. 1: The 2009 Florida Gators, led 
by Tim Tebow and Urban Meyer, claimed 
the top spot in the Bowl Championship 
Series rankings on Oct. 31, 2009.
So, what happened in that game? Well, 
long story short, Florida steamrolled its 
rival in the  87th meeting between the two 
teams. The Gators thrashed the Bulldogs 
41-17 on Halloween in what was then 
called Jacksonville Municipal Stadium. 
Tebow, unsurprisingly, led the way: 
The Heisman-winning quarterback 
completed 15 of his 21 passes for 164 
yards and two touchdowns, while adding 
18 rushing attempts for 85 yards and two 
more touchdowns. Tebow leapfrogged 
former Georgia running back Herschel 
Walker on the SEC career rushing 
touchdown list, setting the record with 
his 50th rushing score. 
Tebow’s record, which eventually 
settled at 57, has yet to be beaten. His 
touchdowns record remains tied for the 
most combined rushing and receiving 
touchdowns in SEC history — former 
Alabama running back Najee Harris 
equaled Tebow’s total last season.
The rest of the offense played a 
supplementary role but still outclassed 
the Bulldogs. Wide receiver Riley Cooper 
led the way receiving, tallying four 
catches for 78 yards and two scores, 
while running back Mike Gillislee ripped 
off a 49-yard run — the longest play of 
the game.
The offense’s 41 points were 
impressive, but the defense refused to be overshadowed. The unit, led by future NFL 
stars Joe Haden, Janoris Jenkins, Brandon 
Spikes and Carlos Dunlap, allowed 
just 286 yards and 5.6 yards per play. 
Spikes registered one of the team’s four 
interceptions on the afternoon and led the 
Gators with 10 tackles. Cornerback A.J. 
Jones embraced his inner Freddy Kreguer 
and lived rent free in UGA quarterback 
Joe Cox’s head all Halloween, tallying 
two interceptions of his own. 
The Bulldogs had NFL talent on their 
sidelines as well: Wide receiver A.J. 
Green totaled 50 yards on three catches, 
while kicker Blair Walsh knocked in a 49-
yard field goal.
You have to go a bit further back in the 
history books to find the last time Georgia was No. 1 in Jacksonville — 79 years to 
be exact. 
In 1942, the top-ranked Bulldogs 
slaughtered the Gators, 75-0. The Bulldogs 
finished the season 11-1 and defeated 
UCLA in the Rose Bowl, and halfback 
Frank Sinkwich IV became the first player 
from the SEC to win the Heisman. 
Florida, meanwhile, finished the 
season 3-7 and featured losses to 
Villanova, Georgia Tech and Jacksonville 
Naval Air Station. No, seriously: Florida 
lost its opening game of the 1942 season 
to Chicago Bears legend George McAfee 
and the Jacksonville NAS Flyers, 20-
7. During World War II, service teams 
consisting of collegiate and professional 
players preparing for deployment popped up on bases all over the country. 
“George McAfee and company of the 
Jacksonville Naval Air Station let loose a 
blast of football power in the third quarter 
to crush a stubborn but outclassed 
Florida team, 20 to 7, before 8,500 fans 
here yesterday,” Wayne Oliver of the 
Tallahassee Democrat wrote after the 
Florida loss.
Flash forward to 2021: Jacksonville 
NAS is the third-largest Naval base in the 
country and neither Tebow nor Sinkwich 
is walking out of the TIAA Bank tunnel. 
Florida may not have fared well the last 
time it was an underdog to the No. 1 
Georgia, but times have certainly changed 
since 1942. 
@Michael_Hull33
mhull@alligator.orgTim Tebow, Frank Sinkwich IV and Jacksonville NAS: 
The story of Florida-Georgia as top-ranked teams
The last time either team entered Jacksonville ranked No. 1 was 2009
Alligator File Photo
Florida quarterback Tim Tebow and the 2009 Gators are the last team to carry a No. 1 ranking into Jacksonville on either side of 
the rivalry, but 2021 Georgia looks destined to break the streak.
4   RIVALRY EDITION     SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021   RIVALRY EDITION    5 
By Carson Cashion
Alligator Sports Writer
The Florida-Georgia rivalry, 
which often promises the victor a 
spot in the Southeastern Confer -
ence Championship game, begins 
a brand-new decade of cocktails, 
tailgates and more cocktails this 
season. 
To celebrate the occasion, 
let’s take a look back at the pre -
vious decade and examine what 
was an up-and-down 10 years for 
both teams.
Georgia wins early
The 2011 Florida-Georgia 
game was significant for both 
teams. The Gators began a new 
era under fresh head coach Will 
Muschamp. For Georgia, coach 
Mark Richt saw the chance to 
scamper off the hot seat and 
break a three-year losing streak 
to his neighbors from the south. 
He did just that, as Georgia 
quarterback Aaron Murray threw 
for two touchdowns in a tight 24-
20 victory in Muschamp’s debut 
effort at Florida
The game kickstarted a 
three-year winning streak for 
the ‘Dawgs, the next coming in 
thrilling fashion. Despite Florida 
entering the game as the No. 2 
team in the nation in 2012, Flori -
da quarterback Jeff Driskel threw 
two interceptions, a share of six 
turnovers the Gators suffered in 
the game. The final blunder was 
the most crucial of all, as Gators 
tight end Jordan Reed charged to 
the end zone late in the fourth 
quarter, a potential touchdown 
giving his team a chance to tie 
the game with a 2-point conver -
sion. That score never came, as 
Georgia defender Jarvis Jones 
jarred the ball loose for his team 
to recover in the end zone. Game 
over, Bulldogs take another, 17-
9. The loss ultimately kept Flori -
da from advancing to the nation -
al championship.
The 2013 matchup offered 
significantly lower stakes than the previous year’s bout; Florida 
was well on its way to a 4-8 re -
cord, and Georgia was a middling 
5-2 team in a weak SEC East -
ern division. Star running back 
Todd Gurley led the way for the 
‘Dawgs with 100 rushing yards, 
and Murray added 258 passing 
yards in a 23-20 victory. 
In 2014, though, the Gators 
found a way to secure an upset. 
In Georgia’s first game in Jack -
sonville since Murray’s departure 
for the NFL, the No. 11 Bulldogs 
appeared unable to stop Florida 
running back Kelvin Taylor. He 
powered through UGA for nearly 
200 yards and two touchdowns, 
even though Florida totaled just 
27 passing yards, to lead UF to 
a 38-20 victory. Muschamp cele -
brated the win, not knowing that it would be his last chapter in the 
rivalry; he would be replaced by 
Jim McElwain the following year.
McElwain, Smart take over
The McElwain era started with 
smooth sailing in Jacksonville, 
and Florida coasted to two suf -
focating victories over Georgia to 
extend its own winning streak to 
three. 
Gators defensive back Vernon 
Hargreaves III and his unit put 
together a clinic in the first effort 
in 2015, Richt’s last time coach -
ing the game. Generating four 
interceptions, Florida never let 
the ‘Dawgs breathe and allowed 
only 223 yards of total offense. 
Florida won 27-3 en route to an 
SEC Championship appearance, 
and Georgia returned to the ri -valry the following year with a 
new head coach for the first time 
since 2001.
In head coach Kirby Smart’s 
first game at the helm of the Bull -
dogs in Jacksonville, the Geor -
gia alum did not see immediate 
success. The team dealt with the 
same offensive issues it experi -
enced the year before, only scor -
ing 10 points in a 24-10 Florida 
victory. 
Smart’s second game, how -
ever, opened up the floodgates 
for the Bulldogs. Wielding a 
two-headed backfield of tail -
backs Sony Michel and Nick 
Chubb, Georgia rushed for near -
ly 300 yards in a 42-7 walloping 
that sent McElwain packing; he 
left the Gators football program 
just days after the game. Georgia rode the momentum to a nation -
al championship appearance as 
Florida geared up for yet another 
coaching search.
Mullen enters the fray
The Gators found their guy in 
Dan Mullen, but they remained 
two years away from knocking 
off Smart and the ‘Dawgs. 
In 2018, the UF offense fared 
better than the previous year and 
scored 17 points, but Georgia 
quarterback Jake Fromm sliced 
and diced his way through the 
Florida defense. His three touch -
downs and 240 passing yards 
pushed Georgia to a 36-17 win, 
once again putting his team in 
the driver’s seat for a conference 
championship appearance in At -
lanta.
Florida quarterback Kyle 
Trask saw the field for the first 
time against the team in red in 
2019 and found some success, 
throwing for over 250 yards and 
two touchdowns. Still, his efforts 
remained futile as the Gators 
failed to overcome a 16-3 fourth 
quarter deficit. The team lost 24-
17, but the scoreline continued 
trending in the right direction for 
Mullen.
Finally, in last year’s Flor -
ida-Georgia battle, Mullen got 
revenge and his first victory in 
the series. Trask torched Smart’s 
vaunted Georgia defense to the 
tune of four touchdown passes 
and 474 passing yards. Florida 
running back Malik Davis’ wheel 
routes gave Georgia fits, as he to -
taled 100 receiving yards by the 
end of the day. Mullen delivered 
a statement 44-28 win, a score 
the Bulldogs will be eager to set -
tle this fall.
That game wrapped up a roll -
ercoaster decade for both sides of 
the rivalry. Georgia took the final 
lead over the ten years, 6-4, but 
if the trend of three-year winning 
streaks continues, Florida could 
be due to even the record over 
the next couple of years. Either 
way, the rivalry will continue 
being a staple of college football 
and a time-honored tradition in 
the South.
@carsoncashion
ccashion@alligator.orgThe Florida-Georgia game, a decade in review
Take a look back on the past ten matchups between the Gators and the ‘Dawgs
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Ventrell Miller and his teammates tackle a Georgia ball carrier.
6   RIVALRY EDITION     SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021
By Sara Kate Dyson
Alligator Sports Writer
Though all eyes in Jacksonville are sure 
to be on the annual Florida-Georgia football 
game over Halloween weekend, the “World’s 
Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party” includes 
more than just the gridiron rivalry this year. 
Florida and Georgia meet for the first time 
on the diamond this fall at 121 Financial 
Ballpark on Friday, Oct. 29. The fall ball 
meeting marks just the second time the two 
teams joined the Florida-Georgia rivalry 
festivities prior to the spring season. 
The relatively new tradition began in 2019, when the Gators and the Bulldogs met 
to play an exhibition game at 121 Financial 
Ballpark in Jacksonville on Nov. 1. The Gators 
defeated the Bulldogs 5-3, foreshadowing a 
torrid 17-0 start to their 2020 season. 
The first installment involved additional 
fanfare, with a post-game concert featuring 
Brett Young and Chase Rice and a fireworks 
show to cap off the night. The game gathered 
a crowd of 8,640 people. 
Though both sides intended to continue 
the tradition in 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic 
effectively placed a one-year hold on those 
plans. 
However, the show is back on this year, and Florida and Georgia plan to continue 
meeting on the diamond in Jacksonville 
each year through as far as 2025, pending 
agreements between the two schools. 
The rivalry between the two squads 
extends well beyond the young fall exhibition 
series, though. 
The two schools first met on the diamond 
in 1931, when they went head-to-head in 
four games in the month of April. Each team 
hosted a two-game series, and the Bulldogs 
took three of the four inaugural games from 
the Gators. Florida-Georgia baseball reignite fall ball rivalry in Jacksonville
The Gators and Bulldogs kick off the World’ s Largest Outdoor 
Cocktail Party for the second time in franchise history
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 7Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Hunter Barco delivers a pitch 
against Jacksonville on March 14.
#UGA vsUF
FLGAJAX.com  
 
 @FLvsGA  
FloridaGeorgia
OCT 26 - 30#duvalbcb
SATURDAY
OCT 30
FLORIDA/uniF6BAGEORGIA 
EXHIBITION BASEBALL 
GAME•FIREWORKS
•AND MORESATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021   RIVALRY EDITION    7 
It’s been nearly a century since that first 
matchup, and the Gators have taken control 
of the overall series record with 191 wins 
against only 111 losses. The teams have also 
tied twice, in 1952 and 1984. 
Since Florida hired head coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan in 2008, the Gators are 28-13 
against their conference rival.
In the last 10 matchups, the teams are 
deadlocked at 5-5, with Georgia holding the 
most recent win. 
In their 2017 National Championship 
run, the Gators swept the series against the 
Bulldogs in Athens, Georgia. However, the 
tables turned during Florida’s disappointing 
2019 campaign, when the Bulldogs cleaned 
up on their home field. 
The most recent bout between the two teams showcased a weekend series in May at 
Florida Ballpark in Gainesville. The meeting 
marked the first between the two teams at 
Florida’s new home. 
In the end, the Gators took the series 
two games to one, securing wins on Friday 
and Saturday, and dropping Sunday’s series 
finale. 
As far as the Jacksonville-based fall 
rivalry goes, that’s still fairly fresh. Although 
the Florida and Georgia football teams have 
met in Jacksonville as early as 1915, and all 
but two meetings since 1933, baseball wasn’t 
added to the celebration until just two years 
ago. 
Baseball is a spring sport, typically playing 
intrasquad scrimmages in the fall season. 
Due to the success seen in 2019, however, 
it looks like the diamond will keep its Friday 
spot in the highly celebrated Florida-Georgia 
weekend festivities. 
Georgia’s current 2022 roster includes 
two faces the Gators may be familiar with 
as well.Senior infielder Cory Acton will show 
up to Jacksonville in black and red this 
year after sporting orange and blue for 
the majority of his collegiate career. Acton 
entered the NCAA transfer portal after the 
2021 season, landing in rival territory for his 
senior season. 
Junior right-handed pitcher Nolan Crisp, 
another former Gator, pledged allegiance to 
the Bulldogs. Crisp transferred to Georgia 
after the shortened 2020 season when he did 
not make an appearance on the mound for 
the Gators prior to the season’s cancellation. 
It will be interesting to see who comes 
out on top in this second fall head-to-head 
in franchise history. Both teams are looking 
to have comeback seasons after unsatisfying 
endings in 2021. 
First pitch for the game is set for 6:30 
p.m. on Oct. 29, just under 24 hours before 
football kickoff.  
@sarakatedyson
skatedyson@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 6Fall ball foes
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Shortstop Josh Rivera moves to make 
a play in the infield during Florida’s 
March 13 game against Jacksonville.
8   RIVALRY EDITION     SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021
By Zachary Huber
Alligator Sports Writer
Florida backup quarterback 
Anthony Richardson turned left 
toward a trio of receivers on 
the field side with just under 10 
minutes left in the game. 
The Gainesville native snapped 
his head back right toward wide 
receiver Jacob Copeland, who 
had a step on Tigers’ cornerback 
Dwight McGlothern. 
Richardson ripped a bullet 
down the right sideline, hitting 
the redshirt junior in the center 
of his white jersey number to tie 
the game at 42 apiece as Death 
Valley fell silent. It was the 
fourth straight drive Richardson 
commanded into the end zone. 
His performance versus LSU signified the passing of the 
torch from starter Emory Jones 
to Richardson. Jones remained 
on the bench at the start of the 
third quarter following a pick-
six, his second interception of the 
contest.
Despite a second pick on 
Florida’s final drive that sealed 
the victory for the Tigers, 
Richardson earned the right to 
start versus No. 1 Georgia in 
Jacksonville on Oct. 30. 
Jones’ final interception 
against LSU was his ninth of the 
season — the most from a Florida 
quarterback in a single season 
since Jeff Driskel in 2014, who 
was also benched. 
UF’s latest loss knocked it 
firmly out of the SEC East race 
and from the New Year’s Six bowl conversation (Hello, Gator Bowl). 
With this season essentially a lost 
cause, Richardson should be the 
man moving forward and Florida 
needs to retool for 2022. 
Coach Dan Mullen hasn’t 
confirmed the obvious choice 
thus far, however, and likely 
won’t until kickoff on Oct. 30 
against the Bulldogs. 
“I thought you saw some good 
things from both quarterbacks 
today, saw some mistakes from 
both quarterbacks today,” Mullen 
said after the LSU loss. “So we’ll 
evaluate that, of how that’s going 
to play out moving forward.”
He added he made the 
switch to Jones and stuck with 
Richardson in the second half 
because the redshirt freshman 
had the hot hand. It’s admirable Mullen stuck 
with and shown loyalty to the 
redshirt junior, who has hung 
around the Gators program 
for four seasons, but it’s clear 
Richardson has more potential. 
Most of Jones’ interceptions 
can be pinned on poor timing, 
anticipation and accuracy. He has 
been gun-shy, while Richardson 
isn’t afraid to empty the clip. 
Mullen said throughout the 
season Jones has done things 
that sometimes can’t be seen, 
like pre-snap checks, better 
than his young counterpart, but 
Richardson knows how to make 
big plays as a redshirt freshman. 
“I love everybody labeling 
people,” he said. “He’s a young 
quarterback that’s learning and 
developing. That’s a good label 
for him.”
Will Miles of Read & Reaction 
attributed five explosive plays 
to Richardson in 26 touches 
versus the Tigers, while Jones 
added two in 29 snaps. On the 
season, “AR-15” has recorded 13 
explosive plays this season, once 
every five touches, compared to 
the Georgia native’s 20 (one in every 13 plays).
Junior linebacker Mohamoud 
Diabate noticed the spark 
Richardson provided the Gators 
when he entered early in the 
second half. 
“I like what he did when he 
got in there,” he said Saturday. “I 
saw the offense kind of jolt up. So 
that was a good look.”
Diabate said he noticed 
glimpses of Richardson’s 
brilliance as soon as he arrived 
on campus at UF. 
“I saw it in bowl practice 
getting ready for the Orange Bowl 
in 2019,” he said. “I saw it when 
he came in, and we knew from 
that point forward. I remember 
me and (former Florida defensive 
end) Jon Greenard were talking 
on the sideline one practice, and 
we were like, “Yeah, that boy’s 
going to be legit.’”
Richardson wouldn’t comment 
on whether he felt he deserves to 
be named the starter when asked 
after the game. 
It was concerning for Florida 
fans, however, when he didn’t 
ease their concerns about the It’s time to pass the reigns to Richardson
SEE RICHARDSON,  PAGE 9Richardson contributed four touchdowns 
and two picks in a 49-42 loss versus LSU
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021   RIVALRY EDITION    9 
possibility of him entering the 
NCAA transfer portal. 
“I can’t speak on that,” 
Richardson said when asked 
about transferring. “Time is the 
only thing that can tell, but right 
now I’m a Gator. So that’s the 
only thing that matters.”
After sending shockwaves 
across the college football 
landscape, he sent out a tweet to 
clarify what he meant.  
“I am a Florida Gator, through 
and through,” Richardson wrote. 
“Sorry if my response wasn’t 
clear enough, but I’m not worried 
about anything but maximizing 
my opportunity now.”
Regardless, Richardson should 
lead the Gators offense onto the 
field at TIAA Bank Field on Oct. 
30 versus the No. 1 Bulldogs and 
for the foreseeable future.  
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgRICHARDSON,  from pg. 8New QB1
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Anthony Richardson on the sideline of a Sept. 11 game against South Florida.
10   RIVALRY EDITION     SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021   RIVALRY EDITION    11 
By Ryan Haley
Alligator Sports Writer
With a neutral site rivalry game against 
the No. 1 team on the horizon, Florida 
football would want nothing less than 
uncertainty at the quarterback position. 
Through its first seven games, however, 
that’s exactly what the Gators have.
Redshirt junior Emory Jones and 
backup Anthony Richardson left more 
curiosity than closure about the top of 
the depth chart after Richardson’s near-
comeback against LSU. Regardless of 
who takes the first snap on Oct. 30 in 
the orange and blue, however, he’d be 
making his first start against Georgia.
So how have recent UF quarterbacks fared in debut appearances against the 
Bulldogs? While none have faced a 
defense as vaunted as 2021, the results 
fall all across the spectrum.
Former Heisman finalist Kyle Trask 
took his first crack at UGA in 2019, and the 
Florida offense seemed content to mimic 
the reptile from Aesop’s The Tortoise and 
the Hare. The Gators failed to convert on 
a fourth and 1 on their opening drive and 
mustered 105 yards and a field goal on 21 
first-half plays.
True to the fable, Trask and the Gators 
refused to fall out of arm’s reach, and 
the then-redshirt junior led touchdowns 
on Florida’s final two drives to bring his 
team within one score. He finished with 
21 completions on 33 attempts, 257 yards and two touchdowns, but left Jacksonville 
with a 24-17 loss.
His predecessor, Feleipe Franks, fared 
far worse in his Georgia premiere, as 
Florida suffered one of the most lopsided 
defeats in the rivalry’s storied history. 
En route to a 42-7 loss in 2017, the first-
year starter completed one of his first five 
passes for -1 yard. Negative one. He also 
threw an interception. He ended the game 
with 30 yards passing on 19 attempts, and 
he took five sacks for the afternoon.
Even two-time national champion 
quarterback Tim Tebow dropped his first 
start against the ‘Dawgs. In 2007, just 42 
days before he became the first sophomore 
to win the Heisman, Tebow completed 14 
of his 22 passes for 236 yards and tallied three touchdowns, one with his arm and 
two with his legs.
Tebow orchestrated the UF offense to 
30 points, but his efforts proved futile 
against Georgia and future No. 1 overall 
pick Matthew Stafford. Florida fell, 42-30, 
for its third and final loss of the regular 
season. 
The other quarterback on the 2006 
national championship team, Chris Leak, 
entered the Jacksonville arena for the first 
time in 2003 and left with a 16-13 victory. 
Leak only threw a single touchdown, but 
in a game with under 30 combined points, 
he piloted Florida to a victory with 13 
completions on 23 attempts for 235 yards.
Since Leak waltzed his way back 
to Gainesville with a win 18 years ago, 
only three Gators quarterbacks repeated 
his feat in their first venture against the 
Bulldogs: John Brantley in 2010, Treon 
Harris in 2014 and Luke Del Rio in 2016.
An eclectic list to be sure, Brantley 
assumed the unenviable role of replacing 
Tim Tebow at the turn of the decade. 
While he couldn’t match the Florida 
legend’s national awards and only 
mustered an 8-5 record his first year under 
center, he nabbed Georgia with a 34-31 
overtime victory. Brantley only threw for 
193 yards in the game, but an extra-time 
interception from UGA counterpart Aaron 
Murray set up a game-winning kick for 
the Gators.
Treon Harris threw the ball six times 
for 27 yards during Florida’s 38-20 victory 
in 2014, but the team’s 418 rushing 
yards and quintet of ground touchdowns 
ensured further contributions weren’t 
needed.
In another low-scoring affair five 
years ago, Del Rio tossed a touchdown 
and an interception apiece to pair with 
131 yards on 25 attempts, but his lone 
score to C’yontai Lewis at the end of the 
first quarter gave the Gators a lead they 
held most of the afternoon. Florida won 
that game 24-10, it’s second-most recent 
victory over the Bulldogs.
While immediate success against 
Georgia doesn’t seem to perfectly predict 
long-term success (almost the opposite, 
in fact), either Jones or Richardson will 
take the field on Oct. 30 with a chance to 
add do something even Tebow and Trask 
failed to accomplish — take down the 
Bulldogs without a test run.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgJones and Richardson confront mercurial recent history with first Georgia start
One Florida QB will have the chance to do something even 
Tebow couldn’t: win his first start against the Bulldogs
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterbacks Emory Jones (5) and Anthony Richardson (15) leave the field for halftime during a game against 
Vanderbilt on Oct. 9.
12   RIVALRY EDITION     SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2021
ABBIE HERRIN/STAFF  Georgia vs. FloridaSaturday, October 30, 2021#duvalbcb
SATURDAY
OCT 30
THE ULTIMATE
FLORIDA-GEORGIA
FAN EXPERIENCE
#UGA vsUF
GAFLJAX.com  
 
 @FLvsGA  
 FloridaGeorgiaOCT 26 - 30Saturday, Octo ber 30, 2021 THE RED & BLACK   3
Jake Jennings
When Georgia and Flori -
da took the field on Nov. 7, 
2020, things looked a bit out of the ordinary. The World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party, an unofficial name of the rivalry game, is usually a half-red, half-blue sea of over 67,000 fans. However, due to the pandemic, last year’s matchup only hosted a crowd of 19,210.
Leading up to the 2020 
clash between the SEC East juggernauts, it was obvious that things would be differ -
ent. The city of Jacksonville banned tailgating in the parking lots of TIAA Bank Field, mandated masks throughout the stadium and lowered capacity to 20%, all to protect fans from COVID-19.
The safety measures tak -
en for the game were not new to players last season, as both the Bulldogs and Gators had similar man -
dates in their own stadi -
ums. 
Georgia offensive line -
man Warren Ericson said not having fans in the stands changes the game, but the players still had to manage without the crowd.
“You know how loud 
it gets with 93,000 of our screaming fans. When we’re playing in there now, you can hear more from both sides of the ball and side -
line. It’s different,” Ericson said in 2020. “But every time we go out there, we bring our own juice. The fans that are there are going to give us their all and we’re going to give them ours.”This comes from Eric -
son, who was a sophomore at the time, who had seen action for the Bulldogs in six games during the 2019 season, before the pan -
demic limited crowds. Any freshman or sophomore on Georgia’s roster today has yet to experience the Geor -
gia-Florida rivalry game in full force.
Throughout the 2020 sea -
son as a whole, Georgia only hosted three home games, all of them at limited capac-ity. Offensive stars like JT Daniels, Brock Bowers and Jermaine Burton, alongside defensive mainstays includ -
ing Jalen Carter, Kelee Rin -
go and Derion Kendrick, are all among the Bulldogs that will see a full crowd in TIAA Bank Field for the first time this year.
Fans have been an im -
portant part of Georgia’s season so far. Most notably, Bulldog fans came through in Georgia’s 37-0 win over No. 8 Arkansas after head coach Kirby Smart called for fans to be “elite” leading up the matchup. Later, in a press conference, Smart emphasized the importance of supporters to the team’s success.
“First, I want to thank the 
fans again for an incredible job. I noticed a lot of stuff on social media. They did an awesome job last week -
end,” Smart said. “I can’t thank them enough (and I) wouldn’t expect anything less from our fan base.”
For some players, things 
will look different in Jack -
sonville this year, but in the case of the Bulldogs, the more the merrier. A completely  
different  
atmosphere
One year apartJermaine Burton will play his first full-ca-
pacity rivalry game.  
ABBIE HERRIN/STAFFSaturday, Octob er 30, 2021 4 THE RED & BLACK
Drew Hubbard
When Georgia and Florida take the field in Jacksonville, Florida, it 
will be the 100th time the two teams have met, according to Georgia. 
Florida, however, claims this will be only the 99th time they have played each other. 
The controversy began on Oct. 15, 1904, when a team represent -
ing the University of Georgia defeated a team representing the Uni -
versity of Florida 52-0. However, Florida claims that team does not represent the modern university. 
On June 5, 1905, the Buckman Act was signed. This brought to -
gether all the white male institutions in Florida into one singular institution, the University of Florida. Because of this, Florida does not recognize the 1904 team as being a part of the modern universi -
ty’s game record.
Florida claims that the team Georgia played in that first meeting 
represented an earlier university, located in Lake City, Florida, that had previously been known as Florida Agricultural College. While it represented a different institution, the team was referred to as the “University of Florida” after Florida Agricultural College was renamed in 1903. 
Carl Van Ness, the curator of the manuscripts and archives de -
partment at the University of Florida, said the university does not 
count anything before the Buckman Act in its history.
“As far as we’re concerned, that is not the same University of Flor -
ida,” Ness said. “Our not counting that 1904 game is consistent with 
other things that we don’t count.”
Ness said the university does not count enrollment figures un -
til 1905 and does not recognize university presidents prior to the Buckman Act.
Along with the formation of the modern University of Florida, the 
Buckman Act also formed other schools across the state. The act created Florida Female College, which is now Florida State Univer -
sity. It also created Florida A&M, a historically Black university.
Ness said Florida’s enrollment in 1904 was nearly half the size 
of Georgia’s. It took until 1928 for the Gators to win in the rivalry,  
defeating Georgia 26-6 in Savannah.
“Our football program is still developing in the 1910s, ’20s, ’30s,” 
Ness said. “It really isn’t until the 1950s that our football program starts to go in a real positive direction.” 
The first meeting Georgia and Florida both recognize was played 
on Nov. 6, 1915, in Jacksonville, Florida. Georgia won 37-0 in that meeting and is winning the overall series 53-44-2 — or 52-44-2,  
according to Florida.
Loran Smith, Georgia athletics’ historian, said the rivalry’s history 
fuels current fans as the two teams play once again.
“It’s the philosophy of one school versus the other,” Smith said.  
“I don’t know how you could settle it.”The 100th (or 
99th?) edition of 
the Georgia-Florida 
rivalry
ABBIE HERRIN/STAFF
Celebratingstudentleaderson
thefieldandinthenewsroom
Proudsponsorof TheRed&Black/
IndependentAlligator rivalryproject
Saturday, Octob er 30, 2021 6THE RED & BLACK
Katherine Lewis
In 1933, Georgia and Florida established that their an -
nual matchup would take place in Jacksonville, Florida, 
due to its convenience. Both schools were able to access the city by railroad.
While Jacksonville is an ideal middle ground, uncon -
ventional situations have left the teams with no choice but to play in alternate locations. Here are some of the most notable times that the rivalry game was not played in Jacksonville.
Macon, Georgia
Georgia counts the 1904 game, played in Macon, as the first between the two schools, while Florida does not count the matchup in its overall record with the  
Bulldogs.
The Florida school was originally located in Lake City, 
Florida, and was previously known as Florida Agricul -
tural College, a school that the University of Florida ar -
gues does not represent the modern university. 
The 1906 Florida football team is the first team the 
university recognizes in its history after the modern UF was established in 1905. 
In 1904, Georgia football head coach Charles Barnard 
and his team traveled to Macon, and left with a big 52-0 victory over Florida.
Today, Georgia recognizes the 1904 game as one of 
its 53 wins over Florida, while the Gators only count 52 Bulldog wins.Tampa, Florida
In 1919, the rivalry game took place in Tampa, Florida, the only time to date the game has been played there.
Florida occasionally scheduled its games against 
schools that would bring larger crowds to Plant Field in Tampa, which was also used for various other sporting events.
Georgia’s football team was given a tour of the local 
cigar factory while in town, and Florida’s band held a parade for its football team. Georgia came out on top 16-0 in its trip to Tampa.
Savannah, Georgia
The two teams met in Savannah in both 1928 and 1930 as Florida’s new football field that would accommodate a larger crowd was still being constructed.
Georgia dominated Florida early in the series, win -
ning the first seven matchups, including 1904,  by a com -
bined score of 242-9. In 1928, the Gators unexpectedly prevailed in a 26-6 win over the Bulldogs in Savannah.
The game had to be stopped late in the fourth quarter 
as a Florida fan fired a gun into the air, causing fans to rush the field prematurely. Fans of both teams broke out into a fistfight before they exited the field to allow the game’s completion.
Two years later, Georgia and Florida had a much less 
exciting game, finishing in a 0-0 tie. The construction of Florida’s larger football field faced a series of drainage issues, keeping it from opening until a week after their 1930 matchup on Nov. 1.Canceled game
1943 is the only year to date since the game became a yearly tradition in 1926 that Georgia and Florida have not played each other.
As the U.S. continued its involvement in World War 
II, each school decided whether or not it would field a football team in the 1943 season.
Florida president John J. Tigert announced the dis -
continuation of sports at his school, citing that he could return only 11 football players from the previous season. 
Georgia played nine games in the 1943 season with 
a team of freshmen and transfer students, also seeing a steep decline in football participation due to the war.
Athens, Georgia, and Gainesville, Florida
In 1994 and 1995, as renovations on TIAA Bank Field took place to prepare for the Jacksonville Jaguars, Geor -
gia and Florida did not have a field in Jacksonville for their annual game. The teams played a home-and-home series, making it the first time the game would be played outside of Jacksonville in over 50 years.
The Bulldogs traveled to Gainesville in 1994, falling to 
the Gators 52-14.
In 1995, it was Florida’s turn to come to Athens. The 
Gators entered the game undefeated and ranked No. 3 in the country, and dominated the Bulldogs 52-17.
With just over a minute remaining in the game,  
Florida’s backup quarterback Eric Kresser scored the final touchdown, making the Gators the first team to score 50 points on Georgia in Athens.
When Georgia-Florida 
wasn’t in Jacksonville
Kirby Smart, former Georgia defensive back and current head coach, sacks a player 
in 1995.  
COURTESY/
HARGRETT  
LIBRARYGeorgia’s 1943 
team included 
transfers and 
freshmen.   
COURTESY/
HARGRETT  
LIBRARY
The 1943 Georgia football team did not play Florida due to the 
game’s cancellation.  COURTESY/HARGRETT LIBRARYMembers of the 1904 
Georgia football team 
that defated Florida 
52-0 in the rivalry’s first
meeting.  COURTESY/
HARGRETT LIBRARYNimra Ahmad
It’s that time of year again. The 
Georgia Bulldogs will make their way down to Jacksonville, Florida, just in time for the game with their historic rival, the Florida Gators. 
The party culture during  
this weekend is at a fall   
semester high with students drink -
ing and getting rowdy in prepa -
ration for the game, known as the World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party.
The Red & Black has covered 
the Georgia-Florida rivalry since the game’s inception in 1915, so a dive into the archives helps put the pieces together to demonstrate the evolution of this fanatic celebration.
1930s
The Red & Black reported on var -
ious “social items” in a November 1930 paper, many of which involved the Georgia-Florida game. 
“Miss Billie Routree entertained 
Miss Bunny Porter, Cornelia, at her home in Summit last week-end, going to Savannah for the Geor -
gia-Florida game,” the paper read.
In 1930, the famous game took 
place in Savannah. In years prior, it had also taken place in Tampa and Athens. Starting in 1933, the games took place exclusively in Jackson -
ville, except for two in the 1990s.
1940s
In a Red & Black issue from No -
vember 1948 lies an announcement that the Bulldog Club will stage a pep rally “through the downtown streets of Jacksonville.” The UGA band and cheerleaders would lead the rally, the article read.
The university would even offer 
train rides to Jacksonville, accord -
ing to an October 1946 issue. 
The announcement urged 150 
students to sign up so the univer -
sity could organize a special train for a round trip to and from Jack -
sonville.
1960s
Traveling to Jacksonville for the game became a normalcy in the 1960s. In a November 1968 issue, the paper covered whether or not profes -
sors should count absences on Fri -
days before games. In a later issue, there was an advertisement from an aviation company encouraging Georgia students to fly to Florida for the game rather than drive. 1980s
In the late 1980s, officials wanted to move away from the World’s Larg -
est Outdoor Cocktail Party phrase — even though it couldn’t ring more true than in this decade. 
At a 1984 game, Florida fans tore 
down the goal posts after a 27-0 vic -
tory. Georgia fans did the same the following year after a victory of their own and ended the night with over 60 arrests.
2000s
At the 2006 Southeastern Confer -
ence, both UGA and the University of Florida asked sports media out -
lets to no longer use the cocktail phrase due to its insinuation of al -
cohol consumption following two deaths over the game day week -
end.
Today, St. Simons Island, 
where Georgia fans go to party prior to attending the game in Jacksonville, announced it will not be allowing alcohol on the beach.
Even so, Georgia and Florida 
pride is not likely to diminish any time soon — after all, this is a rivalry and a celebration that has persisted for more than a century.Saturday, Octo ber 30, 2021 THE RED & BLACK   7
The World’s  
Largest Outdoor 
Cocktail Party
Football party culture through 
the yearsABBIE HERRIN/STAFF
Saturday, Octob er 30, 2021 8 THE RED & BLACK
Dania Kalaji
The Glynn County Commission hopes that 
Frat Beach will be a sober event this year. 
For the second year in a row, alcohol will be banned on St. Simons Island during the an -
nual Georgia-Florida football game week -
end, otherwise known as Frat Beach.
All “common source” containers such as 
milk jugs, which are usually filled with mix -
tures of alcohol, will also be banned.
Additionally, there will be no food trucks 
and fewer port-a-potties will be available for use on the beach. These measures are all intended to reduce the number of students, partly to curb the spread of COVID-19.
‘No mercy’
The two-day alcohol ban from Oct. 29-30 was put into place in a Glynn County Com -
mission meeting on Sept. 2.
District 2 Commissioner Cap Fendig said 
police will be strict and will have “no mer -
cy” on the beach. He said officers will be distributing citations to those who do not abide by the ban.
Although District 4 Commissioner Bill 
Brunson said law enforcement isn’t trying to put people in jail, there will be strict watch of beachgoers just as there was last year. Fendig has emerged as a staunch op -
ponent of the yearly revelry, which tradi -
tionally includes drinking on the beach.
“We are not going to tolerate it. We 
shouldn’t have to be endangering public safety with the people of our community,” Fendig said. “There will be zero tolerance.”
The Glynn County police will patrol and 
ID attendees at the beach and parks. 
Officers will “cite and arrest” underage 
drinkers or people exhibiting unruly behav -
ior, according to the recommendations that were passed. If an individual is found with alcohol, they will be directed to pour it out, according to Glynn County officials.  
The alcohol ban took effect due to mul -
tiple threats to public safety, including the focus of law enforcement primarily on the Ahmaud Arbery murder trial, the lingering threat of COVID-19 and the desire to put an 
end to rampant underage drinking on the 
beaches of St. Simons.The trial of three men, Travis and Greg 
McMichael and William Bryan, for the  
murder of Arbery will begin Oct. 18. It will continue through the weekend of Oct. 29-30, the weekend of Frat Beach.
Arbery, a Black man, was killed while on 
a run after being chased by the three white men and shot by one of them. His death sparked national outcry, and his trial is  
expected to attract people from all over the country to Brunswick.
Although Glynn County police and state 
patrol will be monitoring the beach, there will be reduced numbers of staff because county resources are “under capacity” and focused on the trial, according to Fendig.
“It’s not only law enforcement. It’s all 
the first responders, it’s EMT, it’s the fire department, it’s the Sheriff’s Department, it’s the police department. It’s everything that we’ve had to delegate to Frat Beach. Every element of that is involved in this  
trial,” Brunson said.
No longer a party beach?
The threat of COVID-19 is not only a press -
ing matter for county enforcement, but also for the large crowds that will be pres -ent on the beach, in restaurants and other establishments throughout St. Simons and Brunswick.
“Last year we had multiple first re -
sponders who had contracted COVID that wouldn’t be available to be out there on the beach. Same thing is applicable this year,” Brunson said.
In the Sept. 2 meeting, Tamara H. Mun -
son, the co-acting county manager, said there were 27 firefighters and EMS workers out with COVID-19 the week of the com -
mission’s Aug. 25 meeting.
Some commissioners want to see a per -
manent reduction in the number of people at Frat Beach.
“I don’t think that there’ll be a ban on  
alcohol next year, unless something unfore -
seen occurs, but this year it really is about allocation of resources. Last year the atten -
dance for Frat Beach was down and that might have been a positive thing,” Brunson said.
Fendig said he knew that when he was 
reelected last January, one of his main goals would be to put an end to Frat Beach. 
He said he wanted to challenge the com -
munity to come up with another way for students to celebrate the annual Geor -
gia-Florida rivalry game in St. Simons. Frat Beach has been a tradition for decades.
“I’ve been an opponent of Frat Beach 
from the beginning when it exploded. Frat Beach earned the reputation that you could come to St. Simons and binge drink and do whatever you want, and behave how -
ever you want without impunity or conse -
quence,” Fendig said. “It will not continue as that type of gathering anymore.” 
Fendig said he has provided transpor -
tation tours around the island during the Frat Beach weekend for thousands of drunk  
students before, where he saw dangerous behavior firsthand.
Many Frat Beach attendees tend to drink 
heavily — as a safety measure, many write their names on their arms in marker in case they black out and get lost, Fendig said.
“I’ve had many women that came back 
so drunk at the end of the day and get on buses, they didn’t know where to go and they didn’t have any ID on them,” Fendig said. “This wouldn’t be allowed any other day of the year if it was a group of citizens 
that have behaved in such a way, and we 
just can’t look the other way on this.”
World’s Largest Outdoor 
Mocktail Party? Glynn 
County bans alcohol for second year
ABBIE HERRIN/STAFFSaturday, Octo ber 30, 2021THE RED & BLACK   9
Compiled by Anthony Langdon 
In September, the Glynn County Commis -
sion reintroduced last year’s temporary 
alcohol ban on St. Simons Island’s East Beach, commonly known among Universi -
ty of Georgia football fans as Frat Beach. The ban will go into effect on Oct. 29 and 30, the weekend Georgia faces off against the University of Florida Gators.
Officials hope to decrease the spread of 
COVID-19 among students at Frat Beach and residents of St. Simons. They also hope to curb what they see as binge drinking.
When this no-alcohol policy was enacted 
for 2020’s Georgia-Florida game, along with a police presence to enforce it, the crowd was noticeably smaller than in past years of the World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party. An hour south of St. Simons, TIAA Bank Field in Jacksonville, Florida, will no longer have 2020’s capacity limit at the game.
Students at the University of Georgia were asked about their thoughts on the  
alcohol ban, and its effectiveness on curb -
ing the spread of COVID-19.
Hannah Selvaggi — fourth-year 
communications major
“I don’t think banning alcohol on the beach 
will discourage enough people as Glynn County is hoping for. It might make it in -
convenient for the party’s tradition, but if anything, people will be more inclined to pregame.
Georgia-Florida weekend has brought on 
parties for generations, so they’ll need a lot more regulations — like requiring vaccine cards — to make a noticeable difference.”
Carolyn Clark — third-year fashion 
merchandising major
“I think that it’s valid to a point. If peo -
ple are responsible in getting vaccinat -
ed, then there shouldn’t be a problem for 
larger groups to gather, and also it’s on a huge beach so there’s a lot of space. It isn’t crammed like a concert.”
Cameron Bogan — fourth-year pub-
lic relations major
“I’ve never been to Frat Beach myself, 
but I’m going for my first time this year. I imagine police presence will be prevalent to enforce [the ban]. I understand Glynn County officials are concerned with the safety of the public on their beaches, but there are defi -
nitely alternatives to maintaining  safety. This won’t keep alcohol off the beaches entire -
ly, it will just get a handful of people in trouble for it.”
Alejandra  
Gonzalez — 
third-year bio-
chemistry and 
English major
“I don’t think it’ll be very effective if their 
goal is to reduce COVID infections. People will gather with or without alcohol, consid -
ering there’s a much lower rate of trans -
mission outdoors, like on a beach, versus indoors — not that I believe the hard crack -
downs on bars or curfews helps much with transmission either.
If I’m totally honest, I’m not sure what 
policy action Glynn County could take to lower COVID risk that I would agree with. With a lot of measures, if you weigh risk ver -
sus benefit, it just doesn’t support taking measures like prohibiting alcohol or closing down beaches or closing businesses.
I haven’t really talked to any friends go -
ing, but I’m guessing those people, consid-ering their health and age, don’t mind tak -
ing the risk.”
Shiyan Zhu — fourth-year journal-
ism major 
“I think [students going] will be upset 
about it. I think they will have another event instead — they might just go some -
where else.”Students discuss 
alcohol ban at Frat Beach
ABBIE HERRIN/STAFFSaturday, Octob er 30, 2021 10  THE RED & BLACK
Martina Essert
Fashion is never more important than on a college game 
day. Fans are identified and united by the colors they wear and the teams they cheer for. Animosity or friendship is decided by a glance at an outfit. 
Since 1915, the University of Florida and the Universi -
ty of Georgia have been rivals. This rivalry gave way to an even rowdier celebration on St. Simons Island on the coast of Georgia — a gathering at what students now call Frat Beach.
While the celebration on Frat Beach has maintained its 
identity as a weekend of drunken camaraderie and school spirit, the students partaking in the celebration look much different now than they did in the 1950s, when the rivalry found its way to St. Simons. 
1950s 
The ’50s saw the birth of the Frat Beach tradition. Fash -
ions drifted away from reserved wartime styles and toward the quirky looks that would define the ’60s. Shorts were shorter, waistlines higher and college men ditched their suit jackets for more boyish looks. 
An October 1957 issue of The Red & Black featured an 
opinion piece by Max Shulman, who wrote, “The key word this year is casual. Be casual. Be slap-dash. Be rakish. Im -
provise. Invent your own ensembles — like ski pants with a peek-a-boo blouse.” 
1960s 
The ’60s were an explosion of color, quirk and experimen -
tation. A February 1968 issue offered jumpsuits for men, a trend that likely found its way to Frat Beach. Women experimented with brave textures and bold patterns. 1970s 
Women’s fashion in the ’70s was more experimental than ever. Trends swung from flowing “hippie” dresses to white boots and synthetic fabrics that defined disco fashion. 
College men opted for colorful shirts and bright plaid 
jackets. Frat Beach was awash with color and short shorts — “knees are news again,” an April 1977 issue of The Red & Black proclaimed. 
1980s 
Student fashion in the ’80s was defined by big hair,  
denim and oversized clothing for both men and women. The celebrations on Frat Beach were wilder than ever, with a November 1986 issue advising students to “wear clothes that haven’t been washed in weeks … no one cares how nice your clothes are, they just want a blood and guts football game.” 
1990s 
Student fashion in the ’90s was grungier than ever, with thousands of pairs of Chuck Taylors and denim shorts appearing on campus and Frat Beach alike. This de -cade was a “melting pot for fashion and culture,” ac -
cording to a December 1999 Red & Black issue. “Thanks to Pearl Jam and Nirvana, it was all about the grun -
ge look. Slap a size 40-inch pair of jeans on a 140-pound  
frame, making sure the boxers are in plain view, and you’ve got yourself a regular slacker stud.” The article even ad -
dressed the changing nature of fashion trends, demonstrat -
ing the ever-evolving nature of Frat Beach fashion.
2000s 
The baggy jeans of the ’90s were replaced with their su -
per skinny low-rise counterparts in the following decade. Tight layers and scarves were staples for men and women. Fashion for football games was of huge importance to stu -
dents, with an August 2006 issue claiming that, “dressing up becomes the norm, and dressing fashionably — albeit uncomfortable — is nothing less than expected.”
2010s 
Fashion for the rivalry game and celebrations in recent years has been ruled by neons and metallic sheens. In previous decades, attire at Frat Beach has been similar to what students wear in their day-to-day lives, but any number of outlandish and odd outfits can be found on  
St. Simons during current rivalry games. Students wear everything from school jerseys and cut off shorts to bikinis and fanny packs.
Regardless of what students wear, the legacy of rev -
elry and camaraderie among UGA students during the rivalry game has remained constant through -
out the decades. Whether you wear a cloche cap and  
a modest dress or a bikini and a neon visor, the most im -
portant accessory on Frat Beach and for the rivalry game is a love for the Georgia Bulldogs.Fitted to Win: Frat Beach fashion 
throughout the decades
A 1968 drawing depicts Bulldog fans in extrava -
gant outfits.  FILE/ARCHIVES
A woman poses in a 1957 photo as ‘Woman of 
the Week. ’  FILE/ARCHIVES
A 1999 issue of The Red & Black describes ’90s 
fashion trends.  FILE/ARCHIVES
A 1977 University Union fashion show featured 
spring styles.  FILE/ARCHIVES
The most important 
accessory on Frat 
Beach is a love for the Georgia Bulldogs.athenticbrewing.com
VIEWING PARTIES FOR 
ALL GAMES INSIDE AND 
ON THE PATIO
Saturday, Octo ber 30, 2021 THE RED & BLACK   11
Jake Drukman
In 2020, Florida broke the 
Bulldogs’ three-year win -
ning streak against the Ga -
tors. In doing so, they also earned the rights to an ar -
tifact that had previously been displayed in the Tate Student Center: the Okefe -
nokee Oar.
Instead of a traditional 
trophy, the winner of the annual Georgia-Florida game gets to take home the 12-foot oar, carved from theremains of a 1,000-year-oldcypress tree from the Oke -
fenokee Swamp, a 438,000-mile wetland that straddlesthe border between the two states.
The oar was donated 
anonymously to the Univer -
sity of Florida in 2009, and is engraved with a Georgia side and a Florida side, de -
picting the mascots of both schools on their respective sides. Florida won the 2009 and 2010 games, but the oar made its first trip to Athens when the Bulldogs won the 2011 game 24-20.
On each side are the 
words “The Okefenokee Oar,” carved into the paddle beneath the school mascot. On the Georgia side is the Georgia state crest, and on the Florida side is Florida’s state crest. Carved into the handle are the scores of all the rivalry games since 2009.
The very bottom of the 
paddle on the Georgia side reads, “Presented anony -
mously to the University of Georgia student body,” along with the oar’s dedi -
cation date of Oct. 21, 2009. The Florida side is present-ed to the UF student body.
Since the oar first came 
to Athens, it has changed hands every three years, re -
maining with the Bulldogs from 2011-2014, returning to Gainesville from 2014-2017, then coming back to Athens from 2017-2020. Now that Florida has the oar again, whether the Bull -
dogs will break that streak remains to be seen.
The war  
continuesABBIE HERRIN/STAFFALUMNI.UGA.EDU/UPDATEUpdate your info for invitations  news  more
