Shelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
Staff Report 
Many students’ first foray outside their fam -
ily home takes them straight to their freshman 
year college dorm. UF has 26 residence halls 
for students to choose from. The Alligator in -
terviewed current and former residents of each 
hall to discover the good and bad in each. 
Room layouts are an artist’s 
interpretation based on courtesy 
photos of the residence halls. 
Beaty T owers
Standing over 
160 feet tall, the 
Beaty Towers sit on 
the southeast side 
of campus near on-
campus dining, Bro -
ward Recreational 
Center, libraries and 
sorority row. It is an 
apartment-style res -
idence hall and includes a private bathroom, 
study and kitchenette in each suite. There are 
two bedrooms per apartment, each containing 
two twin beds that can be bunked or separat -
ed, according to UF’s housing website.
Beaty Towers houses a living learning com -
munity specifically for Innovation Academy 
students. The towers can hold up to 787 stu -
dents who can connect through events led by 
the Tower Area government and residence hall 
staff.
Kenneth Cruz, a 19-year-old psychology 
sophomore, was the secretary of the Tower 
Area government his freshman year and 
helped plan events for the hall.
“We had a tie-dye and gelato event, and 
you could see all the residents interacting with 
each other,” Cruz said.
Beaty Towers’ amenities include 24/7 area 
desk services, laundry facilities, mail services, 
nighttime security patrols, furnished bed -
rooms, food market and a student night time 
shuttle pick up point, according to UF’s hous -
ing website. 
It first opened in 1967 as the Twin Towers 
and were called Tower A and Tower B, hous -
ing women and men respectively. They were 
renamed after UF’s first dean of student per -
sonnel Robert Calder Beaty in 1971, and the 
towers became the East and West Towers.
Beaty Towers was the first UF residence 
hall with central air conditioning. The apart -
ment-style housing was unusual at the time, 
making it stand out. 
“It’s one of the only apartment-style dorms,” 
Kristina Tosi, a psychology sophomore said. “I 
was like, ‘I really want to live here.’”
Pros:
“The study room in the common area was 
awesome,” Ava Lucke said.
“Having your own bathroom, and then also 
having staff that comes and cleans it once a 
week was nice,” Lucke said.
“Our built-ins were really good for closet 
space,” Samantha Simpson said.
Cons:
“Parking is hard around there,” Lucke said. 
“It’s farther from food and things to do,” 
Tosi said.
“You either have to convert your beds into 
these weird bunk beds that aren’t actually bunk 
beds or sleep so close to each other that you 
could hold hands every night,” Simpson said.
Broward Hall 
Known for its convenient location on cam -
pus, Broward Hall is about a five-minute walk 
away from Turlington Plaza, the Reitz Student 
Union and sorority row.With a capac -
ity of 690 residents, 
students can choose 
between single, 
double and triple 
rooms. The com -
mon area kitchen on 
each floor includes 
a microwave, range 
and stove, but stu -
dents should bring their own refrigerator, ac -
cording to UF Housing and Residence Life. 
Built in 1954 to accommodate a growing 
number of female students, Broward Hall was 
named after Annie Douglass Broward, wife of 
former Florida governor Napoleon Bonaparte 
Broward. After UF’s official acceptance of 
women, the Guy Fulton Brutalist-style building 
was the last women’s residence area to be des -
ignated coed in 1972.
Julia Palomba, 20-year-old junior biology 
major, said living in Broward Hall was a great 
way to start her freshman year.
“If you like your alone time it can be a little 
more challenging, but it was such a character 
building experience,” Palomba said. “Having a 
roommate or two, you always have someone 
to do something with.”
While Broward was a good introductory 
hall, Alessandra Sorica, 21-year-old senior 
health education and behavior major, said stu -
dents with higher budgets should check out 
other residence halls.
Pros:
Broward could not be in a better location, 
Palomba said. She rolled out of bed at 9:30 
a.m. for her 9:35 a.m. class, making it on time.
“The library was always quiet, so you could 
have a place to study — always,” Sorica said.
The sports complex is close by, and there’s 
a nice parking lot if you have a scooter, Sorica 
said.
Cons:
Some triples are converted doubles and 
cramped, Palomba said. She suggests not to 
bring too much and take advantage of storage 
space under the bed.
Palomba hated the AC thumping loudly 
while she was studying, and the rooms were 
cold in the winter.
To beat crowds, Sorica suggests taking mid -
day showers and doing laundry on weekdays.
Buckman Hall 
Named after 
Henry H. Buckman, 
a Florida Legisla -
ture member who 
authored the act 
that created the Uni -
versity of Florida, 
Buckman Hall is 
rich with history 
and gothic-style ar -
chitecture. It was opened in 1906 as one of 
UF’s first buildings.
Buckman Hall on UF’s east campus is a part 
of Murphree Area and is within a 15-minute 
walk from the Reitz Union, Ben Hill Griffin Sta -
dium, Midtown and more.
With a capacity for under 140 residents, 
Buckman Hall includes single, double and tri -
ple traditional-style rooms, but no two rooms 
are the same, according to the university web -
site. 
Throughout the years, the hall has seen 
rooms converted to faculty offices and class -
rooms and has been a site where soldiers lived 
during WWI, according to the university web -
site. It was added to the National Register of 
Historic Places in 1974.
Buckman Hall has communal bathrooms, 
lounge areas and kitchens, but students must 
provide their own in-room refrigerator, accord -ing to the university website. Air conditioning 
was added to the hall in 2014, Sara Tanner, the 
marketing and communications director for UF 
Student Affairs, wrote in an email.
Pros:
“Really close to The Hub and classes and 
everything,”  Olivia Feller said.
“The bay windows are beautiful rooms,” 
said Grace Shoemaker.
“I loved that it was a lot older,” Asha Clarke 
said. “I’m a big fan of history.”
Cons :
“It can be pretty loud because you’re right 
across the street from Midtown,” Shoemaker 
said.
The laundry room is not in Buckman Hall, 
Clarke said. 
Feller said she wished the hall was reno -
vated and had updated infrastructure.
Cypress Hall  
Cypress Hall sits 
in the Yulee area 
located on the cor -
ner of 13th Street 
and Museum Road 
on UF’s campus. 
The three-floor resi -
dence hall holds 255 
students and offers 
plenty of amenities.
Cypress Hall rests on the east side of cam -
pus and offers pathways to places of interest 
like the College of Education, College of Arts 
and the College of Design, Construction and 
Planning.
The building is fairly new, officially open -
ing to incoming freshmen in 2015.
Although its parking lot for both cars and 
scooters seems limited, students should find 
it easy to navigate the area around the other 
halls, including Yulee, Reid and Mallory.
Cypress is equipped to provide accommo -
dation for 35 students who may have a signifi -
cant mobility impairment. There are movable 
sinks, a bidet and a shower with no curtains or 
sliding door in the restrooms. Its bedrooms are 
enhanced with SureHands lift systems to aid 
students in getting from point “A” to point “B.”
An extra accommodation is a technology 
system for controlled access to the rooms fea -
ture such as closing the blinds, hitting the light 
switch and checking on the video-equipped 
doorbell.  
There are three living options in Cypress 
Hall, which vary in both size and number of 
beds. The single suite makes room for two 
beds and a shared bathroom, while the double 
suite connects two rooms with four beds and a 
connected shower.
The largest option is properly named the 
‘super suite,’ which houses six students in 
three cut-off bedrooms and two bathrooms on 
the opposite walls of the unit. Every bedroom 
in the suite is fully furnished and students get 
their own desk for classwork.
The hall’s common area offers recreational 
activities such as a ping pong table and a pool 
table for residents to hang around and mingle. 
The commons also provide various sporting 
goods to be put to good use. 
Pros:  
“It was definitely spacious, which was 
nice,” Matthew Fowler said. “It’s a bit far away 
from a lot of the classrooms but I actually liked 
that about it.”
Joshua Poulalion praised Cypress Hall’s 
ability to accommodate for mobility-impaired 
students. “The hallways were extra wide, bath -
rooms were spacious and it was easy to navi -
gate into and out the shower and toilet.”
The washer and dryer units on every floor 
were referred to as being a “game-changer” by 
Poulalion.
Cons:
“[Rent] was real pricey,” Poulalion said. 
With a location on 13th Street near the hos -
pital, Poulalion said that there were noise is -sues with emergency vehicles driving by to the 
hospital.
Parking spaces for cars and scooters are lim -
ited, especially as a freshman, Poulalion said.
East Hall 
East Hall, now 
the home of the 
engineering living-
learning commu -
nity, first opened in 
1961. The residence 
hall is one of seven 
UF residence halls 
designed by Guy 
Fulton, former state 
architect of Florida, as a part of an $8.5 million 
construction project. 
In 1979, East Hall was appointed as the first 
honors-only residence hall. The honors pro -
gram was then moved to Hume Hall when it 
opened in 2002. 
East Hall was renovated in 2008, with $4.3 
million used to install fire sprinklers, upgrade 
fire alarm systems, replace floor tiles and reno -
vate bathrooms. 
The hall has 105 rooms and a capacity of 
210 residents. Students can live in single, dou -
ble or triple rooms. It is a traditional-style resi -
dence hall with shared bathrooms and kitch -
ens on each floor.
Deven Ellis, a UF computer science sopho -
more, said he did not enjoy the shared bath -
rooms.
“I didn’t like how it was the communal 
kitchen and the communal bathroom. I like 
interacting with other people, but the commu -
nal bathroom is not really my cup of tea,” Ellis 
said.
The hall is located in the Tolbert Area, close 
to the Reitz Union and Gator Corner Dining. 
Sarah Banks, who lived in the hall Summer 
2019, said she liked the convenience.
“I like the location of it,” she said. “It was 
by the stadium. I like to run stadiums so that 
was convenient for me.”
While many residents love its convenience, 
others say the hall is run down.
Anna Peterson, a 20-year-old advertising se -
nior, lived there during her freshman year from 
Fall 2018 to Spring 2019. She said her experi -
ence was mostly negative.
“In all honesty, the dorm was really old,” 
Peterson said. “It was not well-kept, and it was 
connected to a building called Weaver Hall, 
which is the international LLC. And Weaver 
Hall had an elevator; East Hall didn’t. When 
you walk in, the aesthetic of it is very prison-
like.” 
Pros:
“I think its biggest pro was the location, just 
being so close to the stadium and the dining 
hall,” Deven Ellis said. 
“It’s really close to that Chomp It and obvi -
ously it’s nice to have a place where you can 
order food really close to your dorm,” Banks 
said. 
“The engineering LLC is, of course, right 
next to the engineering college, so that was re -
ally good for classes,” Peterson said. 
Cons:  
“There were no updated water fountains,” 
Peterson said. 
“I had heard from my friends that other 
dorms were maybe a little more lively,” Banks 
said. 
“If you change your major, if you decide 
hey you know this isn’t for me, or this particu -
lar lifestyle of the LLC, I no longer identify with 
it, then you can feel quite ostracized,” Peterson 
said. 
Graham Hall
Nestled between the Reitz Union and Flavet 
Field, Graham Hall is centrally located on Flor -
ida’s campus and affords convenient access 
to on-campus dining, Gator athletics, a swim -
ming pool, tennis courts and parking. A look inside UF residence halls
SEE DORMS,  PAGE 14Students have 26 options to call home
We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Let us introduce ourselves
A letter from our editorial board,  pg. 4
MTV welcome to my gym
Southwest Rec explained,  pg. 8Best of Florida sports
The Alligator sports staff came together to 
bestow the honor of an Alligator Award on 
the Gators that truly stood head and shoulders 
above the rest in the previous year,  pg. 6
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 37
Prize and fees are subject to change. Limited time only. See office for details.Tour and enter to win an  
Electric Scooter!
Scan to schedule a tour:Apply today and save up to $325  with zero down @
AmericanCampus.com/Gainesville
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Best known for their roles in NBC’s “The 
Office,” Oscar Nuñez and Brian Baumgartner 
will speak to UF students at the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center June 30. The event will be 
the first fully in-person Accent event since Oc -
tober 10, 2019 before the COVID-19 pandemic 
started. 
The free event is hosted by Accent Speak -
ers Bureau in partnership with Student Gov -
ernment Productions and Student Activities 
and Involvement, which are student govern -
ment agencies funded by student fees. Accent 
will pay Greater Talent Network LLC $70,000 
to perform at UF. The event was announced 
June 21 on Facebook, and will host the duo in 
a 45-minute moderated conversation.With a capacity of over 6,000, the Center 
will open its doors at 6 p.m. to any UF stu -
dents with a Gator 1 ID. The one-hour event 
will start at 7 p.m. and conclude after a 15 
minute Q&A.
There is no pre-event registration and the 
event will not be live-streamed. As one of the 
first large in-person events hosted by Student 
Government since the start of the COVID-19 
pandemic, Accent Chair Jordan Klein assured 
the event will abide by the university’s poli -
cies and protocols to ensure students’ safety.
“The speakers will share their backgrounds 
and upbringings, sending positive and uplift -
ing messages to our students in order to en -
gage with and inspire them,” Klein wrote.
Nuñez and Baumgartner, better known by 
their stage names Oscar Martinez and Kevin 
Malone, appeared in the nine-season Ameri -can sitcom that received 42 Emmy award 
nominations and five Emmys. 
Nuñez was a part of the sitcom’s main staff 
since season one, and has received an Emmy, 
two SAG awards, an ALMA award, a TV Land 
award and an Impact award from the National 
Hispanic Media Coalition. He has gone on to 
perform in movies such as “Baywatch,” TV 
shows such as “Shameless” and “Bob’s Burg -
ers.” The comedian also is a co-creator and 
lead in “Halfway Home.”
Baumgartner also starred in “The Office” 
since it first began in 2005. Since its airing, 
he has appeared in the Amazon Prime Video 
show “Hand of God,” TNT’s “Good Behavior” 
and the DreamWorks Animation reboot of 
“Mr. Peabody and Sherman.”
“We selected Brian and Oscar because we 
feel like who they are as individuals correlates with the overall goals our organization has,” 
Klein wrote. “This event is essentially a light -
hearted show to welcome students to campus 
during Great Gator Welcome.”
Great Gator Welcome is a five-day-long 
event hosted by Student Government starting 
Monday to kick-off the start of Summer B and 
welcome students through first classes and 
move-in day. Besides Wednesday’s Accent 
show, the week will feature a movie night, a 
student organization fair, a picnic and the tra -
ditional Gator Night.  
This will be the first Accent event of the 
Summer semester, following founder of Bar -
stool Sports Dave Portnoy and American res -
taurateur Guy Fieri. 
Of the 328 people who responded to the 
Facebook event, 264 have shown interest in 
attending the event and 64 have confirmed 
they will be going.
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgIconic ‘The Office’ duo, will speak to students WednesdayFaith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Crime tape surrounds the American Legion Post 16 off of 
Northwest Sixth Street in Gainesville on Sunday, June 27, 2021.
THE SUSPECTS FLED THE SCENE 
AND WERE LATER ARRESTED BY 
ALACHUA COUNTY DEPUTIES
By Jake Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
A shooting at a party left five teens 
injured Thursday night. 
At about 10:26 p.m., Gainesville 
Police Department officers responded 
to several 911 calls about gunshots at 
the American Legion located at 4701 
NW Sixth St. 
When officers arrived, they discov -
ered four teenage victims outside and 
one teenage victim inside of the build -
ing, all of whom had been shot. 
GPD spokesperson Graham Glover 
said one teen is in serious condition 
and the other four sustained non-life-
threatening injuries. They were all 
transported to UF Health Shands Hos -
pital. 
Two shooters exchanged gunfire at 
the party causing the five victims to be 
shot, according to a GPD press release. 
Two suspects, Jakarean Ford, 14, and Javari Baptiste, 17, stole a car and 
fled the scene after the shooting. 
It’s unclear whether Jakarean was 
involved in the incident or if he was 
just the getaway driver for Javari, 
Glover said. 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
deputies found the stolen car at the 
9000 block of West Newberry Road, 
according to an ACSO press release.
ACSO attempted to conduct a traf -
fic stop, but Jakarean, who was driv -
ing, evaded deputies and initiated a 
car chase.
Deputies deployed road spikes dur -
ing the pursuit and deflated one of the 
front tires.
The car chase ended at the en -
trance to Cabana Beach Apartments 
where the boys fled on foot. However, 
deputies caught up to Jakarean and ar -
rested him. 
Javari fled into the apartment com -
plex, but deputies arrested him after 
surrounding the area with the help of 
an ACSO helicopter and K-9 Unit.
Deputies also recovered a stolen 
9 mm handgun and ski mask used in 
the shooting. Both Javari and Jakar -ean were taken to GPD for questioning 
before going to the Alachua Regional 
Juvenile Detention Center at 3440 NE 
39th Ave.
Javari was charged with attempted 
felony murder by GPD, possession of 
a stolen firearm and resisting without 
violence by ACSO.
Jakarean was charged with fleeing 
and eluding law enforcement, operat -
ing a motor vehicle without a driver’s 
license and possession of marijuana 
by ACSO. 
On Friday, GPD’s Criminal Intel -
ligence Unit found and arrested two 
additional suspects. 
Christian Jones,16, was identified 
as the other shooter involved in the 
incident, and GPD charged him with 
attempted felony murder and carrying 
a concealed firearm. 
Jarquez Kerreim Mitchell, 17, was 
charged with aggravated assault and 
carrying a concealed firearm. It’s un -
clear what his role was in the incident, 
Glover said. The motive of the shoot -
ing is still unknown. 
@frlJakeReyes
jreyes@alligator.orgFive teenagers shot at Gainesville American Legion
The moderated conversation with Oscar Nuñez and Brian Baumgartner is hosted 
by UF Accent Speakers Bureau to welcome students during Great Gator WelcomeT oday’s WeatherTo kick off Summer B 2021, 
here’s a little known fact: 
The Alligator is one of the 
largest independent student 
newsrooms in the country. 
Whether you’re fresh out of high 
school and you’re on your way right 
now to your very first college class 
or you’ve been working hard these 
last few years to transfer to UF, if 
you don’t know us yet — hi, we’re 
The Alligator. We’re here to give 
you the news. 
It’s an honor we do not take 
lightly, especially considering the 
current state of student newsrooms 
across the country. In 2018, The 
Alligator’s editors started a campaign 
to Save Student Newsrooms, and 
we have been trying to show the 
importance of student voices in 
journalism ever since. 
Student newsrooms face 
constant hardships such as financial 
difficulties and censorship, yet their 
service to their communities is often 
unmatched. They are designed to fit 
college students' needs and interests. 
No other newspaper is tailored to 
report on the heart of campus and 
provide an unbiased perspective on 
student life at a university. At The 
Alligator, we expand our coverage 
beyond the university to include 
general Gainesville news. During a period of uncertainty in 
the pandemic, student journalists at 
The Alligator provided updates and 
tallied contracted cases to inform 
the community about immediate 
changes. The Washington Post 
called student reporters the 
“journalism heroes for the pandemic 
era” because they are the hub of 
knowledge for college students. 
When major policy changes 
are threatening to impact the 
community, student reporters 
may be the only ones in the room 
covering it. If there is outrage over a 
campus incident or announcement, 
the first place readers look is the 
school paper. 
The role of student newsrooms 
is not just to provide updates and 
stories, it is to give a voice to the 
community. The opinions section 
of The Alligator allows people 
to write to us directly and tell 
their experiences. They provide 
perspectives that may be unheard 
of in the community and give a 
personal look into college life.
But student newsrooms are not 
an outlet for colleges to promote 
their own agendas. Since we 
became independent from UF, our 
newsroom has acted as a watchdog, 
holding those in power accountable. 
In some cases, our coverage has influenced UF to reconsider its 
previous decisions. 
Student journalists have an 
opportunity to educate and inform 
people on selective issues that are 
relevant to a key demographic. And 
they do this all while juggling school, 
jobs, extracurriculars and more. 
We don’t get much sleep and our 
caffeine addictions are intense to 
say the least, but it’s worth it to be a 
place where our community can get 
unbiased, trustworthy news. If that 
sounds good to you, all we ask is 
you pick up a paper once in a while.
The Editorial Board is made up of 
the Editor-in-Chief, Digital Managing 
Editor, Engagement Managing 
Editor, and Opinions Editor.
COOPER BROWN, FAITH MANITI AND 
GIOVANNA MOMPREMIER WELCOME 
CLASS OF 2025 WITH INSIGHT ON STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT AND CAMPUS LIFE
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer
Funded by student’s activities and services fees, Stu -
dent Government is a campus organization that allows 
students to actively participate in the decision-making 
process within UF. Like the national government, SG is 
divided into three branches: executive, legislative and 
judicial.
“Our simple goal is to just enhance the everyday 
student experience,” Student Body President Cooper 
Brown said. “How can Student Government make the everyday life of every Gator just a little bit easier?”
Executive Branch
The executive branch is run by the elected Student 
Body president, vice president and treasurer, and fea -
tures appointed officers who oversee cabinet and agen -
cy operations. There are four cabinet divisions — Di -
versity, Leadership & Service, Student Life and Transfer 
— overseen by the Student Body vice president, focused 
on yearly programming and working with student orga -
nizations to represent the Student Body. The executive 
branch also features 17 agencies, focused on specific 
issues ranging from promoting student safety to hosting 
speakers and promoting events. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org.
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the VOLUME 115 ISSUE 37
Let us introduce ourselves
Get to know UF through your Student Government representatives352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sportsFollow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform."AND THE AWARD GOES TO..."
The 2020-21 Florida Gators ath -
letics season brought forward both 
good memories — like a national 
championship and walk-off victo -
ries — and ugly ones — like bitter 
rivalry losses and early postseason 
exits.
However, some Florida student-
athletes stood out above the rest 
for their performances on the field, 
court or arena. The Alligator sports 
staff came together to bestow the 
honor of an Alligator Award on the 
Gators who truly stood head and 
shoulders above the rest in the pre -
vious year.
Male Athlete of the Year: 
Kyle Pitts  
By Michael Hull
While other Florida athletes put 
up great seasons and were deserv -
ing of this award, no one had a 
2020-2021 quite like Pitts, making 
him the clear choice for Male Ath -
lete of the Year. 
Pitts dominated in every sense 
of the word in 2020 when he put 
together possibly the best tight end 
season in college football history. 
Despite a shortened, conference-
only schedule and an injury that 
forced him out of four games, Pitts 
racked up 770 yards and 12 touch -
downs in just eight games. The 
matchup nightmare casually shred -
ded some of the SEC’s top defenses, 
including a 129-yard performance 
in the conference championship 
game against Alabama.
The Philadelphia native entered 
the COVID-19-stricken season with 
lofty expectations after grabbing 54 
balls in 2019. Pitts shattered those 
expectations in the very first week 
of the 2020 season when he roast -
ed the Ole Miss secondary for 170 
yards and four touchdowns on eight 
catches. 
Pitts went on a tear and scored 
four more touchdowns over the 
next four weeks. After missing two 
weeks due to injury, the 6-foot-6 
junior came back with a vengeance 
against the Kentucky Wildcats and 
scored three touchdowns before 
he went for over 100 yards against 
Tennessee. Pitts became the third 
Gator tight end ever to have three 
100-yard receiving games in a sea -
son.
He was injured a second time 
ahead of a senior night battle with 
LSU, and head coach Dan Mullen 
held the star tight end out of the eventual loss. Pitts went on to de -
clare for the NFL Draft after the SEC 
Championship and did not compete 
in the Cotton Bowl against Okla -
homa.
Pitts capped off his historic sea -
son with a slew of national awards. 
He was unanimously voted the 
First-Team All-American—the 
eighth player in UF’s 109-year his -
tory to accomplish the feat and the 
first since Vernon Hargreaves III in 
2015. He became the first tight end 
to finish top 10 in Heisman vot -
ing since Ken MacAfee from Notre 
Dame in 1977.
No. 84 added some hardware 
to his mantle as well, winning the 
Mackey Award, given each year to 
the nation’s top tight end. He also 
became the first tight end nomi -
nated as a Biletnikoff Award final -
ist, which honors the nation’s top 
receiver.
Florida honored Pitts’ time in 
Gainesville with a brick outside 
The Swamp, the first one to be laid 
down since cornerback Hargreaves’ 
III in 2015. Every UF player named 
to an All-American team is honored 
with a brick.
Though his time at UF was done, 
Pitts shattered one final landmark. 
He became the highest drafted tight 
end in NFL history April 29, when 
the Atlanta Falcons selected him 
with the fourth overall pick.
Make no mistake about it: Flori -
da fans may not see another season 
like Pitts’ for a long time. He led one 
of the most prolific offenses in re -
cent history, making him the clear 
choice for Male Athlete of the Year.
Female Athlete of the Year: 
Trinity Thomas
By Zachary Huber
It was difficult to imagine junior 
Trinity Thomas topping her impres -
sive sophomore season, but she did 
just that, despite spending the last 
quarter of Florida’s gymnastic sea -
son marred by an ankle injury. 
Thomas became the second Flor -
ida gymnast and the first since Alex 
McMurtry in 2018, to record two 
10s in one meet versus Auburn on 
Feb. 26. She posted the highest all-
around score (39.9) in Florida his -
tory and fifth-best in NCAA history 
against No. 2 LSU. 
Her talent and toughness made 
Thomas an easy choice for Female 
Athlete of the Year.
Thomas could’ve captured her first national championship and the 
Gators’ fourth in program history if 
it wasn’t for the sprained ankle she 
suffered in warmups against Ala -
bama. 
However, Thomas still shined 
with a bum ankle. She only com -
peted in the uneven bars competi -
tion because of her injury at NCAA 
regionals, but she still secured a 10.
Florida managed to finish fourth 
in the NCAA Championships in 
Fort Worth, Texas, on April 17. The 
team was hindered in the first ro -
tation by two falls on the balance 
beam by Thomas and sophomore 
Payton Richards. 
The York, Pennsylvania, native 
finished her junior season with an 
All-American nod in every possible 
category. Thomas collected first-
team honors in every event except 
for beam. She also earned Colleg -
eGymNews.com Gymnast of the 
Year. 
Thomas made the decision to 
retire from elite gymnastics because 
of her ankle injury and withdrew 
her name from the list of gymnasts 
who aspired to make the U.S. Olym -
pic Team for the Tokyo Olympics. 
She said she made this decision in 
order to properly heal her injury 
and prepare for her senior season, 
where she will make another run at 
a national title and Female Athlete 
of the Year. 
Freshman of the Year:
 Danielle Pavinelli  
By Karina Wilson
Danielle Pavinelli had no prob -
lem adjusting to the college game 
upon entering The Swamp. 
The Gators’ lacrosse midfielder 
started in 18 out of 21 games dur -
ing her freshman season and made 
her mark immediately. She record -
ed her first goal in orange and blue 
against the Louisville Cardinals Feb -
ruary 13. From there, it was all gas, no 
breaks.
On March 28, Pavinelli recorded 
a career-high of four goals while 
playing against the Cincinnati 
Bearcats — one of four separate 
occasions where she tallied a hat 
trick, or three goals in one game. 
She rounded out the season with 
30 goals, seven assists, 13 ground 
balls, nine draw controls and nine 
caused turnovers. The Northport, 
New York, native ranked fifth on 
the squad in points, goals and draw 
controls.
The two-time American Athletic 
Conference Freshman of the Week 
secured her spot on the All-AAC 
Second Team. She claimed the title 
of Freshman of the Year in the AAC 
to close out the 2021 season.
With a year of experience under 
her belt, it is safe to say Pavinelli 
is eager to return to the Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium and build off her 
first-year success.
Comeback Player of the Year: 
Garrett Milchin  
By Ryan Haley
Garrett Milchin appeared in 19 
games for the Florida Gators base -
ball team in 2017. The freshman 
right-hander from Windermere, 
Florida, authored a 3.29 ERA, sec -
ond-lowest among freshmen to only 
Tyler Dyson, and earned a 4-2 re -
cord with a pair of starts. In 11.1 in -
nings of conference work, he led the 
team with a 1.59 ERA.
In his final appearance of 2017, 
a College World Series game against 
TCU on June 23, Milchin tore his 
Ulnar Collateral Ligament (UCL) 
and needed offseason surgery. He 
underwent the same surgery a year 
later after another injury in practice.
Milchin missed a year. Then 
another. Then another. It took 
three seasons and 1,341 agonizing days before Milchin would see the 
mound for Florida again.
Athletes have given up careers 
for lesser setbacks, but Milchin kept 
his head down and worked, slowly 
rehabbing himself back into game 
shape.
He finally received a clean bill 
of health in 2021. Milchin appeared 
in a few spring scrimmages before 
seeing his first action with a start 
against North Florida on February 
23, 44 months to the day after his 
Omaha exit as a freshman.
Milchin pitched only two innings 
against the Ospreys that night but 
surrendered three hits and a single 
unearned run. He consistently saw 
weekday action and ended the year 
with six starts, tied for fourth-most 
on the squad. In 21.2 innings on the 
mound, he let up 24 hits, struck out 
20 batters and earned 12 runs on his 
way to a 4.98 ERA.
His shining moment came 
against the rival Florida State Semi -
noles on April 13, Milchin’s final 
start of the year. After a 1.2 inning 
disaster, including eight hits and 
seven earned runs against the Semi -
noles a month earlier, Milchin as -
sumed the mound again and set an 
entirely different tone.
Milchin offered a career-high six 
innings against the Seminoles, suf -
focating their bats for three hits, one 
earned run and a new personal-best 
five strikeouts. Milchin didn’t quite 
re-establish himself as the same 
freshman force he was in 2017, but 
he proved he was again a key mem -
ber of the Florida pitching stable.
Coach of the Year: 
Bryan Shelton  
By Ryan Zehnder
When former men’s tennis coach 
Andy Jackson left the program after 
the 2012 season, the task was clear: 2020-2021 Alligator Awards
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 7Shelby Cotta / /Alligator Staff
The Alligator sports staff honors the best of 
Florida athletics from the 2020-2021 seasonMONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
Download the FREE   
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
hire a coach who could take Flor -
ida tennis to the next level. Under 
Jackson, the team was consistently 
in contention for SEC and national 
titles. But to reach the summit of 
collegiate tennis, they needed pedi -
gree. Enter Bryan Shelton.
Before coaching, Shelton en -
joyed a decorated professional ten -
nis career, reaching as high as 55th 
in ATP’s singles rankings. He took 
over as head coach of Georgia Tech 
women’s tennis in 2000, eventually 
leading the Yellow Jackets to a na -
tional title in 2007.
Florida had a perfect conference 
record, a pair of undefeated starters 
in 2021 and only two losses across 
the regular season and postseason 
as Shelton expertly arranged line -
ups all year.
The championship marked the 
culmination of five years of SEC 
dominance and consistent national 
finishes for the program. Former 
Athletic Director Jeremy Foley 
brought in Shelton to lead Florida 
tennis to a national title, and that’s 
exactly what he achieved in 2021.
 
Moment of the Year: 
Ben Shelton, son of Head Coach 
Bryan Shelton, clinches the 
national championship  
By Ryan Zehnder
It seemed almost too perfect 
to be true. Florida led the second-
seeded Bears 3-1 in the title match, 
just one point away from clinching 
the national championship in Lake 
Nona, Florida. All eyes were glued 
to court five, where Ben Shelton 
was poised to record the team’s fi -
nal point.
Now, head coach Bryan Shel -
ton is not guilty of nepotism. His 
son Ben may play for Florida’s 
tennis team, but the freshman’s performance this season proved 
he earned his place on the roster. 
His athletic, energetic style of ten -
nis captivated fans all year, but Ben 
forever immortalized his stellar sea -
son in one play.
Coach Shelton watched from 
the sidelines as his son served for a 
national championship. When Bay -
lor’s Charlie Broom missed a fore -
hand deep to solidify Shelton’s vic -
tory, the freshman threw his racket 
into the air in jubilation and was 
mobbed by his teammates.
His father fell to the ground with 
his face in his hands, overwhelmed 
with emotion. Florida had just won 
the national championship in story -
book fashion, and no one was more 
excited than father and son.
 
Team of the Year: 
Men’s Tennis  
By Ryan Zehnder
Florida’s men’s tennis team was 
more than just national champions. 
The season will be remembered for 
how it ended, but this squad earns 
Team of the Year honors for more 
than just their title triumph.
After an opening weekend 
loss to Texas, Florida caught fire, 
winning 17 straight matches and 
clinching the NCAA tournament’s 
No. 1 seed. The winning streak 
encompassed both sides of confer -
ence play, and the Gators finished 
a perfect 12-0 in regular season SEC 
matches. 
Two Florida players boast ac -
tive undefeated streaks of over 20 
matches and both finished the year 
undefeated. Senior Josh Goodger 
finished the year 16-0 in dual play, 
while Sophomore Blaise Bicknell 
finished 23-0.
Statistical perfection is one 
thing, but Florida tennis also pro -
duced cinematic brilliance. In the 
hotly contested national champi -
onship against Baylor, it was none other than Ben Shelton, son of Head 
coach Bryan Shelton, who earned 
Florida’s title-winning point. 
The team brought home UF’s 
first national title in program histo -
ry, the school’s only team national 
title in 2021 and the 42nd in school 
history.
Community Service Award: 
Lauren Waidner  
By Joseph Henry
Lauren Waidner remained dedi -
cated to service throughout her se -
nior season on the Florida women’s 
golf team and earned a third straight 
nod to the SEC Community Service 
team. 
The Fleming Island, Florida, na -
tive competed in four of 10 events 
for the Gators this season. Her most 
notable impact came off the course 
at UF Health Shands hospital where 
she volunteers with Streetlight — a 
program dedicated to the support of 
adolescents and young adults with 
chronic illnesses. Waidner first dis -
covered the program after kindling a 
strong friendship with an 18-year-old 
girl while working an internship at 
Shands in the summer of 2019. The 
girl left a profound impact on the 
golfer, bolstering her desires to be -
come a doctor. 
Waidner’s reach in Gainesville 
goes beyond her work in the medi -
cal field. She can often be found at 
local schools boxing up shoes with 
the Florida Student-Athlete Advisory 
Committee. Additionally, she helped 
plan a Climb for Cancer event — a 
one-day camp where children fight -
ing cancer and their families are in -
vited to spend time playing with stu -
dent athletes. 
All the volunteer work Waidner 
did during her years at UF put the 
life she lived as a student athlete into 
perspective. She will continue to sup -
port causes that give back to those 
who are less fortunate than herself 
while starting medical school. Most Improved Player: 
Tre Mann  
By Jesse Richardson
 
Florida Gators basketball put 
forth a valiant effort in the 2021 
March Madness tournament and 
overpowered Virginia Tech 75-
70 in overtime before tripping up 
in the second round against Oral 
Roberts in a three-point upset.
Despite being sent home ear -
lier than expected, the Gators still 
showed improvements through -
out the season.
One athlete, guard Tre Mann, 
made more improvements than 
the rest. Mann withdrew his 
name from the 2020 NBA Draft to 
return to school and enhance his 
fundamentals on the court before 
going pro. 
In his freshman year, the 
Gainesville native only put up 5.3 
points per game, shot 35.6 per -
cent from the field and averaged 
2.9 rebounds. Mann’s confidence 
grew along with himself his soph -
omore season; he hit the gym to 
bulk on 15 pounds of muscle. Mann and the squad used their 
new strength to overcome teams 
like West Virginia and rival Ten -
nessee.
His numbers vastly improved 
in the 2021 season, and his point 
average blasted to 16 per game 
and shot percentage to 45 per -
cent. In the final seven regular 
matchups, Mann averaged 20 
points and even put up a remark -
able 30 against the Volunteers.
Mann’s three-point shooting 
also saw an increase, going from 
28% his freshman year to 40% in 
his second go around.
Mann settled into a start -
ing role his sophomore year and 
earned his teammate’s trust with 
his clutch gene. He proved his 
trustworthiness with an ice-cold 
three-pointer to push Florida 
ahead of Virginia Tech in the 
tournament’s first round.
Now that Mann has proved to 
himself and scouts that he can 
lead an SEC program, the sopho -
more declared for the 2021 NBA 
Draft back in March to capitalize 
on his draft stock.AWARDS,  from pg. 6'UF's first national title in program history'
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Tre Mann against Mizzou March 4.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
THE OLDEST STUDENT 
FITNESS CENTER ON 
CAMPUS CAN BE FOUND IN 
THE SHADOW OF BEN HILL 
GRIFFIN STADIUM
By Joseph Henry
Sports Writer
Nestled right in the heart 
of UF’s campus, the Student 
Recreation & Fitness Center is the 
university’s original gym. 
Opened in 1991, Student Rec 
is over 37,000-square-feet and 
is located next to the Student 
Health Care Center and behind 
the Racquet Club Dining Center 
on Fletcher Drive. 
Student Rec’s strength and 
conditioning room spans 6,300 
square feet. Three large activity 
rooms host guided classes like 
yoga and zumba, and a dedicated 
cardio room and a cycling studio 
provide opportunities to get your 
blood pumping. 
The facility is centered around a 
multipurpose gymnasium that can 
be used for basketball, volleyball 
and even martial arts. Five 
racquetball courts and two squash 
courts are also housed inside. Sports equipment is available for 
checkout at the gym’s front desk. 
On a day where the Gainesville 
heat is especially overbearing, you 
can take a dip in the Florida Pool, 
located directly behind Student 
Rec. The pool features eight 
50-yard-long swimming lanes 
with depths ranging from 4.5 feet 
to 12.5 feet. It’s also heated up to 
a toasty 84 degrees in the winter 
months. 
The gym, pool and equipment 
rentals are free to all UF students 
who are taking classes. 
While smaller in size than the 
massive Southwest Recreation 
Center, Student Rec’s main upside 
is its convenient location. Parking 
at Student Rec is scarce though, 
and the facility is best accessed 
by bike, scooter or foot. With the 
majority of UF’s residence halls 
on the east side of campus, they 
are not walking distance to the 
state-of-the-art Southwest Rec. So, 
if you are trying to get a sweat in 
with only a small amount of time 
between classes, Student Rec is 
for you. 
Lance Duch, a 20-year-old 
microbiology junior, fits trips 
to Student Rec into his schedule 
almost every day. “I typically went around 11 a.m. 
or noon each day and loved 
going at the time because the 
gym wasn’t too busy but also 
not dead either,” said Duch.
Duch wanted to build muscle 
when he came to college, so he has spent most of his time in the 
weight room, which he said has 
all the machines and weights he 
needs. He said the location was 
his favorite aspect of Student Rec 
because he never had to drive to 
go to the gym.  
The classic recreation center 
lacks the size and style of its counterpart, but it overcomes that 
with its convenience. If you stop 
by for a work out, make sure you 
don’t skip out on the free Gatorade 
offered in the lobby of the Student 
Health Care Center.
 
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.org
A LOOK INSIDE UF’S LARGEST GYM
By Michael Hull
Sports Writer
Look, I get it. Southwest Recreation 
Center can be intimidating to the average 
gym-goer. The 140,000-square-foot facility 
looks like something out of a utopian sci-fi  
film. I’m here to make you feel comfortable 
in UF’s premiere workout environment. 
Let’s get started.
The indoor section of UF’s largest gym 
boasts six indoor basketball courts, five 
racquetball courts and a multipurpose gym 
for sports like indoor soccer. Students play 
pick-up basketball on the courts, which is 
a great way to get cardio in without feeling 
like you want to die inside.
Southwest Rec is available for all UF 
students who are enrolled in classes and 
paid the Activity and Service Fee. Christian 
Lopez, a 20-year-old international studies 
junior, worked out at Southwest for about 
five days a week this summer. Lopez 
said he mostly uses the weight room and 
basketball courts.
“I love doing strength training and 
hooping,” Lopez said. “Physical activity 
is super fun and good for your 
mental and physical health.”
The center offers much more than 
basketball. There’s a 15,000-square-foot 
cardio room that spans two levels. The 
first level features exercise machines like 
treadmills, elliptical machines and exercise 
bikes, as well as an open area with free 
weights, kettlebells and medicine balls. 
I enjoy this area, especially since they added squat racks and benches to it. It’s 
typically less crowded than the weight 
room, and there’s more room to do full 
exercise circuits. The downside is it can 
fill up quickly. There are only a few squat 
racks and a couple benches, so this is more 
of an area for body-weight exercises than 
anything else in my opinion.
Head upstairs, and you’ll find my favorite 
spot in the entire center. The upstairs cardio 
area features an indoor 1/9th mile track, 
more machines and free weights. Now, I 
am by no means a runner, so the track is 
not for me. However, this area is typically 
the quietest and is the best spot to do body-
weight exercises. It also includes a rack of 
dumbbells and kettlebells, so there is plenty 
to work with in a calm area of the gym. 
Back downstairs, the facility houses 
a large weight room that holds both free 
weight activities like squat racks and bench 
presses, as well as leg presses and chest 
presses. This is where you’ll find the true 
gym hardos (if you’ve been in a gym, you 
know the type), featuring fraternity formal 
tank tops, Gymshark leggings and plenty 
of preworkout to go around. While it does 
have the most equipment, the weight room 
can be intimidating to new gym members. 
I’d recommend going with a friend at first, 
then ease yourself into the weight room life.
Southwest offers the ability to workout 
out on your own or with others. It 
hosts classes taught by trained fitness 
professionals, like cycling, zumba, hip hop 
fitness and yoga classes. 
The complex also features an outdoor 
section that includes beach volleyball and 
tennis courts, as well as fields for intramural 
sports. 
Students can rent equipment from Southwest to use on the courts or fields, 
such as frisbees, tennis rackets and 
footballs.
Despite all the amenities offered, 
RecSports still looks for ways to improve 
the facility. This past Spring, it had gym-
goers fill out a survey for ways to better 
the center. Lopez wishes there were more 
squat racks and Olympic lifting areas inside 
of the weight room. Personally, I just want 
the ShakeSmart located inside Southwest to 
be open 24/7, but I’m a dreamer.
Put at the edge of UF’s campus near 
Lakeside Complex, students who live on 
campus normally take the bus or drive to 
Southwest Rec instead of walking. However, 
the size and amenities of Southwest are 
worth the extra commute. The biggest issue 
with the distance is parking. Students need 
a UF decal to park by Southwest until 3:30 
p.m. Any decal can be used, though, making it accessible to off-campus residents with a 
Park-and-Ride decal.
Now, the most important part of any 
Southwest experience: timing. Working 
out at the wrong time can ruin your gym 
experience. Lopez recommends not going 
between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. I recommend 
finding a time in the morning to go. If that 
doesn’t work, either lunch time or late at 
night is the way to go. You can always 
check UF’s RecSports app — available on 
both iOS and android — for time updates. 
The app features cameras and head counts, 
showing how many people are in each 
section of the gym at a time.
Hopefully now, with the help of this 
guide, you can walk into Southwest Rec 
confidently.
@Michael_Hull33
mhull@alligator.orgThe classic UF gym: Student Recreation & Fitness Center
MTV welcome to my gym, Southwest Recreation CenterMingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
The Student Recreation & Fitness Center on Friday, June 18, 2021
Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
The front entrance of Southwest Recreation Center.
MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021   ALLIGATOR   9 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  
and services at tobaccofreeflorida.com/quityourway.NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led virtual sessions are now available for all Florida residents, 
regardless of insurance status. Participants are also eligible to receive free 
nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
FFoorr  mmoorree  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  vviirrttuuaall  GGrroouupp  QQuuiitt  sseessssiioonnss,,  ccoonnttaacctt::
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
UF Area Health Education
Cente rs (AHEC) Program 
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA|10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
THE SMATHERS LIBRARIES 
FORM THE LARGEST 
INFORMATION RESOURCE 
SYSTEM IN FLORIDA
By Makiya Seminera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
During a typical year at UF, the 
bustle of campus life is hard to miss 
— with students racing to class, hur -
rying to catch a bus, or weaving their 
way through Plaza of the Americas 
to grab Krishna lunch. Amid the 
flurry of students, the six George A. 
Smathers libraries provide an escape 
for both students and faculty alike to 
seek refuge.
“There are times when there’s just 
too many distractions in your living 
environment,” University Libraries 
Dean Judith Russell said.  “We think 
the libraries are a place that give 
the students (another) option. And 
there’s so many options, many differ -
ent locations, different libraries with 
different characteristics.”
Consisting of six different libraries 
— Architecture and Fine Arts Library, 
Education Library, Health Science 
Center Libraries, Library West, Mar -
ston Science Library and Smathers 
Library —  The George A. Smathers 
libraries form the largest information 
resource system in Florida. The Levin 
College of Law’s Legal Information 
Center also holds a collaborative rela -
tionship with Smathers libraries. 
Library visitors have access to a 
growing collection of 6.17 million 
print volumes, in addition to more 
than 62,000 UF dissertations and the -
ses. If guests don’t have time to visit 
one of the six libraries, they can ac -
cess 1.5 million e-books and over 14 
million digitized pages by navigating 
the Smathers libraries’ website. 
Like all other areas on campus 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
Smathers libraries were forced to 
drastically adjust their procedures. To 
ensure safety within the libraries — 
which collectively attract 4.5 million 
visitors annually — seating capacities 
were reduced, face coverings were 
required and Gator 1 ID cards were 
mandatory upon entry to check if stu -
dents were cleared for campus. 
“I was dreading the idea that peo -
ple would show up and want to come 
into the library, and we’d have to say 
there’s no room,” Russell said. 
Services such as Ask-A Librarian 
— a free library service that allows 
students to seek assistance from li -
brary staff through email, text, or in -
stant message  — flourished during 
the pandemic when many students 
found themselves no longer on cam -
pus. Now, as campus facilities will open at full capacity during Summer 
B and masks are now optional, the 
six branches of the Smathers libraries 
look to fully resume their unique ser -
vices to their patrons. 
Library West
After whirling through the revolv -
ing entrance doors and grabbing cof -
fee from Starbucks, patrons of Library 
West hurry up the escalator to find a 
peaceful seat to study. Serving as the 
centerpiece of Plaza of the Americas, 
Library West remains one of the most 
popular libraries on campus. 
With seating for approximately 
1,400 visitors and an official “quiet 
study” space on the fourth floor, Li -
brary West is designed to withstand 
the rush of students who may flood 
the building during final exams week. 
Students can choose to sit at the vari -
ous tables, chairs, study rooms, or Fit -
Desk study bikes located throughout 
the building. 
Designated as the humanities and 
social sciences library, students have 
access to collections from various 
fields: books, microform materials, 
newspapers, periodicals, journals and 
DVDs. 
In addition to the 18 group study 
rooms at Library West, students can 
use unique spaces like the One But -
ton Video Recording Studio — a re -
cording studio equipped with HD 
cameras, lighting, audio equipment 
and a green screen function. Another 
space in Library West, the Accessibil -
ity Studio, is available for registered 
Disability Resource Center students to 
have a private space to interact with 
library resources. 
The library staff aims to make Li -
brary West a more inclusive space for 
visitors of all backgrounds, according 
to Library West chair Stacey Ewing. 
Like other library branches, a lacta -
tion room and gender-neutral bath -
rooms were added in Library West. 
As a way to further accommodate 
students during the pandemic, Li -
brary West added 10 test proctoring 
booths for students who did not have 
a quiet area at home to take an exam. 
Library East (Smathers)
At first glance, Library East ap -
pears to be a modest building, as it 
blends in with the surrounding lec -
ture halls. However, one step inside 
reveals that the library is filled to the 
brim with historical treasures.
Dating back to 1925, Library East 
is the oldest library on campus with 
an original capacity of 800. In nearly 
100 years, Library East’s four floors 
have become home to remarkable 
collections, including the Map and 
Imagery Library, Isser and Rae Price 
Library of Judaica, and the Latin American and Caribbean Collections.
Located on the first floor, the Map 
& Imagery Library is one of the largest 
academic map libraries in the coun -
try, containing around 500,000 maps, 
300,000 aerial photographs and 8,000 
reference books and atlases. 
On the second floor, students can 
enter the Grand Reading room to be 
assigned a table to access non-circu -
lating materials. The Judaica Suite, 
attached to the Grand Reading Room, 
is filled with rare books from the Isser 
and Rae Price Library of Judaica. In 
addition to the priceless books found 
in the Judaica Suite, students can 
observe the handmade artwork of 
Kenneth Treister, the architect of the 
room. 
One of Library East’s most distin -
guished collections, the Latin Ameri -
can and Caribbean Collection, was 
founded in 1951 and is currently 
located on the third floor of Library 
East. The collection contains around 
500,000 volumes in English, Spanish, 
Portuguese, and various indigenous 
languages. The collection also serves 
as a way for many Latinx students 
to connect with their culture, LACC 
public services associate Keith Man -
uel said.
Although the COVID-19 pandemic 
reduced Library East’s capacity and 
hours, it provided a unique advan -
tage: increasing and improving its 
digital collections. As fewer students 
were able to access physical prints 
of literature, library staff were tasked 
with scanning and photographing 
the collections so students could find 
what they needed online. 
Marston Science Library
Sitting right beside the Hub and 
Turlington Plaza, Marston Science 
Library sits in a convenient spot on 
campus and garners a substantial 
amount of foot traffic. With the yel -
low gangling Alachua sculpture — 
lovingly known as the French fries 
— located right outside the building, 
Marston is hard to miss. 
Named after the seventh UF presi -
dent Robert Q. Marston, Marston Sci -
ence Library caters to the university’s 
scientific community. The library 
was built in 1987 to consolidate the 
six original UF science branch librar -
ies: Agriculture, Physics, Botany, 
Engineering, Chemistry and Biology-
Geology. 
Students can choose which of 
the five floors best fit their studying 
needs, with the bottom three floors 
being designated for group study and 
the top two floors for quiet study.
Marston Science Library remains 
a technological pioneer among the 
other Smathers libraries. In addition 
to maintaining five computer labs 
within the building — with one of 
them specialized for augmented real -
ity development — Marston offers a 
multi-purpose visualization and con -
ference room for students to reserve 
for meetings, Marston Science Library 
chair Valrie Minson said.
Not only does Marston offer an 
abundance of technology, but their 
expanding tool library allows stu -
dents to loan out take-home equip -
ment ranging from drill sets to sewing 
machines. 
Architecture and Fine Arts Library
With a growing collection of 
125,000 volumes, the academic needs 
of students from both the College of 
Design, Construction & Planning and 
the College of the Arts are satisfied 
by the Architecture and Fine Arts Li -
brary. Since its opening in 1965, the 
AFA library has emerged as one of 
the largest art library collections in the southeastern United States. 
Unlike its neighbor Marston Sci -
ence Library, the AFA library discour -
ages extended group study sessions 
due to the vast open space of the li -
brary. Instead, individual study is en -
hanced through the use of the famous 
double-decker carrel units equipped 
with electrical outlets, which are 
found throughout the reading room. 
Through the AFA library, com -
prehensive research guides were also 
created for students pursuing dif -
ferent disciplines supported by the 
library. The guides include a variety 
of topics within the arts and architec -
ture professions including ceramics, 
dance, construction management, in -
terior design and sustainability. 
Education Library
Opened in 1980, the Education 
Library is home to over 80,000 text -
books, children’s and young adult 
books, and journals. Right outside its 
doors, a beloved oak tree — winner 
of the 2021 UF Library Landmark Lol -
lapalooza — stands tall to be admired 
by the library staff and students alike.
Separated from the main campus 
by Norman Field, the Education Li -
brary remains hidden from a large 
part of the UF population. However, 
its proximity to Sorority Row and 
other off-campus housing makes it 
a prime spot for some students to 
resume their studies close to home, 
Rachael Elrod, head of the Education 
Library, said.  
Although the library supplies print 
materials meant to support programs 
within the College of Education, the 
expansion of educational technology 
is on the rise within the Education Li -
brary — specifically within the Edu -
Gator Makery.
The EduGator Makery is a space 
within the Education Library that 
holds traditional educational tech -
nologies such as die cuts, a laminator 
and video editing software. 
To Elrod, the Education Library 
offers an alternative for students who 
want to get away from the fast pace of 
UF’s campus. 
“I think there’s just this feeling 
of community,” Elrod said. “It tends 
to be a very quiet library as opposed 
to Library West or Marston where 
there’s lots of activity...there’s noth -
ing wrong with that, but people seek -
ing out a quiet environment in the li -
brary would really find a home here.”
Health Science Center Libraries
Unlike the other library branches, 
the Health Science Center Libraries 
have two locations: Gainesville and 
Jacksonville. 
The Borland Health Sciences Li -
brary seeks to support patrons at UF 
Health in Jacksonville by providing 
health resources and research to doc -
tors.
The main Health Science Cen -
ter library in Gainesville serves over 
11,000 students, faculty and staff from 
the six Health Science Center UF col -
leges. HSC libraries also serve Shands 
Health Care by supporting its clinical 
and research missions through its ex -
ceptional health collections.
The HSC library played a criti -
cal role in community mitigation of 
COVID-19 through the creation of 
a COVID-19 library guide with re -
sources for healthcare practitioners 
and the public, according to nursing 
and consumer health liaison Maggie 
Ansell. The library guide was helpful 
to many members of the local com -
munity who were unsure of how to 
navigate the emerging COVID-19 
health information.
Improving mental health is an -other mission of the HSC library 
— whether it be through providing 
jigsaw puzzles and coloring kits for 
students to distract themselves, of -
fering nap pods for students to re -
lax in, or inviting local therapy dogs 
throughout the semester.
Two local therapy dogs, Beau and 
Lentil Bean, as well as their owners 
Terry Biehl and Elizabeth Pearlman, 
are frequent visitors to the HSC li -
brary, stopping by a couple times a 
semester to greet students. 
“[Beau] loves visiting students, I 
would have to say of all the therapy 
work, it’s his favorite,” Biehl said.
In order to abide by CDC guide -
lines, Beau and Lentil Bean’s vis -
its were moved outside of the HSC 
library. Guests were instructed to 
maintain social distancing, wear 
masks, and wash their hands before 
and after petting the dogs. 
The student debate:  
which library is the best?
Although each of the six branches 
collaborate with one another to put 
on Smathers library-wide events like 
the annual fall festival, they also en -
joy participating in healthy competi -
tion — mostly brought about by UF 
students who have pledged their al -
legiance to one of the libraries.
Choosing a favorite UF library can 
be determined by numerous factors: 
location, the collections offered, seat -
ing arrangements, or even the pres -
ence of a Starbucks inside. For Gabby 
Whitler, 21-year-old psychology se -
nior, the ornate aesthetics of Library 
East secured its location as her regu -
lar study spot.
“The ambience of [Library East] is 
just really nice and helps me focus,” 
Whitler said. “It almost helps me 
fantasize [that] I enjoy studying and 
manifest that mindset.”
Other students like 20-year-old ac -
counting junior Kate Ross found com -
fort in studying at Library West, even 
if it meant taking a detour from her 
normal path on campus. 
“Overall, I find the furniture and 
overall appearance in Llibrary Wwest 
to be very appealing both to sit in and 
look at,”  Ross said. “Library West 
is further than a lot of the dorms on 
campus, but it is definitely worth the 
extra walk.”
Melanie Halem, a 20-year-old po -
litical science and mathematics se -
nior, said Marston’s top floors are the 
perfect place to focus on schoolwork. 
“I think the fifth floor cubbies are 
just perfect,” Halem said. “There’s a 
cubby with plants around it that is so 
beautiful. It has such a great view of 
Beaty Towers too.”
Haley Geer, 20-year-old animal 
science junior, also identified Mar -
ston as her favorite library at UF, as 
she felt that the library contained var -
ious collections and equipment that 
catered to her field of study.
“It works really well for STEM stu -
dents, which I know is the purpose 
of it, but I always found it very acces -
sible,” Geer said.
For Craft Talbot, a 21-year-old 
business management senior, Mar -
ston Science Library is more than 
just a favorite study spot. In Febru -
ary, Talbot adopted a bunny from 
Gainesville Rabbit Rescue and named 
him after her favorite spot on campus 
— Marston.
“I can’t wait [for] my senior year,” 
Talbot said. “I’m definitely going to 
take graduation pictures in front of 
[Marston Science Library] with Mar -
ston.”
@makseminera
mseminera@alligator.orgGeorge A. Smathers Libraries provide a welcoming community to foster student success  
Makiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
Photo of Marston Science Library
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-131For Rent
furnished
2 bed/2 bath condo adjacent to campus 
w/ss appliances & w/d pool/gym rts bus 
walk to campus shands $1400/mo+util 
annl/lease ask about move-in special! 
Tom @ 941-216-8665                   7-12-21-4-1  
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
2 bed/2 bath condo adjacent to campus 
w/ss appliances & w/d pool/gym rts bus 
walk to campus shands $1200/mo+util 
annl/lease ask about move-in special! 
Tom @ 941-216-8665                    7-12-21-4-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            8-15-21-13-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.  
8-1-21-9-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
11..    TTVV  sshhooww::  ““FFaammiillyy  ________””
11..    MMooddiiffyy,,  ffiinnee--ttuunnee55..    EExxppeeddiittiioonn
22..    FFllaapp66..    LLaattiinn  ddaannccee  
33..    FFoorrcceeffuull,,  sseevveerree77..    ________  HHeemmiinnggwwaayy  
44..    MMaaxxiimmuumm,,  uullttiimmaattee  FFAAFFRRIIAA
SSUUJJAATTDDNNUUTTAAJJ
GGOOTTNNAA
LLFFTTRRTTEEUU
IIEESSEENNNNTTSSTTRREENNEE
MMSSUUTTTTOOAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AAffffaaiirr    55AA--JJaauunntt    66AA--TTaannggoo    77AA--EErrnneesstt
11DD--AAddjjuusstt    22DD--FFlluutttteerr    33DD--IInntteennssee    44DD--UUttmmoosstt    BB--MMoouunntt  FFuujjii66--2288--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ffiirrsstt  kknnoowwnn  aasscceenntt  ooff  ________  
________wwaass  iinn  666633  bbyy  aa  mmoonnkk..  
BONUS
scan to subscribe scan to subscribe 
to the to the alligatoralligator   
newsletternewsletter
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil -
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RV's 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          6-28-7-1313 Wanted 6 Furnishings
By Susan Gelfand
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/28/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/28/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, June 28, 2021
ACROSS
1 Skedaddled
5 Spontaneous 
notion
9 Leveled, as a 
building
14 Tahoe or Titicaca
15 Role model
16 Bakery 
emanation
17 Auto on-off 
baking gadget
19 Like a legally 
binding contract
20 Volkswagen 
sedan
21 Bring to life, as 
cartoons
23 Opposite of 
WSW
24 Golfer Aoki
25 Tongue twister 
seashell seller
28 Artisan who 
makes delicate 
items
34 Locate precisely
36 “You win”
37 Fascinated by
38 Prefix with  
centric
41 Deco artist 
Romain 
de Tirtoff’s 
pseudonym
42 Plant swelling
44 Tutored
46 Exact repetition 
of what was said
49 “You bet!”
50 Sorority T’s
51 Shoo-__: easy 
winners
53 Indonesia’s 
capital
57 Idaho product
61 Banish
62 Three-goals-
in-one-game 
hockey scoring 
feats ... or what 
the ends of 
17-, 28- and 
46-Across are 
when they’re 
rearranged?
65 Perry of fashion
66 Buckeye State
67 Latticework piece
68 Hits with 
snowballs
69 Checkers or 
chess
70 Crossword-
solving SimpsonDOWN
1 Broadway bomb
2 Volcano flow
3 __ out a living: 
barely manages
4 Thick, as fog
5 “Little” fib
6 Skirt’s edge
7 Wrath
8 Boggy tract
9 Stuffed pasta 
pockets
10 Composer 
Khachaturian
11 “Nana” novelist 
Émile
12 Give off
13 Florida’s Miami-
__ County
18 Dance that 
“takes two”
22 Capture
24 __ of Panama: 
narrow landform
25 Went undercover
26 Language of 
India
27 Key in
29 Colony crawler
30 Butter substitute
31 Fret
32 Makeup mogul 
Lauder
33 Clarinets and 
oboes35 Apple or pear
39 Prefix with natal 
or -phyte
40 How ballerinas 
often dance
43 Monroe or  
Taylor
45 Pavarotti, vocally
47 Pic on a pec, say
48 Clam used in 
chowder
52 “In the __ of the 
Night”: doo-wop 
classic53 Cherokee 
automaker
54 Wheel shaft
55 While away, as 
time
56 Landed
58 Antioxidant-rich 
berry
59 Sign on a B’way 
booth
60 Fed. workplace 
monitor
63 “Bingo!”
64 Apple CEO Cook
By Darryl Gonzalez
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/15/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/15/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 15, 2021
ACROSS
1 Golf 
contemporary of 
Jack and Gary
7 Diner order, 
briefly
10 Hullabaloo
13 Omelet maker’s 
tool
14 Slangy “Agreed”
15 Soda container
16 One who locks 
up
18 Drive-__: outdoor 
movies
19 Important time
20 Try to attract
21 Chop finely
23 Phrase used at 
a remembrance 
service
27 Lampoons
30 Legal degs.
31 Chimp kin
32 Can. neighbor
33 Org. that issues 
drug recalls
36 Resort website 
section that 
includes a pool 
and fitness center
41 N. or S. state
42 Gershwin brother
43 Vermouth name
44 Inventor Rubik
46 Adriatic country
48 Area to reclaim 
misplaced stuff
52 Indian, for one
53 Archery skill
54 Lacking color
57 Had some lunch, 
say
58 Existential 
passion
63 “The Simpsons” 
neighbor 
Flanders
64 Elevator name
65 Places to perch
66 Pig’s digs
67 Spider’s trap
68 “Who cares?”
DOWN
1 Proficient
2 Stern, at sea
3 Mars rover org.
4 ’20s-’40s slugger 
Mel
5 “__ It Be”: Beatles6 Nod off
7 Actress Arthur
8 Loo
9 Generic crime 
syndicate
10 Killing it on the 
test
11 Word after break 
or belly
12 First occurrence
14 “That’s painful!”
17 Homesites
22 Treasury Dept. 
org.
23 Dryer trap fuzz
24 Cogito-sum link
25 In addition
26 Eggy Spanish 
dessert
27 Word after 
“Going twice”
28 “Carmen” solo
29 Chore
32 Thurman in films
33 One of two 
bumped in 
friendship
34 __ Arnaz, Jr., 
coverchild on the 
first TV Guide
35 Europe neighbor
37 Fictional rafter 
Huck38 J.Lo’s  
ex-partner
39 Pressing need?
40 Garden critter
44 Info at SFO
45 Needed to 
reorder
46 Bob or beehive
47 Grapevine 
transmissions
48 Sources of 
student  
interest?49 Eightsome
50 Somewhat 
disreputable
51 Dieter’s concern
54 Coin-in-a-fountain 
thought
55 Mennen lotion
56 Bird’s home
59 Colorado native
60 Bro or sis
61 Milne hopper
62 __-impact 
aerobics
06/14/2021answers  on page 121. TELEVISION: What is 
Agent Mulder's nickname on 
"The X-Files" drama?
2. MEASUREMENTS: How 
many gallons are in one bar -
rel of oil?
3. GAMES: How much mon -
ey do you get when you start 
a board game of "Life"?
4. SCIENCE: When was the 
sound barrier broken for the 
first time?5. MOVIES: What was the 
name of the whale that swal -
lowed the title character in 
Disney's "Pinocchio"?
6. GEOLOGY: What is dia -
genesis?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Which 
river runs through the Grand 
Canyon in Arizona?
8. U.S. STATES: How many 
states did U.S. Route 66 pass 
through?
9. FOOD & DRINK: Which 
vegetable has the highest wa -
ter content?
10. MEDICAL: What is a 
more common name for the 
condition called pharyngitis?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
answers  on pg. 121. Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher Walter Johnson holds the 
Major League Baseball all-time record for shutouts with 
how many?
2. What British golfer won the Open Championship in 
1934, '37 and '48? (Hint: The European Tour's Rookie of 
the Year award is named after him.)
3. In 1989, the New York Knicks hired what 33-year-old 
to be their head coach?
4. What college football bowl game was first played at 
Yankee Stadium in 2010?
5. What Pro Football Hall of Fame kicker holds the NFL 
record for regular-season games played with 382 from 
1982-2007? 
6. Name the rookie NHL goaltender who started every 
regular-season game for the Detroit Red Wings in 1964-65?
7. Businesswoman Gail Miller was owner of what NBA 
franchise from 2009-20?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
the 
independent 
florida
we inform. you decide.© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.Ambedo Photo and Film
Wedding Photography and More!
Check us out here:
Facebook ● Instagram
Our website www.ambedophotoandfilm.com
6-28-21-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
NOTE:  This newspaper as -
sumes no responsibility for in -
jury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who re -
sponds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arrang -
ing meetings or investing money.15 Services 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"HOUSE CLEANER NEEDED
for single family home approximately 3 miles 
from campus. Cleaning supplies and vacu -
um supplied. Call for details 352-317-6279      
6-28-21-1-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail -
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-15-21-13-15
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Join our team!
Hiring committed individuals for our
out of school program for girls ages 5-14.
Applicants must be available M-F.
Schedules vary during summer and
afternoons during the school year. 
Apply at: http://girlsplace.net/employment/
7-26-21-5-14
P.K. YONGE ASSISTANT SWIM COACH
HS swimming experience required. 
Collegiate or club experience preferred. 
Must be available weekday afternoons. Send 
email of interest to karadawson2@gmail.
com    7-6-21-2-14
Leasing Consultant 
CMC is looking for full-time and part-time 
dedicated individuals to join our leasing 
team! The leasing consultant is responsible 
for general office duties, conducting tours of 
apartments & property amenities, qualifying 
prospects, and ensuring completion of lease 
agreements. Must be customer service and 
sales oriented, have excellent communica -
tion skills, be able to work weekends and 
must pass background and drug screen. 
CMC offers a benefits package including 
generous paid time off! Apply at cmcapt.com 
or email katie.castelli@cmcapt.com.   
7-19-21-4-14
Trivia Test  answers1. Spooky
2. 42
3. $10,000
4. 1947
5. Monstro
6. The process by which sediment is 
turned into sedimentary rock7. Colorado River
8. Eight (Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, 
Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, 
Arizona and California)
9. Cucumbers (96% water)
10. Sore throatSports Quiz  answers1. 110.
2. Sir Henry Cotton.
3. Stu Jackson.
4. The New Era Pinstripe Bowl.
5. Morten Andersen.
6. Roger Crozier.
7. The Utah Jazz.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
found found   
something? something? 
place a place a FREEFREE   
"found""found"  ad  ad 
in thein the
alligatoralligator   
classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
solution  below
solution  below
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
advertise in the:
new 
student
edition
August 16, 2021
advertising@alligator.org
for more info
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
scan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:get 
VACCINATED!
MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021   ALLIGATOR   1 3 
SUMMER EVENTS FOR 
GATORWELL WILL OCCUR DURING 
UF PREVIEW AND GREAT GATOR 
WELCOME WHILE THE CWC WILL 
HOST ONLINE THERAPY
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
When Cassidy Roberts was a freshman at 
UF, the Student Health Care Center referred 
her to the Counseling Wellness Center and 
GatorWell. She said she felt overwhelmed by 
school and her personal life.
Now, as a junior, Roberts reflects back on 
her two-year journey with the university’s 
mental health facilities and resources. Her 
advice, especially for freshmen in a similar 
position, has remained consistent through 
all the ups and downs of her college career: 
always reach out.
“Don’t let the horror stories or the reviews 
scare you,” Roberts, a 20-year-old chemical 
engineering junior, said. “Reach out if you 
need help, because that’s the most important 
part.”
UF provides free counseling, coaching, 
testing and crisis support among many services 
on campus. Students may reach out to the 
CWC for licensed counseling support focused 
on helping individuals work through mental 
health concerns and GatorWell for wellness 
and health coaching with an expertise in 
behavior change. 
GatorWell’s offices are located at Reitz 
Union, Jennings Hall and Springs Complex. 
GatorWell’s coaches and health educators 
provide time management and prioritization, 
stress management and mindfulness, sleep 
habits, study and test skills, social connection 
and holistic balance for optimal wellbeing 
to help students with their academic 
performance. “GatorWell was a really good resource 
that I don’t think a lot of people use,” Roberts 
said. “They helped me address some different 
things like my study habits and my sleeping 
habits to kind of help curb some of my mental 
health issues.”
The GatorWell Health Hut travels across 
campus providing bi-weekly health messages, 
and activities like a game testing stress 
management and skee-ball skills. It also gives 
out useful things such as chapstick, stress 
balls and condoms. 
Jennifer Kennymore, a health promotions 
specialist at GatorWell, encourages students to 
reach out to all of UF’s mental health facilities 
and resources.
“We have students that’ll talk to their 
counselor about some mental health things 
they’re working on and then they’ll come and 
focus more on behavior change with their 
wellness coach,” Kennymore said.
The CWC has three locations: Peabody 
Hall for crisis and urgent walk-ins, Radio Road 
for counseling and workshops and Cypress 
Hall for scheduled appointments only. The 
Center boasts a diverse staff from about 20 
countries, territories and states who speak 
about 15 languages and dialects. Staff include 
different races, genders, sexual orientations, 
social class backgrounds and world views. 
The Center provides brief consultations, 
online counseling for individuals and couples, 
and alcohol and drug services. This summer, 
online general therapy will be provided on 
select days until August 6, including video 
sessions on mindful living and coping skills, 
specialty events like coping with ADHD and 
peer support.
“I personally think that if you have never 
been to a therapist before, the CWC is a great 
place to start because they can help you find 
someone,” Robert’s said. 
But after being referred to the CWC by the 
Student Health Care Center three times and receiving no calls back, Roberts had to look 
elsewhere for counseling. 
“When I’ve tried to reach out to CWC 
they’ve always just been too busy, too full,” 
Roberts said. “They just don’t have room for 
people that aren’t emergency cases.”
The CWC includes a 24/7 crisis hotline 
for students who are in immediate danger 
of hurting themselves, are distressed over 
a recent death or have experienced a sexual 
assault.
Like the CWC, GatorWell is focused on 
strategies to help students overcome stress 
and provides helpful resources. By doing so, 
GatorWell focuses on supporting students through prevention — taking a direct role in 
teaching students the skills and behaviors 
they need to maintain their wellness.
This summer, GatorWell will be attending 
UF Preview and the Great Gator Welcome, 
which starts June 27. These events are 
opportunities for freshmen to ask questions 
and discuss how GatorWell can help them 
with health and wellness. HIV testing and 
mindfulness sessions will also begin this 
summer.
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgGatorWell and the CWC help UF community with mental health  
INCOMING FRESHMEN WILL 
FACE NEW CHALLENGES 
WHEN GOING OFF 
TO COLLEGE
By Jake Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Macayla Bricarell’s cat, Lucy, may 
be sassy, but that’s exactly what the 
22-year-old UF alumna missed about 
her cat when she was in Gainesville. 
“Lucy’s personality is that of a 
puppy who loves her person. She 
will wait at the door for you and fol -
lows people around,” she said. “She 
doesn’t believe in personal space 
and loves to talk.”
Bricarell, who is now an intern 
at Disney, graduated from UF with a 
bachelor’s degree in public relations 
in May. Although college was a fun 
journey, she said she missed the life 
she left behind, including her pets.
Going off to college can mean 
leaving things behind, including 
family, friends and pets, which may 
lead to homesickness. 
Homesickness is defined as emo -
tional sorrow some feel while being 
away from home and in a new envi -
ronment. It can negatively affect pro -
ductivity, cause depression and grief. 
Homesickness can be caused 
by disruption of lifestyle, difficulty 
adapting and feelings of not belong -
ing. All are common issues for col -
lege students. 
Almost 70% of freshmen college 
students reported feeling homesick in 2016, according to a survey by the 
UCLA Higher Education Institute.
Bricarell said her freshman year 
was especially hard because she was 
also away from her childhood cat, 
Angel, who stayed behind at her par -
ent’s home.
“She was like an old lady from 
the day she was born,” she said. “I 
missed her every day.”
Hunter Ann Oakley, a 20-year-old 
UF construction management junior, 
also said she struggles with home -
sickness.
Keeping herself busy with class -
es and the National Association of 
Women in Construction helps curb 
some of the homesickness, but she 
said she still misses her family and 
three dogs.
She especially misses her Toy 
Poodle, Hannah, her Shih Tzu, Co -
coa, and her Yorkshire Terrier, Ruby, 
because they make her feel better 
when she’s alone. 
Ways to deal with homesickness
Missing family, friends and pets 
while in a new place is completely 
normal and means a healthy rela -
tionship exists among them. It will 
take a while to adjust to new sur -
roundings, according to WebMD.
“It gets better,” Oakley said. “It’s 
rough at first but it will get better, 
especially when you get more into 
what you’re doing and excited about 
your classes or seeing friends. You 
don’t forget about [family, friends 
and pets] by any means, but it just 
gets easier.” Keep in touch with loved ones
While Bricarell was in Gainesville, 
she made sure to keep in touch with 
her dad, and he would send pictures 
of Angel and Lucy to her. 
During school weeks, Oakley said 
she frequently talked to her family 
on the phone and would FaceTime 
her younger sister to see her dogs. 
“I would text my sister and mom 
a lot, and my dad would call me on 
his lunch breaks,” she said. 
Find a favorite place
Bricarell encourages incoming 
students to find a place that makes 
them feel at home in Gainesville.
“There’s a lot of cafes, record 
stores, bars, restaurants and even li -
braries,” she said. “Finding a place 
that makes you feel at home is the 
best thing because it grounds you.”
Before the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Bricarell coped with being away 
from her cats by going to animal 
shelters in Gainesville. 
“I would go in the kitten room 
and hang out with the adult cats,” 
she said. “The cats there do need at -
tention.” 
For incoming students who are 
cat lovers, she recommends visiting 
Feeline Good Cat Cafe, a coffee bar 
and lounge space that partners with 
the Humane Society of North Central 
Florida to host adoptable cats in the 
shop.
Make new friends
Bricarell said it’s important for 
students to find a family. “I’ve had friend groups since 
I started college and it made me 
so happy and kept me from feel -
ing homesick because they are my 
home,” she said. “I met my core 
group by talking to two people at a 
pool party for PACE and then met 
their friends.”
UF offers more than 900 student 
organizations. Students can take the 
involvement quiz to find an organi -
zation that best fits their interests, 
and they can attend GatorMania on 
Tuesday to connect with and learn 
about different organizations.
Other resources
UF’s Counseling and Wellness 
Center offers resources for those 
struggling with mental health, in -
cluding blogs on how to deal with 
loss and loneliness and a weekly 
podcast that covers mental health. 
The CWC also offers counseling, cri -
sis support, brief consultations and 
more for students who struggle with 
stress, anxiety or any other concerns 
relating to new surroundings.  
Not everyone is nervous about 
finding a new home in Gainesville, 
however. 
Katie Russell, an 18-year-old Jack -
sonville native who will be attending 
UF in the Fall as a chemistry major, 
said she is excited to come to UF and 
isn’t worried about being homesick.
She said her older brother went to 
Florida Atlantic University last year. 
“I’ve seen my brother do this. I 
know I can do this. I’m ready,” she 
said. She said some of her friends at 
her high school will also be attend -
ing UF, so she wouldn’t be leaving 
many friends behind. 
However, Russell said she is wor -
ried about adapting to independence 
and figuring out who she is away 
from her family. 
She also said she is going to miss 
her four dogs, especially her York -
shire Terrier, Dixie. She said her fam -
ily adopted Dixie as a rescue when 
she was 7 weeks old after Russell got 
a concussion in February. 
“She’s like my little buddy,” she 
said. “She likes to cuddle with me.”
Should Russell feel homesick, she 
plans on dealing with it the same 
way her brother does by calling 
home three times a week. 
“It’s a rule my mother made to 
my brother,” she said. “He has to 
call at least three times a week.”
Bricarell has one final message 
for incoming freshmen who may be 
concerned with being homesick. 
“Starting a new part of your life 
is terrifying,” she said, “But the 
only way to get to the other side 
is through; may as well make the 
best of it. I’ve met so many amaz -
ing people and feel like I’ve become 
such a great person because of who 
I’ve met. You’re starting over with 
a blank canvas — have fun adding 
color to it.”
@frlJakeReyes
jreyes@alligator.orgHomesickness is part of the college experience. Here’s how to deal with it. Kelsey Bona / / Alligator Staff
UF health education senior Tala Rizkallah, 21, and UF communication sciences 
and disorders senior Michelle Saade, 21, check out health-oriented pins at the 
GatorWell table at the Freshman 15 Wellness Fair on the Plaza of the Americas.
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
The hall’s lay -
out consists of 
single and double 
rooms with com -
munal bathrooms 
and kitchens with 
a stove and micro -
wave on each floor. 
Students need to 
supply their own 
personal refrigerator, according to UF’s hous -
ing website. 
Residents also have access to a recreation 
room with ping-pong and pool tables, indepen -
dent study spaces and a P.O.D. Market which 
includes convenience-style products and food 
offerings from a full kitchen.
Graham Hall is home to the living learning 
community of Florida’s Black Cultural student 
union. 
It was constructed in 1961 and is dedicated 
to Klein Harrison Graham, the longest serving 
member of the university’s staff at the time of 
his retirement in 1948. For 42 years, Graham 
served as the university Business Manager, 
Treasurer of the University Athletic Associa -
tion and chair of the Florida Endowment Cor -
poration.
At the beginning of Graham’s tenure with 
the university in 1906, he wrote student fees 
were only $5.00 per semester, rent was $2.50 
per month and board was $12.50 per month.
Until 1966, Graham Hall exclusively housed 
men before being redesignated as a coed resi -
dence hall. The building remains coed by floor. 
Kyle Chambers, a rising sophomore who 
lived in Graham Hall in the Spring, valued the 
residence hall’s proximity to campus must-
haves.
“I love that Reitz is within a five minute 
walk,” Chambers said. “[Student] Rec is with -
in a ten minute walk.”
Chambers, who spent his freshman year 
without a car or bike, said Graham Hall’s cen -
tral location on campus was critical to his first-
year experience.
“I literally heard from my dorm the sound 
of cheers from the stadium,” he said.
But Chambers thought Graham Hall had 
some downsides.
“Walking to my fraternity house [Kappa Phi 
Epsilon on University Avenue] was pretty ob -
noxious,” he said. 
Kameron Green, who lived in Graham as a 
freshman in 2018-2019, said Graham was ideal 
for meeting new people.
“It being a traditional style dorm, I met my 
first 50 friends in the lounge,” Green said. “It’s 
a great place to make your first friends at UF.”
Pros:  
“Chomp It is right downstairs,” Chambers 
said.
“The bus stop’s right there,” Chambers 
said.
“[Graham is] nearby where you can park, 
especially as a freshman,” Green said. 
Cons:
“You had older facilities, sometimes I 
would have to wait for showers,” Green said.
“Communal bathrooms were not the best,” 
Chambers said. 
Hume Hall 
Hume Hall is 
the residence hall 
exclusive to stu -
dents in the UF 
Honors Program. 
The complex, built 
in 2002, is split into 
the Hume East and 
Hume West resi -
dential halls, with 
the Hume Commons in between. Hume Hall is located just past Gale Lemer -
and Drive along Museum Road, close to the 
Reitz Student Union, Flavet Field, College of 
Engineering, The Hub food court and Gator 
Corner Dining. Multiple Regional Transit Sys -
tem bus routes are accessible from the Hume 
Hall bus stop. 
Samantha Hsu, a 20-year-old UF sociology 
third year, said Hume Hall’s central location 
was a positive aspect of her living experience. 
“I liked how it wasn’t right on the main 
campus, but close enough to everything,” she 
said. 
But the location, outside some of the more 
popular locations on campus like the Marston 
Science Library or Plaza of the Americas, was 
inconvenient at times for residents like Carina 
Copley. Copley, a 20-year-old nutritional sci -
ences third year, said it took her over 15 min -
utes to walk to most of her classes.  
Hume Hall offers single and double suite-
style rooms. Double rooms include two beds, 
two desks, a closet, cabinet and drawer space, 
a sink with a mirror, a microwave and a mini 
refrigerator. Two double suites are connected 
by a bathroom, shared among four residents. 
Single rooms include one bed, one desk, one 
closet and a bathroom. Students occupy dou -
ble rooms, while resident assistants occupy 
single rooms. 
Amenities in Hume Commons include the 
laundry room, mailboxes for each student, 
package lockers, study rooms, printers and the 
Area Desk. 
Students in Hume Hall have the opportu -
nity to join honors organizations such as the 
Student Honors Organization and the Hume 
Area Council — two organizations dedicated 
to planning and hosting social events for resi -
dents. Between these organized events and the 
common spaces and study rooms in East and 
West, Patrick Lewicki, a 20-year-old UF politi -
cal science and
economics third year, said residents have 
ample opportunities to socialize. 
“Many nights were spent in my floor’s com -
mon room hanging out with my friends and 
eating Chomp It,” he said. 
Hsu, Copley and Lewicki all credited Hume 
Hall with introducing them to people they now 
consider close friends. All three said they had 
a positive living experience in Hume, and they 
said the social aspect was the best part.
Pros:
“I had an attached bathroom that I shared 
with my roommate and two suitemates, which 
I thought was really convenient,” Copley said.
“Definitely one of the more spacious and 
newer dorms,” Hsu said. 
“I loved the room space and suite style,” 
Hsu said. 
Cons:  
”The location was pretty far from a lot of 
my classes and the main area of campus,” Co -
pley said. 
“One time the elevator broke, and one of 
my friends’ roommates was trapped inside for 
an hour,” Lewicki said. 
Infinity Hall
Infinity Hall is one of UF’s newest residence 
halls and is located next to UF’s Innovation 
Square, just two blocks from the Plaza of the 
Americas.
Originally opened in 2015, the hall is close 
to the College of Business, College of Arts, Col -
lege of Education and the College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences. Infinity Hall’s location gives 
students the opportunity to browse off-campus 
dining as well as explore local businesses such 
as Opus Coffee, Midpoint Park and Eatery, and 
Piesanos Stone Fired Pizza.
The residence hall includes single, double 
and super suites. There is a common area 
kitchen on each floor which contains a micro -
wave/convection oven. The suite-style rooms 
are favored because of the non-communal bathrooms, said 
Meghan Gramling, 
a 20-year-old mar -
keting junior. 
Former resident 
assistant Kyle Coo -
per said residents 
can upgrade to a 
super suite that pro -
vides a living room 
and a refrigerator.
There is a resident assistant on each floor 
who fosters communication, safety and a so -
cial environment. 
Mady Dorworth, a 20-year-old elementary 
education senior, said there wasn’t much of a 
community environment. 
“Off-campus means sometimes you didn’t 
have the ‘on-campus’ experience,” she said.
Cooper said the front desk and maintenance 
staff are friendly and happy to help solve any 
inconvenience a resident may experience. Ad -
ditionally, he said the janitorial staff cleans the 
bathrooms weekly.
Gramling said Infinity Hall stood out from 
other residence halls because it’s one of the 
newer options.
“[It] had study rooms and large common 
areas,” she said.
The lounge areas are connected to the 
kitchens, Cooper said. 
There are laundry rooms available for resi -
dents to use on floors two through five, how -
ever, they weren’t always accessible.
“The laundry room experienced relatively 
frequent floods, which forced residents to use 
laundry rooms from the other floor,” Cooper 
said. 
He said students will not have to worry 
about safety, as Infinity Hall provides maxi -
mum security with cameras, locked double 
doors leading to the floor hallway and a main 
door to each suite.
Pros:
Only sharing a bathroom with one other 
person was a plus, Dorworth said.
Cooper said Infinity is convenient for those 
who are disabled, providing a ramp to enter 
the building as well as a suite that accommo -
dates one’s disability within the shower area
A trash chute area on each floor replaces 
the need to remove garbage via dumpster, 
Cooper said. 
Cons:
The kitchen area does not provide an oven, 
and instead of a stove, there is at least one hot 
plate to cook meals, Cooper said. 
Cooper said there is limited parking outside 
of the building. He said it is common for stu -
dents to obtain parking passes from the Con -
tinuum Apartment.
Not directly on campus, however, Cooper 
said the walk to campus isn’t too inconvenient. 
Jennings Hall 
Jennings Hall is 
a traditional resi -
dence hall that of -
fers double and 
triple rooms. It is lo -
cated near Sorority 
Row, the Education 
Library and Fresh 
Food Company, an 
on-campus dining 
center.
Sydney Leifermann, a 20-year-old UF po -
litical science and criminology junior, said she 
loved the location and believed it to be in close 
proximity to her core classes freshman year. 
Each floor of Jennings Hall has communal 
bathrooms and kitchens with a microwave, 
stove and an oven, according to UF’s housing 
website.
Washers and dryers are located at the bot -
tom floor of the building. 
Jennings Hall construction was finished in 
1961 and was the last of six all-girl residence 
halls built in accordance with the coeducation 
bill of 1948 that allowed women to enroll at 
UF. While it is no longer exclusive to women, two wings separate residents by gender.
It sits in a wooded area of campus and has 
a two-story atrium lobby. Residents can use 
common spaces with amenities like a televi -
sion and ping-pong table. The common space 
makes it easy to meet new people, said Philip 
Grandoff, a 20-year-old nutritional science ju -
nior who lived in Jennings during his freshman 
year.
“We had a great spot for people to just re -
ally hang out,” Grandoff said. “The classroom 
downstairs is cool because … it’s kind of a 
communal study place. It was a fun place to 
do work.”
The residence hall is well-known for be -
ing one of the most social. Morgan Emmi, a 
19-year-old health science sophomore, said she 
and her roommate chose Jennings after hearing 
it’s where students can make the most friends. 
She said the residence hall had a strong sense 
of community, and the large lobby area made 
it easy for a lot of students to be in one place.
Jennings is perfect for students who want a 
social hall, but those who prefer quieter spaces 
should look elsewhere, Emmi said. 
“If you’re looking for the communal dorm 
experience, definitely be in Jennings,” Emmi 
said. “It was absolutely perfect, and I would 
choose it all over again.”
Pros:
“I think it has a nice common space that 
people get to hang out in,” Grandoff said.
“I never had any problems with bugs, ro -
dents or anything,” Grandoff said.
The furniture is newer, and the desks are 
large and fit a lot of things, Grandoff said.
Cons:
Air conditioning was a loud window unit 
placed above one of the beds, Grandoff said.
You have to take toiletries in a shower 
caddy and walk to the communal bathrooms, 
Emmi said. You have to be comfortable show -
ering in stalls next to other people.
When it was rainy or especially hot outside 
the bathrooms felt gross because of the humid -
ity, Leifermann said.
Mallory Hall
Mallory Hall is 
located in the Yulee 
area on UF’s cam -
pus, close to the 
College of Educa -
tion, College of the 
Arts and College of 
Design, Construc -
tion and Planning. 
The hall includes 
single, double and triple rooms. Students are 
near Broward Dining Center, Broward Rec -
reational Center, Steinbrenner Band Hall and 
sorority row. While the kitchens on each floor 
have a microwave and a stove, students need 
to bring their own refrigerator for their room, 
according to UF’s housing website. 
Mallory Hall was designed by architect Guy 
Fulton. Mallory, Yulee and Reid Halls are all 
connected in the shape of a “Y.” The three 
buildings were combined back in 1950 to al -
low for common facilities such as kitchens and 
offices. 
The residence hall was named after Ange -
la Mallory, wife of U.S. Senator from Florida 
Stephen R. Mallory. Mallory, Yulee and Reid 
Halls were built in 1950 to accommodate UF 
evolving into a coeducational university, be -
coming the first permanent halls for women at 
UF. When they were built, the halls included 
sewing rooms, hairdressing rooms and sepa -
rate dining facilities from the men on campus.
While the hall is no longer exclusively for 
women, UF sophomore Chris Kohlbeck, UF 
sophomore who lived there from Fall 2020 to 
Spring 2021, said the hall was still filled with 
mostly women. 
“It was basically an all-girl dorm,” Kohl -
beck said. 
The male floor was only half of the first DORMS,  from pg. 2Hume, Infinity, Jennings, Mallory
SEE DORMS,  PAGE 15
MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021   ALLIGATOR   15 
floor because the library was on the other side, 
she said. 
Mallory Hall was renovated in 2006, and 
more renovations are scheduled within the 
next decade. Kohlbeck said the bathrooms 
were renovated when she lived there last year. 
“Mallory specifically had renovated bath -
rooms, which was very nice because the show -
ers were surprisingly always very warm,” she 
said. “It had really good shower pressure.”
Another distinct feature of the hall is a bal -
cony connected to the kitchen. 
“I would sit out there every day,” UF sopho -
more Alyssa Auderer said. 
Pros:
“I liked that there were two bathrooms in 
the hall so that you were never waiting for a 
bathroom,” Auderer said. 
“It was good for sorority recruitment be -
cause it’s a short walk to sorority row,” Kohl -
beck said. 
“There were definitely a lot of events for the 
Yulee area and for Mallory Hall,” Auderer said. 
“They had a lot of different arts and crafts, 
yoga and some online games and trivia.”
Cons:
“It was difficult to make command strips 
stick to the walls,” Powell said. 
“The rooms are definitely older,” Kohlbeck 
said. 
“The built-in air conditioner in the window 
is very loud and it’s very cold,” Kohlbeck said. 
Rawlings Hall
Nestled behind 
a bus stop, the en -
trance to Rawlings 
Hall lies almost 
hidden beneath the 
cover of arching 
awnings.
First opened in 
1958, the residence 
hall offers mainly 
double rooms and 
communal bathrooms. Residents can also live 
in a single room, a two room quadruple or a 
double suite, according to the Housing & Resi -
dence Life website. Roughly a three-minute 
walk from Marston Science Library and Tur -
lington Plaza, Rawlings is located near the 
heart of campus. 
Each floor has its own kitchen area, includ -
ing a microwave and stove. Outside its front 
entrance, students can find a P.O.D. Market 
with a Subway inside. 
UF plans to demolish the residence hall in 
2023, and its bus stop is now closed indefinite -
ly due to road construction. 
The residence hall is named after Marjorie 
Kinnan Rawlings — an author known for her 
novel “The Yearling.” Originally, Rawlings 
was home to female students only, but it be -
came coed in 1972, according to “A History of 
University of Florida Residence Facilities.” 
Madelyn White, a 20-year-old UF finance 
junior, said the building’s age gave Rawlings 
charm. 
“It’s the equivalent of seeing old composites 
at a sorority house,” White said. “The history 
is in the building.” 
Pros:  
“I probably ate that Subway a hundred 
times,” Evan Combs said.
“I kept [my scooter] right next to Rawlings 
in that parking garage,” White said. 
“You really never had to worry about going 
to the bathroom or trying to shower,” Aedyn 
Gorenberg said. 
Cons:  
“You need to be prepared for the fact that 
you’re going to be living in a very old dorm,” Gorenberg said. “It has its times when you’re 
going to see cockroaches.” 
“It was really kind of a far walk to get to the 
car,” Combs said.
“It’s like 70 degrees at all times, and you 
could not turn it up because you’d get mold,” 
Combs said. 
Reid Hall 
The constant 
sounds of students 
trying to perfect 
their melodies 
would be a bother 
at most other resi -
dence halls at UF. 
However, Reid Hall 
is typically occupied 
by music students 
attracted by its five-minute walk from UF’s 
School of Music. 
Because of the communal spaces, it was 
easy to meet other music majors, Kyrsten 
Wehner, a 21-year-old UF music performance 
senior, said. 
Reid Hall is where Wehner felt most com -
fortable practicing music inside the units, even 
into the night, she said.
“As a freshman, not knowing anybody 
coming in, that was a great place to start,” she 
said.
A large portion of tenants were sorority 
members, Wehner said.
“It was an odd combination of music per -
formance majors and sorority girls,” she said. 
“You wouldn’t think we would go together, 
but I met some cool people.”
Although music students are common resi -
dents of Reid Hall, any student can live there.
Oscar Santiago, an 18-year-old UF political 
science and criminology sophomore, said he 
never experienced anything unusual while liv -
ing there, other than pranks.
“One of the residents taped the door of the 
RA,” he said. “They also, one time, dragged a 
whole table inside a shower.”
Reid Hall is part of the Yulee Complex 
which is across the street from Norman Field. 
The complex was completed in 1950 and 
served as the first permanent residence halls 
for women. When it first opened, it had sewing 
rooms, hairdressing rooms and dining facilities 
separate from men. 
Reid Hall is named after Mary Martha Reid, 
a Confederate Civil War nurse. She was mar -
ried to Robert Raymond Reid, Florida’s fourth 
territorial governor from 1839 until his death 
in 1841.
Following her husband’s death, Mary Reid 
became a teacher in Fernandina. She later 
helped set up a hospital in Virginia to treat 
Florida soldiers in the Civil War.
Pros:
“It’s super close to the music building and 
the College of Music,” Wehner said.
“Broward dining was right there. It was 
easy to get food,” Wehner said.
“They didn’t care if you practiced in your 
dorm,” Wehner said. “We had music through 
the halls at all times of the day.”
Cons:
“There’s absolutely no parking by Reid un -
less you want to park in Norman,” Wehner 
said.
“The quality, I guess, was less than some of 
the other dorms that I was able to go and see 
in person.” Santiago said.
Riker Hall
Riker Hall is located in the Tolbert area on 
UF’s campus, across from the Gator Corner 
Dining Center, and at a walking distance from 
the O’Connell Center and Ben Hill Griffin Sta -
dium.  
Students can choose to live in single, dou -
ble or triple rooms. The hall includes com -
munal kitchens and bathrooms on each floor and lounge areas 
throughout the 
building. 
Riker Hall was 
built in 1950 and 
designed by archi -
tect Guy Fulton to 
resemble an altered 
Collegiate Gothic-
style residence hall.  
Originally known as South Hall, Riker Hall 
was renamed in 2000, two years after the death 
of  Harold C. Riker, the former director of hous -
ing and professor in UF’s department of coun -
selor education.
Janessa Keller, a 19-year-old biology junior, 
said she enjoyed all the amenities offered in 
the Tolbert area as well as its surroundings.
“There’s like a mini forest with trees, and I 
have a hammock, so I could go set up my ham -
mock there which is very nice,” Keller said.
Pros:
“There were many bus routes close to that 
area,” Keller said.
The Tolbert area has a common area with 
ping pong tables, couches and a projector for 
students to play movies, Keller said.
“It did have a good location. It’s right next 
to the dining hall so,” Michael Delsole said.
Cons:
The laundry room is packed on Sunday 
nights and sometimes on Mondays, Keller said.
Doors are not soundproof so students may 
hear noises from the hallways, Delsole said.
“The bathrooms are super cramped,” Del -
sole said. “I’m not a tall guy, I’m like 5’ 7”, but 
even my knees would be up against the stall 
doors when I sat down.” 
Springs Residential Complex 
Perched atop 
Fraternity Row, 
Springs Residen -
tial Complex’s 
476-person capacity 
sprawls across six 
brick buildings. 
Every build -
ing is four stories 
high and filled with 
single and double 
suites, which are two rooms adjoined by a 
shared bathroom.
Each floor has lounges where residents can 
cook in the kitchen and eat at the tables pro -
vided. 
Across from the residence buildings sits the 
commons building, where residents can pick 
up their mail, relax in the recreation room, 
do their laundry or work on homework in the 
study room.
Springs Complex was built in 1995 to as -
sist in relocating male athletes from the now-
closed Yon Hall, which was one of the athletic 
residence halls eliminated at the 1991 NCAA 
convention.
Due to its proximity to numerous athletic 
facilities on the west side of campus, includ -
ing the Stephen O’Connell Center and Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium, Springs Complex remains a 
popular residence hall for UF athletes.
The hall was renamed the Springs Resi -
dential Complex in 2000 to celebrate Florida’s 
environmental landscapes through some of 
the most popular springs in Florida: Paradise 
Springs, Gemini Springs, Juniper Springs, Al -
tamonte Springs, Eureka Springs and Coral 
Springs.
This summer, Springs Complex adopted the 
Lavender LLC — a living-learning community 
meant to ensure gender-neutral housing and 
provide a safe environment for LGBTQ+ stu -
dents.
Pros:
“There’s so many buses that come by so 
often, that was really helpful for getting to just 
roll out of bed and go to class,” Abigail Isbill 
said.“I actually liked that it was a bit further 
away from everything, just because sometimes 
I enjoyed the walk into the main campus,” 
Meagan O’Malley said. 
“If you’re looking for a quiet place where 
you can study, since I’m in a harder major, it 
was easier for me to study and do work in my 
dorm,” Devon Limbangco said. 
Cons:
“There’s not a common area [in the build -
ing] so it’s kind of awkward. Like if you have 
people over, you can just bring them in your 
room and sit on the floor or on your bed,” Lim -
bangco said. 
“It’s kind of a long walk [to] the laundry 
room. I was on the fourth floor and my arms 
got tired,” Limbangco said. 
“If you have to leave for some reason at a 
weird time in the day, your [parking] spot will 
definitely be taken and you may have to end 
up parking all the way down Frat Row,” Isbill 
said. 
Thomas Hall 
Thomas Hall is 
located in the Mur -
phree Area of the 
historic district of 
UF. It’s just off West 
University Avenue 
and a five-minute 
walk from Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium. It’s 
also near major campus spots such as the Reitz 
Union, Academic Advising Center, the Student 
Recreation and Fitness Center and the HUB.
Thomas Hall offers single, double, triple 
or quadruple rooms with shared kitchens and 
bathrooms on each floor. It includes a lounge 
area, a movie room, a conference room, and 
recreation opportunities such as a pool table, 
a ping pong table and other sports equipment.
The hall opened in 1906 and is listed on 
the National Register of Historic Places. It 
was named after William Reuben Thomas, a 
Gainesville mayor who donated 517 acres of 
land and $40,000 from the city of Gainesville to 
the Florida Legislature with the agreement that 
UF would be built on those acres. 
In 1906, the hall housed administrative 
offices in the north section and classrooms, 
laboratories and an auditorium in the middle 
section. Students paid $2.50 a month to live in 
Thomas that year.
Leah Rogers, a 20-year-old criminology and 
psychology major with an emphasis in behav -
ioral neuroscience junior, said she loved how 
each room had a sink in it. 
Cheyenne Acker, a 22-year-old UF gradu -
ate who majored in biology and psychology, 
stayed in a single room at Thomas Hall from 
Fall 2018 to Spring 2019. She appreciated the 
close proximity to major spots in UF such as 
The Hub, a food court and a major bus stop on 
Stadium Road. 
Andrew Dang, a 20-year-old UF Biology se -
nior who stayed in a double room at Thomas 
Hall from Fall 2018 to Spring 2019, said the 
rooms have a good amount of space. 
Pros:
“One pro is location. You are close to mid -
town, The Hub, Marston Science Library and 
Library West,” Acker said.
There are only 12 residents on each floor, 
which means restrooms aren’t as crowded as 
other halls, Rogers said. 
“There are sinks in each room. You can 
brush your teeth in your room instead of hav -
ing to walk down the hall,” Rogers said.
Cons:
Thomas Hall lacks enough space for ev -
eryone to gather socially or for RA meetings, 
Acker said. “We sometimes had to all squeeze 
in the kitchen, but that was only a couple of 
times a semester,” Acker said. 
It’s humid inside the residence hall, Acker DORMS,  from pg. 2, 14Rawlings, Reid, Springs, Thomas
SEE DORMS,  PAGE 16
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 28, 2021
said. However, she said you can fix that with 
a dehumidifier. 
“It’s far from dining halls if you’re on the 
meal plan,” Dang said.
T olbert Ha ll
Tolbert Hall is located in the northeast sec -
tion of campus near the Gator Corner Dining 
Center and Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
The residence hall opened its doors in 1950 
and was named after Benjamin Tolbert, the 
dean of students from 1928 to 1937. It has a 
modified Collegiate Gothic architectural style 
from designer Guy Fulton and houses faculty, 
students and the UF Army Reserve Officers’ 
Training Corps.
Tolbert Hall can house up to 252 students.
Richard Mazzula, a 21-year-old mechani -
cal engineering junior who lived in the hall his 
freshman year, said he liked the close prox -
imity to the Reitz 
Union and Gator 
Dining. However, 
he did not like the 
social environment.
“Besides like 
two people I really 
never met anyone 
else in Tolbert,” 
Mazzula wrote in a text message.
Neha Mathew, a 19-year-old psychology 
sophomore, also said the location was a ben -
efit of living in Tolbert, but she felt isolated be -
cause she wasn’t part of the ROTC. 
Tenders, or Boots, the campus cat who re -
sides in the Tolbert area, offers residents in the 
area a companion to destress from school. 
“When everyone’s on a run or super stuck 
in their heads with whatever it may be, [Boots] 
walking by always offered an “aw” and a smile 
to make our day better,” Mathew wrote in a 
text. 
Pros:  
“My RA was super sweet, and I loved the 
area as well! It’s super close to the stadium, 
Reitz, and Gator Corner,” Mathew said.
The ROTC living-learning community and 
nearby sports facilities are benefits of living at 
Tolbert, Kayla Norwood, a 19-year-old geology 
sophomore, said.   
Cons:
“The common area was rather small, and 
so no one really ever went in it,” Mazzula said. 
“I did feel a bit out of place because most 
people were [ROTC,] but I love the friends I 
met living there,” Mathew said. 
Yulee Hall 
Yulee Hall is located on the eastern side 
of UF’s campus and sits near the College of 
Education, College of the Arts and College 
of Design, Construction and Planning. On 
campus, students are walking distance away from Broward Din -
ing Center, Bro -
ward Recreational 
Center, Stein -
brenner Band Hall 
and sorority row. 
It includes single, 
double and triple 
rooms. 
The kitchens on 
each floor have a microwave and a stove, 
but students need to bring their own refriger -
ator for their room, according to UF’s hous -
ing website. 
Yulee is home to the Global and Social 
Justice Living Learning Community. Per UF’s 
housing website, this LLC empowers resi -
dents to make the world around them more 
inclusive. Residents will have the chance to 
participate in events involving civic engage -
ment and social justice.
Architect Guy Fulton designed Yulee Hall. 
Yulee, Mallory and Reid Halls were built as a 
result of UF transitioning to a coeducational 
university. The buildings were connected 
and built in the shape of a “Y” in 1950 to al -
low for common facilities for the women on 
campus, such as kitchens and offices. 
The residence hall was named after Nan -
cy Wickliff Yulee, wife of U.S. Senator D. L. 
Yulee. Yulee built a railroad from the Atlan -
tic Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico that featured 
the first rail service to Gainesville. 
Yulee Hall is expected to be renovated 
within the next decade. Lexi Cook, 19-year-old political science and public relations 
third-year, lived in Yulee Hall from Fall 2019 
to Spring 2020 and said the hall has an older 
style to it. 
“The aesthetic was very ‘70s-ish,” Cook 
said. 
Pros:
“It was super close to the dining hall,” 
Cook said. “Easy for when I wanted a last 
minute dinner.”
“There was a large common room for the 
whole building in the basement that I used 
pretty frequently,” Cook said. “It had a pro -
jector, some TVs and games like ping pong.”
“My floor was social,” Yubin Kim said. 
“Pre-COVID, I would have family dinners 
with the people on my floor, and we would 
cook together and have movie nights.”
Cons:
“The laundry room was usually pretty 
busy, and people always forgot to take their 
stuff out of the washers and dryers,” Cook 
said.
“On our floor, there was only the kitchen 
as a communal space with limited capac -
ity due to the pandemic,” McDonald said. 
“There wasn’t really much of a social scene 
specifically for hall.”
“The building was kind of old so there 
wasn’t a very good water fountain,” Cook 
said.DORMS,  from pg. 2, 14, 15Tolbert, Yulee
