We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperUMOJA
Black artists recognized in new art exhibit,  pg. 8
Remembering Audrey Cheves
The 18-year-old was killed in a car crash June 5,  pg. 6Mardal’s Might
Thomas Mardal won two national 
championships this year in track and field. 
The Norway native has come a long way 
from being a runner in Gloppen,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 36
THE UF FACULTY UNION 
AND THE BOARD OF 
TRUSTEES ALSO DECIDED ON 
PROMOTION GUIDELINES 
FOR NON-TENURE FACULTY 
AND NEW PRINCIPLES FOR 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
By Eve Thompson
Alligator Staff Writer
After over two years of 
negotiation for paid leave and 
other faculty updates, the Board 
of Trustees ratified an agreement 
Thursday, June 10 with the 
United Faculty of Florida.  
The collective bargaining 
agreement, a labor contract 
defining the relationship between 
UF and its faculty, is renegotiated 
every three years. This year, the 
union bargaining team won paid 
parental and medical leave, new 
promotion guidelines for non-
tenure-track faculty and a clearly 
defined way to report conflicts 
of interest and outside activities, 
among other updates.
Hélène Huet, union co-chief 
negotiator, has been fighting for paid parental and medical leave 
since she moved to the United 
States from France in 2005.
“Having a baby is not a 
vacation, and it’s not an illness. 
So, you shouldn’t have to use 
your vacation or sick days,” Huet 
said.
The union bargaining team 
initially asked for 19.5 weeks, 
the equivalent of a semester, but 
won eight weeks of paid parental 
leave and eight weeks of paid 
medical leave. 
“Pretty much every other 
country in the world has a paid 
parental leave,” Huet said. “The 
fact that in the U.S. the only 
thing this country could come 
up with is, ‘You get 12 weeks 
unpaid leave, but we can’t fire 
you because you are having a 
baby,’ shocked me.” 
Before this contract, faculty 
could borrow time from the 
university and pay it back later. 
They could also use vacation or 
sick days but were allowed no 
medical leave. 
The UF faculty union’s 
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gov. Ron DeSantis signed Florida’s state 
budget June 2, approving $101 billion to 
distribute across the state. 
The budget is the highest the state has 
ever seen and will help fund projects in Ala -
chua County like a sports complex, a youth 
shelter replacement facility and a one-time 
$1,000 bonus for full-time teachers and first 
responders. However, the governor vetoed 
parts of the budget that would have funded 
transportation and medical resources for 
vulnerable Gainesville residents. 
The budget included $600,000 for the 
proposed Alachua County Youth Shelter re -
placement, which is meant to keep children 
out of the criminal justice system, accord -
ing to its funding request. 
The shelter would provide food, coun -
seling and education for children in crisis, 
including those experiencing human traf -
ficking or domestic violence, State Rep. Chuck Clemons said. 
Clemons requested funding from the 
state for the youth shelter replacement and 
the sports complex.
He said human trafficking is a problem 
— especially in Florida — and organiza -
tions that prevent it usually run on low 
budgets, so he appreciates the governor’s 
support.
The North Central Florida Regional 
Sports Complex also received $2.3 million 
in funding. It is expected to be built in Cel -
ebration Pointe. 
The complex is being primarily funded 
with $30 million from Alachua County’s 
tourism tax funds and $35 million from the 
private company funding the Celebration 
Pointe development. 
“This has statewide and regional impact 
for tourist development dollars,” Clemons 
said. “To be able to host athletic and other 
events in Gainesville at a venue like this is 
just a fabulous economic development op -
portunity.”Some critics questioned the governor’s 
priorities, but Clemons argued that the 
governor vetoed over $1 billion for proj -
ects across the state. He expressed doubts 
about if funds would have gone to the ve -
toed projects whether the sports complex 
received funding or not.
Commissioner David Arreola criticized 
the decision to fund the complex over other 
projects in East Gainesville in a Tweet. 
He argued the $2.3 million could have 
been better spent on communities that 
need support as opposed to funding com -
munities that are already thriving.
“It just doesn’t seem like his priorities 
are really considering the needs of every -
day people in Florida, because that sports 
complex is going to make a lot of people 
lots of money,” Arreola said. “I wish he 
would value economic development in our 
most vulnerable communities as much as 
he does in the wealthiest parts of our com -
munity.”
The governor slashed a proposed $250,000 that would have gone to 
Gainesville Fire Rescue’s Community Re -
source Paramedic Program. Its goal is 
to maintain a healthy quality of life in 
Gainesville by bringing medical services to 
patients who call 911 the most, such as the 
elderly and those with chronic diseases.
“We’ll literally show up at the person’s 
house and knock on the door,” Joseph Hill -
house, assistant fire chief at Gainesville 
Fire Rescue, said. “That’s something that 
social workers from the hospital don’t nec -
essarily have the opportunity to be able to 
do.”
The goal is to provide preventive care 
for residents who struggle to get that care 
so they’re not in the hospital as often, 
Hillhouse said. Available services include 
COVID-19 vaccinations, translators to 
help with language barriers and follow-up 
check-ins to continue care.
For the patients enrolled in the CRP 
program, 911 calls are down about 40%, UF faculty union wins paid parental 
and medical leave in new contract
How Gov. DeSantis’ latest budget approval affects Alachua CountyWalter Harwood / / Alligator Staff
Kristyn Lopez, 37, (right) gives a tattoo designed to emulate a tarot card to Franciso Martinez, 
31, a Gainesville resident (left) on Sunday, June 13, 2021. In an effort to raise money for victims 
of sexual assault, community members had their bodies marked with ink at the Still Not Asking 
For It tattoo flash event, which raised $1,660 for two non-profit organizations.
SEE UNION,  PAGE 4
SEE DESANTIS,  PAGE 4DeSantis approved two proposals in Gainesville but vetoed another twoT oday’s Weather
By Phong Huynh
Alligator Staff Writer 
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Center, a non-profit blood bank, 
has seen supply shortages and a 
lack of donors since the beginning 
of the COVID-19 pandemic.
LifeSouth is not alone. Blood 
donation centers nationwide 
are still experiencing shortages 
caused by the pandemic. The 
center is in critical need of type 
O-, the universally accepted 
blood type, and O+, which can 
be accepted by everyone with a 
positive blood type.
Laura Bialeck, the community 
development coordinator of 
LifeSouth Community Center in 
Gainesville, said the shortage 
persists with fewer donations and 
donors. As surgeries canceled 
during the pandemic are now 
being rescheduled, more blood is 
needed, she said. 
High schools make up 15 to 
20% of blood collections per 
year, Bialeck said.
When schools and businesses 
closed at the beginning of the 
pandemic in March, blood drives 
were barred from going to them. 
“High school students are 
not as willing to come out and 
donate if we're not at their school 
— the camaraderie that they get 
donating with their friends and 
getting to miss class when they 
go out and donate,” she said.
Bialeck said LifeSouth has 
recently been permitted to have 
blood drives at schools by the 
Alachua County school district 
and at UF. 
Julia Dawson, a 20-year-old 
UF psychology sophomore, said 
she sometimes passes out giving 
blood but continues to donate 
because she wants to help people. “I'm more cautious because 
of the way that my body reacts,” 
she said. “But it's not really 
something that has completely 
turned me away from it.”
Dawson said her experiences 
donating blood have been 
positive, especially with 
incentives like T-shirts or gift 
cards. 
“They're really good at making 
sure that you're comfortable and 
understand everything that's 
going to happen,” she said. 
Time conflicts and 
inconvenience can also limit 
someone’s ability to give blood, 
Alex Walker, a 20-year-old UF 
economics sophomore, said. She 
also believes misinformation 
may contribute to the hesitancy 
to donate. 
“Maybe people aren't as well 
informed,” she said. “Maybe they think they can't donate blood, 
and they just don't know how it's 
going to go.”
From June 11 to 14, LifeSouth 
will give a $20 e-gift card to 
donors to celebrate World Blood 
Donor Day, which is June 14. 
“I would ask people to face 
your fear and give it a try,” 
Bialeck said. “They might find 
out that, ‘Hey, it wasn't so bad, 
and now I know I've saved some 
lives.’”
@phongphont
phuynh@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 36
 Gainesville blood donation centers
continue to face shortages
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Valerie Griffith, a Founders Club member of Oak Hammock at the University of Florida, participates in the 
CITRUS Study as a nurse puts a tourniquet on her arm on Wednesday, June 9, 2021.Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Tiffany Bach arranges files after collecting blood samples on 
Wednesday, June 9, 2021.
Blood shortages persist with a critical need 
for Type O blood as elective surgeries increaseMONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  
and services at tobaccofreeflorida.com/quityourway.NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led virtual sessions are now available for all Florida residents, 
regardless of insurance status. Participants are also eligible to receive free 
nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
FFoorr  mmoorree  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  vviirrttuuaall  GGrroouupp  QQuuiitt  sseessssiioonnss,,  ccoonnttaacctt::
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
UF Area Health Education
Cente rs (AHEC) Program 
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA|4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
bargaining team met with the Board of 
Trustees’ negotiation team nearly every week 
since March 2019.
The two parties also agreed on new 
promotion guidelines for non-tenure-track 
faculty, employees who are hired without the 
promise of tenure.
Many of the existing guidelines were not 
developed with non-tenure-track faculty in 
mind, Sean Trainor, treasurer of the faculty 
union and a non-tenure lecturer in the 
management communications center, said. 
Now, departments must create a new promotion 
process for them.
The COVID-19 pandemic made bargaining 
meetings more difficult because they were 
virtual, Trainor said.
“It also meant that basically everybody on 
both sides of the bargaining table, whether it 
was the union side or the administration side, 
everybody was just more tired, more stressed 
out,” he said.
The union had a larger-than-usual agenda as 
well, Trainor said, including new rules for paid leave.
The Board of Trustees also proposed a new 
way of reporting and tracking outside activities 
and conflicts of interest, Trainor said. He 
thought it was excessively restrictive.
“We did a lot of work to try to make that 
more usable, more faculty friendly,” he said.
William Keegan, the other union co-chief 
negotiator, said departments have different 
ways of treating faculty because of UF’s size 
and complexity.
“What we’ve tried to do is make it more 
equitable across the entire university for faculty 
who aren’t tenure-accruing but who are looking 
to make a career here and get promoted for 
their performance,” Keegan said.
The next step is to ratify the contract. The 
union will send out a summary to all faculty 
members, who will then vote to accept or reject 
the agreement. The Board of Trustees has done 
the same and has voted to ratify.
If the agreement is ratified by the union, the 
agreed-upon start date is July 1, 2021, and it 
will be in place for the next three years.
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.organd the number of patients following 
their recommended medical instruc -
tions are up by about 60%, Hillhouse 
said.
The project currently has three 
employees, but Hillhouse wants to 
expand to offer about 27 positions. 
“We’re going to continue funding 
the program,” Commissioner Arre -
ola said. “A quarter-million dollars 
to scale up the program — I didn’t 
think it was a huge ask of the state 
government.”
The City of Gainesville asked the 
governor for $300,000 to set aside 
in the budget for a transfer station, 
but Gov. DeSantis also vetoed that 
proposal. A completed bus transfer 
station in East Gainesville would 
require a $4 million budget to help 
provide residents in the neighbor -
hood access to more transportation 
options. 
The transfer station has been 
under consideration for years, said 
State Rep. Yvonne Hinson who put 
the transfer station on the budget to 
be considered. The Gainesville Re -
gional Transit System recommended 
the station after a survey revealed 
that East Gainesville residents strug -
gle to find nearby routes that get 
them to their destination on time, 
Hinson said.
The governor’s office also boasted 
about directing money to environ -
mental resources in the budget, but 
much of that funding may not suf -
ficiently help springs in and around 
Alachua County, Ryan Smart, execu -
tive director at Florida Springs Coun -
cil, said.
Florida land conservation got a 
total of $400 million worth of fund -
ing this year, which Smart said he 
appreciates. Additionally, the budget 
for the Land Acquisition Trust Fund received $75 million, a $25-million 
increase compared to past years. The 
trust fund ensures land is acquired 
to protect and preserve endangered 
environments and important water 
sources around the state.
Smart said it would take about 
$15 billion to fix Florida’s springs 
alone.
Another major factor in restor -
ing springs is minimizing agriculture 
pollution, Smart said. It contributes 
to 70% of all pollution in springs, 
but only 1% of the budget goes to -
wards helping minimize agriculture 
pollution, he said.
Some vital water sources, such as 
the Ichetucknee Basin and the Santa 
Fe River Basin, received funding for 
small projects, but they do not come 
close to addressing the big picture, 
Smart said.
The only project funded by the 
state in the Ichetucknee Basin would 
convert 16 septic tanks to sewer sys -
tems, which would reduce pollution 
by 400 pounds a year, Smart said. 
But pollution needs to be reduced by 
200,000 pounds a year to make a real 
impact, he said. 
Additionally, the Everglades in 
South Florida is getting 10 times 
more funding than springs in Central 
and North Florida, Smart said. That 
was decided even though the needs 
of both ecosystems are not drasti -
cally different, he said.
The trend of giving about 90% of 
water resource protection funding to 
South Florida started under former 
Gov. Rick Scott and is now continu -
ing under DeSantis, Smart said. 
“It doesn’t matter how much 
money you’re going to allocate if 
you’re not going to use that money 
in a way that is cost-effective,” he 
said.
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.org
UNION,  from pg. 1DESANTIS,  from pg. 1
New guideline for non-tenured facultyNo new transfer station
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
The UF Board of Trustees discusses capital projects inside the Emerson 
Alumni Hall on Thursday, March 18, 2021.Brynn Anderson / / Associated Press
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis speaks during a news conference at C.B. Smith Park on 
Thursday, March 19, 2020, in Pembroke Pines, Fla.
By Jake Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
A small building at 810 NW 
Eighth Street caught fire Sun -
day.
The building is leased by the 
City of Gainesville for Aces in 
Motion, a free after-school pro -
gram for middle and high school 
students in Alachua County, 
Gainesville Fire Rescue Deputy 
Fire Chief Joseph Hillhouse said. 
The Gainesville Police De -
partment responded to the inci -
dent at 2:29 a.m. after the build -
ing’s burglary alarm went off, 
according to a Gainesville Fire Rescue report. 
The first GPD officer to ar -
rive discovered a fire coming 
from the northwest corner of the 
building and called GFR. 
Firefighters responded to the 
fire in less than five minutes. 
The first to arrive saw heavy 
smoke coming from the building 
and were able to put out the fire 
after containing it to one corner. 
Though the fire was put out 
within five minutes, the inte -
rior of the building endured 
extensive damage, especially in 
the kitchen. The outside of the 
building is still intact. 
A total cost of the damages has not yet been determined, 
Hillhouse said. 
Hillhouse said buildings 
sometimes have a burglary sys -
tem that dispenses smoke when 
the burglary alarm goes off, 
causing the fire alarm to also go 
off.
Hillhouse said the cause of 
the fire is still unknown and 
under investigation. It’s also 
unclear who or what set off the 
burglary alarm.
According to the report, there 
were no injuries.
 
@frlJakeReyes
jreyes@alligator.orgGainesville building catches on fire overnight
Gainesville Fire Rescue is investigating the cause of 
the fire after the building’ s burglary alarm went offMONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Antonia LaRocca
Alligator Staff Writer
Following a growing interest in tiny-
house living, Alachua County officials 
and residents are considering how to 
incorporate the small homes into the 
community.
The Alachua County Board of County 
Commissioners voted 3-2 June 1 to 
consider a new use for urban RV parks 
and designate which zoning districts 
would allow RVs, along with considering 
amending the existing mobile home park 
code. These codes could extend to less-
traditional tiny homes as well.
The county’s growth management 
department provided four options for 
the board to consider. The options were to amend the existing mobile home park 
code to allow RVs, allow RVs to serve as 
transitional housing in homeless shelters, 
create a new use for urban RV parks and 
designate which zoning districts would 
allow them, as well as allow RV spaces 
within cottage neighborhoods.
The board’s future decisions could 
expand the parking accessibility for RVs as 
well as tiny houses.
“I don’t think this should ever be a 
long-term solution, but I do think that 
it’s a better option than the street,” 
Commissioner Mary Alford said regarding 
living in RVs.
The board voted to not consider RVs 
as transitional housing for homeless 
shelters. It also rejected allowing RVs in 
cottage neighborhoods, as they would not be compatible with the tiny houses 
already allowed in the county’s cottage 
neighborhoods, Commissioner Charles 
“Chuck” Chestnut IV said. Cottage 
neighborhoods are neighborhoods with 
smaller homes with restrictions on the 
size, types and other specifications of the 
houses.
“The goal is to skip this step of 
transitional housing as much as we 
possibly can,” Commissioner Anna Prizzia 
said.
The average tiny house ranges from 
100 to 400 square feet, and building costs 
can be anywhere from $8,000 to $150,000, 
according to Business Insider. 
While tiny homes are compact 
structures, they can come in many forms. 
These homes can vary from being on 
wheels like RVs, converted buses or vans 
to stationary homes like yurts, shipping 
containers and cabins.
“I’m thinking that around the country, 
RVs are becoming more and more 
permanent, and we have to think about that 
from the standpoint of our local economy,” 
Commissioner Ken Cornell said.
In November, the county adopted 
changes that allow tiny houses on wheels 
to reside in agricultural areas, according 
to Jeffrey Hays, a planner for the county’s 
growth management department.
Troy Rosslow, a 46-year-old Alachua 
County resident, has been interested in 
small-housing options since he moved into 
his family’s garage three decades ago at 16 
years old. 
That garage has been an oasis of 
liberation for generations: Rosslow’s older 
brother and father both lived in the space 
before him. Yet, he said the garage was a 
dump when he moved in.
With an opportunity to update the 
garage into a tiny space, Rosslow began 
learning about construction. In 2019, he 
officially formed Tiny House Lab LLC, 
his business in Gainesville focused on 
converting shipping containers into tiny homes. A bed, couch, small kitchen and 
other amenities line the metal walls of the 
container home on his property.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Rosslow said his tiny house was in high 
demand on Airbnb because it provided a 
private and socially distanced alternative 
to hotels. He said visitors and renters are 
often surprised by how spacious it feels.
Hays said Alachua County accepts tiny 
homes made out of shipping containers as 
accessory dwelling units, or smaller homes 
that share a lot with a stand-alone home.
Along with turning to tiny houses in the 
form of shipping containers, others have 
converted buses into tiny homes.
Taylor Selbe and Nathan Lisko live in 
a converted bus. Following their struggles 
finding affordable housing, the couple 
bought a bus in December 2019, excited 
for their future.
“We want experiences,”  Selbe said. 
“We want to travel.”
The couple initially planned on living in 
a tiny home built on a trailer. But, due to 
its high price, Selbe said they decided to 
buy a bus instead. However, after receiving 
a citation in the Summer of 2020 for having 
their bus parked in a residential lot, they 
found that tiny-house living in Gainesville 
and Alachua County was not as welcoming 
as they expected.
Selbe said they chose to move the bus 
they are living in onto family property in 
Volusia County. Selbe is optimistic about 
living on their bus and traveling. 
Aside from being affordable, the 
unconventional form of living allows for 
more contact with nature and easy travels 
— something highly valued by tiny-home 
owners like Selbe.
Current county regulations prevent some 
tiny homes, like tiny homes on wheels, 
from being allowed in residential areas, 
said Hays. But the county is continuing 
to consider changing regulations to accept 
more tiny-house options in the future.
@antoniarlarocca
alarocca@alligator.orgAlachua County commissioners consider amending rules for tiny homesON JUNE 1, FRIED 
ANNOUNCED HER 
CAMPAIGN FOR 
FLORIDA GOVERNOR
By Makiya Seminera
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida Commissioner of Agri -
culture Nikki Fried’s appointment 
to UF’s Law Center Association 
Board of Trustees is now shrouded 
in uncertainty. 
On June 1, Fried, a UF alumna, 
announced her long-awaited can -
didacy in the 2022 Florida guberna -
torial election. In addition to run -
ning against Republican Gov. Ron 
DeSantis — who boasts a 55% ap -
proval rating as of May 12, accord -
ing to a poll released by the Florida 
Chamber of Commerce — she will 
also face Democratic front-runner 
Charlie Crist.
Although Fried’s road to the 
governor’s mansion will prove a 
formidable task, the prospect of her potential election has prompt -
ed UF Law to consider the future 
of her appointment to the Board of 
Trustees. 
“This is new territory for us. If 
she is elected, we will consult with 
her and the board’s leadership on 
possible options moving forward,” 
Senior Director of Development 
and Alumni Affairs Michael Farley 
wrote in an email. 
She will start her five-year term 
on July 1 with a group of 16 other 
new members who were invited 
to join the UF Law LCA Board of 
Trustees in 2021. Among Fried’s 
new member cohort is Stephanie 
Mickle, the CEO of Mickle Public 
Affairs Agency and daughter of 
Stephan P. Mickle — the first Black 
UF undergraduate alumnus and 
second to graduate from the Levin 
College of Law.
As a Democratic candidate in 
the gubernatorial race, Nikki has 
remained a vocal advocate for the 
protection of LGBTQ rights and re -form of gun laws. Fried, the only 
Democrat elected in 2018 to hold a 
statewide office in Florida, has also 
pointed to her position as Florida 
Commissioner of Agriculture and 
Consumer Services as the main 
selling point of her campaign.
Before becoming the Florida 
Commissioner of Agriculture and 
Consumer Services, Fried started 
her lifelong career in Florida poli -
tics at UF. She received her bach -
elor’s, master’s and JD degrees 
in political science, political cam -
paigning and law, respectively, 
from UF.
“As a proud alumna of @UF’s 
Levin College of Law @UFLaw, I 
am incredibly grateful for the op -
portunity to serve on the LCA 
board and give back to the #Gator -
Nation,” Fried wrote in a tweet. 
Beyond being a three-time 
Gator alumna, Fried also served as 
the 2002-2003 student body presi -
dent and was a member of Florida 
Blue Key. As a financial support organiza -
tion formed in 1960, the UF Law 
LCA currently has 79 active mem -
bers and 153 Emeritus members — 
a position earned after a member 
has served their five-year term. 
The LCA Board of Trustees as -
sists UF Law’s budgetary process, 
providing financial resources and 
managing mentorship programs 
for students.
“We are grateful for the support 
of our LCA, which routinely sup -
ports admissions and career devel -
opment initiatives in addition to 
helping with fundraising appeals 
to the alumni population,” Farley 
wrote.
Nominations to the LCA 
Board of Trustees are encouraged 
throughout the year and are dis -
cussed at monthly meetings by the 
LCA Membership Committee. The 
entire LCA advisory board consid -
ers the nominees each August and 
January — ultimately crafting a list 
of new members to be voted on in May. 
Fried joins a long list of no -
table active members of the LCA 
Board of Trustees, including Ash -
ley Moody, Florida’s Republican 
attorney general. Fried confronted 
Moody earlier this year about her 
involvement as a board member of 
an organization that sent robocalls 
urging people to participate in the 
march that led to the Capitol insur -
rection.
If Fried is elected as governor on 
November 8, 2022, she would be 
the first Democrat to take the office 
since former Gov. Buddy MacKay’s 
24-day governorship from 1998 
to 1999. Fried would also be the 
first woman to become governor 
of Florida — an achievement that 
would mirror her success as the 
first female student body president 
of UF after a nearly 20-year-long 
stint of male presidents.
@makseminera
mseminera@alligator.orgFL Commissioner Fried’s UF Law BOT seat in question following gubernatorial candidacy
The county could expand parking accessibility for RVs and tiny houses
Antonia LaRocca / / Alligator Staff
The inside of a tiny home in a storage container converted by Troy Rosslow, 
founder of Tiny House Lab LLC on Monday, June 7, 2021.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
THE LGBTQ COMMUNITY 
AND ALLIES BUILD THE 
FUTURE AND REFLECT ON 
THE PAST OF THE PRIDE 
COMMUNITY CENTER OF 
NORTH CENTRAL FLORIDA
By Joelle Wittig
Alligator Staff Writer
LGBTQ pride flags decorated 
the pavilion at Westside Park as 
the sun beat down on bagels, do -
nuts, fruit and coffee arranged on 
a long table. More than 50 people 
gathered in Gainesville to discuss 
the future of the Pride Community 
Center of North Central Florida.
On the morning of the fifth an -
niversary of the Pulse Nightclub 
shooting June 12, the center held 
a meeting to collaborate with the 
community to understand the 
needs and goals of LGBTQ indi -
viduals.
Tamára Perry-Lunardo, a 
41-year-old bisexual woman, has 
served as the president of the 
Pride Community Center for a 
year and a half. She said the turn -
out exceeded her expectations, 
and she was energized by the out -
come of the meeting.
“What we were really hoping 
to get out of it was community in -
put and involvement, and people 
really stepped up and did exactly that,” she said.
The meeting focused on four 
specific needs: leadership, facili -
ties, programming and events. 
The group brainstormed ideas 
like outdoor sporting events, LG -
BTQ parenting groups, arts and 
craft projects and clothing swaps.
The center has been in 
Gainesville for more than 20 
years, meeting for the first time 
in 2000. Tracy Moorman, a 
49-year-old lesbian and UF alum -
na, helped found the center and 
served as the co-president for sev -
eral years.
She worked alongside co-
founder and co-president Terry 
Fleming, and the two became 
close. She said they called each 
other their ex-wife and ex-hus -
band because of the connection 
they felt.
“He passed away last April 
2020, and of course the center 
just closed down,” she said. 
Moorman said Fleming would 
want the center to continue, and 
the meeting took place on his 
60th birthday.
“We knew it was his birthday 
and it was Pulse,” she said. “I 
definitely sense he was with us 
today.”
The event was brought togeth -
er with the help of seven board 
members. Darin Stoneking, a 
52-year-old graphic designer and visual branding consultant, has 
been part of the board for three 
months.
Stoneking moved to Gainesville 
from Chicago two years ago and 
quickly became involved with the 
center. He said the LGBTQ spaces 
in Chicago were huge, and this 
motivated him to become more 
involved in Gainesville. Stonek -
ing said he hopes his work will 
lead to a more inclusive space for 
everyone.
“We’re trying to repaint,” he 
said. “This is a community for ev -
erybody.”
He said he has become more 
aware of the complexities of the 
community and the importance 
of holding this space and being a 
voice for others. He said he was 
surprised by the turnout and rec -
ognized the robust community 
around him.
“There’s so many popula -
tions,” he said. “The teens, the 
families, we have a population 
of older people, larger than any 
time in the United States’ history. 
There’s gay and lesbian people 
older now than there have ever 
been.”
Stoneking was not the only at -
tendee surprised by the turnout. 
Rebecca Putman, a 32-year-old 
bisexual woman and the pas -
tor at Westminister Presbyterian 
Church, joined the center today for the first time. Putman said 
she discovered the event after 
googling ‘‘Gainesville LGBTQ.’’
“I’m relatively new to 
Gainesville, and my church is 
open and affirming to the LG -
BTQ community,” she said. “As a 
member of the LGBTQ communi -
ty, I really wanted to find a place 
to be involved.” 
She moved to Gainesville from upstate New York where she said 
she was surrounded by prejudice.
“It was really hard there, so 
coming here and seeing rainbow 
flags, where people can be out 
and proud, it’s just really exciting 
for me,” she said.
@JoelleWittig
jwittig@alligator.org
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Audrey Cheves stored her life on an SD 
card. 
Photos of butterflies and flowers mixed 
in with important family moments — 
records of her memories as seen through 
the lens of her Canon. In her bag, she’d 
carry up to three camera lenses.
Shortly before her death, she took about 
500 pictures at her sister’s dance recital, 
her father Billy Cheves said. 
On June 5, Audrey Cheves and her 
mother, Melissa Cheves, were hit by a car on Northwest 39th Avenue while driving 
out of the Publix parking lot. Audrey 
Cheves was pronounced dead at the scene. 
She was 18 years old. 
“She was our rock,” her father said. 
A candlelight vigil was held in her 
remembrance June 12, a week after her 
death, at the intersection of Northwest 
13th Street and Northwest 39th Avenue. 
Melissa Cheves is still in intensive care 
and has gone in and out of consciousness, 
according to WCJB.
Audrey Cheves was born June 3, 2003, 
and raised in Waldo, Florida. She planned 
to study business and marketing at Santa 
Fe College this summer, Billy Cheves said. 
Following in her mother’s footsteps, she 
started twirling flags in either elementary 
or middle school, Billy Cheves said. In 
high school, Audrey Cheves was a part 
of the Gainesville High School Hurricane 
Marching Band and Guard. 
She loved colorguard and took part in it 
until she had to have surgery on her knee, 
her father said. After starting with flags, 
she later transitioned to throwing more 
advanced tosses with rifles and sabres. 
Watching her perform alongside the rest of 
the band on the field is one of her father’s 
favorite memories of his daughter. 
The Gainesville High School Band 
posted a tribute to Audrey Cheves on 
Facebook June 6. 
“Audrey Cheves we are so thankful 
for your days with us and will hold our families close tonight knowing you left 
yours too soon,” the post read. 
She was known as “Peanut” by her 
mom’s friends, Billy Cheves said. She was 
given the nickname because of how much 
she liked boiled peanuts. 
A single phone call from his daughter 
was always enough to brighten a bad day, 
Billy Cheves said. She never failed to make 
him laugh. 
Beyond photography, Audrey Cheves 
adored animals, especially her red nose 
Pitbull mix, Willow.
She was a godly girl, Cheyanne Faulk, 
21, a close friend, said. Audrey Cheves 
loved gospel songs, quoted the Bible and 
asked people to give her their favorite 
verses, she said. The last Bible verse she 
gave Faulk was Psalm 23:4, describing 
how the presence of God comforts and 
guides those who are afraid. John 3:16 
adorned her wall.
Because Audrey Cheves’ and Faulk’s 
fathers considered each other brothers, the 
two young women were raised as sisters, 
Faulk said. 
“Wherever she went, she always told 
everybody ‘that’s my sister,’” Faulk said. 
“She always introduced my children as her 
niece and nephew.”
Audrey Cheves was like a rainbow — a 
bright, colorful bundle of joy, Faulk said. 
Even when she was going through a hard 
time, she was never without a smile on 
her face. It remained even when their 
family’s house burnt down and they lost 
everything, she said. She was always encouraging and happy. Above all, Audrey 
Cheves cherished spending time with her 
family, especially her 8-year-old sister, 
Chloe, Faulk said. 
Like the flowers she photographed, 
Audrey Cheves brought light and happiness 
to those around her.
“She was like a sunflower,” Faulk said. 
Faulk and Audrey Cheves would go to 
places like the mall, the park and Dunkin’ 
Donuts, where Cheves was sure to order a 
coffee with caramel in it. 
At her sweet sixteen birthday party, 
Faulk remembers Audrey Cheves dancing 
the whole night through. 
Audrey Cheves was caring and funny, 
her friend Rosalee Dush, 13, said. The two 
met at their church, Eden Baptist Church, 
where Audrey Cheves was baptized, 
Rosalee said. Through youth group, 
Audrey Cheves and Rosalee became good 
friends. 
“She was like a sister to me,” Rosalee 
said. “I just really miss her, honestly.” 
Before Rosalee moved back to upstate 
New York, she spent time with Audrey 
Cheves at a youth party thrown for Rosalee 
last year. For Rosalee, the party was the 
last time they saw each other — where 
they all talked and hung out together, she 
said. 
As of Sunday, a GoFundMe to support 
the Cheves family has raised close to 
$20,000. 
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.orgPride Community Center celebrates Pride Month
‘She was like a sunflower’: Remembering Audrey Cheves Joelle Wittig / / Alligator Staff
Attendees of the Pride Center Community meeting picnic and collaborate 
in groups to discuss their goals for the upcoming year on Saturday, June 
12, 2021. The event brought together families and members of the 
LGBTQ+ community to give their input in rejuvenating the center while 
helping themselves to a catered breakfast at Westside Park.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Photo of Audrey Cheves.
Audrey, 18, died in a car crash June 5Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
New athletic facility shines light on future
The final beam above the entryway for the James W. “Bill” 
Heavener Football Center was set in place and screwed in 
tight on June 8. Read more on pg. 12 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
SWAMP CITY GALLERY LOUNGE 
IS ENCOURAGING PATRONS TO 
#PLANTAPRIDETREE TO SHOW 
SUPPORT FOR 
THE LGBTQ COMMUNITY
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
Swamp City Gallery Lounge is all about 
the green, but this June, they’re embracing 
the rainbow. 
The local glass art gallery and cannabis 
lounge is celebrating Pride Month with its 
#plantapridetree raffle campaign. With the 
campaign, the lounge hopes to further its 
mission of creating a safe, inclusive space by 
showing support for the LGBTQ community.
Despite the campaign’s #plantapridetree 
tagline, greenery isn’t involved. Instead, 
patrons stop by the Swamp City Gallery 
Lounge, located at 716 N Main Street, to pick 
up a custom sticker — a rainbow rework of 
the lounge’s tree logo. Participants post a 
picture of the sticker on social media and tag 
the lounge, which automatically enters them 
into a raffle for $300 worth of prizes.
True to Swamp City’s central fields, the 
prizes up for grabs include glass crafts and 
cannabis items like glass pendants and 
custom pipes, along with an album from 
Orlando-based hip-hop artist NIKO IS.
Michael Austin, a Gainesville-based glassblower, contributed several of his 
custom pipes to the prize package. A frequent 
patron of Swamp City, he said what started 
as a business venture to sell his glassware 
developed into a much deeper bond with the 
staff. 
“They ended up becoming family,” Austin 
said. 
The lounge has been trying to bring the 
community together since its inception 
three years ago, general manager of Swamp 
City Tony Phillips said. Regardless of color, 
creed, sexual orientation or other factors, 
Phillips said Swamp City is a place where an 
appreciation for art and cannabis is the only 
term of entry. 
“There is no room for ‘isms’ of any kind 
when you walk through our gates,” he said.
The pride tree campaign has been the 
hallmark of Swamp City’s pride celebration 
since 2019, a year after the lounge opened. 
Tyler King, the lounge’s founder and owner, 
said Swamp City was seeking a way to 
express its inclusivity. The pride tree idea 
struck.
“The LGBTQ community has always been 
a huge supporter of Swamp City, so we just 
wanted to show support back,” he said.
Swamp City regularly adds a pop of color 
to its otherwise white logo — orange for 
Halloween, green for St. Patrick’s Day and 
other festive iterations. The pride logo, King 
said, was a continuation of that tradition, 
lasting the entire month of June.But King said there is a difference 
between this campaign and other holiday 
commemorations. Where others are 
lighthearted celebrations of passing seasons, 
the pride logo represents Swamp City’s 
gratitude toward its LGBTQ patrons. 
With a subject so closely connected to the 
lounge’s morals, King said it was important 
for this campaign to include a little extra 
effort.
“We really wanted to go above and 
beyond with Pride Month,” he said. 
The pride tree campaign spotlights a 
long-spanning link between cannabis and 
the LGBTQ community. From the treatment 
of HIV and AIDS to relief in symptoms 
of depression, anxiety, PTSD and other 
mental illnesses, cannabis has shown to be 
an effective tool in combating issues that 
disproportionately affect members of the 
LGBTQ community, according to statistics 
from the Journal of Pain and Symptom 
Management and the American Psychiatric 
Association. 
Phillips said he sees this link with the 
lounge’s LGBTQ patrons, but the relationship 
doesn’t end there. He said his personal 
connection to the LGBTQ community is what 
made this campaign so pertinent to execute.
This year’s pride tree campaign is an 
expansion from years past, King said. In 
the first two years of sticker circulation, 
customers could order online. But this year, 
the stickers are only available at the shop to encourage more direct engagement from 
the community. Additionally, Swamp City 
doubled its usual number of 100 printed 
stickers to give more patrons the opportunity 
to participate.
Patrons of the lounge meet at the 
intersection of art and cannabis use, but they 
encompass a wide range of demographics. 
The pride tree campaign is just one 
example of a variety of events and programs 
hosted by the lounge. Live music of all genres 
can be heard there on most nights, and a 
number of other businesses and organizations 
congregate at Swamp City for different 
fundraisers and community-oriented affairs.
Phillips said the diversity of events is 
meant to create an inclusive, inviting space 
for all customers while still centering on the 
lounge’s key elements. 
“They want to put us in so many 
different categories and sub-categories,” 
he said. “We’re all humans, we all have 
an endocannabinoid system, and that 
endocannabinoid system is begging for 
cannabinoids to heal us naturally.”
The pride tree campaign, Phillips said, 
is another opportunity to celebrate Swamp 
City’s unyielding community status — open 
to all.
“We are one big happy family here, and 
we want these people to know that.”
 
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgGainesville cannabis and art lounge launches Pride Month campaign
PRIDEPRIDE8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
GFAA PARTNERED WITH 
THE ALACHUA COUNTY 
COMMUNITY REMEMBRANCE 
PROJECT TO CREATE A SPACE 
TO CELEBRATE ART 
BY BLACK ARTISTS
By Sam Schaffer
Alligator Staff writer
For the first time, the 
Gainesville Fine Arts Association 
galleries are completely filled 
with pieces made exclusively by 
Black artists. 
UMOJA, a Celebration of Black 
Artists in Alachua County, opened 
May 25 and will fill both galler -
ies at 1314 S Main Street until 
June 19. The word ‘umoja’ means 
unity in Swahili, and the exhibit 
serves as a step toward a more ac -
curate representation of the com -
munity around the gallery, Katy 
Lemle, the GFAA gallery director 
and operations manager said. 
The gallery is the culmination 
of collaboration between GFAA 
and the Alachua County Commu -
nity Remembrance Project, a com -
munity group working toward the 
reconciliation of lynchings during 
the Jim Crow era, Lemle, 37, said. 
In the gallery, acrylic and 
oil paintings hang on the walls 
around various fiber art installa -
tions, which are sculptural pieces 
made with fabrics. The art touch -
es on a range of topics from fam -
ily gatherings to racial commen -
tary. 
Lemle said Black art is widely 
underrepresented in the art in -dustry. 
“We recognize that having an 
all-Black artists exhibition is not 
really the answer,” she said. “It’s 
not really a solution. It’s just kind 
of one step in the direction of 
making sure that we’re a repre -
sentation of an arts organization 
in our community of what our 
community looks like.” 
The GFAA has been histori -
cally white, and Lemle said they 
are making efforts to be more in -
clusive. 
“We always have more work 
to do,” she said. 
Daniel Turnage, an artist with 
two pieces in the exhibit, said the 
art industry as a whole is segre -
gated. 
The 27-year-old customer ser -
vice representative said his pieces 
were inspired by his own battles 
with mental health and getting to 
a better place in life. 
His piece “The Day I Took 
Acid, God Became Me” is a rep -
resentation of a conversation be -
tween the subconscious and the 
ego, he said. 
The art was inspired by a rough 
patch in 2019 when his relation -
ship with his then fiancé ended. It 
also touches on his struggles with 
being biracial.
“I’m originally from Tennes -
see,” Turnage said. “Growing up, 
I’d hang out with the neighbor -
hood kids — the majority of them 
were Black, and I’d be too white 
for them. Then I’d come over here 
to Florida, and I’d be too black for 
the white kids.”Turnage said the psychedelic 
nature of his paintings was in -
spired by his own experimenta -
tion with acid and mushrooms. 
Drilisa Thompkins is another 
artist who expressed a need to see 
a gallery like UMOJA. 
The 55-year-old retired spe -
cial education assistant said she’s 
been doing art all her life and has 
never seen an exhibit with art ex -
clusively by Black artists.Thompkins has two pieces in 
the show: “The Overflow” and 
“The Reunion.” Both paintings 
depict large families gathering to 
eat a meal and celebrate the next 
generation of children. 
Thompkins said her art usually 
focuses on a love of family and 
friends, and her paintings in the 
gallery were inspired by the CO -
VID-19 pandemic. 
She said she grew up in a large family and not being able to see 
her family members during the 
pandemic was painful, but paint -
ing helped her cope. 
Thompkins said she was hap -
py to see an exhibit like this. 
“It just made me proud of my 
people,” she said. “I was proud to 
see their work.”
@samschaf_
sschaffer@alligator.orgGainesville Fine Arts Association hosts first all-Black artist exhibit
Sam Schaffer / / Alligator Staff
“It Ain’t About You Boo” by Keiaria Williams sits near the entrance of the UMOJA exhibit at the 
Gainesville Fine Arts Association on Wednesday, June 9, 2021. The UMOJA exhibit is a celebration 
of Black art that will occupy the entire exhibition space at the GFAA until June 19.
CARLEE SIMONS IS THE FIRST SUPERINTENDENT 
IN FIVE YEARS TO NOT RENEW 
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF CONTRACTS
By Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
After seven months in office, Alachua County Public 
School superintendent Carlee Simon has sparked 
controversy in the community.
Simon, who was hired on Dec. 7, did not renew nine 
administration members’ contracts, removing them from 
their positions at the school year’s end.
Rather than teachers or custodians, administrative staff 
refers to those in charge of managing teachers and services 
in the school system.
“A nonrenewal is not the same thing as being fired,” 
Simon said at a school board meeting on June 1. “These 
are two different things.” 
“A non-renewal means you are not being renewed into 
the position you currently hold. You are not prevented 
from applying for other positions within the district,” she 
said.
Her goals as superintendent are to recruit effective 
staff, strengthen the district’s infrastructure and prioritize 
the community’s involvement in the educational process.
However, Simon is the first superintendent in the 
past five years to leave administrative staff’s contracts 
unrenewed, she said.
“I will not be able to offer you clarity into my decision 
making because there are just some things that are not 
available for public consumption, and this is one of them,” she said during the meeting.
“It is my belief system that a high quality education 
is led by administrators that understand the roles, 
responsibilities and follow board policy,” she said. 
“Honestly, I’m surprised that administrators have not had 
this before.” 
None of the ACPS teachers who were contacted 
provided a comment. 
Some teachers and parents, such as Julie Crosby, trust 
Simon to make the right decision for the county. 
“I believe in Dr. Simon. I will support her and I will 
continue to support her as long as she’s matching that 
vision for the children,” Crosby said during the school 
board meeting. “I support her, and I think a lot more 
people do as well.”
Others are upset by the superintendent’s lack of 
transparency. 
A petition created on May 28 by a group called the 
Citizens of Alachua County expresses discontent with 
Simon’s overall leadership, and it was presented during 
the school board meeting. As of Sunday, it had more than 
1,340 signatures. 
Sandra Carlisi, the mother of Aidan Carlisi, a fifth 
grader at Glen Springs Elementary School, is among those 
disappointed by the decision. Her frustration specifically 
stems from the nonrenewal of Deanna Feagin, the Glen 
Springs Elementary School principal.
Faegin brought a positive energy to the school because 
she was always smiling and greeting the children, she 
said. She had murals painted, cleaned up the school and 
had each student’s name memorized.
“No one can tell us a reason, and they say they don’t have to,” she said. “But it seems like there should be 
some sort of indication along the way. It doesn’t foster a 
community of inclusion and input.”
Carlisi said her son Aidan, 11, will attend Howard 
Bishop Middle School in the fall. They will not be directly 
impacted by Feagin’s departure because of this change of 
school, but Carlisi said she still wants to voice her concern.
“I just thought I should speak up for the parents and 
children that are staying behind so that they don’t have 
another disruption,” she said.
A campaign created May 26 aims to provide financial 
support for Feagin’s family and any attorney fees.
Carlisi said Glen Springs has seen four different 
principals during her son’s time at the school, and she is not 
the only parent who is frustrated with the inconsistency.
Jenna Hunnicutt, a Gainesville resident of eight years 
and the mother of kindergartner Emily Hunnicutt and 
sixth grader Madison Hunnicutt, said she was shocked by 
the superintendent’s decision.
“It was very emotional for me because I just absolutely 
love Glen Springs,” she said. “My oldest daughter went 
there from Kindergarten through fifth grade, and we just 
love the community of the school.”
Hunnicutt said she finds it difficult to respect the 
decision made by Superintendent Carlee Simon because of 
her failure to communicate her reasoning. 
“I feel like the power she is using is being used in the 
wrong way,” she said. “I am just not liking what she is 
doing, and it is very frustrating.”
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.orgAlachua County Public Schools Superintendent chooses not to renew nine administration contractsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
say: "I found it in the alligator!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-121For Rent
furnished
2 bed/2 bath condo adjacent to campus 
w/ss appliances & w/d pool/gym rts bus 
walk to campus shands $1400/mo+util 
annl/lease ask about move-in special! 
Tom @ 941-216-8665                  7-12-21-4-1  
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            8-15-21-13-2
2 bed/2 bath condo adjacent to campus 
w/ss appliances & w/d pool/gym rts bus 
walk to campus shands $1200/mo+util 
annl/lease ask about move-in special! 
Tom @ 941-216-8665                    7-12-21-4-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail-
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod-
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.  
8-1-21-9-2
11..    BBee  aabbllee  ttoo  ppaayy  ffoorr
11..    MMoooorree  mmoovviiee  55..    LLeeggaall  pprroocceeeeddiinngg  
22..    LLaacckk  ooff  ssuucccceessss66..    HHaabbiitt,,  ccuussttoomm  
33..    LLeett  ggoo77..    LLeeaasstt
44..    TTrruutthhffuull  FFDDOOFFAARR
RRRRUUHHAATTAALLTTIIRR
UUSSGGAAEE
LLIIUUFFEEAARR
RRAAEEEESSLLEESSTTEEEEFFWW
SSTTOOHHNNEEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AAffffoorrdd    55AA--TTrriiaall    66AA--UUssaaggee    77AA--FFeewweesstt
11DD--AArrtthhuurr    22DD--FFaaiilluurree    33DD--RReelleeaassee    44DD--HHoonneesstt    BB--OOlldd  FFaaiitthhffuull66--1144--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  wwaass  nnaammeedd  iinn  11887700  dduurriinngg  tthhee  
WWaasshhbbuurrnn––LLaannggffoorrdd––DDooaannee  EExxppeeddiittiioonn..  BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RVís 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          6-14-6-1313 Wanted 5 Real Estate
By Catherine Cetta
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/14/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/14/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, June 14, 2021
ACROSS
1 Rigatoni or ziti
6 Poker stake
10 Sandwich known 
by its initials
13 Odysseus’ 
journey, for 
example
14 Sulk
15 “Now I __ me 
down ... ”
16 Least wild
17 *Emulate Bonnie 
and Clyde
19 Birdbrains
20 Fab competitor
21 Fairy tale start
22 *Highly aware 
and ready to act
24 Does some 
programming
25 Airline to Israel
26 Dutch cheese 
town
28 Before now
31 Poe’s  
“Annabel __”
33 Threat-ending 
words
37 *Grasps an 
underlying 
meaning
41 Take for granted
42 Part of GPS: Abbr.
43 Carrot chomper’s 
“What’s up, __?”
44 Rice-A-__
46 Goes kaput, as 
an engine
49 University VIPs
52 *Kellogg’s cereal 
morsel
57 D.C. helper
58 Nevada gambling 
mecca
59 Senseless 
endeavor
60 Persuasive 
efforts using 
insincere flattery 
... and a hint to 
the last words of 
the answers to 
starred clues
62 Hairpiece
63 Pre-1991 map 
letters
64 Slender 
woodwind
65 Prom corsage
66 Wide shoe sizes67 “OMG” or “TTYL”
68 Hawke of 
“Boyhood”
DOWN
1 Shrimp relative
2 Fess up
3 Simmer with 
anger
4 Fez feature
5 PC key used in 
combinations
6 Month that may 
start with a gag
7 Noggin
8 You__: online 
video site
9 Zeta-theta link
10 Tasteless
11 Jousting weapon
12 Little ones
13 “The Simpsons” 
bus driver
18 Many a Gen Xer 
parent
20 Yarns
23 Whale’s food-
filtering system
24 Check the ID of
27 Wears out
28 Here, in Havana
29 Oxygen, e.g.
30 NFL tiebreakers32 Mars residents, 
in sci-fi
34 It may be flipped
35 Bay Area hub 
inits.
36 And so on, briefly
38 Teen’s witching 
hour
39 Med. care plans
40 Electric starter?
45 Fridge of yore
47 Serious attempt
48 Posture issue49 So last year
50 Washer cycle
51 Air freshener 
targets
53 Initial stage
54 Top dog
55 Fashion’s Anne 
or Calvin
56 Looked over
58 Spa cover-up
61 Write quickly
62 Digital water 
tester?
By Jeff Stillman
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/08/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/08/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 8, 2021
ACROSS
1 Welsh dog
6 Voice mails: Abbr.
10 Heed
14 Atom with a 
negative charge
15 German mark 
successor
16 Very hot state
17 Works on a 
keyboard
18 Mideast’s Gulf 
of __
19 __ job: deception
20 Prime time for 
vacationers
23 Informal 
affirmative
24 Small amount
25 Weep
26 Childcare writer 
LeShan
29 Work out of the 
office?
32 King’s rabid dog
35 Laugh sound
36 Like some waves
37 Chevy 
subcompact
38 Basic building 
blocks
41 Half of Mork’s 
sign-off
42 Greek cheeses
44 Washington NLer
45 Cavefish’s 
functionless parts
46 Pacific spot 
named for the day 
it was discovered
50 Chicago-to-Miami 
dir.
51 Elton’s  
“Rocket __”
52 Prior to, poetically
53 Baglike structure
56 ’80s hard rock 
quintet, and 
what’s literally 
found in each set 
of circles
60 Lightsaber 
wielders
62 Dove’s home
63 Wavy pattern
64 __ socks
65 Beheaded Boleyn
66 Kate’s TV 
sidekick
67 Legal memo 
phrase
68 Cordelia’s father
69 ProminentDOWN
1 Like a remark 
evoking a “Rowr!”
2 “The joke’s __!”
3 Make into confetti
4 Active type
5 At its original 
position
6 Carnivore’s 
regimen
7 Frothy water
8 776 BC Olympics 
locale
9 Undersea 
trackers
10 -ish, numerically
11 Time to celebrate
12 Vanity
13 Fine-grained 
wood
21 Nickname for 
Alexandra
22 Part of GPS: 
Abbr.
27 “Cheers” server
28 Top mark
29 Hiss, as a villain
30 Vegas lights
31 Pronged
32 Bookstore 
eateries
33 Eye parts with 
irises34 Traveler in life’s 
fast lane
39 Stag
40 Paparazzi 
targets
43 Interstate hauler
47 Mischief-maker
48 Emulate the 
Gregorians
49 Upscale retailer 
__ Marcus
53 Clown’s 
heightening prop54 Falcon’s nest
55 2015 “Rocky” 
films sequel
57 Amusement park 
cry
58 Highest  
Italian peak  
south of the  
Alps
59 Stag
60 Schuss, e.g.
61 Lodging with a 
“keeper”
06/07/2021answers on page 101. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who 
was the first president to sign 
into law a declaration of war?
2. TELEVISION:  What was 
the name of the federal agent 
in the 1990s drama "Twin 
Peaks"?
3. GEOGRAPHY:  What is 
the smallest country in South 
America?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the color maroon?
5. INVENTIONS:  When was 
the can opener invented?6. MOVIES:  What was Andy 
Dufresne's profession before 
he was sent to prison in 1994's 
"The Shawshank Redemp -
tion"?
7. U.S. STATES:  Which state 
was the last one to be admit -
ted to the union?
8. FAMOUS QUOTES:  Who 
wrote this about summer, 
"Live in the sunshine. Swim in 
the sea. Drink in the wild air"?
9. HISTORY:  In what year 
were the first slaves from Af -
rica brought on a ship to the 
American colonies?
10. GEOLOGY:  What kind 
of rock is coal?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by FifiRodriguez
get VACCINATED today
answers on pg. 101. What member of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2021 was named general man -
ager of the San Francisco 49ers in 2017?
2. How old was NASCAR driver Morgan Shep -
herd when he started in the 2014 Camping 
World RV Sales 301?
3. Iga Swiatek, 2020 French Open women's 
singles tennis champion, hails from what 
country?
4. In 2001, six-time Olympic gold-medalist 
swimmer Amy Van Dyken married Denver 
Broncos player Tom Rouen. What position 
did he play?
5. What sports nutrition center, founded by 
Victor Conte, became the focal point of a 
performance-enhancing drug scandal in the 
early 2000s?
6. Bobby Winkles compiled a 524-173 record 
and won three national titles as head coach of 
what college baseball team?
7. What team snapped the Los Angeles Lak -
ers' NBA-record 33-game winning streak in 
January 1972?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
ATTENTION SENIORS
The average funeral cost is $9000+Don't leave 
your family to pay your debts. State Approved, 
Final Expense Life Insurance Plans Are Now 
Available as Low as $25 a month Hurry and 
Call Before Enrollment Ends.
800-555-5555 M-F 9am-6pmEST            6-14-4-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
NOTE:  This newspaper as -
sumes no responsibility for in -
jury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who re -
sponds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arrang -
ing meetings or investing money.16 Health Services 13 Wanted 21 Entertainment
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"CASH for WAR RELICS and VINTAGE 
ELECTRONICS
WW1 AND WW2 US/German/Japanese 
swords, daggers, armaments.
Also buying outdated Audio equipment 
(Amplifiers, Tuners, Speakers, Vacuum 
Tubes.) Call Chris at 904 315-5208
6-14-1-13
14 Help Wanted
AllStar Cheer/Tumbling Coach
Florida TeamCheer is looking for energetic 
cheer/tumbling coaches.
AllStar experience required. 
Send your resume to ftcgators@aol.com
or call 352-222-9977                         7-6-21-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-15-21-13-15
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Trivia Test  answers1. James Madison, War of 1812
2. Agent Dale Cooper
3. Suriname
4. Dark brownish red
5. 1858 -- almost 50 years after 
canned food was invented6. Banker
7 . Hawaii
8. Ralph Waldo Emerson
9. 1619
10. SedimentarySports Quiz  answers1. John Lynch.
2. 72.
3. Poland.
4. Punter.
5. Bay Area Laboratory Co-opera -
tive (BALCO).
6. The Arizona State Sun Devils.
7. The Milwaukee Bucks.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
found found   
something? something? 
place a place a FREEFREE   "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
solution  below
solution  below
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
advertise in the:
new 
student
edition
August 16, 2021
advertising@alligator.org
for more info
pleaseplease   recyclerecycle
 this newspaper. this newspaper.
thank you.thank you.
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
scan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:get 
VACCINATED!MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sportsFollow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
THOMAS MARDAL CAPPED 
OFF HIS COLLEGIATE CAREER 
JUNE 9, EARNING HIS FIRST 
NCAA OUTDOOR TITLE
By Kaitlyn Wadulack
Sports Writer
In just one day, Florida track and 
field star Thomas Mardal hoisted 
both a 16-pound hammer and an 
NCAA National Championship 
trophy.
Mardal hurled the hammer 76.74 
meters (251-9) away to win him his 
first national outdoor title, one final 
accolade in a decorated career and 
senior season.
On June 9, the senior thrower 
ended his collegiate career as a 
two-time track and field national 
champion and four-time SEC title 
holder. He is nothing short of a beast 
on the field. 
Yet the most impressive aspect 
about Mardal’s career isn’t the 
impeccable resume or shelf of titles 
— those close to him say it’s his 
focus. 
He doesn’t boast about his success 
or brag about titles or honors. The 
Norwegian said he doesn’t even 
stop to bask in the glory after a win. 
Instead, he looks ahead.  
“As soon as I'm done with one 
meet, my focus is sort of on the next 
one,” Mardal said. “I'm like, ‘Okay, 
that was good. I did my job. But now, 
focus on the next thing.’”
Florida’s associate head track and 
field coach Steve Lemke said Mardal 
is a hard worker with a willingness to 
get better. His focus complements his 
consistent determination. “He’s very focused, he’s very 
determined, he’s very intense,” 
Lemke said. “That doesn’t change 
from day-to-day.” 
Lemke first saw Mardal compete 
in-person at the World Junior 
Championships in Poland, but 
Thomas wasn’t the first of the 
Mardals he met. Lemke met his 
father, Ole Morten Mardal — a former 
long jumper —  about 25 years earlier 
when he was the national senior and 
junior throws coach in Norway. 
“I knew the family, so I knew 
what we were getting,” Lemke said.  
Mardal’s father had him playing 
sports as soon as he could walk. His 
initial focus centered around running 
and jumping events, mirroring Ole’s 
career. 
But Mardal developed knee pain 
from his training when he was about 
14 years old. Instead of an early 
retirement, he began to work with 
coach Jørund Årdal, who helped him 
with all things throwing, and took up 
discus throwing.
When Mardal met Lemke in 
Poland, he knew if he wanted to 
continue, he’d have to move away 
from his small, west-coast Norwegian 
village. Lemke and the Gators offered 
a path.
“When I was on my visit [at UF], 
I really liked it,” he said. “I basically 
made the decision that I wanted to 
come over here and experience a few 
years in the heat.” 
Mardal threw discus competitively 
for five years from the age of 14 to 
19. He competed for UF in the discus 
throw in 2018, where he placed 13th 
at SEC Outdoors. 
Mardal then transitioned to the 
hammer throw at 19 years old, soon realizing that type of training  clicked 
for him. 
“When I train for indoors, it's 
a lot of specific strength,” Mardal 
said. “Once we got outdoors with the 
hammer, it's more about still keeping 
as much of the strength as possible 
but also getting a little faster.”
For a thrower, Lemke said Mardal 
is very fast.
“He’s got a lot of fast twitch in 
him, and that’s something you either 
have or you don’t have, and he has 
it,” Lemke said.
Despite living in the Swamp for 
four years, Mardal said he hasn’t 
explored much of Gainesville. He 
spends most of his time on campus 
either studying for his Business 
Administration degree or training for 
his next competition, occasionally 
venturing outside for a stroll. 
“I like to go on walks around 
campus,” Mardal said, “especially 
in the evenings when it's not super 
hot.” 
Once the pandemic struck, 
Mardal’s routine was dismantled. He 
went from studying at Library West 
and practicing at James G. Pressly 
Stadium to secluding himself in his 
dorm and training alone.  
“It seemed like everyone was just 
kind of jumping on the first plane 
and really stressing about getting 
home to their home countries,” he 
said. “I figured I would rather wait 
for things to calm down a little bit.”
From March to early May 2020, he 
stuck it out in Gainesville. It wasn’t 
easy. With facilities closed, Mardal 
struggled to train like he used to, but 
he didn’t stop. 
“It was hard because it wasn't 
necessarily set up easy for us to train 
in that time because everything was 
closed,” he said. “It's more about just 
doing what I could with what I had 
available.”
Mardal returned home to 
Gloppen, Norway in May where 
he was able to train with fewer 
COVID-19 restrictions. His dad 
helped set up a makeshift weight 
room in their garage back home. 
Once Mardal finished his throws for 
the day, he had the space to lift. 
“That was a bit of a lifesaver,” 
Mardal said. 
With his training schedule intact, 
the pandemic didn’t set back the 
thrower. Rather, Mardal had his 
most successful year coming out of 
COVID-19. 
He entered his senior season with 
two SEC titles already under his 
belt. He ended it with two more SEC 
titles and two NCAA titles. Yet, he 
still only considers himself a slightly 
better hammer thrower than when he started. 
“Coach Lemke here at UF kind 
of took me from a rough thrower, 
technically, to at least a slightly 
better hammer thrower now,” he 
said. “We've made quite a bit of 
development through the last four 
years.”
On Feb. 25, he clinched his second 
indoor regional title in the weight 
throw, his third championship 
overall. Mardal won his first national 
championship in the same event 
less than a month later on March 11 
when he broke the school’s weight 
throw record with a 24.46 meter (80-
3 ¾) heave.  
Mardal launched the weight more 
than 80 feet twice at the national 
event, becoming the first person in 
NCAA Indoor Championship history 
and the second in collegiate history 
to do so.  
Then came the gold in the outdoor 
regional for the hammer throw on 
May 13, which led to his second 
national title at NCAA Outdoors June 
9. Mardal broke a second school 
record, this time in the hammer 
throw, with a 76.74 meter (251-9) 
hurl. He shattered that record three 
separate times in 2021 alone. 
While the national titles and 
records draw the most eyes to 
his resume, Mardal said his most 
surprising gold-medal moment was 
his first regional title. He won the 
title on his final throw of the day, 
unlocking his then-personal record of 
73 meters (239-6) and out-throwing 
Georgia’s defending champion 
Denzel Comenentia. 
“That was probably the most 
fun thing that I've had to win here,” Mardal said. 
Even after he heard his name 
announced for the first time as 
a national champion in March, 
Mardal’s deferential nature shone 
through. He thought of the win more 
as something he had to do. 
“I kind of came in as the 
favorite so it wasn't sort of like an 
overachievement,” he said. “I did 
what I was supposed to do.”
With his collegiate career coming 
to a close, Mardal is excited for the 
time off to immerse himself into 
nature further than his evening 
campus strolls. He said he likes to go 
on hikes and wants to try hunting as 
well. 
“Back where I'm from, [hunting 
is] kind of a big thing, he said. “But 
it's all things that I haven't really had 
the time to do.”
After the time off, Mardal will 
chase his next goal: success on the 
global stage. He wants to make the 
Olympics or World Championships. 
His 76.74m hammer throw record 
would have finished fourth in the 
2016 Olympics.
In his 16 years at UF, Lemke said 
he hasn’t had an athlete in throwing 
events who’s been as focused and 
intense with his training as Mardal 
is. Those types of athletes, he said, 
come very few and far in between. 
“Every day has been a pleasure 
because you got a guy coming out 
that’s trying to get better every day 
even though he’s got the farthest 
throw in the NCAA,” Lemke said. 
“That’s a credit to Thomas.”
@kwadulack
kwadulack@alligator.orgMardal’s journey to glory  
Courtesy of the UAA
 Florida’s Thomas Mardal competes during the SEC Indoor Track 
and Field Championships on February 25 at Randal Tyson Track 
Center in Fayetteville, Ark.
Courtesy of the UAA
Florida’s Thomas Mardal poses with his NCAA Indoor national 
champion trophy during the first day at the NCAA Indoor 
Championships on March 11 at Randal Tyson Track Center in 
Fayetteville, Ark. Mardal won the NCAA Indoor weight throw title.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2021
FOOTBALL
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR SCOTT 
STRICKLIN AND FOOTBALL 
COACH DAN MULLEN SPOKE AT 
CEREMONY JUNE 8
By Jesse Richardson 
Sports Writer
The final beam above the entryway for 
the James W. “Bill” Heavener Football 
Center was set in place and screwed in tight 
on June 8.
UF athletic director Scott Stricklin and 
head football coach Dan Mullen spoke 
about the new project to donors, media 
and hundreds of hard-hatted construction 
workers while they chowed down on 
barbecue cuisine from Cowboyz, a local 
Gainesville joint.
Former Gators coach and 1996 national 
champion Steve Spurrier made an 
appearance as well to put his signature 
on the final beam and promote his future 
restaurants: Spurrier’s Gridiron Grill and 
Visors rooftop bar.
Stricklin mounted the podium first to 
describe what goals are supposed to be met 
after the completion of the 142,000-square-
foot facility.
“When you invest in this level or 
something of this magnitude, you realize 
you have one shot to do it right,” Stricklin 
said.
“You want to have it done just so and 
you want the people that are using it day-to-day to have everything they need so that 
it does impact our program in a positive 
way for a long, long time.”
Mullen went the extra mile while the 
blueprints were being drawn out, Stricklin 
said. While sketching out the weight room, 
pool or even the hallways, Mullen peeked 
over the architect’s shoulder to see if he 
could add his input.
Student-athlete unity is a point of 
view that’s very important to Mullen, and 
he said Florida football’s 2006 national 
championship was ignited by the basketball 
team when they won the title in the same 
year.
“The motivation I think that drove the 
players and the interaction that they had, 
I think that motivates,” Mullen explained.
He hopes the new facility can have a 
similar effect on camaraderie.
“When you think about those things, 
that was always my vision of, if we’re 
going to create this massive amenity area 
that has all these great things, I want all 
of our student-athletes to be able to utilize 
that.”
Stricklin and Mullen spoke about the 
new facility’s possibilities, especially in 
recruiting, before they inked their names on 
the final beam in orange and blue marker.
There will be all kinds of amenities 
student-athletes will be able to enjoy, 
including a golf simulator and a recording 
studio, Mullen said. 
There will also be five total pools 
holding 90,000 gallons of water available for all student-athletes.
Mullen took inspiration for the facility 
from other universities and highly regarded 
corporation headquarters in places like 
Silicon Valley, California.
“Why do people want to work at Google 
or Apple or why do they want to work 
at different corporations?” Mullen said. 
“Recreating that same type of environment 
where people want to be.”Mullen and Stricklin strapped on a hard 
hat to get their front-row view of the top-off 
and listen to the final screw getting drilled 
in. The James W. “Bill” Heavener Football 
facility still holds an expected completion 
time of Spring 2022.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgBeam by Beam: Heavener Football Center topped out
Courtesy to The Alligator
Dan Mullen signs a beam at the ceremony on June 8.
