We Inform. Y ou Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperBlack-owned beauty businesses
Three Gainesville Black-owned beauty businesses,  pg. 6
Gainesville’s First Black Fire Chief
Joseph Dixon was selected as the first permanent fire chief,  pg. 8Bye Becky
After 26 years coaching the Gators, socce r 
head coach Becky Burleigh announced she 
will retire at the end of the season , pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 19
Chasity Maynard / / Alligator Staff
John Smith, 40, helps plant strawberries on Saturday, Jan. 23, 2021 at the Gainesville Opportunity 
Center. More than twenty volunteers helped the Gainesville Opportunity Center, a mental health 
awareness organization, with new landscaping, including a new butterfly garden at the entrance.
RESOLUTIONS PASSED 
ADDRESSING TRAFFIC 
SAFETY AND HONORING UF 
STUDENTS LOST IN RECENT 
CAR CRASHES
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer 
Following the tragic loss of 
three UF community members to 
traffic crashes over the past two 
months, UF Student Government 
is planning traffic safety projects 
with the university and local and 
state governments.
On Jan. 26, Senate unani -
mously passed three resolutions 
on traffic safety and Senator 
Zachery Utt (Murphree, Inspire) 
announced an update on his traf -
fic safety course project. Student 
Body President Trevor Pope also 
said he plans to work with the 
Executive Branch to advocate for 
traffic safety.
All the pieces passed dem -
onstrate the Senate’s acknowl -
edgment of and attention to the 
situation, but they do not specify 
plans of action. By definition, res -
olutions are an expression of the 
Senate’s sentiments on behalf of 
the Student Body.
One of the resolutions com -memorates the lives of Marga -
ret Paxton and Sophia Lambert, 
18-year-old UF students who died 
one month apart on West Uni -
versity Avenue. The other two 
demand officials take measures 
toward various traffic safety proj -
ects. 
The first traffic safety resolu -
tion, the School Zone Safety Act, 
advocates for the implementation 
of a school zone speed limit and 
installation of flashing traffic bea -
cons on University Avenue, from 
Northwest 13th Street to Gale Le -
merand Drive. 
Judiciary Chairman Franco 
Luis wrote in an email the au -
thors of the bill reviewed Florida 
State Statutes to ensure the legis -
lation was coherent with the stat -
utes. He wrote he based the legis -
lation on a definition found in the 
statutes stating the term “school” 
includes postsecondary schools. 
However, this comes from 
an excerpt of the definition of 
“school buses” and it is still un -
clear if the definition above ap -
plies to the university scenario. 
The school safety zones statute 
states a school safety zone must 
be within 500 feet of a property 
“used for elementary, middle, or 
MICKLE DIED OF CANCER 
ON TUESDAY AT 
76 YEARS OLD 
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
After spending more than 30 
years working as a judicial as -
sistant for Judge Stephan Mick -
le, Rebecca Butler struggled to 
put into words what he meant to 
her and others who adored him.
As three decades of memories 
washed over her, she recounted 
the day they met in 1983 during 
her job interview when Mickle 
was an Alachua County judge. 
She said he was calm and hum -
ble. He hired her on the spot.
“He was a gentle giant,” But -
ler, 66, said. “He’s molded and 
shaped my life in many ways. I 
will always be grateful for his wisdom and guidance.”
Mickle, the first Black stu -
dent to earn an undergraduate 
degree from UF in 1965, died of 
cancer Tuesday. He was 76. 
He began his college career 
at Bethune-Cookman University 
in Daytona Beach before trans -
ferring to UF in 1962. W. George 
Allen, who then went on to be 
the first Black graduate of UF 
Levin College of Law, ultimately 
convinced him to transfer. 
Being among the first seven 
Black students to attend UF was 
not an easy feat for Mickle, and 
he struggled to find a sense of 
belonging. 
“I remember discussing with 
my father whether I should put 
a Florida sticker on our car for 
fear that some redneck or racist Student Government working
to address traffic safety
Remembering Judge Stephan Mickle: 
UF’s first Black undergrad alumnus KIBERT DIED JAN. 25 AT 73 
AFTER A CAR CRASH ON 
WEST UNIVERSITY AVENUE 
By Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writer
Charles Kibert was always in 
command of his classroom. 
He had a military background 
that reflected in his teaching 
style. As someone who was al -
ways punctual and focused, he 
expected students to have their 
thoughts organized when they 
came to talk to him. 
“He was always the smartest 
person in the room,” Kevin Ben -
nett, one of Kibert’s graduate stu -
dents in 2010, said.
Kibert, a UF construction man -
agement professor who worked at 
the university for 31 years, died 
Jan. 25 after a car crash on West 
University Avenue. He was 73. 
Kibert was a Holland profes -
sor in the M.E. Rinker Sr. School 
of Construction Management and 
the director of the Powell Center 
for Construction and Environ -
ment. Holland  
professors are 
named and 
chosen within 
the School of 
Construction 
Management; 
most faculty 
who receive 
the title are long-standing mem -
bers of the school and professors 
marked highly in their evalua -
tions by the Rinker School Direc -
tor. 
Kibert was born in Pennsylva -
nia as the oldest of six children. 
At 4 years old, he began to live at 
Our Lady of Fatima Institute, an 
orphanage in Elmhurst, Pennsyl -
vania. After graduating from the 
United States Military Academy 
at West Point in 1969, he was 
commissioned as an infantry sec -
ond lieutenant in the U.S. Army. 
He served in the Vietnam War 
first as an airborne ranger, then 
in the U.S. Army Reserves as a 
special forces officer before retir -
ing as a colonel. 
Robert Cox, the current Rink -
er School director, said Kibert could change the energy of a 
room simply by walking into it. 
Once, when he and Kibert taught 
a professional development semi -
nar together, the premise was a 
simulated Department of Defense 
project. The colleagues wanted to 
inspire the crowd before the sem -
inar, so Kibert put his uniform to 
use once more. 
“Charles shows up at the first 
meeting with these people in his 
colonel uniform, and he talks 
to the group, gives them the 
charge,” Cox said. “You could’ve 
heard the national anthem in the 
background once he came in.” 
Cox recalled Kiberts’ closing 
line at the seminar: “I think he 
told everybody his helicopter was 
waiting.”
Kibert was not only a mentor 
but a big brother to him, Cox said 
from Kibert’s old office. Cox’s 
own office was next door at the 
time. 
“You know that it’s someone 
you’ll never ever replace, but 
we have to do the best we can Sustaining UF professor Charles Kibert’s legacy
SEE PROFESSOR,  PAGE 4SEE SG TRAFFIC,  PAGE 4
SEE JUDGE,  PAGE 5Kibert
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 19
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:GATOR, CHANGE AND UNION 
ARE CONDUCTING SLATING 
INTERVIEWS WITH STUDENTS 
INTERESTED IN JOINING 
THE PARTIES
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer 
Student Government parties 
began interviewing students for 
Student Senate and announcing 
executive ticket candidates for 
the February election.
Potential candidates started 
the qualifying and slating pro -
cesses to be on the ballot Jan. 
29. They can choose from several 
parties: Gator, Union or Change. 
Parties held virtual interviews, 
according to Gator campaign 
manager Feraby Hoffman, Union 
campaign manager Ethan Lomio 
and Change party president Zoe 
Terner.
All three parties will have can -
didates for the executive posi -
tions of Student Body President, 
Vice President and Treasurer, 
giving students several options to 
choose from, according to party 
officials.
Gator Party introduced its can -
didates for the executive ticket 
Jan. 28, announcing Cooper 
Brown, Faith Maniti and Giovan -
na Mompremier for the Student 
Body President, Vice President 
and Treasurer seats, respectively.
SG needs proven leadership to 
advocate for student voices, es -
pecially as COVID-19 continues 
to be a challenge for students, 
Brown said.
“I hope that the student body 
has confidence in my ability to 
lead and will #CountOnCoop,” he 
wrote in an email.
Union Party campaign manag -
er Ethan Lomio wrote in an email 
that, along with running for Sen -
ate seats, Union will also be run -
ning a full executive ticket, with 
candidates for president, vice 
president and treasurer. He also said Union’s platform and execu -
tive ticket candidates will be an -
nounced before the end of slating 
on Feb. 2.
“My one request for any pro -
spective Union senate candidate 
is that they have a thirst for re -
form more innovative and more 
comprehensive than anything we 
can yet imagine,” he wrote. 
Change Party president Zoe 
Terner said the party will also 
announce candidates for all three 
executive positions this week.
Students can also choose to 
register as independent by con -
tacting the UF Supervisor of Elec -
tions, according to the website.
Progressive Party will not be 
participating in this election but 
has plans to come back to Stu -
dent Government as the Socialist 
Party in the Fall semester, party 
president Alfredo Ortiz said. 
Level Up Party officials did not 
answer questions about slating 
plans.
Spring elections will be held 
Feb. 23 and 24. Students will 
vote on the new executive board, 
which is composed of the student 
body president, vice president 
and treasurer, along with 50 sen -
ators representing academic col -
leges and class years.
All potential candidates run -
ning for a seat in Senate must be 
registered as full-time students 
enrolled in the college which 
they seek to represent and main -
tain an undergraduate 2.5 GPA 
or graduate 3.0 GPA. Candidates 
must also be free of conduct pro -
bation or any financial obliga -
tions to the university, according 
to the Student Government elec -
tion rules.
In the qualifying process, stu -
dents must confirm they meet 
all the above requirements by 
completing a form before Feb. 2. 
Students can choose to complete 
the form virtually through the SG 
website or go to the third floor of 
the Reitz Union Feb. 1-2, accord -ing to the website.
Parties have the option to hold 
interviews in person or virtually, 
according to the website. Gator 
and Union parties are conducting 
interviews via Zoom to ensure 
students’ safety during the pan -
demic, according to both parties’ 
campaign managers. Gator is also 
conducting interviews in person.
Senate is currently represent -
ed by a significant majority of the 
Gator Party, holding 31 of the 50 
seats up for election this Spring. 
Inspire is the only other minority 
party currently in Senate, holding 
11 seats. 
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgStudents can register for a seat in Senate 
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.org
• Slating lasts from Jan. 29 
to Feb. 2
• SG Spring election is Feb. 
23- and 24
• Students can slate with 
Gator Party, Change Party 
or Union Party, or they can 
register as independent
• Gator Party announced 
its executive ticket Jan. 28; 
Cooper Brown is running for 
Student Body president, Faith 
Maniti for vice president and 
Giovanna Mompremier for 
treasurer
• Change Party and Union 
party are expected to 
announce executive tickets 
this weekMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY,FEBRUARY 1, 2021to pick up and carry his flag for -
ward,” Cox said.
Kibert aided in the design and 
construction of Rinker Hall, the 
first green building at UF, which 
promotes sustainability by ef -
ficiently using and reusing re -
sources. Rinker became the uni -
versity’s benchmark for nearly 80 
other sustainable buildings now 
on campus, Cox said. 
The building incorporates en -
vironmentally sustainable fea -
tures such as rainwater harvest -
ing, insulated glass, recycled and 
reused materials and reclaimed 
water for irrigation. These fea -
tures led Rinker Hall to be the 
first LEED Gold certified building 
in Florida, a title bestowed by the 
Leadership in Energy and Envi -ronmental Design program for 
buildings that meet a high level 
of sustainability requirements.
“He was sustainable when 
sustainable wasn’t necessarily 
the cool thing,” Cox said. “He 
started as a pioneer, and now 
he’s the world-renowned expert.”
Since 2006, Kibert was a lead -
er at the Green Building Initiative 
where he was dedicated to the 
nonprofit’s mission to reduce the 
impacts of climate change, said 
Vicki Worden, GBI president and 
CEO. Kibert worked as a leader 
and assessor for GBI, a role that 
allowed him to visit project sites 
in person and help the team cre -
ate a more sustainable design 
and construction approach. In 
December 2020, Kibert was elect -
ed chair of the GBI Board of Di -
rectors. GBI will be meeting later this 
week to discuss a tribute to Dr. 
Kibert, which will take place at 
the end of February, Worden 
said.
Mark Russell sought Kibert 
out because of his position as the 
leader of UF’s sustainability pro -
gram. 
During their first meeting, the 
two realized they had lived in 
adjacent towns outside of Frank -
furt, Germany. 
“It was one of those meetings 
where things just clicked,” Rus -
sell said. 
He started working on his doc -
torate at UF with Kibert as his 
advisor, and Kibert eventually of -
fered Russell a job at the univer -
sity. From there, the two became 
good friends and travel partners.
Once, they visited Stein -hatchee, Florida, and surprised 
German tourists by striking up 
a conversation in their native 
tongue. 
“You could see the look on the 
German tourists’ eyes,” Russell 
said with a laugh.“We’re in this 
remote little portion of Florida, 
and all of a sudden you run into 
a couple of locals that can speak 
German.”
The story reflected Kibert’s 
presence — friendly, compas -
sionate, brilliant, he said.
“I think that’s one of the 
things that’s hard about him be -
ing gone, is missing that warmth 
that he provides,” Russell said.
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.orgPROFESSOR,  from pg. 1‘He was always the smartest person in the room’
high school education.”
Luis also said he followed the statute stat -
ing school safety zones can only be enforced 
30 minutes before and after school and has 
decided to leave it up to the university’s dis -
cretion to determine what times the school 
zone should take place.
Luis wrote in an email he and the other 
authors of the bill consulted with legal schol -
ars when writing the legislation, but he did 
not answer questions specifying which pro -
fessionals or specialists they consulted. Oth -
er authors of the bill did not answer emails 
asking about the legal issues of the proposed 
project.
The second resolution advocates for pe -
destrian safety measures and calls for action 
from university and local and state officials, 
including changing crosswalks.
It does not, however, specify what the 
changes would entail. Judiciary Chair Franco 
Luis said in the Judiciary meeting Sunday he 
is not sufficiently qualified to make decisions 
on traffic safety, so he believes it is best to 
leave specific solutions up to the university 
and officials.
The resolution also voices the Senate’s 
support of the Gainesville Police Depart -
ment’s Gator STEP program, which focuses 
on crosswalk, pedestrian, speeding and 
scooter safety violations and includes plans 
to conduct an analysis of the crash area.
Student Body President Trevor Pope 
said he’ll be advocating for improved traf -
fic safety measures, including extending the 
on-campus 20 mph speed limit to University 
Avenue, which is currently 30 mph.
“We’ve had a lot of ups and downs dur -
ing this turbulent year, but the loss of any 
member of our community is a tragedy we’ll 
never forget,” Pope said. “Our administra -
tion is actively working, just like the Senate 
Body in passing legislation, to try to improve 
the current situation.”
Pope and Will Sandifer, agency head of 
external affairs, will also meet with local and 
state officials in Tallahassee mid-February to 
discuss traffic safety.
Pope also said SG is looking into collabo -
rating with UF administration, by providing 
the student perspective as UF seeks to reen -
gineer and restructure West University Av -
enue, as a long-term project to help create a 
safer environment for students.
“The UF student body needs to be cohe -sive on this issue, and we need to push our 
local and state officials for improved safety 
measures on University Avenue,” he wrote.
 Senator Noah Fineberg (District A, Gator) 
said he hopes to see the campus speed limit 
of 20 mph enforced along West University 
Avenue, where many students cross every 
day.
“The three pieces of legislation before this 
body tonight are not the end-all solution for 
our pedestrian safety problem — they are 
merely a first step on the road to change,” 
Fineberg said in the Senate meeting Tuesday. 
“We will continue to work with our partners 
in the university, local and state level to en -
sure that the proposals being introduced to -
day do not fall on deaf ears.”
However, changing the speed limit alone is not effective, UF professor of civil engi -
neering Lily Elefteriadou wrote in an email. 
“Research has found that the best way to 
lower driver speeds is to redesign the high -
way and its surroundings so that drivers im -
mediately recognize it as a busy, urban facil -
ity,” she wrote.
The best approach would be to conduct a 
“complete streets approach,” by redesigning 
sidewalks and the highway to accommodate 
pedestrians and cyclists, Elefteriadou wrote. 
This approach would help lower vehicles’ 
speed and improve traffic safety on and 
around campus.
Raising awareness, asking for a traffic 
management evaluation and redesigning the 
streets and sidewalks would be the most ef -
fective actions for SG to take, Elefteriadou 
wrote. 
Senator Zachery Utt (Murphee, Inspire) 
supports the bills submitted to Senate in identifying what needs to change to improve 
traffic safety but said direct action needs to 
be taken.
“I think it is a move in the correct direc -
tion, but I think we need to accept that we, 
as policymakers, need to take some respon -
sibility,” Utt said. 
Utt announced at Senate he is already in 
contact with Transportation and Parking Ser -
vices and working on the development of a 
traffic safety course for students requesting a 
campus parking permit.
“We all have a part to play in traffic safe -
ty,” Utt said. “If anything decreases by 1% 
the number of accidents on campus, then 
you do it.”
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgSG TRAFFIC,  from pg. 1Safety, education & enforcement
Aubrey Bocalan / / Alligator StaffCourtesy to The Alligator
Photo of UF construction 
management professor Charles 
Kibert. Kibert, who had worked 
at UF for 31 years, died Jan. 25 
at the age of 73 after a car crash 
on West University Avenue.
MONDAY,FEBRUARY 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
WHY THE LINE BETWEEN 
EAST AND WEST GAINESVILLE 
IS STARTING TO BLUR
By Alan Halaly 
Alligator Staff Writer
Togetherness, camaraderie and 
family are the words Vivian Filer 
used to describe her upbringing in 
Springhill, a historically Black neigh -
borhood in East Gainesville.
Every day for as long as she can 
remember, her mother and neighbor 
would take turns to care for their 
other neighbor’s elderly mother. 
And when her mother worked long 
hours, two older ladies who lived 
nearby in shotgun houses would 
keep a watchful eye on Filer and her 
four sisters at night.
Filer’s family was poor, she said. 
But as far as she knew, she had ev -
erything they needed in her Spring -
hill home. 
Now, the 82-year-old Gainesville 
resident of Lincoln Estates sees a dif -
ferent community –– one with fewer 
Black families –– forming around 
her former one as developers con -
tinue to invest in building high-rise 
apartments on the east side of the 
city.
The divide between East and 
West Gainesville has grown more 
complex as UF continues to increase 
in size each year, spilling onto the 
city’s less-developed east side. It 
matches a trend of gentrification of 
Black neighborhoods in cities across 
America over the past couple of de -
cades.
Some development projects un -
der review include East University 
Avenue Cottage apartments and Southeast Bungalow Court apart -
ments on East University Avenue. 
Other approved projects include 
three-story apartment buildings in 
Lincoln Heights in 2018, a Waffle 
House in 2020 and a Wawa both on 
East University Avenue in 2017.  
A recent high-profile example 
of development in a historically 
Black neighborhood was in Pleasant 
Street, where new high-rise apart -
ments were approved in December 
to replace an affordable housing 
community despite backlash from 
residents.
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
said the city has no hidden agenda. 
He said he’s never served a term 
with someone who didn’t deeply 
care about the concerns of East 
Gainesville residents. 
“We have an incredibly trans -
parent and accessible government,” 
Poe said. 
Implementing heritage overlay 
districts would protect Black neigh -
borhoods’ distinct identities, he 
said. This would help promote col -
laboration, community involvement 
and transparency. 
Poe said he’d like to see more 
inclusionary zoning policies, which 
would require a share of new con -
struction to be made affordable to 
people with low to moderate in -
comes.
City Commissioner Gail Johnson 
proposed a moratorium on develop -
ment in historically Black neighbor -
hoods, which would have blocked 
most development in the area except 
affordable housing, retail stores less 
than 2,000 square feet and build -
ings related to basic needs, such as 
health care, food and nutrition.
Promoting more affordable hous -ing efforts is the top priority for the 
city, Poe said. The proposal to sus -
pend development altogether on the 
east side goes against those inten -
tions. 
“There’s no silver bullet,” Poe 
said. “We’re going to have to be cre -
ative. A lot is going to depend on the 
people that live in these neighbor -
hoods now, and whether they want 
to stay and continue to invest.”
Peggy Macdonald, a public his -
torian and adjunct history profes -
sor at Stetson University, said East 
Gainesville is the original heart of 
the city. Before UF, the town was 
just eight blocks with the original 
Alachua County Courthouse at its 
center.
UF chose Gainesville for the 
site of its campus in 1906, forever 
“changing the flavor” of the com -
munity, Macdonald said. This was 
a change most residents welcomed 
with open arms, as local officials 
from Gainesville and Lake City com -
peted for the honor. 
“If you look at the electoral 
map, Alachua County, because of 
Gainesville, tends to be an oasis of 
blue in a sea of red because of the 
University of Florida,” she said. 
A plan launched by UF leader -
ship in 2016 proposed new devel -
opment, edging the campus line 
closer to Main Street. While UF said 
it wants to uplift eastside neighbor -
hoods, residents like Filer aren’t 
convinced. They fear eastward de -
velopment will never stop.
Gainesville has roots in slavery 
and white supremacy from when 
Florida was a part of the Confedera -
cy during the Civil War, Macdonald 
added. In the Jim Crow era, she said 
Black people were not allowed to buy homes in certain areas. While 
redlining is less overt today than in 
the past, she said realtors continue 
to steer affluent people away from 
the east, bringing down the value of 
eastside properties.
A recent trend has seen local of -
ficials approve all new construction 
even when developers aren’t famil -
iar with the best interest of the com -
munity, Macdonald said. 
“It’s about making money,” she 
said. “But we have to ask the com -
munity: What are our values? It’s 
a travesty to those families who go 
back for generations.”
Filer said she believes the uni -
versity and historic Black neighbor -
hoods can coexist. As a UF gradu -
ate and someone with family ties to 
employees and other students, she’d 
like to see the university’s growth 
contained to the west side of town.
“I love being a university city,” 
Filer said. “I just don’t want the uni -
versity to be the entire city.”
Sharon Austin, a UF political sci -
ence professor, said it’s common for 
U.S. cities to have distinct sides sep -
arated by race due to the legacy left 
behind by Jim Crow-era segregation. 
Despite the benefits of improve -
ments in housing infrastructure, 
Austin said this will displace the 
working class, less affluent Black 
families. In 1980, about 88% of 
Springhill’s census block was Black. 
But today, only about 64% of resi -
dents living in the same area are 
Black.
However, there is a way to see 
more ethical development, she 
said. Some cities have implemented 
mixed-income development, where 
rent is controlled and people of dif -
ferent income levels can live along -side one another. 
Gentrification is a process that 
happens quickly as the price of liv -
ing rises, Austin said. However, she 
doesn’t think it has begun in East 
Gainesville just yet.
“I have a suspicion that it’s com -
ing in the future,” she said. “Once 
you start seeing changes taking 
place in your community, that usu -
ally means the city is planning to do 
something they just haven’t told you 
yet.”
 Filer said she hopes to see the 
eastside better represented by local 
officials, and that they take the time 
to consult community leaders and 
residents before making decisions 
about development.
“Oftentimes the people making 
the rules don’t do it out of disre -
spect,” Filer said. “They do it out of 
ignorance. I don’t want to continue 
to see the east side of town being 
treated as the stepchild.”
Springhill has been safe from 
high-rises, she said, but students 
continue to rent houses in the area 
and white people have been inte -
grated into the community. While 
she’s not opposed to them moving 
in, she said it’s only a matter of time 
before high-rises start popping up.
“I just don’t want big companies 
buying our property up and squeez -
ing us out,” she said. “But that’s one 
of the mantras of Gainesville at this 
point.”
That’s why Filer loves the city’s 
lesser-known history –– it’s all she 
has left to remember how it once 
was.
 
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgA tale of two Gainesvilles: development along the east-west divide
might throw a brick through the window,” 
Mickle said in a 1995 interview with the 
UF Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. 
“Gainesville was still a very segregated, 
small, close-minded town back in the 
1960s.”
UF was quietly integrated, Mickle said. 
Former Gov. Farris Bryant, a conservative 
segregationist, urged former UF President 
J. Wayne Reitz to keep their Black students 
a secret — the most publicity they got at 
the time was an inch-long blurb in a St. 
Petersburg newspaper. 
Midori Lowry, Mickle’s former law 
clerk of 16 years, remembers Mickle once 
told her that while at UF, the only time 
he spoke most days was when professors 
called attendance. 
“There’s a lot of pressure to be the 
first,” Lowry said. “Because if you’re the 
first and you’re not successful, that’s an 
excuse for saying: ‘Well, why should we 
let anyone else?’”
Following graduation, Mickle became 
the first Black person to establish a law 
practice in Gainesville and the county’s 
first Black county judge in 1979. In 1993, 
he began serving as the first Black federal 
judge in the First District Court of Appeal.
Mickle was nominated by former Presi -
dent Bill Clinton and unanimously ap -
proved to assume a federal judgeship in the U.S. District Court at the Northern Dis -
trict of Florida in 1998.
Aside from his career on the bench, 
Lowry said Mickle was known as a fam -
ily man. She remembers when Mickle let 
a lawyer leave a deliberation early so he 
could make it to his child’s second-grade 
play. 
“It was a very wholesome environment 
in chambers,” Lowry said. “Family was im -
portant to him.”
Butler said when her mother was ill, he 
made sure she could go see her. 
“He said ‘Rebecca, go see about your 
mother. Family comes first,’” Butler said. 
Kenneth Nunn, a UF law professor, re -
members Mickle as a trailblazer for Black 
people in the legal field. 
“He opened doors to arenas that were 
not, prior to his coming, known to be open 
to people who look like him,” Nunn said. 
“He would walk into these arenas, and be 
just as calm, competent and capable as 
anybody else.”
UF Levin College of Law Dean Laura 
Rosenbury said she’s proud to have Mick -
le’s portrait hanging in the Martin H. Levin 
Advocacy Center.
It’s only been 62 years since Mickle 
walked onto campus as a student for the 
first time. Rosenbury said she can’t begin 
to imagine what that must have been like. 
“He had to constantly be the first,” 
Rosenbury said. “That took incredible 
strength and persistence. He was always focused on creating a pathway for future 
African American students.”
University administration, faculty, staff 
and students are saddened by the loss of 
Judge Mickle. UF President Fuchs said 
Mickle’s legacy cannot be overstated.
“We are thankful for the power and per -manence of his example, from his coura -
geous barrier breaking to his exceptional 
legal career,” Fuchs wrote in an email. “He 
is a model not just for our law students, 
but for everyone in our university commu -
nity.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgJUDGE,  from pg. 1‘He had to constantly be the first’
Alligator File Photo
Judge Stephan P. Mickle, the first African-American to get a bachelor’s degree 
from UF and the second to graduate from UF’s Levin College of Law, smiles as he 
receives a plaque from George Dawson, the law school’s interim dean, during a tree 
dedication ceremony in 2015.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Last Ride
Four baseball players had a chance to call an end to their careers 
at Florida. Three took their extra year of eligibility to return in 
2021 for one last season in Orange and Blue, pg. 11FLORIDA BANDS 
DRIPTONES AND FAZE 
WAVE PERFORMED AT 
THE SOCIALLY DISTANCED 
SERIES’ OPENING NIGHT
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
“Stay in the Hula-Hoop, motherf-
--ers!”
Faze Wave, one of the two bands 
that performed at Saturday’s Indie 
Live concert, bellowed this senti -
ment from onstage in the middle of 
its set to keep rowdy concertgoers 
socially distanced. 
The evening marked the open -
ing night of the six-part outdoor 
concert series hosted by Heartwood 
Soundstage and Swamp Records, a 
student-run record label based in 
Gainesville. The sequence, which 
spotlights a diverse range of indie 
groups, kicked off with performanc -
es by upbeat, alternative band Faze 
Wave and rising Gainesville quartet 
Driptones. Over 200 guests gathered out -
side the venue, sprawled across the 
lawn in sets of chairs, benches and 
picnic blankets. Heartwood set up 
approximately 30 groups of socially 
distanced seating options. About 15 
plastic rings were spaced out upon 
the grass directly in front of the 
stage. 
Though the audience may have 
appeared sparse for frequent con -
certgoers, the event, which capped 
at 250, nearly reached capacity. 
Bella Clements, a 21-year-old 
UF marketing senior and president 
of Swamp Records, said the orga -
nization has worked closely with 
the venue in the past, producing its 
grand opening in 2017 and hosting 
both its Spring and Fall showcases 
at the location. The idea to team up 
for Indie Live, Clements said, has 
been in the works since “at least” 
Spring of last year. 
“Our main mission is to bridge 
the gap between the Gainesville mu -
sic community and UF,” she said. 
“Being able to bring in these indie 
bands that have a high college ap -peal into one of the cultural hearts of 
Gainesville really helped connect the 
two together.” 
When it comes to blending the 
many facets of Gainesville’s rich 
music scene, Heartwood lives up to 
its name — it’s the heart of the com -
munity, Clements said. 
Heartwood co-owner Dave Me -
losh, 40, is more modest in his 
praise of the venue, though he said 
the site is extremely lucky to have 
an outdoor space that, pre-pandem -
ic, could fit up to 2,000 people — 
making it a perfect fit for socially 
distanced events. 
While Heartwood mandated so -
cial distancing and mask require -
ments, however, in practice, the 
event was physically divided in 
terms of respecting guidelines. 
Where chairs and benches were 
separated into groups of two and 
three, guests mostly followed safe -
ty measures during the concert. 
Crowds of viewers standing directly 
in front of the stage, by contrast, 
largely ignored premarked spaces, 
instead, forming tightly packed swarms of people. 
Heartwood staff and bands both 
made efforts to discourage unsafe 
activities, with personnel alerting 
guests to keep on their masks and 
bandmates frequently reminding at -
tendees of the rules.
Concertgoers such as Suha Zaidi 
felt similarly. The 22-year-old UF be -
havioral and cognitive neuroscience 
major said while she was excited to 
jump back into live music with Indie 
Live being her first concert during 
the pandemic, she also recognized 
potential safety issues. 
“I had a pretty solid experience,” 
Zaidi said. “There were definitely 
some aspects that weren’t perfectly 
socially distanced, but if you wanted 
to be socially distanced, you were 
able to.”
Matthew Flynn, the 23-year-old 
guitarist and vocalist of Faze Wave, 
also said he thinks live music is 
helpful for raising morale — though 
safety is more important.
“[Indie Live] is giving people av -
enues to go out and be social again,” 
he said. “But to know we’re doing it and doing it safely is important.” 
The next installment of Indie 
Live is planned for Feb. 13 at Heart -
wood Soundstage. Presale tickets 
are $10 online. Tickets will also be 
available for $12 at the door.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.org
CELEBRATE WITH THESE THREE BLACK-
OWNED BUSINESSES
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
 
Some of Gainesville’s central businesses occupy the beauty 
and wellness sector, a community defined by care and crafts -
manship.
 To celebrate Black History Month, the Avenue compiled 
a list highlighting some of the Black-owned businesses in 
Gainesville.
 
Beyouteeful Obsession
 Before Tawanna Hardy was a licensed stylist and esthe -
tician, she spent 17 years working for UF’s human resources 
department. But after receiving an overwhelmingly positive 
response on social media for her makeup job on her friend’s 
daughter, Hardy decided to go back to school to get her estheti -cian license and open her own business.
 Beyouteeful Obsession Makeup & Beauty Bar has provided 
a myriad of beauty services – including lash extensions, micro -
blading and professional hairstyling – since 2015. Hardy, 43, 
said she prides herself and her business on customer service 
and diversity. 
Since its inception, Hardy said Beyouteeful Obsession is ded -
icated to serving clients of all backgrounds and ethnicities. The 
business isn’t necessarily a one-stop shop, she said, but with 
the wide variety of services, customers can expect to have most 
of their beauty needs met at 4001 W Newberry Road.
 Even through the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
business closures running rampant and face-to-face customer 
service next to impossible, Beyouteeful Obsession has persisted. 
Of that feat, Hardy said she’s the most proud.
 “I’ve endured since I’ve opened,” she said. “Especially con -
tinuing to grow and thrive and flourish through COVID.”
 
Locs By Dee
 Denisha Williamson is a master loctician.
 For the past 17 years, Williamson, 36, has offered dreadlock 
repair, styling and health services to the Gainesville commu -
nity. Using all-natural products, Locs By Dee LLC specializes 
in maintaining healthy dreadlocks from healthy hair with the 
traditional coil method.
 Hair care was introduced to Williamson at an early age. Her 
mother, grandmother and aunt all work in hairstyling, but Wil -
liamson said her health-centric approach inspired her to break 
out on her own and start her business.
 When she saw Gainesville was lacking in locticians, Wil -
liamson said she knew she was in the right place to apply her 
skills. She’s amassed a loyal customer base since then, some 
clients returning for hair care for the past 15 years.
 “Because Gainesville is so unsaturated with locticians, as 
long as you’re good at your job and as long as you’re at work 
on time, people are really loyal,” she said.
 Locs By Dee, located at 4410 SW 34th St., is completely 
run by Williamson. A passion project ever since its conception, 
Williamson describes the business as her “longest relationship,” 
and her dedication to the city of Gainesville is something she 
takes to heart. “It just feels like home,” she said. “It’s really easy to be con -
nected to the people here and be connected to the community.”
Eden Michele Skin Bar
 Michele Holloway prides her business on doing “the right 
thing.”
 Holloway, 33, owner of Eden Michele Salon and Spa LLC, 
said she operates under a strict code of ethics. The business 
prioritizes paying employees their fair share, getting rent in on 
time and making sure the necessary tax forms are filled out. 
 Though initially unsure about starting her own business, 
Holloway’s love for people won out over her hesitation. After 
managing another salon for seven years, she said she decided 
to open her own business to foster growth and development in 
her employees.
 Eden Michele, located at 2441 NW 43rd St., is celebrating 
five years of business May 5. Since its inception in 2016, the 
salon has provided multicultural hairstyling using Aveda prod -
ucts, which are 100% vegan and cruelty-free.
 Sustainability has been a significant focus for Eden Michele. 
As a partner of Green Circle Salons, a movement dedicated to 
protecting the environment within the beauty community, the 
business is Gainesville’s only certified-sustainable salon, she 
said. Eden Michele recycles everything – paper, plastic and 
even the hair that’s cut from clients.
 Despite a number of challenges – moving locations, increas -
ing prices of products and rent and COVID-19 – Eden Michele 
has seen success. The salon’s business doubled from its usual 
numbers in the months since the pandemic, and it’s now aver -
aging over 200 customers a month.
 As a young Black woman, Holloway said she’s proud to be 
a self-starter in the beauty industry. For her, it’s about setting an 
example for her team and for the rest of the community.
 “I’m always thinking, ‘What can I do more? What can I do 
better?’” she said.
Read more at alligator.org
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgSix-part concert series Indie Live kicked off Saturday night 
Beauty and wellness businesses to support during Black History Month
MUSICMUSIC
CULTURECULTURE
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Scan to listen to songs by 
Black artists who have 
made our week better.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
Ashley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
Graphic of Black-owned beauty and wellness 
businesses in Gainesville.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
DR. JOSEPH KATZ’S 
STUDY SHOWS VITAMIN 
D DEFICIENCY COULD 
INCREASE THE RISK OF 
COVID-19
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
A recent study revealed another 
possible risk factor for COVID-19: 
Vitamin D deficiency.
A UF research team found vi -
tamin D-deficient patients were 
four times more likely to be CO -
VID-19 positive than those with a 
sufficient amount of the crucial vi -
tamin, which people can get from 
sources like sunlight and animal 
proteins. The findings were pub -
lished Dec. 4, 2020.
Joseph Katz, a professor of 
oral medicine in the UF College of 
Dentistry, began conducting the 
research because he wondered 
whether vitamin D deficiency in -
fluenced the onset of COVID-19. 
The study took about three 
months, and Katz worked with the 
UF biostatisticians like Sijia Yue to 
analyze the data and adjust for dif -
ferent variables, he said.
“The rationale behind the re -
sults we got is, if you have vitamin 
D deficiency, then you should be 
really, really careful, because you 
have a very high risk of getting 
COVID-19,” Yue, a data analyst in 
the UF Department of Biostatistics, 
said.
Yue helped with the study by 
making the patient data usable for 
them to run the models. They used 
the models to adjust for patients’ 
age, gender and race. Even after 
taking such factors into consid -
eration, Yue said the results still 
showed a strong association be -
tween vitamin D deficiency and 
COVID-19. 
Katz said the strong correla -tion between vitamin D and COV -
ID-19 is cause for concern because 
a large portion – or 5% – of the 
population is vitamin D deficient, 
and 17% of African Americans are 
deficient. 
The next step is to give pa -
tients vitamin D supplements. 
Then, Katz wants to study the ef -
fect of vitamin D on other aspects 
of health. Because some of these 
effects are long-term, research -
ers would follow up on patients 
for about five years and see how 
many of them will be affected by 
different conditions, Katz said.
“I think this is the direction I see in the future,” he said. “This 
whole area of vitamin D is very 
exciting for me in my field or in 
other fields as well.”
Elias Sarkis, a Gainesville psy -
chiatrist at Sarkis Clinical Trials, 
said vitamin D deficiency may 
be correlated not only with being 
COVID-19 positive, but also CO -
VID-19 deaths and other issues.
“People with low vitamin D 
have a higher admission rate to 
the ICU,” Sarkis said. “They have 
a higher death rate in the ICU. And 
people with low Vitamin D have 
higher rates of autism, ADHD, de -
pression, cardiac problems. But we don’t know why.”
But Sarkis said he doesn’t 
know if Vitamin D prevents issues 
like fatigue.
“We just know that low vita -
min D goes along with fatigue and 
malaise,” Sarkis said. “So, it ob -
viously plays a role in immunity. 
And that is the reason why it’s so 
involved in everything that we’ve 
been talking about.”
While Sarkis agrees supple -
ments can help people increase 
their vitamin D levels, he advised 
to use caution when buying them. 
Sarkis said he supports products 
that are FDA certified.“You have to be careful about 
where you get your supplements 
from because supplements are not 
regulated,” he said. 
Sarkis said no matter what 
measures people take, everyone 
should be doing what they can 
to prevent themselves and others 
from getting COVID-19.
“It’s really bad right now,” he 
said. “And I think we just got to do 
what we can, because it’s going to 
be a while before everybody gets 
vaccinated.”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgUF Health discovers another possible risk factor for COVID-19
Ashley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
Data visual based on the UF researchers’ findings in the study “Increased risk for COVID-19 in patients with vitamin D deficiency.” Data 
from Table 2, which shows the odds ratio for COVID-19 with vitamin D deficiency, was used to make this graphic.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021
THE EVENT IS OPEN TO ALL UF 
STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
FREE OF CHARGE
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer
YouTube personalities Cody Ko, Noel Miller 
and David Dobrik will speak in a virtual event 
for UF students Feb. 3. 
Accent Speakers Bureau, a student-run or -
ganization funded by UF Student Government, 
announced its first Spring event Jan. 29. “A 
Night of YouTube’’ will be a free, virtual event 
for anyone with a valid UFL email address. 
After registering, participants will receive two 
links on the day of the show: one for the com -edy duo Cody Ko and Noel Miller at 6 p.m. and 
one for YouTuber David Dobrik at 8 p.m., ac -
cording to the Accent Facebook page. 
Accent Chair Steven Wolf declined to 
comment on how much the trio will be paid, 
which comes from student fees. The Alligator 
requested the Youtubers’ contract.
Both shows will consist of a 45 minute mod -
erated conversation followed by a 15 minute 
Q&A. The event is expected to end at 9 p.m. 
More than 400 students marked on the 
Facebook event page they were planning or in -
terested in attending as of Jan. 31. Each show 
will allow for 3,000 attendants, Wolf wrote in 
an email. 
According to the Accent Facebook page 
event, Cody Ko is “one of the most sought-after young talents in Hollywood, having taken the 
worlds of both comedy and music by storm.” 
Ko will be joined by stand-up comedian, film -
maker and content creator Noel Miller. The 
pair constitute the comedy duo Tiny Meat 
Gang where they produce podcasts, release 
original music and tour.
Ko and Miller’s Spring 2020 event was in -
definitely postponed in March following the 
outbreak of COVID-19 on UF campus. Now, 
Accent is bringing them back virtually, Wolf 
wrote.
David Dobrik is a “digital star” and “TV 
personality,” according to Accent’s Facebook. 
He won several awards in 2017, including the 
Shorty Awards for Vlogger of the Year and the 
Breakout Creator award. “David Dobrik has been one of, if not the 
most requested speaker we get from UF stu -
dents,” Wolf wrote. “We knew we were still 
going to bring Cody Ko and Noel Miller and 
thought it would be a good idea to bring Da -
vid Dobrik that same night because they all are 
very popular for their YouTube videos, social 
media and podcasts.” 
Accent hopes to host an in-person show by 
the end of the Spring, but the decision depends 
on whether a speaker is willing to travel. No 
plans for in-person events have been made for 
this Spring, Wolf wrote.
 
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgFIRE CHIEF JOSEPH W. DIXON, SR. 
WILL BEGIN HIS ROLE MARCH 15
By Michelle Holder 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Joseph W. Dixon Sr. will be Gainesville’s 
first Black fire chief. 
Dixon, who most recently served as fire 
chief of Goldsboro, North Carolina, will be -
gin with Gainesville Fire Rescue March 15. He 
said he is glad to represent African Americans 
and all members of the Gainesville commu -
nity. 
“I stand on the shoulders of many that 
went through so much over the years to af -
ford me the opportunity to be a fire chief,” 
Dixon said. “I will never discount that.”
He graduated from the University of Mary -land with a bachelor’s in fire science and from 
Waldorf College with a master’s in executive 
leadership/fire and rescue. He is also a gradu -
ate of the National Fire Academy Executive 
Fire Officer Program, which trains officers on 
how to deal with problems within their com -
munities. He said his track record and his 
education and credential have demonstrated 
competency and presented him as the best 
candidate.
Interim Fire Chief JoAnne Rice, who was 
the first woman to lead the department as 
interim chief, will retire Feb. 9. Fire Marshal 
Stephen Hesson will serve as interim fire chief 
from Feb. 9 until Dixon’s start date. The de -
partment has had a Black interim fire chief 
before.
As fire chief, Dixon will be responsible 
for overseeing operations, management and leading the department. He 
said he plans to introduce 
new ways to provide public 
safety services and address 
community health needs. 
Assessing the fire de -
partment and evaluating 
its mission are some of his 
priorities, he said in a press 
conference Wednesday. He said he created a 
100-day plan for how he will lead as fire chief 
and how he will hold his team accountable.
Gainesville spokesperson Rossana Passan -
iti said the city is very pleased to have some -
one of Dixon’s caliber on board. 
“Chief Dixon is very passionate about 
community health,” Passaniti said. “Once he 
has the opportunity to work in Gainesville 
and meet the community and evaluate the re -
sources already in place, we’ll be able to im -
plement a lot of the good ideas that he has.”Dixon said he is looking forward to en -
couraging people and making the community 
better. He describes his leadership style as 
adaptive, and that he helps develop his team 
to give them the opportunity to be successful, 
he said. He said his legacy is about encourag -
ing people on his team to prepare them to be 
better than they ever thought they could be.
“The fire team has to be politically astute 
and able to bring people together, build rela -
tionships and find ways to get things done in 
a world that’s changing,” he said.
Dixon said he hopes to inspire girls and 
boys of any background that they, too, can 
one day be a fire chief. 
“I’m certainly looking forward to embark 
on a new journey,” he said. “It’s the next 
chapter in my life.”
@michellecholder
mholder@alligator.org
MAYOR LAUREN POE 
AND UNIVERSITY POLICE 
CHIEF LINDA STUMP-
KURNICK ATTENDED THE 
PRESENTATION
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer 
Following recent crashes in -
volving the deaths of UF stu -
dents, local law enforcement and 
city leaders conducted a pedestri -
an safety operation Jan. 29 along 
West University Avenue.
The operation, led by 
Gainesville Police Department, 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
and University Police Depart -
ment, focused on the education 
of poor driving behavior, such as 
violations of pedestrian right of 
way in crosswalks and running 
red lights.
GPD began to enforce the 
Gator Special Traffic Enforce -
ment Program (STEP) last week, 
starting with the increased pres -
ence of police officers near UF 
campus on West University Av -
enue, Southwest Archer Road, 
Southwest 34th Street and South -
west 13th Street.
The demonstration involved 
officers driving up and down 
West University Avenue from 
11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., making a 
point to yield to pedestrians and drive under the speed limit. GPD 
Assistant Chief of Police Terrence 
Pierce led a portion of the event 
about safe and legal crossing at 
intersections.
The intersection of Northwest 
19th Street and West University 
Avenue is an especially danger -
ous location, Pierce said. Despite 
the absence of a crosswalk, it 
is still legal to walk across the 
street there, and drivers often 
make the mistake of not yielding 
to pedestrians.
“When crossing at the inter -
section, you have to be complete -
ly alert,” Pierce said.
Prior to the demonstration, 
UF Vice President of Business Af -
fairs Curtis Reynolds, Gainesville 
Mayor Lauren Poe, University 
Police Chief Linda Stump-Kur -
nick, GPD Chief Tony Jones and 
Pierce spoke to the public about 
the future of transportation 
policies under the leadership of 
Gainesville and UF officials.
Poe said he has elevated Vi -
sion Zero, a transportation pol -
icy that attempts to reduce the 
number of car crash deaths and 
injuries to zero, as a priority for 
Gainesville.
“We are finally coming to 
a place where the community 
is coming together in a unified 
voice to try to make sure there 
is not one more death on our 
roads,” Poe said.A big part of Gator STEP is 
working more closely with Uni -
versity Police on leading enforce -
ment efforts, GPD spokesperson 
Graham Glover said.
“It’s unfortunate why we’re 
here today,” Stump-Kurnick said. 
“It saddens me to the bone that 
anyone is in danger as they are 
in or around our campus area.”
Kristen Young and Chris Fur -
low, members of the Gainesville Citizens for Active Transporta -
tion, an organization that’s been 
advocating street safety since 
2015, said they expected the 
Florida Department of Transpor -
tation to show up at the event 
because FDOT owns West Uni -
versity Avenue.
“They are the organization 
that can ultimately make a long-
term change,” Furlow said.
Enforcement is the last resort and drivers need to know the 
laws, Young said. 
“But the road needs to change 
so that people can’t speed,” 
Young said. 
However, Young and Furlow 
don’t believe the demonstration 
will make a lasting change.
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.org
UF Accent Speakers Bureau host YouTube personalities Cody Ko, Noel Miller and David Dobrik Gainesville Names first Black Fire Chief
Law enforcement, community leaders demonstrate traffic safety
Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
GPD officer on a motorcycle stops at the intersection of Buckman Drive and West University 
Avenue, where a car crash involving a UF student took place two weeks ago.
Dixon Sr.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Local Camp Hiring w/Family Envir.
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training available
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501
3-1-21-5-14
We are seeking current 4-40 & 2-20 licensed 
insurance producers for a new Property and 
Casualty Agency opening soon in the Ocala and 
Gainesville areas. Must have license before hire. 
Flexible schedule, competitive pay, base wage 
plus commission and bonuses. If interested 
please email amandamree@gmail.com with 
your contact information to set up an interview.
3-8-21-8-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
solution on page 10● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 
or visit RefrigerantFinders.com 
2-1-1-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
Champion Care,LLC now hiring direct care 
staff for people with disabilities, full or part time. 
Great for college students, training provided.  
Call 352-745-2665                             2-1-21-5-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         2-15-21-6-141For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                      2-1-21-4-2
★★LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION ★★
2 bedroom houses & apartments 
all price ranges
pets arranged
text or call 352-359-2304
2-8-21-5-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
3 Sublease
Sublease in LynCourt Square 1st Floor, fur -
nished 2br/2ba, W/D, Male, Individual lease 
required. $475/month 1blk from UF SW 
3rd Ave & SW 12th St. Call 407-234-7438.      
2-15-21-3-3
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
Split Oak Firewood
Great for bonfires & fireplaces $75 for 1/4 of 
a cord stacked and delivered. Or you pick 
up in Ocala $60 for 1/4 of a cord. Call Mike 
352-572-1261.                             3-1-21-5-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-1012 Autos
answers on pg 101. SCIENCE: What kind of charge does a 
neutron carry?
2. THEATER: Which 20th-century play features a 
character named Blanche DuBois?
3. HISTORY: Which ancient Greek author is 
considered "the Father of Comedy"?
4. LITERATURE: What were the first names of the 
Bronte authors and sisters?
5. FOOD & DRINK: What kind of nut also is known 
as a filbert or cobnut?
6. AD SLOGANS: Which brand of men's aftershave 
used the advertising slogan, "Be careful how 
you use it"?
7. MOVIES: What was the title of the movie in 
which Kirk Douglas played the artist Van Gogh?
8. GAMES: Which video game character was the 
first to be featured as a giant balloon in Macy's 
Thanksgiving Parade?
9. MUSIC: Which Billy Joel song featured a couple 
named Brenda and Eddie, the king and queen 
of the prom?
10. GEOGRAPHY: What was the former name of 
the African country of Zimbabwe?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
By Rebecca Goldstein
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/01/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/01/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 1, 2021
ACROSS
1 Stone-shaping 
tool
5 Hindu noble
9 Whirlpool brand
14 Trade fair
15 Dressed (in)
16 Apple’s apple 
et al.
17 Ponce de León’s 
pursuit
20 Second most 
populous nation
21 Hereditary unit
22 Dark blue shade
23 Org. concerned 
with reducing 
emissions
25 Buddhist teachers
27 Smooch
30 2009 title chef 
played by Meryl 
Streep
35 Year, in Medellín
36 Title for Judi 
Dench
37 Cartridge filler
38 Big signs hung in 
arenas
40 “I dunno”
42 Bagel flavoring
43 Fishing sticks
44 Pull hard
45 Collectible 
’90s-’00s stuffed 
toy
48 Measures of cell 
reception
49 [Scowl]
50 Pronoun with 
51-Down
52 Wall St. debuts
55 Light controller in 
a lens
57 Overjoy
61 With “The,” 2010 
Annette Bening/
Julianne Moore 
film ... and a 
hint to the ends 
of 17-, 30- and 
45-Across
64 Turn out to be
65 Airbnb visit, say
66 Chief Greek god
67 Positive feature
68 Head of the 
Sorbonne?
69 Whirlpool
DOWN
1 Lower-APR loan
2 Neural transmitter
3 Tater
4 Youngsters’ zoo 
rides
5 Color TV pioneer6 Sacha Baron 
Cohen persona
7 “Hidden Figures” 
co-star __ Monáe
8 God, in Hebrew
9 American 
gymnast 
Raisman with 
three Olympic 
gold medals
10 Apollo launch
11 Río contents
12 Imp’s punishment
13 Like used 
fireplaces
18 Bar beer source
19 Disaster relief 
org.
24 Open a bit
26 Portray
27 Skewered meat
28 Silly
29 Justice 
Sotomayor
31 Verbal 
hesitations
32 Popular video-
sharing app, 
familiarly
33 Ring-tailed 
primate
34 Bottom-of-the-
barrel stuff
36 Jeans fabric
39 Topic of little 
importance40 Short hairdo
41 “Grand” ice 
cream brand
43 Give off
46 Mideast leader
47 Most spartan
48 Central  
American  
country bordering 
Mexico
51 Pronoun with 
50-Across
52 Swedish 
superstore53 Bowling targets
54 Numbers that 
may be long or 
stacked
56 Fence piece
58 Improved in a 
barrel
59 Hitting-the-
ground sound
60 Site offering 
handmade  
crafts
62 Fitting
63 Caustic cleaner
By Paul Coulter
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/26/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/26/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, January 26, 2021
ACROSS
1 Smacked into
7 Window 
framework
11 Cabernet, e.g.
14 1998 PGA  
Player of the 
Year Mark
15 Snowman’s 
smoke
16 Pitching stat
17 French national 
observance
19 Objective
20 Davis of “Dr. 
Dolittle”
21 Pitcher sans 
arms
22 MLB semifinal
23 Army NCO
25 Harold’s 
“Ghostbusters” 
role
27 Humanities  
degs.
29 Disastrous path
34 PC take-out key
36 McCarthy lawyer 
Roy
37 Longtime label for 
Elton
38 Georgia airport 
code
39 Kind of lamp
41 Sitcom co-star of 
Betty and Estelle
42 Plan (out), as a 
route
43 Computer 
operator
44 Collect copiously
46 Start without 
hesitation
49 West end?
50 Coarse file
51 Burgundy 
brainstorm
53 Future junior
55 Bit attachment
58 Surrey town 
known for salts
62 Moody genre
63 Roughhouse, and 
a hint to each set 
of circles
65 “Fill ’er up” fluid
66 Knock about
67 Rummages 
(through)
68 Cal.’s northern 
neighbor
69 New newts
70 Turn downDOWN
1 “__Cop”
2 Reddit Q&A 
sessions
3 Handle 
carelessly, with 
“with”
4 “La Danse” 
painter Henri
5 Natives for whom 
a Great Lake is 
named
6 NFL’s Cowboys, 
on scoreboards
7 Gush forth
8 Adjutant
9 Eschew 
punishment, in 
an old saw
10 “Listen up!”
11 Integer, e.g.
12 Clapton who 
sang “Layla”
13 River blockers
18 Jared of “Dallas 
Buyers Club”
22 “__ any drop to 
drink”: Coleridge
24 Like fat-repellent 
cooking paper
26 Fixin’ to
27 Copper or nickel
28 Useful in many 
ways, as flour30 Some kind of 
a nut
31 Collie or cocker 
spaniel
32 Strand at a ski 
lodge, say
33 Indian bread
34 Like many cellars
35 Tough guys
40 Floral necklace
45 Lawn warning
47 “Don’t think so”
48 Utensil sticker52 À la King?
53 Utah lily
54 “A Jug of  
Wine ... ” poet
56 Q.E.D. word
57 Doctrines
59 “Star Trek” 
helmsman
60 Change for a five
61 Gds.
63 Charlemagne’s 
domain: Abbr.
64 LAX listing
01/25/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.answers below1. In the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olym -
pics, Australia's Steven Bradbury became the 
first athlete from the Southern Hemisphere 
to win a Winter Olympic gold medal. In what 
sport did Bradbury compete?
2. What Baseball Hall of Fame relief pitcher 
was the first MLB player to reach the 500- 
and 600-saves milestones?
3. What Kansas City Chiefs linebacker tal -
lied an NFL record seven sacks in a game 
against the Seattle Seahawks in 1990?
4. In 1991, Quebec Nordiques goaltender 
Ron Tugnutt set the NHL single-game saves 
record with how many?
5. What famous boxing promoter played 
a corrupt DEA agent in the 1975 film "The 
Marijuana Affair"?
6. Sergei "Bumblebee" Chernyshev of Russia 
and Ramu "Ram" Kawai of Japan are stand -
outs in what sport debuting as a medal event 
at the 2024 Paris Summer Olympics?
7. Danny White, quarterback for the Dallas Cow -
boys from 1976-88, also recorded 610 career 
regular-season attempts at what position?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org16 Health Services
NEW DISCOVERY ELIMINATES COMMON
SEXUAL PROBLEMS!
All Natural Male Enhancement
Product Increases Staying Power, 
Performance, & Pleasure.
Risk Free 60 Day Guarantee &
FREE SHIPPING
15% Discount with coupon perform09
Visit: TryProZyte.com
2-1-1-16
24 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
24 Pets
FROZEN RAW BEEF
In Bulk For Your Pets.
$1.50/lb. Call Mike, 334-414-7297.
2-1-1-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
11..    SSppoott  ffoorr  bbuuddss  
11..    EEssoopphhaagguuss55..    SSttrriiccttnneessss  
22..    IIggnnoorree,,  oovveerrllooookk  66..    DDeelleeggaattee,,  eemmiissssaarryy  
33..    FFaallll  aappaarrtt  77..    SSwwiippeedd
44..    WWaaxxyy  mmaarrkkeerr  GGUUOOEETTNN
AATTHHRRTTOORRRROOIIGG
OOEENNYYVV
CCEEEELLNNGGTT
LLNNUUAAEERRVVEEOOSSNNTTLL
AAYYNNRROOCCAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TToonngguuee    55AA--RRiiggoorr    66AA--EEnnvvooyy    77AA--SSttoolleenn
11DD--TThhrrooaatt    22DD--NNeegglleecctt    33DD--UUnnrraavveell    44DD--CCrraayyoonn    BB--LLoouu  GGeehhrriigg22--11--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  aatthhlleettee  ppllaayyeedd  ffuullllbbaacckk
aatt  CCoolluummbbiiaa  UUnniivveerrssiittyy..
BONUS
Sports Quiz  answers1. Short track speed 
skating. 
2. Trevor Hoffman.
3. Derrick Thomas.
4. 70.5. Bob Arum.
6. Breakdancing (of -
ficially "breaking").
7. Punter.Trivia Test  answers1. A neutron has no charge.
2. "A Streetcar Named Desire"
3. Aristophanes
4. Emily, Charlotte and Anne
5. Hazelnut
6. Hai Karate7. "Lust for Life"
8. Sonic the Hedgehog
9. "Scenes from an Italian 
Restaurant"
10. Rhodesia: PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
 alligatoralligator
solution below
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/spanish/alligator.org/spanish/
CryptoQuote  answer10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021
In a world of peace and
love, music would be the
universal language.
— Henry David ThoreauMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsAnother five-star
Arik Gilbert, a 2020 five-star tight end recruit, announced on 
Twitter he is transferring to Florida. He caught 35 receptions for 
368 yards and two touchdowns in eight games as a true freshman 
last season at LSU. Read more by scanning the QR code.Florida’s 197.85 
points in its win over 
No. 24 Missouri, 
Friday, are the nation’s 
highest total set this 
gymnastics season.BASEBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLKIRBY MCMULLEN, NICK 
BLASUCCI AND TREY VAN 
DER WEIDE RETURN TO 
THE GATORS FOR THEIR 
EXTRA YEAR OF ELIGIBILITY 
GRANTED DUE TO COVID-19 
By Sara Kate Dyson
Sports Writer 
The Gators baseball team ex -
pected to head into another day of 
practice on the morning of March 12, 
2020. 
Florida expected a charter bus 
filled with Georgia Bulldogs to pull 
up next to the Alfred A. McKethan 
Stadium. It expected to kick off the 
final SEC Opening Weekend  McK -
ethan Stadium would ever host the 
next day. 
Instead, that morning marked the 
unassuming end of the 2020 season. 
The team was first told that its 
series against Georgia was canceled. 
SEC commissioner Greg Sankey 
then announced that all events from 
March 12-30 were canceled. 
By March 17, the rest was can -
celed.
The short-lived season meant 
many things for the Gators. It robbed 
Florida of a chance at redemption for 
the 2019 season. It made the final 
game played at McKethan Stadium 
a loss to Florida State. It left many 
questions about what would happen 
to the players in their final year of 
eligibility. 
Outfielder Austin Langworthy, 
third baseman Kirby McMullen, in -
fielder Nick Blasucci and pitcher 
Trey Van Der Weide were halfway 
through their final year allotted in the 
orange and blue. Langworthy was the only one of 
the four who left. He went unselected 
in the 2020 MLB Draft, which was 
shortened to just five rounds due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. He then 
signed a deal with the Detroit Tigers 
during the summer and officially 
ended his time as a Gator. 
On March 30 the NCAA Division 
I Council extended eligibility for all 
spring sports athletes. With the safety 
net of a promised extra year, the rest 
had a choice to make: move on from 
college baseball for good or return for 
another season. 
The other three will return to 
Gainesville for a brand new season 
in a brand new stadium, each with 
their own reasoning. 
Kirby’s mind raced when he 
learned he could have another year. 
After hearing the news, he called the 
team’s academic adviser to see how 
he could continue his education. 
Once that was settled, he was ready 
to hit the field. 
His return wasn’t just for the 
chance to win another National 
Championship, however. An extra 
year also meant another chance to 
take the field with his younger broth -
er, Hunter, who began his career at 
Florida in 2018. 
Since that first season, the broth -
ers haven’t had much of a chance to 
play together. Hunter appeared in 
three games in 2019 before suffering 
a right shoulder injury that kept him 
sidelined for the rest of the season. 
The 2020 season didn’t look much 
brighter with Hunter redshirted.
With Kirby in town for an ex -
tra year, the boys will get one last 
chance to play together as Gators. It’s 
a dream they’ve shared longer than 
Kirby can remember. It’s not just the 
boys’ dream, though, but also that of their mother, who has always been 
their biggest fan. 
The Ocala native has been fol -
lowing Gator baseball his entire life. 
Getting the chance to play with his 
brother in front of his devoted moth -
er is one of the biggest blessings the 
extra year has given him, he said.   
“My mom comes to all the games 
and is going to be the biggest support -
er of Hunter and I whether we’re on 
the field or not,” Kirby said. “I know 
she’s gonna be even more excited to 
see Hunter on the mound and now 
me playing as well behind him.”
Kirby’s decision to return was en -
couraged by the disappointing loss in 
the regional playoff in 2019 and the 
loss to Florida State in what would 
become the final game of the 2020 
season.
Losing to the Seminoles on your 
home turf is a cut that always runs 
deep. But last season’s finale — the 
final game played at McKethan Sta -
dium— is a scar that hasn’t healed.
It’s why Kirby needed to return 
for another chance to end his career 
on a high note. 
“It would have really sucked to go 
out on a note like that,” Kirby said. 
Blasucci didn’t initially plan to re -
turn for the 2021 season. He wanted 
to sign a free-agent deal and leave his 
college career in the past — until he 
felt pain in his right shoulder a few 
months after the 2020 season ended.
In mid-July, Blasucci underwent 
surgery on his right shoulder, his 
third in his young career. The second 
caused him to miss the entire 2018 
season, making him a redshirt senior 
at the end of last season. 
The shoulder injury caused Bla -
succi to take a step back and weigh 
his options. In the end, he chose to 
forgo his original plan to sign a pro -fessional deal and return  for a final 
year of college baseball.
“With all this COVID going on 
and minor league teams being re -
moved from their organizations, 
they’re probably not going to take a 
chance on a kid that just had shoul -
der surgery,” Blasucci said.
Blasucci returns with three goals 
for the season: to stay healthy, win a 
National Championship and learn as 
much as he can from his teammates. 
Van Der Weide’s decision also 
wasn’t automatic. When the an -
nouncement of the extra year was 
made, he was still uncertain about 
the status of his ulnar nerve injury. 
There also wasn’t a decision regard -
ing if roster numbers would be ex -
panded to accommodate incoming 
freshmen. 
“I thought that it wouldn’t be fair 
for me to try and play and be hurt 
and take the spot away from an in -
coming freshman,” Van Der Weide 
said. 
Van Der Weide had surgery on 
his ulnar nerve in March 2016. Af -
ter spending his first three years of 
eligibility at the University of South 
Carolina Upstate, Van Der Weide 
transferred to Florida as a graduate 
student in 2019, ready to play his first 
season as a Gator in 2020. 
Born and raised in Longwood, 
Florida, he was excited to play for 
his childhood team. But there were 
problems from the get-go. Early into 
the 2020 season, Van Der Weide felt 
his prior injury flare-up. 
The left-handed pitcher under -
went another surgery to clean up 
scar tissue in late February following 
the Gators’ weekend series against 
Miami. Once the Gators began SEC 
play, he would return to the mound 
halfway through the season. But he never had a chance to 
come back healthy. He confronted 
the circumstances and tried to stay 
positive. 
“The break from baseball helped 
with my injury,” Van Der Weide 
said. “I didn’t miss a full season 
while everyone was playing, and it 
kept me on track.”
With a fresh arm and another sea -
son, Van Der Weide decided to come 
back and finally fulfill his childhood 
dream of throwing off the mound 
as a Gator. Even if he had any re -
maining doubts, his family swayed 
his opinion toward another year in 
Gainesville. 
“My whole family is Gators fans, 
and now my nephews can look at 
photos and know that their uncle 
played for the University of Florida,” 
Van Der Weide said. “It makes my 
family so happy.”
The three athletes’ return, com -
bined with that of pitchers Jack 
Leftwich and Tommy Mace, both of 
whom were expected to be gone in 
the 2020 MLB Draft if the draft hadn’t 
been shortened, brings an almost 
identical 2020 roster into the 2021 
season. 
On top of that, the Gators are the 
unanimous preseason No. 1-ranked 
team. After the missed opportunity to 
avenge the 2019  ending, Florida will 
dive headfirst into this season, hop -
ing to carry the 2020 16-1 start into 
the new year. 
For Kirby, Blasucci and Van Der 
Weide, the 2021 season was never in 
their plans, but now they have one 
last shot to cap off their college ca -
reers with a possible trip to Omaha 
and another championship.
 
@sarakatedyson
skatedyson@alligator.org
By Declan Walsh 
Sports Writer
Following victories over Vanderbilt and No. 
11 West Virginia, many might scour Monday’s 
AP Poll to see if Florida appears for the first time 
since November 2019.
The numbers have long borne out what Jeff 
Borzello and other basketball pundits are begin -
ning to confirm: Florida is a top-25 basketball 
team. The Gators were the biggest winners of 
this weekend's SEC/Big 12 Challenge, moving 
up into 18th in the NET rankings, 19th in the BPI 
and 23rd in KenPom after hovering in the mid-
20s over the last two weeks.  
The NET (NCAA evaluation tool) rankings 
are the NCAA’s new ranking metric implement -
ed last season, replacing the maligned BPI sys -
tem. NET simplifies the previously complicated 
equation down to just two components: efficien -
cy and strength of schedule. 
Advanced metrics have become increasingly 
important in evaluating teams and selecting 
March Madness participants, so it’s worth un -derstanding what these metrics mean and why 
Florida is highly regarded. 
What is efficiency?
KenPom’s prevalence has introduced efficien -
cy to the parlance of college basketball fans. The 
concept is fairly easy to understand. Efficiency is 
the number of points that Florida would score 
against an average Division 1 ballclub. 
Florida currently posts a raw offensive effi -
ciency of 109.4 and 99.1 on the defensive end. 
These figures rank 36th and 134th, respectively 
— mediocre figures that wouldn’t place UF any -
where near the NCAA Tournament conversa -
tion. However, NET rankings adjust for the op -
ponent’s quality and location, and UF has played 
the 26th most difficult schedule in the nation so 
far.
The adjusted metrics are kinder to the Gators, 
ranking them 16th in adjusted offensive effi -
ciency and 50th in defense. For the first time in 
his tenure, coach Mike White boasts an elite of -
fense, a factor behind Florida’s push toward the 
AP Poll. What happened to the
“Mike White” brand?
The 2015-16 Gators provided some of the 
most enjoyable UF basketball in recent history, 
riding a stout defense and a Chris Ciozzia buzzer-
beater to the Elite Eight. 
White has been criticized for regressing after 
that second season spurt, but the former Louisi -
ana Tech boss has reached a similar plateau be -
hind a completely different formula. 
The regional finalists ranked fifth in adjusted 
defensive efficiency, suffocating teams with great 
half court marking and bolstering White’s reputa -
tion as a defense-first coach.
Five years later, Florida’s four-game win -
ning streak has been bolstered by shootout wins 
against Georgia (92-84), Vanderbilt (78-71) and 
West Virginia (85-80). 
The biggest difference on the offensive end 
has been the Gators’ strong three-point shooting. 
Florida’s perimeter arsenal has shot better than 
38% this season and opened the floor for strong 
interior scoring options. A 75% mark at the foul line has made UF an efficient offensive team at 
every level. 
Defensively, the Gators have been solid in the 
half court, allowing a 46% field-goal percentage 
from inside the arc and posting the nation’s sixth-
highest block percentage. 
The glaring red flags for Florida on defense 
are fouling and rebounding. Opponents take 
more than 39 free throws per 100 field goal at -
tempts, ranking 300th in FTA/FGA. 
UF also struggles to secure the defensive 
glass, allowing an offensive rebounding percent -
age of 32%, which is 297th in the country. 
The best time to take a three pointer is off an 
offensive rebound, explaining why opponents 
shoot 34% from beyond the arc. 
If White can tighten up his defense’s disci -
pline and improve its rebounding, he now has 
the offense to create one of the country’s most 
dangerous teams.
  
@declanaw
dwalsh@alligator.orgThree Gators return for one last season in Gainesville 
Florida basketball is the darling of advanced metrics12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2021
SOCCER
BURLEIGH SPENT 26 YEARS AT 
THE HELM OF FLORIDA’S SOCCER 
PROGRAM, WINNING A NATIONAL 
CHAMPIONSHIP IN 1998
By Myles Herbert
Sports Writer
A short time ago, a Zoom call wouldn’t be 
how one would imagine one of the most cel -
ebrated coaches in NCAA women’s soccer his -
tory would announce her retirement.But in the strange times the world lives in, 
UF coach Becky Burleigh appeared before the 
media virtually. She wore a black long-sleeved 
shirt with “equality” painted in white on the 
front. 
The casual attire reflected her gameday 
look, but the moment was far from it. And at 
12:30 p.m., Saturday, Burleigh shared that she 
will retire after the spring season.
A coach who is usually on top of everything 
and active, Burleigh seemed somewhat put 
back as she sat in front of an empty Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium, the place where her team 
succeeded over the years. 
The Tarpon Springs, Florida, native was 
the first — and only — head coach in program 
history. She was hired by former athletic di -
rector Jeremy Foley in 1994 after five seasons 
and two National Association of Intercollegiate 
Athletics Championships at Floyd County, 
Georgia’s Berry College. The Gators’ program 
took off after her hiring and rarely fell. 
Burleigh’s list of accomplishments is 
among the longest in collegiate soccer. A na -
tional championship, 14 SEC regular season 
titles and 12 SEC tournament crowns are just 
some of the hardware littering her trophy case. 
The law of conservation of mass states 
that matter is neither created nor destroyed. It 
seems like Burleigh skipped science class the 
day it was taught because she constructed a 
national championship in only four years.
The height of her tenure remains 1998 
when Florida won the College Cup. She al -
ready looked to be one of the most promising 
young coaches in the country, previously win -
ning the SEC Championship in ‘96 and ‘97, but 
this win was a sign of things to come for the 
program.In the final, the Gators defeated North Car -
olina, who beat them the year prior. 
One of Burleigh’s main focuses was player 
development, which is clear with the 37 All-
Americans selected during her tenure. Her fo -
cus on her squad, not just as players but also 
as people, is evident with 174 SEC Honor Roll 
selections. 
The focus on talent development has paid 
dividends for her player’s international careers. 
U.S. international defender Heather Mitts, for -
ward Danielle Fotopoulos and Canadian inter -
national forward Deanne Rose are just some of 
the names who played under Burleigh. 
Despite the three world champions and 
four Olympic medalists who played for Bur -
leigh, there will forever be one who stands 
head and shoulders above Gators past and 
present: Abby Wambach. Wambach left Flori -
da with five school records. She retired in 2015 
as the highest scorer in American women’s 
soccer history and holds the second-most goals 
scored in men’s or women’s international soc -
cer.
The decision to retire wasn’t easy for Bur -
leigh. When you spend 26 years of your life 
building something from the ground up, it 
shouldn’t be. She has been a coach for more 
than half of her life. 
“Once the decision was made, I felt I need -
ed to be as transparent as possible with our 
current players and future players and put the 
administration in the best position possible to 
start the search process,” she said. 
Holding onto the news for about a month, 
Burleigh told the media she decided on her fu -
ture shortly after the holidays but broke the 
news to the team after practice Saturday morn -
ing. She said the players felt a variety of emo -
tions, but the coach assured them that she 
would be there for them, not only during 
the transition to whoever fills the post, but 
also in their lives. This highlights her idea of 
“person>player” and how her athletes are so 
much more beyond the orange-and-blue kits. 
Over the years, Burleigh’s Florida sides de -
veloped into some of the country’s most pro -
gressive teams. It wasn’t just about winning 
— but how they won. 
In college, coaches frequently try to play a 
straightforward style due to their players’ raw -
ness. In soccer, there are a variety of tactical 
outlooks on how the game should be played. 
When teams play straight-forward, they 
tend to have their team play the ball forward 
and on the sidelines so it’s out of dangerous 
areas. 
Burleigh refused to play this way, playing 
out of the back and finding the right pass. This 
style is frequented by top teams usually be -
cause of confidence.
Burleigh ruled out any involvement at the 
professional level. But she’s not going to bid 
the game farewell any time soon. 
“At this point, I’m just trying to keep my 
options open in terms of future possibilities,” 
she said. “I’m really fascinated with high-level 
performance.” 
Replacing Burleigh will be difficult. With 
a coach who made it clear how she thought 
the game should be played, a transition to one 
who might have a different one could funda -
mentally shift the program.
 
@myles_herbert
mherbert@alligator.orgCoach Becky Burleigh to retire after spring season
Courtesy to The Alligator
Becky Burleigh surprised many when 
she announced on Saturday that she 
would retire following the end of the 
spring season.
