We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperNew graduate school dean
Nicole Steadman will start June 1,  pg. 6
SG semester review
Recapping Student Government’s Spring,  pg. 5Why so serious?
Rap helps former Gators wide receiver 
Kadarius Toney focus on football,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, MAY 10, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 31
ALL CEREMONIES 
FOLLOWED CDC GUIDELINES
By Makiya Seminera & 
Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writers
When Madisun Murphy was 9 
years old, her parents took her to 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium to watch 
UF play against the University of Kentucky. The game ended with a 
victory for the Florida Gators, 48-14, 
with the stands going wild. In awe 
of the bright colors and enthusiastic 
crowd, Murphy knew she wanted 
to one day attend a game as a UF 
student. 
Eleven years later, Murphy 
walked across the stage of the 
O’Connell Center to receive her 
bachelor’s in psychology. 
“I don’t think it really hit me yet,” Murphy said. “But then when 
we turned our tassels, that’s when it 
became real.”
From April 29 to May 3, around 
10,000 students graduated in the 
Class of 2021 — the first class since 
December 2019 to have in-person 
graduation ceremonies. The fol -
lowing weekend, 3,000 graduates 
from spring, summer and fall of 
GOV. DESANTIS SIGNED TWO 
EXECUTIVE ORDERS LIMITING 
LOCAL GOVERNMENT’S POWER TO 
REQUIRE FACE COVERINGS
By Alexander Lugo & Joelle Wittig
Alligator Staff Writers
Gov. DeSantis signed an executive order in -
validating local emergency COVID-19 orders re -
quiring masks and social distancing around the 
state, but Alachua County will not be affected 
by the change.
DeSantis also signed a bill that would make 
the executive order permanent starting July 1. He signed a separate executive order that pro -
hibits the requirement of vaccine passports for 
everyday activities and ended Florida’s state of 
emergency.
A vaccine passport is documentation prov -
ing that someone has been vaccinated. Some 
have discussed the possibility of requiring them 
to visit certain places.
“In Florida, your personal choice regarding 
vaccinations will be protected, and no business 
or government entity will be able to deny you 
services based on your decision,” according to 
a public statement from the Governor’s office.
Alachua County’s emergency order, which 
included mandatory masking and restrictions 
on gatherings, was set to expire May 12. Be -cause the order was already set to expire in a 
week, Alachua County won’t be drastically af -
fected by the Governor’s orders, Mark Sexton, 
Alachua County’s communications and legisla -
tive affairs director, said.
“We made the transition from mandatory 
to voluntary masking,” he said. “People in this 
community are very mindful of the science and 
CDC recommendations.” 
He said he expects people to continue wear -
ing masks indoors, such as in restaurants, bars 
and gyms where it’s recommended by the Cen -
ters for Disease Control and Prevention.
Sexton said businesses can still impose their 
own masking and social distancing require -
ments. “A business can require shoes, shirts and 
masks,” he said.
Although pandemic policies are easing, Sex -
ton said he wants the community to understand 
the importance of getting vaccinated and con -
tinuing to take precautionary measures.
“It’s still important for all of us to do our 
part,” he said. “While it has gone from manda -
tory to voluntary, this pandemic and this virus 
are very real.”
Jackie Johnson, the director of communica -
tions at Alachua County Public Schools, said the 
orders will not affect any procedures in the pub -
lic school system for the remainder of the school 
year. The orders exclude the school system, so UF graduates attend first in-person 
commencement ceremonies since 2019
Alachua County will not be immediately affected by Gov. DeSantis’ new executive ordersSam Schaffer / / Alligator Staff
A Jeep Cherokee crosses the first in a series of speed tables heading west on University Avenue on 
Saturday, May 8, 2021. Speed tables were installed between Northwest 13th Street and Northwest 
22nd Street in response to community outcry over recent traffic deaths on University Avenue.
By Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida Department of Trans -
portation is building four speed ta -
bles on West University Avenue in 
response to recent crashes and rising 
pedestrian safety concerns.
FDOT spokesman Troy Roberts 
said the four speed tables will be 
built along University Avenue and 
each will be 3 inches tall and cover 
the entire 21-foot width of the street. 
Construction began May 4 and is 
expected to be completed within the 
next week.
“Speed on University Avenue is 
an issue,” he said. “This is an easy 
and quick way to be able to lower 
the speed limit. Speed tables are de -
signed for 25 mph, so vehicles that 
are traveling faster than that will 
probably slow down.”
Speed tables differ from speed 
bumps in that they range from 3 to 
6 inches high and are intended to 
slow drivers to speeds of less than 
10 mph, according to FDOT. Speed 
bumps are considered “severe treat -
ments” and are only used on private 
or residential roads.
Roberts said the speed tables are 
a temporary solution to the issue of 
speeding, and their installment will 
act as a test to determine if other 
safety improvements, such as lower -
ing the speed limit or redesigning the 
road, will be needed in the future.
“The FDOT is committed to 
safety,” he said. “We are all work -
ing toward a common goal, which 
is providing safety to not just pedes -trians and cyclists but motorists as 
well. All of these changes that we 
have been implementing will further 
that goal of safety and improve our 
roadways.”
This Fall, crosswalks will be in -
stalled at both 16th and 19th Street 
allowing for a safer passage across 
University Avenue and FDOT plans 
to install two raised crosswalks with 
pedestrian signals and lighting up -
grades along West University Av -
enue, according to a campus brief 
sent to UF students and faculty on 
May 7. 
Gainesville City Commissioner 
David Arreola said the deaths of 
multiple UF students this past year 
created public pressures that urged 
the FDOT into taking action on Uni -
versity Avenue.
“We have been asking for these 
changes for years, and the real dif -
ference this time around was just the 
sheer number of people all across 
the state being so impacted by the 
deaths of two students,” he said. “It 
was an unbelievable amount of pres -
sure put on the department to finally 
do something because they hadn’t 
really done anything until then.”
Speed tables are frequently in -
stalled on streets belonging to the 
city of Gainesville, but this is the 
first state road in all of Florida to 
have any installed, he said.
Several Alachua County citizens 
and UF students are grateful for the 
attention West University Avenue is 
receiving.Four temporary speed tables will be built on West University Avenue
SEE UF GRADS,  PAGE 4SEE TRAFFIC,  PAGE 4
SEE DESANTIS,  PAGE 4It is Florida’ s first state road to have speed tablesT oday’s Weather
THE SUMMER SEMESTER 
WILL PROVIDE A TRANSITORY 
RETURN TO NORMALCY
By Makiya Seminera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF is planning to loosen CO -
VID-19 restrictions and return to 
full capacity classrooms as early as 
Summer B, with Summer A and C 
classes remaining mostly virtual. 
Summer A and C classes will 
maintain many of the same CO -
VID-19 policies seen during Spring 
and will serve as a transition period 
to in-person classes starting May 
10. This time will allow staff and 
faculty to make necessary prepara -
tions for their classrooms and allow 
the UF community time to get vac -
cinated, UF spokesperson Cynthia 
Roldan wrote in an email.
Currently, it is expected that 
80% of students and 90% of faculty 
at UF have been vaccinated, UF’s 
Director of Screen, Test & Protect 
Dr. Michael Lauzardo wrote in an 
April 28 COVID-19 update. 
Summer B will see the lifting of 
social distancing policies and in -
creased campus facility capacities, 
according to UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando. Summer B classes will be -
gin June 28.
Many courses will remain online 
during Summer A and C, with some 
classes being taught in-person with 
limited seating capacity or in Hy -
Flex format — a course design that 
allows students to attend in-person 
while others engage remotely. 
Summer B is expected to return 
to normal pre-pandemic classroom 
capacities, Orlando said. On-cam -
pus facilities like gyms and libraries 
are also expected to expand their 
capacity during the term.
The university expects to 
run summer athletic day camps 
throughout summer with the guid -
ance of UF Health. Student ath -
letes who are not vaccinated have to continue to follow SEC Medical 
Taskforce testing protocols. 
“As we have throughout the 
pandemic, we continue to work UF 
Health, campus leadership and the 
SEC Medical Guidance Taskforce 
for guidance on protocols,” Senior 
Associate Athletics 
Director Steve McClain wrote in 
an email. 
With the return to 100% ca -
pacity in classrooms, students and 
faculty will also be able to pursue 
more research opportunities. Even 
so, programs like the P.K. Yonge 
Developmental Research School — 
a public school partnered with UF 
to develop innovations to improve 
the K-12 education — will adhere 
to state rules and regulations rather 
than university guidelines, Associ -
ate Dean at the College of Educa -
tion Tom Dana, Ph.D. said. 
“We are fully operational [at the 
College of Education], except for 
some of the research folks being 
unable to do the same level of work 
that they would have before [the 
pandemic], and that’s a problem,” 
Dana said. 
Orlando said UF is currently dis -
cussing potential updates to its on-
campus mask requirements, in light 
of recent updates to CDC guidelines 
regarding vaccinated people who 
no longer need to wear a mask in 
uncrowded outdoor areas. UF has 
not yet released any updates to its 
face covering requirements.
This is not the first time the UF 
administration has needed to re -
visit its COVID-19 policies in recent 
months.
In early April, UF updated its 
Campus Events and Gatherings 
Policy to include provisions about 
in-person events for the upcoming 
summer semester. The updates con -
tinued the maximum indoor capac -
ity of 50 people and outdoor capac -
ity of 250 people through Summer 
A. It also anticipated the reduction 
or elimination of social distancing requirements in Summer B. 
The policy further outlined the 
expectation of an indoor face cov -
ering requirement through Fall se -
mester, but the policy may be re -
vised. 
Lauzardo also outlined changes 
to UF Health policy surrounding 
routine COVID-19 testing in its April 
13 COVID-19 update. After students 
report their first dose of the vaccine 
to the health screener on ONE.UF, 
they will be exempt from biweekly 
and return-to-campus COVID-19 
testing. 
UF does not plan to require vac -
cinations, despite over 100 US col -
leges and universities committing 
to placing requirements on students 
to be vaccinated. 
“Only the state can make vac -
cine mandates,” Cynthia Roldan 
wrote in an email. “However, we 
are strongly encouraging all mem -
bers of the UF community — stu -
dents, faculty, and staff — to get 
vaccinated.”
Despite the updated COVID-19 
guidelines for Summer, 19-year-old 
mathematics and statistics third-
year Jude Flynn expressed concern 
in returning to campus for Summer 
B.
“I would rather not [return to 
full capacity in Summer B], but I 
also understand that there are a lot 
of logistical concerns that go into 
that decision,” Flynn said.
@makseminera
mseminera@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 31
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.orgUF will have full capacity classrooms and 
relaxed COVID-19 protocols during Summer B
MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
GRADUATES SHARE THEIR 
EXPERIENCES WITH SANTA FE 
COLLEGE’S IN-PERSON GRADUATION
By Antonia LaRocca
Alligator Staff Writer
With the crackling sound of black tires on 
gray gravel, a white limousine crawled to a 
stop at the in-person graduation ceremony’s 
stage. An excited graduate had arrived. 
After a brief conversation and the flash 
of a few cameras, Alexander McCollum 
emerged from the limousine’s sunroof and 
held a paper scroll that organizers passed to 
him high above his head in celebration.
With the approval of an organizer, the 
19-year-old Associate of Arts graduate pulled 
off his purple mask for more photos.
McCollum is one of over 250 graduates 
who chose to roll up to graduation in person 
at Santa Fe College’s Drive-Thru Grad Walk 
held under the Jackson N. Sasser Fine Arts 
Hall awning April 29 and April 30.
“We wanted to do something else and 
try to have another kind of celebration and 
recognition for their work,” communications 
manager Jay Anderson said.
Each graduate was allowed to have two 
vehicles attend the event with them, and 
both vehicles had to stay together while 
on campus, according to Santa Fe College’s 
website.
McCollum shared the limousine with his 
girlfriend, grandparents, mother, stepfather 
and two siblings — all of whom were glow -
ing with proud smiles from the inside of the 
vehicle. 
He said he learned he would be attending 
the drive-thru graduation in a limousine the 
day of the event.
“I was like, ‘Don’t get a limo. Just bring 
two vehicles. I’m allowed two vehicles,’” 
McCollum said. “And then they’re [his fam -
ily members] like, ‘Yeah, we got a limo any -
way.’”
The morning of McCollum’s graduation 
wasn’t as grand as the ceremony. He said 
he met his family in a Walgreens parking lot to hop into the limousine and drive to the 
Fine Arts Hall after studying and taking an 
anatomy final and strolling through a Publix 
to buy a Glacier Cherry Gatorade less than 30 
minutes before the ceremony.
During the event, graduates exited their 
vehicles to walk across the stage where they 
could remove their face masks for photos. 
Sometimes, only the graduate was permitted 
onto the stage. Other times, with the discre -
tion of the event organizers, parents, friends 
and family dogs were allowed on the plat -
form with graduates for pictures.
When the cameras flashed, tails wagged. 
Smiles shined bright.
Gift bags containing items like lanyards, 
pens, pennants and key chains were thrust 
into graduates’ hands before they departed 
for the exit.
“It was just way more of a fun experience 
than I was expecting,” McCollum said. “It 
blew my expectations out of the water.”
The Santa Fe colors of white and blue 
were splashed everywhere as signs bowed 
with the wind and cars decorated with cel -
ebratory signs, metallic balloons and tem -
porary car paint wound around the round -
about. 
Mask-clad graduates dressed in sparkling 
medallions, twirling tassels and swaying 
honor cords waited their turn to climb out 
of shining cars to strut to the stage for their 
graduation walk.
Ayedria Miller, an 18-year-old Associate 
of Arts graduate, said she was proud to be a 
first-generation college graduate. 
Along with walking across the stage, she 
said she enjoyed the opportunity provided 
by the graduation selfie station in the Rock 
Garden behind the Fine Arts Hall to have 
photos taken of her and a graduation bear 
that wore a blue cap and a blue and gold 
2021 stole. Her grandmother had gifted her 
the stuffed animal that day.
Her experience with the drive-thru gradu -
ation felt like a flash in time compared to the 
75-minute drive from Green Cove Springs to 
the college, she said.
“I really think they did it the safest way they could,” she said. “And I really appreci -
ate they did anything for us.”
Along with the Drive-Thru Grad Walk, 
Santa Fe College held three virtual gradu -
ation ceremonies on April 29 and April 30 
for the Nurses Pinning ceremony; Bachelor 
of Arts, Associate of Science, Associate of 
Applied Science and Certificates ceremony; 
and the Associate of Arts degrees ceremony, 
according to the Santa Fe College’s website.
Santa Fe College’s Student Body President 
Trevor Mathisen said although virtual cer -
emonies are nice, he enjoyed the in-person 
graduation.
“It was very energizing,” he said. “It kind 
of brought me back to life to actually be able 
to see the student leaders and see the gradu -
ates and see everybody come together to cel -
ebrate at least the best we can.”
Although not required, Carlos Joubert, a 
24-year-old Associate of Arts graduate, wore 
a black cap and gown, a My Brother’s Keeper 
silk and shining red stole and a black and 
multicolored scarf that read “Black Grads 
Matter” over his tailored black, tan and or -
ange plaid suit.
Joubert said he had to visit the hospital 
the morning of his graduation due to a head -
ache he’d had for a couple of days and blurry 
vision. However, he was determined to at -
tend the first day of the drive-thru gradua -
tion.
“I just wanted to make it here to gradua -
tion,” he said. “You know, it is a moment I 
don’t want to miss. Especially with me, you 
know, at a point in time wasn’t in school, 
wasn’t able to take classes, lost financial aid. 
So it’s a major comeback for me.”
Joubert said his college experience had 
not been smooth due to factors like working 
two jobs and having financial difficulties.
While some drove through by car, Gabri -
ella Metelits, a 23-year-old Associate of Sci -
ence in Nursing graduate, took a different 
approach. She rode in on her black and silver 
Yamaha MT-03 motorcycle with red-rimmed 
wheels in a power white pantsuit and irides -
cent green high heels on the event’s first day.“I think a lot of people can appreciate the 
fun that a bike can offer,” she said. “And, 
you meet a lot of fun people, have a lot of in -
teresting conversations with different people 
that you wouldn’t necessarily think to talk to 
when you’re on a bike. So, I like to bring that 
energy wherever I go.”
Metelits’ original plan was to have her fa -
ther ride on the bike with her. But she said 
she was a bit out of breath after practicing in 
the parking lot of her place that morning and 
climbing up and going down the stairs at her 
home on the third floor. 
Instead, Matelits rode solo, proudly and 
confidently around the college roundabout. 
Her father followed behind in a subcompact 
hatchback car, while cameras, smiles and 
conversation greeted her.
The corners of her eyes creased as she 
smiled behind her surgical mask, and tears 
misted her eyes as she descended the ramp 
when exiting the stage.
“I think it’s really beautiful that they man -
aged to come up with something like this for 
us,” Metelits said. “And I think it just proves 
that this school really does care about us.”
@antoniarlarocca
alarocca@alligator.orgSanta Fe College graduates attend drive-thru graduation by motorcycle, limousine and decorated cars
Antonia LaRocca / / Alligator Staff
Alexander McCollum, 19, a Santa Fe 
Associate of Arts graduate stands through 
the sunroof of a white limousine with his 
hand holding a paper scroll raised in the 
air in celebration during Santa Fe College’s 
Drive-Thru Grad Walk ceremony on 
Thursday, April 29, 2021.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 10, 20212020 registered to return to UF’s campus to 
attend in-person commencement ceremonies, 
UF spokesperson Cynthia Roldan wrote in an 
email. 
Due to climbing cases of COVID-19 and the 
uncertainty regarding vaccine rollout in 2020, 
UF opted to host a virtual graduation ceremo -
ny for the Class of 2020 at the time students 
completed their degrees. This left many 2020 
graduates disappointed in the indefinite post -
ponement of an in-person graduation. 
However, in February, UF announced 
Spring 2021 graduation ceremonies and 2020 
make-up graduation ceremonies would be 
held in-person at the O’Connell Center.
In the months leading up to the Spring 
2021 commencement ceremonies, some grad -
uates were not confident that UF would follow 
through. 
Among them was Kayla Ratnasamy, a 
22-year-old UF political science senior, who 
was happy UF was able to host a smooth and 
efficient in-person ceremony while still abid -
ing by CDC guidelines.
“I had a lot of doubts that UF was going to 
hold in-person ceremonies,” Ratnasamy said. 
“I’m just really grateful that UF was able to do 
this during a pandemic.”
Both the 2021 and make-up 2020 gradu -
ation ceremonies were heavily modified to 
follow UF Health and Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention health and safety 
protocols. This included precautions such as 
masks and social distancing requirements in the O’Connell Center and an invite limitation 
of two guests per graduate to adhere to its 
20% seating capacity limit. Graduation watch 
parties were also modified to COVID-19 safety 
protocols. 
During the ceremony, graduates were al -
lowed to remove their masks for stage photos 
and videos. Handshakes between graduates 
and faculty on stage were not permitted. 
Safety measures like temperature checks 
for attendees were not implemented prior to 
the commencement ceremonies. Additionally, 
only commencement faculty and staff were 
required to undergo COVID-19 screening to be 
cleared for campus.
“I felt very safe,” Sidharth Sharma, a 
21-year-old UF chemistry junior, said. “They 
had really good protocols to keep everyone six 
feet apart with masks.” 
While some students appreciated the safe -
ty measures provided by the COVID-19 regu -
lations in place, others felt the seating capacity 
in the O’Connell Center was too limited. 
“There was way too much space,” Murphy 
said. “It was just kind of a bummer because 
I had four additional people that were there, 
but had to sit in the stadium.”
In an email, Roldan wrote that the ceremo -
nies averaged 550 students per class of 2021 
ceremony and 300 graduates per 2020 make-
up ceremony.  
The COVID-19 protocols implemented not 
only kept the ceremony safe but quiet as well. 
The vastly empty O’Connell Center made it 
difficult for attendees to imitate the boisterous 
crowds present at previous in-person gradu -
ations, resulting in lone cheers absorbed by 
empty seats. 
In addition to the drastically reduced num -
ber of attendees compared to a pre-pandemic 
ceremony, graduates and their families were 
encouraged to exit the building after crossing 
the stage to avoid any unnecessary crowding.
Chad DeRigo, 46-year-old father of UF 
class of 2021 graduate Hailey DeRigo, had 
taken note of the comparatively low energy 
during the 2021 graduation ceremonies.
“I would say maybe the biggest downfall 
to something like that is that you don’t have 
as many people there clapping and applaud -
ing,” Chad DeRigo said. “That type of energy 
when somebody is walking across the stage 
sticks with them for life. That feeling of having 
hundreds of people in the auditorium clapping 
and cheering, even if they don’t know you.”
“It was a wonderful ceremony,” Ratnasa -
my said. “I honestly kind of teared up when 
President Fuchs was singing ‘I Won’t Back 
Down’ by Tom Petty. That was such a tender 
moment.”
Outside of the O’Connell Center, fam -
ily members who exceeded the two-person 
ticket limit could celebrate in the stadium. A livestream of the graduation ceremony was 
displayed on the video boards in the stadium 
for family members and friends of graduates 
to watch. 
For the 2020 makeup graduation ceremo -
nies, watch parties were not held in the sta -
dium.
On May 1, UF College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences graduates for the 7 p.m. graduation 
ceremony received an email 40 minutes be -
fore the ceremony stating the stadiums’ video 
boards would be offline due to a minor electri -
cal fire inside one of the generators.  
This canceled the watch party and upset 
some graduate students who had family and 
friends eagerly waiting to watch their loved 
ones receive their diplomas on the big screens.
UF 2020 graduate Shane Washburn, boy -
friend of graduate Kayla Ratnasamy, planned 
to attend the watch party before he heard the 
news. Disappointed, he realized he would 
have to go back to his girlfriend’s apartment 
to watch the video without it buffering. Before 
he left, he watched as friends and extended 
family of the graduates, who had been waiting 
since the stadium opened, left in a dismayed 
manner. 
“I think some people just seemed a little bit 
upset that it was canceled,” Washburn said.
On the other hand, Washburn understood 
that technical difficulties could arise. 
“Given the scenario, I don’t think anyone 
can really blame them,” Washburn said. “I 
don’t think the fire was something that they 
could have predicted and they said they 
seemed to send out an email as soon as they 
knew about it.”
The shutdown of screens did not affect the 
ceremony in the O’Connell Center directly, 
but some graduates’ families and friends be -
came upset to be unable to watch the ceremo -
ny from the screens in the stadium. 
As a solution, faculty offered 101 addition -al tickets for people who were originally fol -
lowing the event from the stadium to go into 
the O’Connell Center for the remainder of the 
ceremony.
Murphy referenced her boyfriend, 19-year-
old Ocala resident Rayfe Marquis, who texted 
her saying he was waiting in line to enter the 
O’Connell Center — UF officials turned him 
away. 
“I wish I could have been there with her to 
see her,” Marquis said.
Marquis waited in line to receive one of the 
available guest ticket spaces that remained, 
but was too late and had to head back to the 
stadium to watch with his family.
At 9 p.m. another email was sent out to 
graduate students alerting them that one of 
the screens at the stadium had restored power. 
“Technicians worked swiftly and both 
monitors got fixed and tested by 11:30 p.m. 
on Saturday,” Hessy Fernandez, UF’s director 
of issues management and crisis communica -
tions, wrote in an email. 
The watch party occurred on schedule for 
the 9 a.m. graduation ceremony on May 2. 
Aside from the minor electrical fire in the 
stadium, both the 2021 and 2020 graduation 
ceremonies operated smoothly and many 
graduates were energized about having their 
graduation in-person. For many UF graduates, 
their graduation ceremony marked the last 
time they would set foot on UF’s campus — at 
least in the near future. 
“I’m feeling really great,” Sharma said. 
“I’m very proud of myself and I’m very happy 
and thankful to everyone who has helped me 
get here.”
@makseminera
mseminera@alligator.org
@Ad_Scribendum
douglas@alligator.orgUF GRAD,  from pg. 1Fire disrupts stadium watch party
Credit
UF President Kent Fuchs addresses 
graduates during the 2021 
commencement ceremony on 
Saturday, May 1, 2021.Makiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
UF graduates stand and sing along to Tom Petty’s “I Won’t Back Down” during the 
2021 graduation ceremony on Saturday, May 1, 2021.
public schools in Alachua County do 
not have to make any changes.
ACPS ended its outdoor facial 
covering requirement and tempera -
ture checks on April 23, and masks 
will be optional on all ACPS campus -
es starting this summer.
In an Alachua County commis -
sion meeting on May 4, commission -
ers discussed the possible easing of 
pandemic protocols during commis -
sion meetings.
Because all commissioners are 
vaccinated, commissioner Kenneth 
Cornell proposed to not require 
masks in commission meetings. He 
also asked whether the commission 
wanted to keep offering online access 
to commission meetings. 
All the other commissioners agreed the meetings should continue 
in a hybrid format, which allows 
citizens to attend and comment re -
motely. They urged the importance 
of requiring masks in the meetings 
for both citizens and commissioners. 
Some residents welcome the eas -
ing in the requirements.
Chris Rose II, a 32-year-old swim -
ming pool technician and Alachua 
County resident, said he doesn’t con -
sider himself an anti-masker. He said 
he adheres to mask requirements 
when he cannot avoid them but has 
boycotted events that require masks.
“I understand that it’s only a 
mask but the way that it was brought 
actually demanded the public’s at -
tention,” Rose said. 
CDC studies found that multi-
layer cloth face masks can block up 
from 50% to 70% of droplets ex -
haled from a person with a mask.Although he appreciates lawmak -
ers erring on the side of caution, he 
said he wishes county officials would 
have made masks a recommenda -
tion instead of a requirement. 
On the other hand, Violet Ver -
gara, a 71-year-old receptionist and 
Alachua County resident, thinks the 
governor’s mask mandate restric -
tions came too soon.
Vergara said she hopes the city 
and county continue to make it clear 
to businesses that they still have an 
obligation to keep people safe.
“I’ve had both of my vaccina -
tions, and will continue to wear the 
mask,” she said. “I do this out of re -
spect for others who may not be vac -
cinated.”
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.org
@JoelleWittig
jwittig@alligator.orgDESANTIS,  from pg. 1Commission meetings still masked
Among those students is Mat -
thew Chertok, a UF chemical engi -
neering sophomore who created an 
online petition in January advocat -
ing for speed bumps. It gained more 
than 15,700 signatures. 
“I was upset that so many other 
students were getting hurt or even 
killed, and nobody ever did anything 
meaningful about it,” he said. “I am 
happy about the speed tables and 
glad they took this issue seriously.” 
Victoria Moltzan, a UF public 
health freshman, said she did not 
feel safe near the road and often 
avoided it.
“Every time I cross, even in the 
daytime, I am very cautious and scared,” she said.  “I realize that 
even if I am not really close to the 
street, I can still get hit and poten -
tially die.”
However, the speed tables are 
not enough to squash all fears in -
stilled in pedestrians.
“Building speed tables is a step in 
the right direction, and hopefully it 
will make University Avenue safer 
but I think that more things need to 
be done to ensure the safety of stu -
dents,” she said. “This is a pattern 
that has been happening, so maybe 
if they redesigned the intersections, 
that may be able to help.”
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.orgTRAFFIC,  from pg. 1Students feel unsafe on University AvenueMONDAY, MAY 10, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
WITH ONLINE SENATE 
MEETINGS AND A 
SUPERMAJORITY OF GATOR 
PARTY, DEBATES BECAME RARE
By Carolina Ilvento & 
Grace Stoler
Alligator Staff Writers
Tuesday nights looked a little 
different last semester.
Long and controversial 
meetings that marked the Senate 
chamber slowly became brief 
virtual meetings, as ideological 
debate among senators decreases 
every week. 
Throughout Spring, Senate 
passed a total of 19 bills — 11 of 
which were resolutions, which by 
definition are an expression of the 
Senate’s sentiments on behalf of 
the Student Body. No bills enabling 
direct change were passed.
Here’s what happened in 
Student Government this Spring:Traffic Safety Bills
In response to car accidents on 
University Avenue killing three 
faculty members and students, 
Senate passed three resolutions to 
address the issue.
The first commemorated the 
lives of Margaret Paxton and 
Sophia Lambert. The other two 
requested the State of Florida to 
take measures addressing traffic 
safety in and around campus and 
advocated for the implementation 
of a school zone speed limit 
and flashing traffic beacons on 
University Avenue, from Northwest 
13th Street to Gale Lemerand Drive. 
The resolutions did not specify 
how the proposed changes would 
take place, as some went against 
Florida State Statutes specifying 
school zones can only be 
implemented around K-12 school 
buildings and enforced 30 minutes 
before and after school.
Senate did not pass any further 
legislation to address traffic safety 
on campus.
Meanwhile, the executive branch worked to advocate 
for traffic safety by discussing 
improved measures with university 
and state officials. Former Student 
Body President Trevor Pope met 
with local and state officials in a 
Tallahassee conference in February 
to address the issue.
 
Gator Party seized second executive 
ticket and supermajority in Senate
Gator Party won 46 out of the 
50 seats up for election in Spring, 
resulting in a supermajority in 
Senate with 79 Gator Senators. 
This year’s Spring elections 
had a potential of a five-party 
breakdown, with Gator, Change, 
Progressive, Union and Keg parties 
having initial intentions to run for 
the executive ticket.
After Union and Change merged 
into one, the only candidates for 
the executive ticket were from 
Gator, Change and Keg, which did 
not run for any Senate seats.
With a centralized focus on 
traffic safety and increased student involvement in SG projects, Gator 
Party won the executive ticket 
for the second time with Cooper 
Brown, Faith Maniti and Giovanna 
Mompremier as Student Body 
president, vice-president and 
treasurer, respectively. 
Events
With COVID measures 
still in place, Accent Speakers 
Bureau virtually hosted seven 
guests through Zoom-moderated 
conversations and Q&A sessions. 
The student-funded organization 
runs on a budget of $500,000 a 
year.
Spring Accent speakers consisted 
of entertainment celebrities who 
brought smiles to UF students 
during stressful pandemic times. 
Some of these celebrities include 
YouTubers David Dobrik, Cody 
Ko and Noel Miller, and actresses 
Tiffany Haddish and Tabitha 
Brown. 
Other guest speakers included 
Dave Portnoy and Guy Fieri. Portnoy’s appearance received 
mixed feedback from some 
students who weren’t comfortable 
with his previous misogynistic and 
racist comments.
On March 26, more than 1,000 
students attended UF’s first in-
person event since the COVID-19 
shut down last year, with live-
music performed by indie bands 
Mt. Joy and Flipturn. The event 
was originally planned to host the 
band COIN, but after the band 
had to reschedule the show to a 
later date, Flipturn replaced the 
performance. 
Held by Student Government 
Productions, which is also funded 
by student fees, the event was free 
for all UF students.
Social distancing measures and 
mask requirements were enforced 
throughout the entire event, with 
enclosed pods allowing up to 
six students to enjoy the show 
together. 
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.org
THE PROFESSOR HAD A LASTING 
IMPACT ON MANY STUDENTS AND 
CHANGED THE WAY
 PUBLIC RELATIONS IS PRACTICED
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
As a professor and prolific researcher 
who inspired countless students in 
Weimer Hall, Kathleen Kelly helped 
reshape how public relations is practiced 
today by introducing the nonprofit sector 
into the field of study through her love for 
research.
Kelly, who was a former UF public 
relations professor and advisor for mass 
communication Ph.D. students, died April 
28 in her St. Augustine condo at 77.
“She had a passion for teaching and 
for research that was contagious, and 
she was genuinely interested in people 
and building relationships,” Christopher 
Wilson, a 46-year-old associate professor 
at Brigham Young University, said. “Who 
she was made everything else that she 
did better. It made her research, work, 
and it made her teaching effective and 
memorable.”
She had been struggling with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), 
a severe inflammatory lung disease that 
causes airflow blockage and breathing 
issues, according to the UF College of 
Journalism and Communications article.
Kelly is survived by her husband of 
60 years, George F. Kelly, daughter Jodie 
Anne Funderburk, granddaughters Sarah 
and Catherine Levy, brother Russell 
Mehram Jr. and many cousins, nieces, 
nephews, close friends, students and 
professional associates, according to the 
UF CJC article.
She retired from the UF CJC in 2019. 
During her nearly 16 years at UF, Kelly 
taught and advised public relations 
students and served as the public relations department chair during her last three 
years in the college. 
Her influence within the public 
relations industry was not limited to UF, 
as her work and research reached many 
people across the nation. 
Richard Waters, 45, associate professor 
in the school of management at the 
University of San Francisco, said Kelly’s 
knowledge and dedication for why public 
relations principles worked in fundraising 
motivated him to get his Ph.D. with her at 
UF. He was Kelly’s first doctoral advisee.
“I would never have pursued studying 
nonprofits and nonprofit communication 
if it wasn’t for her,” Waters said. “She 
was one of the most influential person in 
defining public relations for me.”
In her research, Kelly focused on 
organization-public relationships. 
Particularly looking at donor relations, 
which led her to produce 70 articles, 
book chapters, monographs, referred 
papers, and author of two award-winning 
books on fundraising, one being the first 
academic textbook, “Effective Fun-Raising 
Management.”
She was the recipient of the 2004 
PRSA Outstanding Educator Award, the 
PRSA Foundation’s Jackson, Jackson and 
Wagner Behavioral Science Prize in 1999, 
and the Institute for Public Relations’ 1995 
Pathfinder Award, three of the highest 
awards in public relations teaching and 
research for her years of work.
She ultimately revolutionized the public 
relations field of study by expanding and 
elevating the college’s curriculum and 
emphasized the importance of fundraising 
as a specialization in public relations.
Kelly received her bachelor’s in 
journalism and news-editorial, master’s in 
journalism and public relations, and Ph.D. 
in public mass communications with a 
specialization in public relations at the 
University of Maryland.
Prior to coming to UF, she taught at the University of Maryland for five years 
and was a professor and coordinator of the 
public relations program at the University 
of Louisiana for 10 years, where she held 
a research professorship.
Kelly was also an elected member of 
Public Relations Society of American’s 
(PRSA) College of Fellows and member of 
the Arthur W. Page Society, an invitation-
only, professional association made up 
of notable figures in some of the world’s 
largest, leading corporations and public 
relations agencies.
“She’s kind of one of those people 
where you don’t want to let them down,” 
Wilson said. “Her standards and her 
expectations were so high that every time 
I would go to meet with her, it’s like, man, 
I don’t want to let Kathleen down.”
Although she was extremely meticulous, 
especially with writing, she was a strong 
advocate and supporter to her students.
Weiting Tao, 34, assistant professor in 
strategic communication at the University 
of Miami, said she will never forget the 
support she felt as an international 
graduate student in Kelly’s public relations 
fundamentals class.
Tao holds onto a vivid memory of 
the day she ran into Kelly while rushing 
through Weimer Hall worried about her 
applications to a Ph.D. program.
“She asked me if, ‘Did you hear any 
good news?’ And I was like, ‘Oh, I’m 
still waiting.’ And she said, ‘Oh you’ll be 
fine, I spent like five hours writing the 
recommendation letter and that’s never 
happened before. I usually spend that 
much time to write a book or anything 
but not a recommendation letter so you’ll 
definitely get in,’” Tao said.
For Wilson, Kelly was not only his 
advisor when pursuing his Ph.D., but a 
friend to his family who had moved to 
Gainesville.
“She was as worried about our 
enjoyment of Gainesville, our kind of experience and our 
well-being as people, 
just as much as she 
was about my personal 
academic progress,” 
Wilson said. 
Kelly’s charismatic 
personality and passion 
was not only reflected 
in her work and 
teachings in the classroom, but also in her 
wardrobe. 
“Her style of clothing is still very 
memorable, even to this point,” Tao said. 
She often wore colorful monochrome 
outfits and accessories, and every year 
in the Spring for Mardi Gras, Waters said 
she would wear a large, brightly colored 
hat that resembled a Kentucky Derby or 
Sunday church hat.
“It’s just such a thing that is so tied 
to her,” Waters said. “I have actually 
ordered one of those to hang up in my 
office in San Francisco by my UF diploma 
to honor her.”
Waters said he is currently working 
on a paper with a team of UF doctoral 
graduates for a research journal, and upon 
hearing of Kelly’s passing, they decided to 
dedicate their work to her.
“It was something that very shocked 
and saddened me, but it was empowering 
at the same time because we are going to 
honor her in that way,” Waters said.
Wilson said he has a number of 
pictures that rotate as his wallpaper on 
his computer, one of them being a picture 
of his family and Kelly on his graduation 
day.
“I’ve had it up for a while and now 
it pops up every couple of days, and it’s 
just, it’s sad to know she’s gone, but at 
the same time, I feel really blessed that 
she was a part of our lives,” Wilson said.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgHere’s what you missed in Student Government this Spring
Former UF public relations professor Kathleen Kelly dies at 77
Kathleen Kelly
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
HER ROLE INVOLVES UNDERSTANDING 
GRADUATE ISSUES, ADMINISTERING 
POLICIES AND ADVOCATING FOR THE 
GRADUATE STUDENTS
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Graduate students have been unsatis -
fied with UF’s administration and lack 
of transparency, but UF’s new Graduate 
School dean intends to give graduate stu -
dents a voice within the university.
Nicole Stedman, soon-to-be associate 
provost and dean of UF’s Graduate School, 
will be responsible for understanding the 
current issues the Graduate School faces 
and administer communication between 
the university and graduate students. She 
was chosen for the role over two other fi -
nalists. 
Current Graduate Dean Henry Frierson 
will leave the position late May, and Sted -
man will take over June 1. The Office of 
Academic Affairs began searching for the 
next Graduate School dean early February 
when Frierson announced his decision to 
step down from his position.
With this new appointment and obliga -
tions also comes high expectations. 
Complaints about lack of transparency 
and effective communication have been a 
top concern following a proposed decrease 
in graduate and family housing capacity 
and mistreatment of graduate students — which some believe led to the suicide of 
Huixiang Chen in 2019. 
Stedman said she plans to address 
these issues by spending her first 60 days 
focused on connecting with graduate stu -
dents and staff. She said she plans on es -
tablishing direct and constant communica -
tion with the Graduate Student Council to 
better understand how she can help the 
graduate school as a whole.
“I really want to help our graduate stu -
dents strengthen their voice and strength -
en the opportunity they have to speak out 
about the issues that they’re experienc -
ing,” Stedman said.
Graduate Student Council President 
Jonathan Orsini described his advisor, 
Stedman, as energetic, motivated and pol -
ished. 
Orsini is a strong advocate for gradu -
ate students who have lost trust in UF’s 
administration. According to Orsini, Presi -
dent Fuchs asked the provost to include 
Orsini in the original committee to decide 
which candidates were chosen to be inter -
viewed.
Orsini said Stedman took the time to 
investigate the pressing issues influenc -
ing graduate students and address them 
clearly and concisely during the interview. 
“She’s a good person who has all the 
professional requirements you would want 
to see for somebody in this position,” Or -
sini said. “I don’t think you could have a 
better candidate.”Stedman has been a part of the Gator 
community for about 20 years. She gradu -
ated in 1998 with a Bachelor of Science 
in family, youth and community sciences, 
Master of Science in agricultural educa -
tion in 2001 and her Ph.D in agricultural 
education in 2004. From there, Stedman 
has taught classes for the department of 
agricultural education and communication 
and is a current associate chair.
As a three-time Gator alumna and for -
mer UF professor, Stedman said she un -
derstands the importance of feeling heard. 
She said she wants to give back to the stu -
dents of the school that has provided so 
many opportunities for her.
“I want to be very sensitive and very 
supportive of those students who are 
struggling and who are having difficul -
ties,” Stedman said. “Trying to figure out 
how we can make their experience here 
at the University of Florida the best pos -
sible.” 
Stedman said being both a past UF 
graduate student and a faculty member, 
she is able to understand the more con -
temporary issues that graduate students 
are facing. Stedman said she wants to not 
only focus on communication but also on 
ensuring students’ needs are met through 
their fellowships, scholarships and fund -
ing opportunities.
Elaine Turner, College of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences dean, was also a part of 
the search screen committee where she re -viewed applications and made recommen -
dations to the provost. 
“I think she’ll bring a lot of energy 
to the role,” Turner said. “I think she’s 
gained insight from all of those roles and 
responsibilities that she’ll bring to the po -
sition.”
Following lack of transparency toward 
graduate students, organizations like 
Graduate Assistants United and Graduate 
Student Council are demanding change in 
the form of communication, housing and 
in the way UF handled Chen’s suicide. 
Amanda Pritzlaff, a representative for 
Graduates Assistants United, feels the dis -
missal by the Confidential Report of Inves -
tigation of an abusive work environment is 
a big oversight.
“It’s showing that UF’s intellectual 
property, which is viewed as precious, 
is prioritized over the graduate worker’s 
life,” she said.
Stedman said she will approach her new 
position from a very strategic standpoint 
to ensure the Graduate School is working 
as effectively and efficiently and it can.
“I am excited about being able to cham -
pion graduate programs and our graduate 
students for the university,” Stedman said. 
“I’m excited about working with the grad -
uate school staff and making what we do 
better. You know, it’s just so profoundly 
important to me to do this well.”
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.org
TEACHERS FROM ALACHUA 
COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
INITIALLY STRUGGLED TO 
ADAPT TO NEW 
HYFLEX FORMAT
By Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
When Maryse Alexis first 
stepped foot into her classroom, 
she was not met with a large 
group of hyper children ready to 
learn and have fun. Instead, she 
was the only person in the room.
Alexis was hired as a new 
fourth grade teacher at Lake For -est Elementary School this year, 
and HyFlex has been her only ex -
perience in the classroom.
“When I got hired, there was 
no one in the room but me,” she 
said. “I began teaching on Zoom 
and then students have slowly 
started coming back, so I have 
two in-person students.”
The arrival of the COVID-19 
pandemic in March disrupted 
daily in-person classes and in -
troduced new safety regulations 
such as temperature screenings 
and mask mandates in Alachua 
County Public Schools. ACPS 
teachers adjusted to smaller class sizes, instructing on Zoom 
and changing mask mandates all 
while trying to ensure students 
were still learning.
While it’s not the traditional 
teaching experience, Alexis said 
she feels comfortable knowing 
she impacts the lives of her stu -
dents, whether in person or on -
line.
“This year has just been a 
learning experience,” she said. 
“It has really taught me the defi -
nition of flexibility and being 
open to learning and change be -
cause things are changing.”
HyFlex classes offer students flexibility in how they choose to 
learn, but many teachers had to 
overcome the hurdles of this new 
style of teaching. Chelsea Bowlin, 
a first grade teacher at Lake For -
est Elementary School, said ad -
justing to the digital aspect of Hy -
Flex teaching was very difficult.
“I am glad parents have the 
opportunity to do that and feel 
safe, but it was still the most 
challenging part of this year,” 
she said.
While some teachers were pro -
vided two weeks of paid training 
that taught them how to use the 
new online format and platforms, 
Bowlin said the real difficulties 
of HyFlex classes came from the 
additional planning and effort re -
quired of teachers every day. 
Teachers like Bowlin put 
in additional unpaid overtime 
to learn the ins and outs of the 
technology their students would 
depend on, including creating 
Zoom sessions, uploading assign -
ments to Canvas and interacting 
with parents through ClassDojo, 
she said.
“I do a lot of work after 
school. Sometimes in the eve -
nings, sometimes one day on the 
weekends,” she said.
Bowlin said her coworkers 
frequently work Wednesday af -
ternoons because school gets out 
about an hour earlier and they 
have more time. While teachers 
normally work unpaid overtime, some have had to do additional 
overtime because of the HyFlex 
teaching.
However, this extra unpaid 
work has not deterred all teach -
ers. Nancy Selph, a second grade 
teacher at Lake Forest Elemen -
tary, is still passionate about her 
career.
“I will continue to teach be -
cause I love teaching,” she said. 
“As teachers, we have always 
had to be flexible, so we know 
how to deal with what comes our 
way.”
Kirk Tapley, a sixth grade 
teacher at Howard Bishop Middle 
School who has been teaching 
since 2016, shares Selph’s opti -
mism.
Tapley said he is extremely 
impressed with the county’s ef -
forts to listen to teachers’ con -
cerns about HyFlex teaching and 
provide everyone with the proper 
protection and equipment to feel 
safe.
“My job has changed in a posi -
tive way from the standpoint that 
I knew I was always surrounded 
by resilient, amazing, creative in -
dividuals within my faculty and 
staff, but then seeing the way 
that they have adapted to this 
and made their classrooms much 
more user-friendly has been so 
cool to watch,” he said.
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.orgNicole Stedman to be new dean of UF’s Graduate School  
ACPS teachers work hard to succeed within the classroom, despite a global pandemic
Alex Brown / / Alligator Staff
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
www.alligator.org/opinions www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Is Florida finally sinking? 
The Sunshine State: home to the Ever -
glades, Kissimmee Prairie State Park, Lake 
Okeechobee, Florida Reef and now an 
environmental crisis. On April 4, Florida 
declared a state of emergency due to a toxic 
wastewater reservoir on the brink of collapse 
in Manatee County.
On April 20, Manatee County commission -
ers approved a $9.35 million contract to dis -
pose of the wastewater through a deep injec -
tion well. Even though action has been taken to 
fix the crisis, the Piney Point reservoir serves as 
a lesson for all Floridians to learn from. 
What is in the water?
The reservoir holds a mix of saltwater, fresh -
water, wastewater and fertilizer runoff. Even 
more dangerous than the harmful mixture is a 
potential 600 million gallons of water leaving 
the pool in a matter of minutes. Additionally, 
a natural gas plant that provides energy to mil -
lions in the region is also in the flood zone. Not 
only could this mean no electricity for residents 
but a break in the pipeline could lead to fires 
and explosions, causing significant damage to 
Tampa Bay communities that rely on this water 
source. 
Could we have prevented this?
Many environmental advocates said they 
knew this crisis was coming. Phosphate min -
ing began in 1966 in Florida, and the state 
produced 80% of the phosphate mined in the 
United States. Piney Point sits on top of a phos -
phogypsum stack, which is a massive deposi -
tory containing waste byproducts of phosphate 
fertilizer. When these stacks become large and 
rainwater leaks into them, it could leak and 
contaminate the environment. 
Luckily, that’s why we have reservoirs to 
prevent this from happening, right?
However, Piney Point has suffered from 
multiple issues over the years. In 2006, one 
pond was drained and dredged material not 
meant to be held in the reservoir from Port 
Manatee was put in the gyp stack. In 2011, 
the plastic liner of the reservoir tore off and al -
lowed millions of gallons of untreated waste -
water to pollute nearby harbors and an already 
fragile ecosystem.
How can we move forward?
It is unclear how much of the remaining 
303 gallons will need to be drained for engi -
neers to stabilize the pond. However, some 
scientists and environmental activists believe 
all the wastewater may have to go, draining an 
amount of wastewater equivalent to a year’s 
worth of nutrient pollution.This could be di -sastrous to marine life and fuel an explosive 
growth of algae blooms, something Florida is 
becoming more familiar with over the years. 
Still, the extent of the damage is still unclear as 
officials are still testing the water and have not 
released new information. 
However, amid dangerous environmental 
threats such as the one in Manatee County 
legislators have proposed two bills that would 
threaten moving toward an energy conscious 
future. SB 856/HB 839 seeks to limit the ability 
to expand into clean energy by prohibiting the 
replacement of gas stations with greener energy 
options. This means not only preventing build -
ing codes from being updated to build electric 
charging stations for cars, but also hindering a 
city’s ability to phase out fossil fuels.
Another bill — SB-1128/HB-919 — would 
prohibit cities from committing to 100% clean 
energy and forbid all current commitments 
cities have made towards renewable energy. 
Clearly, this bill would strip local officials’ abil -
ity to decide what is best for their cities for con -
serving energy. 
About 10 cities have already made a com -
mitment to achieving 100% clean energy, in -
cluding Tallahassee, Gainesville, Orlando, Sat -
ellite Beach, Dunedin, Largo, Safety Harbor, St. 
Petersburg, Sarasota and South Miami. 
Both pieces of legislation have the potential 
to greatly impact Gainesville and the greater 
Alachua County area, as the city has been ac -
tively involved in environmental issues over 
the past few years. In 2018, the City Commis -
sion approved two resolutions to reduce the 
city’s dependency on fossil fuels. The first was 
to move towards 100% renewable energy by 
2045 and the second was a ban on single-use 
plastic-bags and styrofoam containers. 
In 2012, Gainesville was ranked as one of 
the top 25 green cities in the United States by 
The Daily Beast. It also ranks as number 37 of 
the top bike-friendly cities. 
It is clear the city of Gainesville is working 
hard towards a 100% clean energy future, but 
if Tallassee legislators get their way, that future 
will turn into a distant dream. Why appoint 
city officials if they cannot decide on what their 
city’s citizens need? 
The solution should not be enacting legisla -
tion to prevent cities from committing to clean 
energy but comprehensive bills that would 
protect and preserve our environment. By not 
pursuing positive environmental legislation, we 
risk the chance of more environmental catas -
trophes like the Piney Point Reservoir leak hap -
pening again.
 
Sarah Hoffman is a junior at UF 
majoring in political science.Column
THE DISNEY ALUMS TAKE THE 
ALTERNATIVE ROUTE WITH A 
RELEASE PRIMED FOR SUMMERTIME
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
A pair of early 2000s icons have ushered in 
a sunny new era of music just in time for sum -
mer vacation. 
Sister duo Alyson and Amanda Michalka, 
professionally known as Aly & AJ, released 
their new album “a touch of the beat gets you 
up on your feet and then into the sun” May 
7, marking their official entrance into a more 
indie and alternative landscape. Commonly 
known for launching their music career on 
Disney Channel, the pair has turned a musical 
corner with the new record, offering a more 
mature and musically sophisticated sound with 
lyrics dedicated to life on the California coast. 
“A touch of the beat” is the duo’s fourth 
full-length album, but in some ways, it feels 
like their debut. It’s an album that sounds wide 
open, taking up enough space to officially ce -
ment the sisters’ arrival to this new era.
With a sound AJ described as “quintes -
sential California” in an interview with The 
Cut, the new album is poised to be the sum -
mer soundtrack. The singles — especially the 
acoustic groove of “Pretty Places,” the synth 
pulse of “Listen!!!,” the catchy, clean guitar 
licks and the steady bassline on “Slow Danc -
ing” — sound like they’re meant to underscore 
a summertime adventure.
Fans like Vanessa Vasquez, a 20-year-old 
UF educational leadership graduate student, 
are making room for it on their summer playl -
ists.
“Listening to the album once through, I can 
already tell that this is going to be a record that 
I’ll play while taking a road trip,” she said. “A 
lot of the songs have the perfect sound for rid -
ing by the beach or through the mountains.”
The record brings out the sisters’ discovery 
of a more nuanced sound, but even in earlier 
eras, fans noticed how Aly & AJ stood out from 
the crowded field of their Disney contempo -
raries. For listeners like Vasquez, this noncon -
formity instantly caught their ears.
“It was fun listening to music that wasn’t 
your standard bubblegum pop,” Vasquez said.
Though technically a pop group, Aly & AJ 
have never quite fit the label. Tracks on their 
debut “Into the Rush” are anchored by rock el -
ements like live drum arrangements and power 
chords on distorted guitars. And though their 
2007 album “Insomniatic” takes a more radio-
friendly route, Vasquez said the alternative 
edge was still a deviation from how most pop sounded at the time.
Fast forward 15 years and Aly & AJ’s mu -
sic has grown up with their fans. The album 
references more mature subject matter, but 
even some of their classic cuts have received 
a contemporary rework. The 2007 mega-hit 
“Potential Breakup Song,” for example, was re-
released with explicit lyrics last year, offering 
a risqué take on a past staple suited for teens 
and tweens.
The track’s subsequent ascent to TikTok 
virality reintroduced the duo to listeners like 
Reagan de la Cruz, a 19-year-old UF marketing 
sophomore, who first encountered them in the 
group’s Disney days. Though only a casual fan 
when she was younger, de la Cruz said their 
new sound led her to look more into them, 
eventually turning her into a full-fledged fan. 
“Their sound is a lot more relatable now,” 
she said. “You can definitely tell their music is 
a lot more mature and has more of an indie 
sound to it.”
The pair has performed at colleges and 
spoke to student groups across the country to 
promote “a touch of the beat,” including UF’s 
Gator Music Industry Club (MIC).
De la Cruz, a member of Gator MIC, said 
Aly & AJ spoke about their shift in sound and 
subject matter during the conference, touching 
on the album’s return to the pair’s California 
roots and alignment with their true musical 
style.
“They’re making music that’s more authen -
tic to them,” de la Cruz said.
In essence, “a touch of the beat” is a record 
centered on revival and encompassing a new 
sound to support a more introspective, lyrical 
style. But Aly & AJ aren’t starting from scratch. 
With over a decade in the industry, they’ve 
amassed a fanbase that’s grown alongside 
them and their music.
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgAly & AJ enter a new musical era with latest album
MUSICMUSIC
Heather Bushman / / Alligator Staff
The sister duo released their 
sixth studio album.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
LOCAL FARMERS AND VOLUNTEERS WORK TO 
GIVE BACK TO THE 
EAST GAINESVILLE COMMUNITY
By Joelle Wittig
Alligator Staff Writer
Known as the “veggie girl,” Tuesday Gilliam harvests veg -
etables at local farms each week to distribute excess food to East 
Gainesville residents. 
Gilliam, 40, organized an event at Siembra Farm in East 
Gainesville on May 4 to harvest the crops the farm did not use. 
The event began at 6 p.m. and volunteers stayed until 8:30 p.m. to pick and wash vegetables and create 110 community-sup -
ported agriculture boxes.
During the harvest, volunteers split up among rows of crops 
to pick hundreds of vegetables including carrots, potatoes, kale, 
collards and mustard greens. The volunteers bundled their 
crops together with rubber bands for packing and distribution, 
and they could even take an unboxed pile home before they left.
Gilliam said this initiative is incredibly important because 
East Gainesville is classified as a food desert with limited access 
to nutritious, affordable food. She said not enough people know 
about the extreme number of extra vegetables at the four farms 
in the middle of the area.
These white-owned farms are in a predominantly Black 
neighborhood, which Gilliam said is subject to gentrification. 
As a white ally, her desire to give back to the community in -
spired this mutual aid effort.
Dina Liebowitz, the UF Field and Fork program coordinator, 
has helped at the farm for the past two years. 
“It is just the most meaningful thing I can fathom, especially 
working on a sustainable farm like this,” she said. “They care 
about all the things that I care about.”
The project, which involves Siembra Farm, Family Garden, 
Nicoya Farm and Hawthorne Organic Farm, helps reduce food 
waste, feed the community and foster an environmentally sus -
tainable process through food activism.
Linda Williams, a 62-year-old retired surgical technician at 
Shands Hospital and a member of the GRACE Grows commu -
nity advisory board, has lived by the farms for 15 years and 
received food for more than a year.
“It’s impacted me to help with the shortage of fresh veg -
etables,” she said. “I have 17 grandkids, and every other day 
I cook not only for my grandkids but for the homeless people 
too and take food out in trays and her [Gilliam] bringing these 
vegetables and stuff helps me out so much.”
Gilliam said she worked with her best friend, Karen Smith, 
to organize their passion project. Like Gilliam, Smith was an 
avid activist who cared about giving back to her community, 
but Smith died in a car accident in November. Gilliam had to 
continue without her.
“I fell apart completely,” she said. “I didn’t even want to 
look at vegetables, so it’s kind of weird to think of tonight. Out of the blue, people just started coming. It’s coming full circle. 
All of this is dedicated to Karen Smith.”
The project has been hard for Gilliam, but she said the sup -
port of those around her helped continue her goal of provid -
ing reparations to the East Gainesville community to combat 
ongoing gentrification. She said she hopes her efforts on the 
farm will achieve the opposite of environmental racism, which 
involves the environmental hazards that disproportionately af -
fect people of color.
Carmen Rosa, a 44-year-old vocational rehabilitation coun -
selor, volunteered at the farm for the first time on May 4.
“I’m in a position where I don’t need anything, and I have 
been in the position where I do,” she said. “Now that I feel bet -
ter in life, I feel like I have to help others that are not in the same 
position as me, as a way to be grateful for how lucky I’ve been.”
Through her volunteer work, Rosa found a community she 
said is often hard to come by. She said she recently moved to 
the United States from Puerto Rico and was surprised to see the 
individualistic presence throughout the U.S.
“The sense of community isn’t as strong here in the states 
versus where I come from, so to see that there are people that 
are trying to help others and build that community that helps 
each other, that’s really nice to see,” she said.
Gilliam said she has high hopes for the project, and she plans 
to continue harvesting the excess food every Tuesday until the 
end of the season in June. 
However, she is struggling to find affordable housing since 
apartments are targeted towards students. She acknowledges 
her privilege as a white person and does not want to buy a 
house in the area because she says it would further the gentri -
fication she is fighting against. She has been living in a cabin 
by the farm for two years as a single mother, and she said she 
wants to move to a nicer place to raise her 13-year-old child.
She is nervous about the future of the project if she moves 
out of the area, but she said she has found a support system that 
she hopes will continue leading the weekly harvesting project, 
especially because of how much the project means to her.
“We all need it, whether you are a Republican, or a Demo -
crat, or an Anarchist, whether you’re Black or white or what -
ever, we really all need food,” she said. “In a way, it’s some of 
the best activism I’ve been involved in in my life.”
@JoelleWittig
jwittig@alligator.org 
THE ALACHUA COUNTY 
LABOR COALITION SAID 
THE COLLIER COMPANIES IS 
DISCRIMINATING AGAINST 
TENANTS WHO PAY RENT 
WITH HOUSING VOUCHERS  
By Samuel Schaffer
Alligator Staff Writer
Community members and ad -
vocates gathered downtown on the 
corner of North Main Street and 
NW Second Avenue on May 3 at 
4:30 p.m. to protest what the Ala -
chua County Labor Coalition calls 
discriminatory housing practices at 
Bivens Cove. 
About 25 people held signs and 
listened to speeches about housing 
issues in Gainesville. Protest leaders 
spoke about landlords prioritizing 
higher paying tenants and ignoring 
the needs of lower income families. 
The emphatic crowd clapped 
and hollered in agreement with 
the speakers outside of The Collier 
Companies office until about 6 p.m. 
“If you can’t cry about something 
like this, then you need to go back 
and look inside your soul and find 
out what happened,” Hugh Suggs, 
a 62-year-old Gainesville based au -
thor, said.
Gail Johnson, a Gainesville City 
Commissioner, spoke to the crowd 
and expressed her support. 
“What is going on in this town 
when it comes to housing and evic -
tions and non-renewal of leases is a travesty, and it’s absolutely immor -
al,” she said. 
Sheila Payne, the ACLC co-chair, 
said the organization planned the 
protest in response to a recent situ -
ation at Bivens Cove — a Collier 
Companies apartment complex. 
She said some residents who pay 
rent with the assistance of vouchers 
sponsored by the United States De -
partment of Housing and Urban De -
velopment were not being allowed 
to renew their leases. 
This would be a violation of 
Gainesville Ordinance 190814, 
which prohibits discrimination in 
housing based on, among other 
things, “lawful source of income”. 
Payne was made aware of the sit -
uation by Sharon Burney, a 56-year-
old Bivens Cove resident and pro -
gram officer for the Council on 
Information and Library Resources, 
an organization that focuses on im -
proving education. 
Burney’s 37-year-old daughter, 
Tamisha Ferguson, also lives at 
the complex. Burney said Ferguson 
moved there so she and her other 
daughter, who lives with Burney, 
could check on Ferguson often. 
Ferguson is on dialysis treatment 
for end-stage renal failure, which re -
sults in seizures, brain bleeding and 
other issues that landed her in the 
hospital from June until October last 
year. While there, she went in and 
out of a coma twice, Burney said. 
Ferguson pays $50 of her rent 
each month, and according to 
Payne, the rest of the $800 or more is federally guaranteed to be paid 
through the HUD housing voucher 
program. 
Payne said there is a common 
narrative that residents who pay 
their rent with housing vouchers do 
not take good care of the property, 
and she believes that it is not true.
In February, Ferguson received 
a notice that Bivens Cove was plan -
ning to remodel her apartment and 
she would not be allowed to renew 
her lease, Burney said. Ferguson has 
been a resident there for about five 
years. 
When Burney went to the of -
fice to ask about the situation, she 
said she was told that because they 
needed to remodel the unit, her 
daughter would have to move out. 
She said the resident manager also 
mentioned that Bivens Cove did not 
want to take outside sources of in -
come anymore. 
According to a screenshot pro -
vided by Payne dated April 27, on 
the FAQ part of Biven Cove’s web -
site, the complex stated they no lon -
ger accepted HUD or Section 8 hous -
ing, which is a direct violation of the 
ordinance. 
That part of the FAQ has since 
been removed after word spread 
about the situation. 
Burney said her daughter is 
represented by Three Rivers Legal 
Services, and it was not until they 
intervened that Bivens Cove said 
Ferguson would be allowed to re -
new her lease. 
Payne said she knew of six other residents who use housing vouchers 
at Bivens Cove who were also told 
they would not be allowed to renew 
their lease. They are all veterans.
It was not until many members 
of the community contacted The 
Collier Companies and the protest 
was scheduled that Bivens Cove no -
tified those residents that they will 
be allowed to renew their leases.Neither Bivens Cove or The Col -
lier Companies responded to mul -
tiple requests, both in person and 
over the phone, for comment. 
“As a mother, it is my job to fight 
as hard for her life as she fought 
twice to stay alive,” Burney said. 
@samschaf_
s.schaffer@ufl.edu Weekly harvest provides food for local families
Gainesville community rallies to stop discriminatory evictions
Julia Coin / / Alligator Staff
Hugh E. Suggs, 62, a Gainesville homeowner and author, protests 
outside of The Collier Company office in downtown Gainesville 
on Monday, May 3, 2021. Suggs was joined by about 25 other 
people protesting their landlords’ tendency to prioritize higher 
paying tenants and ignore the needs of lower income families.Joelle Wittig / / Alligator Staff
UF professor Hannah Mathews, 43, washes kale after 
volunteering to help harvest vegetables at Siembra 
Farm in Gainesville on Tuesday, May 4, 2021. She was 
among many volunteers who worked to harvest extra 
vegetables to give to local families in East Gainesville.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
get VACCINATED today
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-121For Rent
furnished
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                    5-10-21-6-2
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            8-15-21-13-2
3 Sublease
Sublease in LynCourt Square 1st Floor, fur -
nished 2br/2ba, W/D, Male, Individual lease 
required. $500/month 1blk from UF SW 
3rd Ave & SW 12th St. Call 407-234-7438.   
5-16-21-4-3
11..    SSmmaallll
11..    AAllllooyy  ooff  ttiinn55..    ________  aarree  yyoouu??
22..    SSuuppppoorrtt  ffoorr  ppllaannttss66..    EEnnttrraannccee  hhaallll
33..    SShhaakkee77..    AAfftt
44..    WWaaxxyy  mmaarrkkeerr  TTEEPPEEIITT
WWRREEPPTTEEEERRWWEEHH
BBLLOOBBYY
IISSRREELLTTLL
MMRRTTEELLBBEEEEAATTNNRRSS
YYOOCCAANNRRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--PPeettiittee    55AA--WWhheerree    66AA--LLoobbbbyy    77AA--AAsstteerrnn
11DD--PPeewwtteerr    22DD--TTrreelllliiss    33DD--TTrreemmbbllee    44DD--CCrraayyoonn    BB--WWaallll  SSttrreeeett55--1100--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  iiss  eeiigghhtt  bblloocckkss  lloonngg..
BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter
answers on pg. 101. LAW: What is the subject matter of 
the Seventh Amendment to the U.S. 
Constitution?
2. HISTORY: What was the bloodiest single-
day battle of America's Civil War?
3. MEDICAL: What is a common name for 
somnambulism?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capital of Brit -
ish Columbia in Canada?
5. MUSIC: What was Elvis Presley's last 
No. 1 hit?
6. SCIENCE: Which two elements on the 
Periodic Table are liquid at standard room 
temperature?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president had 
the most children?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the 
Pritzker Prize given for?
9. LITERATURE: Which novel was the first to 
feature a place called King's Landing?
10. TELEVISION: Which animated TV 
character's favorite expression was "Hokey 
Smokes!"?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RVís 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          5-10-1-1213 Wanted 5 Real Estate
answer on page 10
By Andrea Carla Michaels
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/10/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/10/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, May 10, 2021
ACROSS
1 Prefix with bar
4 Purple color 
named for a 
flower
9 Kind of minister 
or suspect
14 Habit wearer
15 “Mutiny on  
the Bounty” 
captain
16 “Star Wars” 
director George
17 Two-base hit: 
Abbr.
18 Cloak-and-
dagger spy
20 Heroic tale
22 Direction of the 
dawn
23 Easter egg 
coloring
24 Typically yellow 
tangy fruit
29 Quivery vocal 
effect
30 Spanish eight
34 Of an arterial 
trunk
38 Belle’s suitor
39 *Accessory 
metaphor for an 
accomplishment
44 Gas leak 
giveaway
45 “I’m clueless”
46 City near Tahoe
47 Whiner
52 Spaghetti-in-a-
can icon
57 Emails a dupe to
60 Goddess for 
whom a month is 
named
61 Theater 
segments
62 “I Can’t Help 
Myself” Motown 
group ... and 
what’s comprised 
by 18-, 24-, 39- 
and 52-Across’ 
starting words?
67 Frito-__
68 Old toga wearer
69 Frighten
70 Start for fab or fix
71 Pinocchio’s 
problem
72 Roll of the dice
73 “__ the DJ, I’m 
the Rapper”: 
1988 album
DOWN
1 Behind on bills
2 Not up to snuff3 Browsing the 
Web, say
4 Scale units: 
Abbr.
5 Land in la mer
6 DMV certificate
7 Go along (with)
8 Tightfisted
9 Table setting 
item
10 Snug bug’s 
place?
11 Covered, as a 
cake
12 Numerous
13 Punta del __, 
Uruguay
19 Recipe abbr.
21 Cell pic taker
25 Ark builder
26 Crazy as __
27 X-rated stuff
28 Lynda Bird’s 
married name
31 Average grade
32 Actor Holbrook
33 Not in the office
35 You, in French
36 With unnamed 
partners, in bus. 
names
37 Suspicious (of)
39 Neither’s  
partner
40 Wordsworth’s  
“__ to Duty”41 Trucker’s unit
42 Gator kin
43 “Don’t __ word!”: 
“Shh!”
48 “I’m freezing!”
49 Brewer Coors
50 Sign warning 
word about a 
watchdog
51 “Absolutely!”
53 Chinese ethnic 
group
54 Water, in  
Cannes55 At the head of 
the line
56 Cookie baker’s 
lot
57 Bottom-corner 
PC key
58 Bok __: Chinese 
cabbage
59 18-wheeler
63 One cheering for 
the team
64 Sculler’s prop
65 Whiz
66 Stitch together
By Craig Stowe
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/20/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/20/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 20, 2021
ACROSS
1 Unisex dos
6 It beats rock, in a 
game
11 “Quiet, please!”
14 Bat mitzvah 
reading
15 Photographer’s 
concern
16 Concert souvenir
17 Routinely 
approve
19 Chicken-king 
connection
20 Recently
21 On the trail of
23 “Now, where __ 
we?”
24 Betty White’s 
“The Golden 
Girls” role
27 Crystal ball  
gazer
29 Isn’t elected
30 Nick of “Warrior” 
(2011)
33 Hold a session
34 Shade of blue
37 Dude
38 Assures, as an 
interest rate
42 Coffee server
43 2017 Best 
Animated 
Feature Oscar 
winner
45 Timid
46 Raw meat 
concern
48 Came up
50 Augur
52 .eps or .txt, e.g.
55 Turkish coin
59 __ God: tornado, 
e.g.
60 Respected
62 T’ai __
63 Butchers’ stock 
literally found 
in this puzzle’s 
circles
66 Woolen cap
67 Wipe out
68 Buy and sell 
stock
69 Canonized Mlle.
70 Worldview view
71 Have a sneaking 
suspicion
DOWN
1 Scarecrow stuff
2 Word with party 
or guest
3 Leafy recess4 Gossipy 
gathering
5 “A Boy Named 
Sue” writer 
Silverstein
6 Right one for the 
rite job?
7 Chips in a pot
8 Golf tour letters
9 National Mall tree
10 Makes good on
11 The way things 
are
12 Mirren of 
“Trumbo” (2015)
13 Caught wind (of)
18 Like valuable 
coins
22 __ market
25 Fans of college 
sports’ Bulldogs
26 “Moi?”
28 Slim fish often 
smoked
30 “This Is Us” 
network
31 Olímpicos goal
32 Announcement 
before landing
33 Feature of many 
seascapes
35 Surfer’s link
36 Singer DiFranco
39 __ buco: veal 
dish40 “Mermaids” 
co-star
41 Mustachioed 
guy on “The 
Simpsons”
44 Longtime Hydrox 
rival
47 Cause __: 
megastar
49 Counteract
50 Short-legged 
hound
51 Director 
Preminger52 They’re hard to 
argue with
53 Former Apple 
messaging app
54 Reagan attorney 
general Ed
56 “That is ... ”
57 Wetlands 
growths
58 Website revenue
61 Young newts
64 Outrage
65 Sports radio host 
Patrick
04/19/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.Taxi Drivers 
Taxi company in Gainesville is looking for driv-
ers. Easy job, good income. Call 352-777-9488
5-10-21-1-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring for all positions. 
Full time/part time, day/nightshift. Apply at 
fivestarpizza.com/employment
* Delivery drivers
* Pizza makers
* Phone personnel
* Food prep
* Managers
6-7-21-8-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Receptionists, Cashiers, Night Gate 
Attendants and Grounds Maintenance Staff
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy 
working with the public. High energy and 
low drama is a must! Must have your own 
transportation and availability to work 
nights, holidays and weekends. Full or Part-
time positions available. Apply in person 
ONLY 9 am - 4 pm weekdays - NO phone 
calls! ****GPS Address:**** 5000 NE 60th 
Ave. High Springs, FL 32643   
 5-10-21-6-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-15-21-13-15
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille
NOW HIRING
Until June 13th, we'll be hosting interviews 
for Spurrier's Gridiron Grille! We need 5-star 
restaurant talent to join our team. Applications 
must be submitted online & an interview will 
be scheduled with those qualified. No walk-ins 
due to the high volume of applicants. Apply at 
spurriersdraft.com                        6-7-21-5-14
Tacachale is Hiring!
Did you know that Tacachale is one of 
Gainesvilleís largest employers? We have 
amazing benefits, and offer something for 
everyoneís career path! Join our team and 
enjoy a rewarding career serving Floridaís 
most vulnerable adults. Are you ready to 
make a difference, not just a living?
Visit peoplefirst.myflorida.com and search 
ëTacachaleí to apply, or give us a call at 
(352) 955-5600!                                5-10-1-14
Part time sales assistant to work Saturdays 
from 10am-3pmin a local Gainesville retail 
audio/video store .Individual needs to be 
personable,organized ,dependable and 
posses good communication skills. Must 
have a reliable vehicle to get to & from work 
.$11.00 per hour with some extra hours on 
occasion. Applicants can email resume to 
mark@electronicsworld.net         6-1-21-4-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
20 Events/Notices
NOTICE
OF PROPOSED REVISIONS
TO THE 
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT PLAN
OF THE
METROPOLITAN 
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING 
ORGANIZATION FOR THE 
GAINESVILLE URBANIZED AREA
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area will consider revisions to its Public 
Involvement Plan at its Monday, June 21, 
2021 meeting at 5:00 p.m. in the Jack 
Durrance Auditorium, Alachua County 
Administration Building, 12 SE 1st Street, 
Gainesville, Florida.  The Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area is inviting inter-
ested persons to review and comment on 
these proposed revisions at this meeting.
     The Public Involvement Plan document 
may be viewed at the following website 
(www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo) and at the Alachua 
County Library District Branches within the 
Gainesville Metropolitan Area and at its staff 
office, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, 
Florida 32653 if they are open to the public.  
For further information, call 352.955.2200.
5-10-21-1-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/answers below1. Name the rookie pitcher who won his 
first four starts -- including a no-hitter 
on May 5, 1962 -- for the Los Angeles 
Angels.
2. Evonne Goolagong, a seven-time 
women's singles Grand Slam tennis 
tournament winner from 1971-80, 
hailed from what country?
3. What Austrian driver posthumously 
won the 1970 Formula One champion -ship after perishing in a crash during 
practice at the Italian Grand Prix?
4. Opening in 1900, The Hawthorns 
stadium has been home to what Eng -
lish Premier League football club?
5. What Tanzanian basketball star 
played for the University of Connecticut 
Huskies and was picked No. 2 overall 
by the Memphis Grizzlies in the 2009 
NBA Draft?
6. Gino Cappelletti, American Football 
League MVP in 1964, had his No. 20 
jersey retired by what NFL team? 
7. Who founded a company that began 
manufacturing ice-resurfacing ma -
chines for skating rinks in Paramount, 
California, in 1949?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted
14 Help Wanted16 Health Service
HOUSEKEEPER / PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Good pay. Steady 20 hours / week
Near UF. Must like dogs. Call 352-727-0255    
5-24-21-53-14
Front Desk Reception SIMEDHealth
SIMEDHealth is looking for both PT and FT 
Front Desk Receptionists for our Gainesville 
locations. Please go to our website to apply: 
http://simedhealth.com/jobs.  
6-7-21-5-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         5-17-21-17-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Commercial painting contractor looking for 
help. Work consists of prep work and possible 
painting.  Hours negotiable. Call 386-418-1177.          
5-11-21-3-14
solution to the right
solution below
Sports Quiz  
answers1. Bo Belinsky.
2. Australia.
3. Jochen Rindt.
4. West Bromwich Albion F.C.
5. Hasheem Thabeet.
6. The New England Patriots.
7. Frank J. Zamboni.Trivia Test  answers1. Right of trial by jury in civil cases
2. Antietam
3. Sleepwalking
4. Victoria
5. "Suspicious Minds"
6. Mercury and bromine
7. John Tyler (15 children by two wives)8. Lifetime achievement in architecture
9. "A Game of Thrones," the first in a series 
called "A Song of Ice and Fire"
10. Rocky Squirrel on "The Bullwinkle 
Show"
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
I am a humanist because
I think humanity can, with
constant moral guidance,
 create a reasonably decent
 society. — James MichenerCryptoQuote answer
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONS10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
www.alligator.org/sportsFEATURE
RAP HELPS THE FORMER GATORS 
WIDE RECEIVER FOCUS ON 
FOOTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer 
Kadarius Toney once played a Pop Warner 
football game wearing three socks on a single 
foot.
Angela Williams, 51, said her son sliced his 
foot open while playing with his dad when he 
was 7 or 8 years old. After doctors stitched him 
up, she prepared him for the possibility of not 
playing that weekend.
“I was like, ‘Kadarius, let your coach know 
that you won’t be in Saturday,’” Williams said. 
“No, he put on three pairs of socks. He still 
went to the game.”
Toney sheathed his wound under those 
socks. The quarterback refused to abandon his 
teammates.
He found love on the gridiron with his 
tiny 6-year-old fingers cushioned between the 
football’s white laces. His father, Dana Toney, 
said his son was born to play the game. 
Toney, now a 22-year-old 
wide receiver, finished his 
career as a Florida Gator 
in December when his 
team lost the SEC 
Championship  
game against 
Alabama  
despite his 
best efforts. 
He was 
drafted by 
the New 
York  Giants on April 29 with the 20th pick of the 
2021 NFL Draft.
Off the field, though, Toney is a poet and 
a musician. As “Yung Joka,” his rap alias, he 
allows his creativity and emotions to run as 
wild and free as he does between the endzones. 
While questions circulate around his loyalty to 
the game, it’s clear Toney’s football fidelity is 
undeniable. 
“I’m using my talent, do things you can’t 
even imagine.” (“Sum 2 Prove,” Warrior II, 
2021)
Shoulder and shin injuries plagued two 
of Toney’s first three seasons as a Gator. 
But he exploded during the final game of his 
third regular season against the Florida State 
Seminoles when he juked fellow Reese’s Senior 
Bowl invitee Hamsah Nasirildeen so hard the 
defensive back tore his ACL. 
Toney gained 47 yards on that play.
The 2020 season saw Toney become one of 
three FBS players with a rushing, receiving and 
punt return touchdown. He led Florida with 70 
receptions for 984 yards and 10 touchdowns in 
11 games. 
In his last home game against LSU, Toney 
recorded a season-high 182 receiving yards, 
with his longest catch coming at 49 yards. 
Peering through unusually dense fog 
in The Swamp, he darted through 
throngs of opposing players, 
finessed his way down the field 
and owned all 100 yards of real 
estate between the pylons.
When the clock hit zero and 
the Tigers won by three, he 
made his way to the middle 
of the field. He knelt down 
inside the Gator head logo, 
pressing his fist into the turf 
and holding his 
head in his 
hand.  
After a 
surreal 
senior season, he finally felt certain of what his 
father learned when his son was just 6 years 
old: Kadarius Toney was preordained to play 
football.
“I guess it really came out my senior year,” 
Toney said. “Everything just felt different.”
“Tryna see me, and they wanna see 
confidence.” (“Tyedie,” MillionDollarJokez, 
2019)
When Toney was in high school, children 
from the area attended his games and would 
rush the chain-link fence hoping to meet him.
“They would call, ‘KT! KT!’ And he would 
shake their hand,” Williams said about her 
youngest child. “He’s just humble. Always has 
been.”
Lev Holly, Toney’s coach at Mattie T. Blount 
High School in Eight Mile, Alabama, met Toney 
in 2015 and is grateful for the opportunity 
to have coached the then-quarterback. He 
appreciated Toney’s parents trusting him 
enough to mentor their son.
“He poured his heart and soul, and I think 
he’s reaping that benefit now,” Holly said. 
“Because he gave a lot to this program, a lot to 
this school and did a lot for this community.”
He believes Toney’s good upbringing 
contributed to his outstanding leadership 
qualities and work ethic as the team’s leader 
under center.
“I think that anytime that you have mom 
and dad in your life, I think that’s a positive. 
And I see (the opposite) a lot in this area — 
dads are in their lives, but dad’s not there,” 
Holly said. 
Armed with his parents’ positive influence, 
Toney commanded the huddle in high school, 
Holly said.
In honor of his leadership and drive, Blount 
High School retired Toney’s No. 4 jersey at a 
pep rally on Jan. 29. Holly called the decision 
a “no-brainer,” citing Toney’s high school stats 
— which include nearly 6,500 passing yards, 
almost 1,800 rushing yards and exactly 100 
total touchdowns during his two final seasons 
— and explaining how he paved the way for 
future recruits at his alma mater. 
“He would come around, speak to (the 
players), give them words of encouragement,” 
Holly said. “And that’s what you want in a kid 
that’s done it all, that’s done it right.”
The next day, Toney played in the 2021 
Reese’s Senior Bowl set in his hometown of 
Mobile, Alabama. He earned wide receiver of 
the week honors on the American team.
“You scrape from the surface, I dig a little 
deeper.” (“Eirene,” Warrior, 2019)
Ahead of the draft, some NFL scouts 
weaponized Toney’s passion for rap to 
question whether he’s committed enough to 
play professional ball. 
“He actually has, like, two (recorded) 
albums and three additional singles,” one scout 
told Bob McGinn at The Athletic. “It’s a concern 
whether he has enough commitment to do it at 
this level with all the stuff he has going on.”
“Music seems to be his passion, more so 
than football,” another scout added.
Toney first flirted with music in middle 
school, pounding on tables in the cafeteria and 
classroom. He started formally rapping almost 
three years ago, releasing his first single, “Fat Rue,” in 2019.
As of May, Yung Joka is a verified artist on 
Spotify with 6,837 monthly listeners. His songs 
have over 56,000 views on YouTube.
Holly, his high school coach, grew 
exasperated reading these reviews of his former 
player. 
After all, NBA and NFL figureheads like 
Kobe Bryant, Damian Lillard (known to his 
listeners as Dame D.O.L.L.A.) and even Deion 
Sanders recorded rap albums during their 
respective athletic careers (although LL Cool 
J reportedly talked Bryant out of releasing his 
gangsta rap album “K.O.B.E.” after the all-star 
played it for him).
“As his high school coach and a father 
figure in his life, did I like that? No, I didn’t, 
‘cause I don’t think it’s fair,” Holly said. “And 
me, personally, I think it’s stereotyping.”
Holly felt Toney was singled out and 
criticized because of stigmas surrounding 
Black culture and rap music. He doesn’t see a 
difference between Toney pursuing a rap career 
off the field and another athlete wanting to play 
the game while also running a business.
“When I first saw that, it was jaw dropping. 
It was eye opening,” Holly said. “And as his 
coach, I didn’t respond at the time, but I would 
love to talk to that reporter.”
While the anonymous scouts flagged 
Toney’s rap career as cause for concern, he feels 
music keeps him disciplined. Rapping clears his 
mind, allowing his worries and distractions to 
fall away. Every bar, every bass drop lightens 
his load. Then he can focus on football.
“It gave me something to do outside of 
football instead of going to the club,” Toney 
said. “It’s really a balance.”
“All them people that I lost, it still hurt me.” 
(“Don’t Give Up,” SplitWorld, 2020)
Football has always been Toney’s No. 1 
priority, Williams said. So her son’s budding 
rap career initially took her by surprise.
Williams believes her son’s love affair 
with music came after his childhood friend, 
Ja’Christopher McCants, died in a car crash 
in 2018, shortly after Toney started at UF. The 
two knew each other since they were 5 years 
old, Williams said, and played football together 
in high school. Rap was how Toney worked 
through the loss.
Charnesia Lumpkin, Toney’s 24-year-old 
girlfriend, said he doesn’t talk about McCants 
often because it hurts too much.
“That was his right hand,” she said. “When 
he lost (McCants), he felt like he lost a part of 
him.”
Lumpkin and Toney weren’t dating when 
McCants died, so she doesn’t know too much 
about their relationship. She said they started 
making music together, and after the crash, 
Toney began taking rap more seriously. 
Some days, she said, he closes himself in his 
room for two, three, four hours just to write 
music.
Read the rest online at alligator.org/
sports
@petitus25
ptitus@alligator.orgWhy so serious?: How Kadarius Toney and Yung Joka coexist
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Kadarius Toney, wearing his signature "Joka" chain, throws up a peace sign and smiles 
for the camera at the Gators' homecoming game versus Auburn on Oct. 5, 2019.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFollow our newsletter
Love alligatorsSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
AlligatorSports has a podcast. 
The AlligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 10, 2021
LACROSSE
FLORIDA CLAIMS SEVENTH 
STRAIGHT CONFERENCE 
CHAMPIONSHIP TITLE
By Karina Wilson 
Sports Writer 
“Glorious” by Macklemore 
blared over the speakers at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium. The Florida lacrosse team 
threw its sticks in the air and 
sprinted to center field.
The Gators won the AAC 
Championship. 
No. 7 Florida secured its 
seventh straight conference title 
with a 19-4 win over Temple 
Saturday. The all-conference 
Gators dominated both ends of the field. 
AAC Midfielder of the Year 
Shannon Kavanagh dashed 
through the 12-meter fan to stun 
Owls goalkeeper Shana Hecht. 
The swift behind-the-back shot 
slapped the back of the polyester 
net, the first of six goals for 
Kavanagh Saturday.
AAC Attacker of the Year Grace Haus followed suit. She 
earned a first-half hat trick off 
a free position goal. The senior 
added a fourth goal in a display 
of her stellar offensive repertoire.
“Now more than ever, 
postseason is crucial,” Haus said. 
“This conference tournament 
was really important to us, and 
we were focusing one game at a 
time.” 
The Owls remained scoreless 
for the first ten minutes of 
the contest. Midfielder Belle 
Mastropietro rolled through the 
eight-meter arc, juked and split 
Florida’s defense like a knife 
through hot butter to finally put 
Temple on the board. 
The intensity turned up as the 
clock ticked down. UF led 11-2 at 
the half. 
The Florida sun beat down on 
the Philadelphia team at the ‘Diz 
as the Owls grew exhausted. But 
midfielder Mackenzie Roth fought 
through the orange and blue 
defense to fire the yellow ball 
past goalkeeper Sarah Reznick. 
The Gators kept their foot 
on the pedal. After a gritty play 
on the defensive end, attacker 
Kassidy Bresnahan took the ball 
off a give-and-go play and ripped 
a shot past goalkeeper Olivia 
Martin. UF coach Amanda O’Leary 
began to pull her starters in what 
may have been their last game at 
the ‘Diz. 
“Here we go Gators, here we 
go,” said the teary-eyed friends 
and family members in the stands. 
The clock struck zero, and all 
havoc broke loose as the Gators 
added another trophy to their 
case. 
Defenders Emma Wightman, 
Cara Trombetta and Kaitlyn 
Dabkowski each earned AAC 
Awards. Kavanagh, Haus and 
Reznick each received awards as 
well. 
Attacker Brianna Harris 
claimed the Most Outstanding 
Player award for the tournament 
along with an AAC Award after 
she tallied six goals and four 
assists in the win. 
“I’m just so proud of this 
team,” O’Leary said. “The effort 
that they’ve put forth since the 
beginning — I just couldn’t ask 
for more.” 
The NCAA Division I Women’s 
Lacrosse Championships will take 
place May 28 and 30 at Johnny 
Unitas Stadium in Towson, 
Maryland.
@kk_rinaa
kwilson@alligator.orgGators lacrosse defeats Temple to claim AAC Championship  
Karina Wilson / / Alligator Staff
The Gators dominated the Temple Owls en route to their seventh straight AAC title.
