Manna Robertson / / Alligator Staff
2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
ANTHONÉ GENERIS RECOUNTS 
COVER-UPS, SETTLEMENTS, 
NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENTS, 
RETALIATION, HARASSMENT AND 
UNWANTED SEXUAL TOUCHING
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
The Collier Companies is one of the larg -
est student housing companies and employers 
in Gainesville, responsible for providing thou -
sands of UF students with a safe home and 
hundreds more with a stable job. Yet, residents and employees alike feel 
they’ve been let down, ignored, used and be -
trayed. 
During the Summer and Fall semesters, 
residents of Collier apartments have brought 
safety concerns to front offices, witnessed se -
rial problems with no tangible solutions, dealt 
with rising rent prices and protested the com -
pany’s decision to evict tenants receiving sup -
plemental income. 
Specifically, Collier-owned Gainesville 
Place Apartments, located at 2800 SW 35th 
Place, was the location of more than 250 calls 
to Gainesville Police Department within a nine 
month span in 2021. Instances included rape and kidnapping, attempted break-ins, burglary 
and exposure to public masturbation. But the 
complex’s administration took no actions to 
improve security. 
Collier residents have been witnesses, vic -
tims and survivors of crimes. Former employ -
ees have been, too. 
Anthoné Gerenis was a young, homeless 
and hopeful Black man in Miami. Today, he’s a 
survivor seeking justice through a legal battle.
Gerenis was not yet 18 when he decided to 
move to Gainesville to attend UF. He became 
a tenant of a Collier apartment and was soon 
hired for a minimum wage job. 
Over the summer of 2009, he embarked on 
his professional career with The Collier Com -
panies. Along with the job came what he calls 
a nightmarish work culture — full of cover-
ups, settlements, non-disclosure agreements, 
intimidation, retaliation, sexual harassment 
and sexual assault that he experienced first -
hand in the years that followed.
Gerenis remembers being told this compa -
ny is a family. In a way, they did become like a 
family for him — until he became a witness to 
their true colors.
With 26 communities in Gainesville alone, 
Collier claims to be the largest provider in the 
nation of student housing owned by a private 
individual. The company aims to double its 
number of apartment homes across the nation 
over the next decade.
It boasts having more than 12,000 con -
ventional and student apartment homes. Col -
lier has focused on providing housing in the 
southeastern United States, but it reaches as 
far as Georgia and Oklahoma. The company 
provides housing in some of the biggest col -
lege towns in Florida, namely Gainesville and 
Tallahassee. 
Gerenis said everything that happens at 
Collier runs through one man: Nathan Collier.
Since Gerenis’ first day on the job and over the next few years, he said there were constant 
reminders that Nathan Collier was in full con -
trol of Gainesville and his employees.
Gerenis believes leadership starts at the 
very top of the company, and the habits and 
reputations of leadership trickle down to every 
facet of the company. 
Early in Gerenis’ career, he wasn’t aware 
of compromising situations involving high-
ranking employees. Within two years of being 
hired, Gerenis was promoted. He was given an 
increase in pay and bonuses, the 2010 Office 
Team Member of the Year title, and he earned 
bachelor’s degree in telecommunications at 
UF in 2011. Then, he worked as a full-time 
employee as assistant manager at Gainesville 
Place Apartments. 
There, he had direct interactions with stu -
dents who made up the majority of Collier’s 
workforce. He heard instances of these young 
workers experiencing issues with direct man -
agement, such as community and property 
managers, as well as senior management from 
the headquarters office — something Gerenis 
would soon experience himself.
In December 2011, Gerenis was promot -
ed to the headquarters office in Downtown 
Gainesville, located at 220 N Main St., and giv -
en the responsibilities of traveling to all prop -
erties the company owned in Florida, Georgia 
and Oklahoma. In the following months, Gere -
nis became more familiar than he wished with 
Michael Still, who managed the most extensive 
portfolio of properties and employees in the 
company at the time. 
“Within six months of my promotion into 
headquarters, I became intimately aware of 
the culture of harassment and assault involv -
ing employees and student employees,” Gere -
nis said.
During Gerenis’ travels to different prop -
By Melanie Pena
Alligator Staff Writer
Julia Mitchem weaved her 
way through the Gainesville 
Place parking lot as the lamp post 
light flickered. As she headed 
toward her apartment, the light 
trailed her steps.
A man sat at a bench. He 
stared at Mitchem. 
As the 21-year-old UF 
journalism senior approached 
the picnic table, the man 
became more visible. He was 
masturbating. 
“I just felt panic,” Mitchem 
said. “I called my boyfriend at 
the time and just started running 
and got away from there.” 
More than 30% of UF 
undergraduate women 
experienced nonconsensual 
sexual contact by force or 
inability to consent since entering 
UF, according to a 2019 sexual 
assault and misconduct survey. 
This was an increase of almost 
10% from the 2015 survey.
UF also reported 78 cases 
of Violence Against Women 
Act crimes in 2019, including 
domestic violence, dating 
violence and stalking, according 
to a 2020 annual security report. 
Only 38 cases were reported the previous year.
These numbers are not 
invisible to female UF students. 
Like Mitchem, many have 
experienced a sex crime 
themselves, or know a survivor. 
The numbers become most 
apparent in the messages 
many student-run social media 
accounts receive.
UF Girlboss is one of these 
accounts. The Instagram account 
was created by 20-year-old UF 
music composition sophomore 
Meagan Valliere and her 
roommate. 
“It initially started completely 
as a joke,” Valliere said. “I 
don’t think we posted a single 
serious thing. Being a victim of 
harassment and assault, I thought 
that it would be important to use 
my platform to eventually start 
doing serious posts.”
Valliere remembers when 
she first experienced sexual 
harassment at the age of 12 when 
a drunk man chased her down 
the street. Since then, men have 
followed her, stalked her and 
made inappropriate comments. 
The pattern of male harassmen 
molded into coercion and other 
gray areas of sexual assault as 
she reached adulthood. “I’ve been basically 
assaulted by people I’ve been 
in relationships with,” she said. 
“Then that’s really hard to report 
too, because where is the line 
drawn? You consented to this 
act, but you didn’t consent to 
that act.”
Account followers messaged 
Valliere about their struggles 
with assaults in this gray area. 
Many feel guilty and confused. 
They weren’t attacked or 
forcefully penetrated, but they 
were taken advantage of and 
coerced into actions they didn’t 
want to do. 
“They were in a relationship, 
and they were in love with these 
people and they took advantage 
of them and violated their 
consent and often didn’t even 
ask and just went for things,” 
she said. “Even if they would 
speak up, it would be like [their 
boyfriend] pressed and pried and 
tried to coerce their partner into 
doing things that they wouldn’t 
have otherwise.”
And with more messages 
flooding their inbox, the account 
shifted its focus to sexuality, 
consent and survivor validity 
beyond its meme-like posts.
The page shared the stories of two women who said a UF 
student drugged them at Grog 
House Grill. The women reported 
the crime to police, but the Grog 
camera footage was faulty and 
no arrests were made.
However, most of the stories 
of assault and harassment sent to 
the account were never reported 
to police. 
“Feeling like there’s an 
incompetent police force will 
deter people from even wanting 
to go in and gut-wrenchingly 
have to explain to people what 
has happened to them,” Valliere 
said. “People are not going to 
want to take that risk involved in 
going after the person that hurt 
them if it’s going to be fruitless.”
After Mitchem’s experience, 
she called the police. 
Management at Gainesville Place 
told her it couldn’t do anything 
about what had happened. 
An officer explained to 
Mitchem that perpetrators 
will often start with public 
masturbation to test the 
boundary before working their 
way up to worse crimes. 
“Then when it started 
happening more, that’s when 
the panic started setting in,” 
Mitchem said. Mitchem’s roommate, 
22-year-old UF accounting senior 
Teagan Levee, found herself in 
the same situation about two 
weeks after Mitchem filed her 
report.
Levee and her girlfriend 
were walking home. When they 
passed the picnic table, a man 
sat there, masturbating.
She immediately called the 
police. The officer asked if the 
man had touched them. When 
she explained he hadn’t, she said 
the officer lost interest.
After the incidents, Levee and 
Mitchem began to post about 
what they witnessed. Friends 
reached out and shared their 
stories. 
One friend told them she was 
swimming in the Gainesville 
Place pool when she noticed a 
man in the corner masturbating. 
“It was scary because he 
walked in there,” Levee said. “It 
was getting scary to us because 
he’s escalating. Before, he would 
just be there and watch people, 
but this time, he made his 
presence known to them.”
Levee, Mitchem and even 
Mitchem’s mother called the 
Gainesville Place office for Former employee embarks on legal journey against abusive work culture at Collier Companies
Survivors share their stories, encourage others to speak upCarolina Ilvento / / Alligator Staff
 SEE COLLIER,  PAGE 15
SEE SEXUAL ASSAULT,  PAGE 15More than 30% of UF undergraduate women experience nonconsensual sexual contactWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  
pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Dr. Joseph Ladapo
Controversy surrounds Florida’s surgeon general,  pg. 6
Critical race theory
Academic freedom coalition works to combat UF,  pg. 5When team becomes family
Florida walk-on Caroline Pagac found 
what she’s always loved and wanted 
with Gators diving: a team. Read more 
on pg. 13
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 16
No car? No problem.
Hitch oﬀers private and shared rides from Gainesville to Orlando, 
Jacksonville, Tampa, and more. 
First ride is FREE!* CODE: UFNEWS1 ridehitch.com *discount up to $50
FOOTBALL
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
When Florida’s jet touched 
asphalt a little before noon on 
Dec. 5, the ramp lowered and out 
walked a tall, suited man with a 
buzz cut and a Gators pin on his 
lapel, surveying his new slice of 
the southern football kingdom.
Florida officially welcomed its 
new head football coach Billy Na -
pier Dec. 5 as he held his introduc -
tory press conference. But with a 
7-year contract worth north of $50 
million on the table, what kind of 
coach did UF get? 
The numbers from Napier’s 
four years with the University of Louisiana tell a pretty simple 
story: Napier likes to run the ball. 
A lot.
Louisiana ranks as the 43rd-
best rushing offense in the 
country this season, averaging 
about 190 yards per game on the 
ground, but Napier’s commitment 
to the rushing game extends be -
yond this season. UL ran the ball 
at least 119 more times than it 
threw in each of Napier’s seasons.
His system worked, as Loui -
siana averaged at least 30 points 
per game all four seasons.
The Cajuns needed a strong of -
fensive line for that success, a pri -
ority Napier said will carry over 
to the Gators. Florida will employ two offensive line coaches under 
his tenure.
“To be a national champion -
ship contender, you’ve got to be 
really strong on the line of scrim -
mage,” Napier said. “So there’s 
no question that will be a part of 
our identity.”
The newest head coach to 
sport orange and blue also offered 
a clear picture of that identity as 
a whole.
“Our trademark will be our 
physicality,” Napier said. “We’ll 
be in great condition. We’ll be 
known for how hard we play. 
We’ll be disciplined. And we will Who is Billy Napier? A dive into his Louisiana tenureTHE BOARD SAID 
OUTSPOKEN FACULTY 
EQUATE TO LOUD MINORITY
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
Following a monthlong 
scandal accusing UF’s Board of 
Trustees and other administrators 
of appeasing Gov. Ron DeSantis, 
board members defended 
themselves at a Board of Trustees 
meeting Dec. 3. 
The board’s chairman Morteza 
“Mori” Hosseini defended 
himself and other administrators 
by blaming faculty for the 
policy that led to the barring 
of professor testimonies that 
started the scandal, expressing 
disappointment in faculty union 
leadership and calling media 
reports incomplete.
Hosseini denied that he or 
other board members influenced 
the school’s decision to bar 
the professors from serving as 
expert witnesses in cases against 
laws DeSantis champions. He 
was accused of interfering after 
reports showed he and other 
members have direct political ties 
with DeSantis. In addition to his 
construction company donating 
$112,000 to DeSantis’ campaign, 
the governor’s wife also used 
Hosseini’s private jet to fly to a 
fundraiser in 2019.
“My conversations with the 
governor have been about one 
thing and one thing only – asking 
him to help UF to become one 
of the leading universities in the 
country,” Hosseini said.  
“The governor has done 
exactly that in response.”
A report from the Tallahassee 
Democrat also showed Hosseini 
emailed Dr. Joseph Ladapo’s resume directly to UF Health’s 
president shortly before Ladapo 
was offered professorship at UF’s 
College of Medicine. The same 
week as his appointment to UF 
faculty, Ladapo was appointed 
as Florida’s next surgeon general 
and secretary of the Department 
of Health by DeSantis.
Ladapo has faced criticism for 
questioning the safety of vaccines 
as well as disapproving of mask 
mandates and lockdowns, a 
view that mirrors DeSantis’ 
stances. Notably, UF’s social 
distancing and masking policies 
have also echoed the governor’s. 
The university went against 
Alachua County’s policies and 
didn’t enforce a mask mandate 
despite pressure from the city 
government.
In addition to Hosseini’s ties 
to DeSantis, one of the deans 
who rejected a professor from 
testifying against the state said 
senior UF administration officials 
directed him to do so. 
Other board members 
also contributed to DeSantis’ 
campaign: Jim Heavener donated 
$250,000 while Rahul Patel 
gave $175,000 and Anita Zucker 
$100,000, according to a Herald/
Times Tallahassee Bureau report.
In the Dec. 3 meeting, Zucker 
pointed to president Kent 
Fuchs’ decision to allow white 
supremacist Richard Spencer 
to speak on campus in 2017 as 
an example of UF supporting 
freedom of speech.
Meanwhile, Patel dismissed 
faculty who vocally oppose the 
administration as a loud minority 
of total faculty. 
However, UF’s faculty senate 
voted 70 to 31 to rebuke the 
administration’s COVID-19 UF Board of Trustees takes aim at faculty, unions over academic freedom
Xinyue Li / / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent Fuchs and Board of Trustees Chair Mori Hosseini are seen during the meeting 
at Emerson Alumni Hall on Friday, Dec. 3, 2021.
SEE BOARD OF TRUSTEES,  PAGE 6SEE NAPIER,  PAGE 14Statistics reveal a diverse, run-heavy attack in LouisianaT oday’s WeatherORGANIZATIONS PROVIDE 
MENTAL HEALTH AND 
LEGAL SERVICES
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Organizations in Alachua 
County are standing by at all 
hours of the day to offer trauma 
support for sexual assault vic -
tims.
A few include Three Rivers 
Legal Services, Peaceful Paths 
and the Alachua County Victim 
Services & Rape Crisis Center — 
each offering a variety of services 
to victims of sexual assault.
Three Rivers Legal Services
Three Rivers Legal Services 
provides help with restraining or -
ders, also known as injunctions, 
for victims. The nonprofit works 
with victims on restraining orders 
for domestic violence, sexual vio -
lence, dating violence and other 
situations, Staff Attorney Lauren 
Sleasman said.
There are no income limita -
tions for services that have to do 
with sexual assault or domestic 
violence, Sleasman said. Any -
one living in Alachua County can 
seek help through them. 
Working on injunctions gives 
Sleasman a sense of justice be -
cause she gets to advocate for 
victims, she said. The process 
can be emotional for involved 
victims, she said. Additionally, 
working on certain cases can be 
emotionally tough for herself, es -
pecially when she needs to stay 
level-headed for victims.
“Some cases were horrible 
enough that they linger,” Sleas -
man said. “I can clock out at 5 
or 5:30, but those facts don’t go 
away.”
Sleasman believes stress relief 
can be found through therapy 
groups and private sessions. She 
also encourages people to seek 
help even if they haven’t report -
ed sexual or domestic violence to 
the police or aren’t sure if what they’ve experienced counts as 
violence.
“As attorneys, we keep it in 
confidentiality,” she said. “It’s 
still an element of the case, even 
if they haven’t reported it to the 
police, even if they don’t want 
to, and it can still help them get 
an injunction if the issue is ongo -
ing.”
Peaceful Paths
Other organizations, such as 
Peaceful Paths, provide free and 
confidential services to adults 
and children who’ve faced any 
kind of domestic violence, in -
cluding sexual assault. The insti -
tution’s resources include emer -
gency shelter, legal assistance 
for restraining orders, counseling 
services and other resources, Ex -
ecutive Director Theresa Beachy 
said.
All of Peaceful Paths’ services 
are free, Beachy said. They are 
available to anyone in Alachua, 
Bradford and Union Counties.
In her 21 years as executive 
director for the nonprofit organi -
zation, Beachy said it’s powerful 
to be part of the work that exists 
to save lives and create change.
“We know that the single most 
important thing that we as a com -
munity can do for survivors is to 
connect them with center servic -
es and to get that intervention in 
their life,” Beachy said.
It’s important to hold abusers 
accountable and create conse -
quences for them, Beachy said, 
which is why Peaceful Paths’ 
protection of women and chil -
dren is so important.
“We continue as a society to 
undervalue women and children 
and tolerate abuse for women and 
children,” she said. “We allow it 
because society has not created a 
good accountability system or a 
good punitive system.”
Alachua County Victim Services 
& Rape Crisis Center
Victims can also seek help 
through the Alacha County Vic -tim Services & Rape Crisis Center, 
where Cassandra Moore works as 
a project coordinator. The cen -
ter has a 24-hour, seven-days-a-
week helpline — a place for vic -
tims to anonymously report rapes 
and access other services.
Their gender-neutral servic -
es are available to anyone who 
identifies as a victim, Moore said, 
whether the situation involves 
roommates, coworkers, friends, 
partners, family members or any -
one else.
When people call the helpline, 
Moore said workers will discuss 
victims’ physical health, whether 
they want to report the incident 
to law enforcement and if they 
are looking for shelter or other 
areas of support.
“We definitely just want to 
make sure we have a space that 
we can present them as many op -
tions as possible,” Moore said.
Psychologically, victims can 
face issues, such as hardships 
with relationships, sleeping and 
eating, Moore said. 
Everyone heals from trauma 
differently, Moore said, and ev -
eryone’s different feelings of 
depression, anger, guilt or other 
emotions are normal and valid.
“It doesn’t matter what was 
happening, the assault falls on 
the person who did that crime 
without consent,” she said.
Faith Buckley contributed 
to this report.
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 16
 Alachua County resources help sexual 
assault survivors cope with trauma
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
KAVA
Kava is a n herbal remedy 
that relieves stress and 
anxiety a nd boosts sleep.
            s ingle        d ouble
Kratom Tea –––––––– $6        $10
 Area 51 - K iwi, Coconut & P ineapple
 Linebacker - M ango, Passion Fruit & B lueberry
 Kick Off - R aspberry, Blackberry & P ineapple
 You Got Spiked - S trawberry, Blackberry & R aspberry
 
 Perfect Snap - S trawberry, Kiwi & L ime
 Touchdown - C herry, Blackberry & S trawberry
 Offside - R aspberry, Pomegranate & B lueberry
Sacred Leaf Shops
Phone: (352)888-7223
3743 W University Ave
Gainesville, FL 32607
Kratom is a n herbal 
remedy that is us ed for 
pain, insomnia, anxiety 
and stress
KRATOM
           s ingle        d ouble
Kava Teas ––––––––– $8        $16
 Kava Blitz - P eanut Butter,  Chocolate
 Caramel Dream - C aramel, Vanilla
BOBA
Boba Teas –––––––– $4 
 Strawberry
 Taro
 Lychee
 Coconut
 Mango
 
 Green Tea
Add Topping:  $1 
Mango
Strawberry
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
THURSDAY
DECEMBER 9
6 PM | at the
Harn Museum of Art
image: Jerry Ulesmann, All American Sunset, 1971
Sponsored by UF Student Government and the OOce of the Provost. Sponsored in part by the State of 
Florida, Department of State, Division of Cultural AAairs and the Florida Council on Arts and Culture. 
Presented with the support of 352Creates.
FREE ADMISSION
BOOK SALE
FREE FOOD
 
FESTIVE
ART ACTIVITIES 
 
J
JOLLY MUSIC
ART TOURS 
HOLIDAY 
PHOTO OP
 
HOLIDAYS
IN THE SUN
#HarnMuseumNights
harn.uﬂ.edu/museumnights
ALERT
Plasma is needed now. 
This is a call you can’t 
ignore. Because 
patients can’t wait.
New donors receive
up to $800 your
ﬁrst month.
Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th St
Gainesville
(352) 378-9431
*Must be 18-69 years of age, weigh at least 110 pounds and be in general good health to donate plasma. In addition to 
meeting center donation criteria, you must provide a valid photo ID, proof of current address, and proof of Social Security 
number or Border Crossing Card to donate. Valid for new donors at participating centers only. Management reserves all rights. 
IF ELECTED, DAVID ARREOLA WOULD 
BE THE FIRST MEXICAN-AMERICAN 
GAINESVILLE MAYOR
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
City Commissioner David Arreola, 30, an -
nounced his candidacy for Gainesville mayor 
Dec. 1.
Gainesville is holding its City Commission 
election for the mayor at-large seat and dis -
tricts two, three and four Aug. 23, 2022. 
The current mayor, Lauren Poe, has 
served the city in the position since 2016, so 
he can’t run for re-election due to Gaines -
ville’s two-consecutive-term limit.
Although the election is more than eight 
months away, Arreola said he wanted to get his message out early so voters have time to 
evaluate candidates.
His decision to run for mayor stems from 
his previous experience as commissioner. He 
wants to continue the work Gainesville is do -
ing now, such as focusing on public transpor -
tation and racial equity.
“Gainesville is going to need new leader -
ship,” Arreola said. “With my experience on 
the Commision, I believe that I would be one 
of the most qualified candidates to run.”
After two terms on the City Commission, 
Arreola said he would bring a fresh perspec -
tive as a son of immigrants. As a millenial 
himself, he said he’s working to ensure his 
campaign staff includes young people and 
students. 
Arreola said his campaign will be commu -
nity-driven with a focus on issues affecting 
all Gainesville residents. One top priority is to create stronger 
neighborhoods through zoning changes with 
a racial equity lens, he said, which would di -
vide city land along certain regulations. He 
also wants to focus on affordable housing, 
land conservation, investments in local parks 
and local governments’ rights.
“Gainesville has really been at the fore -
front of a lot of these challenges,” Arreola 
said. “I just want to make sure that leader -
ship continues here in Gainesville.”
Although he can’t run again this term, 
Poe said he hopes whoever takes over his job 
in the 2022 election continues the work the 
city’s doing now — focusing on issues like 
affordable housing, traffic on University Av -
enue and 13th Street and land conservation. 
He said the future mayor should also pri -
oritize increasing equity and continuing the 
city’s partnerships with organizations like UF.
“I really hope that the next group contin -
ues to take all of those things seriously … 
when they take their oath of office,” he said.
Poe said he likely won’t endorse anyone 
in the election, and he hopes for a competi -
tive race where candidates can share their 
ideas and visions for Gainesville.
Because the 2022 election is in August, 
Poe also said he looks forward to seeing 
higher turnout from people who historically 
haven’t voted in previous city elections be -
cause of the timing.
“More participation and a more diverse 
set of voters will lead to a really strong show -
ing for our city commissioners,” he said.
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org
UF SAID THE TITLE WOULD 
OFFEND STATE LEGISLATORS
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The fight for academic freedom 
at UF took a new turn as a profes -
sor filed a grievance with the uni -
versity after it prohibited a degree 
concentration on campus because it 
contained the words “critical” and 
“race” in its title.
The Coalition of Faculty for Aca -
demic Freedom is leading another 
effort to fight against faculty in -
fringements after Chris Busey, a UF 
College of Education professor, filed 
a grievance about the fresh breach of 
academic integrity at UF. 
The coalition is made up of fac -
ulty members wanting change in 
response to the academic freedom 
scandal where professors allege First 
Amendment rights were violated by 
the university. 
It issued a statement and distrib -uted a petition separate from the 
United Faculty of Florida’s petition 
Dec. 1 to stand in solidarity with 
Busey, UFF and all other affected 
faculty. The petition garnered almost 
300 signatures from faculty in vari -
ous departments before ever reach -
ing the public. 
“We were surprised at how many 
signatures started coming in and 
how fast,” said Michelle Jacobs, a 
UF Levin College of Law professor. 
“I think that’s an indication of how 
important the issue is.” 
The coalition started forming af -
ter the news first broke about the 
three political science professors 
who were denied by UF the ability 
to provide expert testimony, Jacobs 
said.
“What was done to them was just 
the tip of the iceberg,” she said. 
In Busey’s case, professors in the 
College of Education aimed to ap -
prove a concentration titled “Critical 
Study of Race, Ethnicity, and Culture 
in Education.” UF’s administration denied the proposal and told the 
faculty the title had to be changed 
to something less offensive to the 
Florida legislature, according to the 
filed grievance. The words “critical” 
and “race” used together would not 
be approved, it read.
“Our collective efforts and free -
dom of speech should never be cen -
sored, but instead cherished as a key 
principle of this university which 
should act as a beacon for the state 
of Florida and the nation,” Busey 
wrote in a statement. 
The political science professors 
were prohibited from external activi -
ties, which caused widespread alarm 
across not only Florida but the coun -
try. 
However, Busey’s story involves 
internal affairs, said Clarence Grav -
lee, a UF College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences professor. 
“If we were alarmed a month ago 
… we should be even more alarmed 
about evidence of the administra -
tion meddling in the core mission of the university around teaching and 
scholarship,” he said.  
The purpose of the coalition, 
Gravlee said, is to draw attention to 
the broad actions of the university 
that threaten academic freedom, not 
just the actions prohibiting expert 
testimony.
The problem is that the univer -
sity’s response is narrowly framed 
around the three professors when it 
should be recognizing the pattern of 
actions occurring beyond this scope, 
he said. 
“There’s a deep and wide issue 
that requires a deep and wide re -
sponse,” UF Levin College of Law 
professor Nancy Dowd said.  
While it stands behind the de -
mands made in UFF’s petition, the 
coalition feels it is also narrowly 
focused, which is why they issued 
a secondary petition. It is important 
the petition covers beyond just is -
sues pertaining to the service duties 
of professors and needs to include 
how the core research and teaching function is at risk too, Dowd said. 
The hope is the university will 
take a deep look at the issues brew -
ing within the institution and the cir -
cumstances that Busey is facing will 
be swiftly examined and reversed, 
Dowd said. 
The coalition, however, believes 
an independent entity will ultimately 
have to do the investigation because 
the university has demonstrated they 
are not trustworthy to do it properly 
themselves, Jacobs said. 
UF President Kent Fuchs ap -
pointed a task force to investigate 
the school’s conflict of interest poli -
cy. But the coalition and many other 
faculty members have expressed 
their concerns about some members 
in the task force who administered 
the policies in question. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgGainesville City Commissioner launches campaign for mayor
Academic freedom coalition steps forward as UF denies critical race theory concentration6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
The speed of Dr. Joseph 
Ladapo’s tenure approval, along 
with his controversial views on 
COVID-19 measures, have some 
questioning his meteoric rise.
The same week Gov. Ron 
DeSantis appointed Ladapo as 
Florida’s next surgeon general 
and secretary of the Department 
of Health, Ladapo received 
professorship at UF with tenure. 
Controversy clouded his 
role at UF after reports showed 
Board of Trustees Chair Morteza 
“Mori” Hosseini, who has ties to 
DeSantis, personally expedited 
Ladapo’s resume to UF Health 
despite his controversial views 
on COVID-19 measures. Ladapo’s 
hiring brought into question the 
school’s tenure process, which 
typically takes about a year and 
a half.
Ladapo is a health policy 
researcher and an expert in 
cardiovascular health and 
preventive medicine from UCLA. 
In the past, he has criticized 
COVID-19 lockdowns, mask 
mandates and the safety of 
vaccines.
The vaccines were developed 
using science that has been 
around for decades, according to 
the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. They are safe 
and effective at preventing 
severe illness from COVID-19 and 
limiting the virus’s spread.
Requests for comments on 
Ladapo’s views were redirected to 
the Florida Department of Health, 
which did not respond to several 
requests.
The governor’s office told UF 
that Ladapo was being considered 
for state surgeon general, UF 
Health spokesperson Ken Garcia 
said. Ladapo separately and 
independently contacted UF about 
a potential opportunity to fill a 
vacant position in the College of Medicine, he said.
Faculty provided favorable 
comments about Ladapo’s 
appointment, Garcia wrote, 
according to a Gainesville Sun 
article.
However, Garcia did not 
provide positive commentary 
from anyone other than himself 
after several requests. The only 
faculty willing to speak on the 
record mainly expressed concern.
Bob Harmon, a former UF 
internal medicine faculty member, 
said he was surprised how quickly 
UF gave Ladapo a professorship in 
a politicized process. He was also 
concerned when he discovered 
Ladapo’s statements on the 
pandemic, which starkly contrast 
with CDC guidelines.
“[It] certainly raises questions 
as [to his] fitness to serve,” 
Harmon said. 
Such controversial positions 
led more than 300 Florida medical 
professionals, including Harmon, 
to sign a letter to the state senate. 
The letter urged senators to fully 
vet Ladapo on his COVID-19 
response during the confirmation 
process before deciding whether 
to confirm him as surgeon general.
“Through the confirmation 
process, you can help clarify Dr. 
Ladapo’s — and by extension, 
our state government’s — 
commitment to science- and 
evidence-based safety measures 
so we can better protect the 
health and safety of all Floridians 
during the COVID-19 pandemic,” 
the letter read.
When his appointment to 
surgeon general was announced 
Sept. 21, Ladapo vowed to base 
his decisions on science. But 
critics say Ladapo has spread 
misinformation contributing to 
vaccine hesitancy.
Faculty members have 
academic freedom and are able to 
speak their mind, Harmon said. 
But Harmon believes it’s 
unusual for a public health leader to hold positions counter to 
science.
“That’s not a good example for 
college students,” Harmon said.
Ladapo’s positions also 
don’t fulfill the role of what 
an epidemiologist should be, 
Linda Cottler, associate dean for 
research in UF’s College of Public 
Health and Health Professions, 
wrote in an email.
“An epidemiologist’s goal is to 
follow best scientific practices and 
work with and for the community 
to be trustworthy,” Cottler wrote.
Ladapo’s position will come 
with tenure, which involves 
giving someone a permanent post, 
subject to approval by the UF Board of Trustees. The first step 
in the process was a faculty vote 
completed in mid-September, but 
the results are confidential, Garcia 
wrote in an email.
Tenure is essential for a 
democratic society, said Robert 
Hatch, a physician and UF 
professor of community health 
and family medicine. It assures 
there’s a group of people who 
can develop expertise and express 
information and opinions without 
fear of losing their job. 
While Hatch values diverse 
views and free expression, he said 
Ladapo can expect to have his 
views vigorously challenged if he 
brings them up in the classroom. He has heard Ladapo’s resume 
and track record are impressive, 
and he suspects if Ladapo had 
gone through the typical process, 
he would’ve been awarded 
tenure. But he still questions how 
fast Ladapo received his tenure.
Hatch said UF faculty should 
be left with decisions on tenure, 
not an outside body.
“I always thought that our 
tenure process followed some 
guidelines, and for all I know, 
they were followed in this case,” 
Hatch said. “But if we don’t have 
well specified criteria and process, 
then we need that clarified and 
specified.”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgUF faces criticism after hiring Florida surgeon general critical of COVID-19 measures
Courtesy to The Alligator
Dr. Joseph Ladapo is seen on Oct. 14, 2021.
policies through a vote of ‘no-confidence’ 
exactly two weeks before the meeting. 
The vote remained unmentioned even 
after board member and senate faculty 
chair David Bloom defended his role in 
both bodies as being appropriate following 
Patel’s comments.
The board did mention a faculty union 
vote to review UF’s conflicts-of-interest 
and outside activities policies. 
But Hosseini blamed the initial barring 
of the professors on the review, which was 
prompted by some professors focusing too 
much of their time on outside work.
He said a 2019 letter from the National 
Institute of Health to UF prompted an investigation that found a number of 
professors were neglecting their work 
at UF for outside paid work. They also 
kept their outside work a secret from UF, 
Hosseini said.
That revelation led the school to revise 
its outside activities policies in 2020. The 
revisions were voted on by the faculty 
senate in July, he said.
Hosseini went on to condemn faculty 
who take on second jobs at the university’s 
expense, faculty who improperly advocate 
personal political views at the expense 
of other political views and a specific 
professor who tried to find a way for his 
faculty to avoid coming into the classroom 
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
“This behavior is unacceptable. It is 
disrespectful not only to the taxpayers of Florida, whose hard-earned dollars pay 
faculty salaries, but it is also disrespectful 
to these faculty members’ hard-working 
colleagues,” he said. “It is disrespectful 
to the students who depend on their 
professors’ full attention and commitment. 
This will not stand. It must stop, and it will 
stop.”
Hosseini also expressed disappointment 
in union leadership at UF for encouraging 
donors to stop contributing to UF as a form 
of protest. 
United Faculty of Florida president Paul 
Ortiz said it was UF alumni who initiated 
the boycott — his organization just added 
its voice to the movement. 
Ortiz also said he disagrees with any 
implication that faculty who are outspoken 
against UF’s policies are a minority opinion 
among faculty.
“If it was just faculty who’s upset about 
this, it would be one thing,” he said. “But in reality, it’s the whole community 
that’s appalled. It’s colleagues all across 
the country. If it was just a minority of 
faculty, it wouldn’t have received the kind 
of sustained attention that it is receiving.”
Ortiz said UFF is encouraging another 
external investigation into the scandal. That 
would add to three other investigations: 
One proposed by the senate faculty, a U.S. 
congressional subcommittee investigation 
and an investigation by UF’s accreditor. 
None of the investigations were mentioned 
in the meeting.
The university is also facing a lawsuit 
from a group of  professors who were 
barred from testifying. Those same 
professors filed a court motion to end the 
university’s conflicts-of-interest policy the 
same day of the meeting.
@AlexLugo67
alugo@alligator.orgBOARD OF TRUSTEES,  from pg. 3Blaming the professorsDr. Joseph Ladapo’ s resume was expedited to UF Health from UF’ s board chairMONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
By Faith Buckley and 
Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writers
Although the COVID-19 pandemic up -
ended the communal aspects of Jewish 
life, Gainesville’s Jewish community was 
still able to celebrate the Festival of Lights 
in each other’s company throughout the 
week beginning with Nov. 28. 
Hanukkah, which is observed over an 
eight-day period, is a celebration of the 
triumph of the Jewish Maccabees against 
the ruler Antiochus. The victory allowed 
them to rededicate their Temple in Jerusa -
lem and discover that a small amount of oil 
was left to burn for a period of eight days.
The holiday usually falls in mid to late 
December, which can mean students aren’t 
on campus because of winter break. This 
year, however, it fell near finals week.
Alexandra Morse, a 19-year-old UF 
marketing sophomore, celebrated her first 
Hanukkah in Gainesville this year after 
spending it at home with her parents last year. 
Morse went to a candlelight event 
Dec. 1 with UF Hillel, the largest Jewish 
campus organization in the world whose 
Gainesville chapter hosts a wide array of 
festivities across the city.
This year’s celebration runs laps around 
last year’s for Morse, she said. Though Ha -
nukkah wasn’t necessarily a let down for 
her in 2020, it didn’t meet her normal ex -
pectations. Morse, who usually has a large 
gathering of 10 to 20 people for the holi -
days, had a three-person Thanksgiving last 
year. 
“We didn’t get to do our Hanukkah par -
ty or having buddies over, so it was literal -
ly my parents and I every night, lighting in 
the kitchen by ourselves,” she said. “Kind 
of depressing to be honest.” 
Bailee Rousso, a 22-year-old UF fam -
ily, youth and community sciences senior, 
noticed a change in this year’s Hanukkah 
celebration. 
In 2020, most of the Hillel Hanukkah 
festivities took place outside due to safety concerns, she said. Rousso said she’s glad 
this year is moving back to a conventional 
celebration. 
She said she grew up believing in Juda -
ism, attending a Jewish day school from 
preschool through high school. 
When at home in Weston, Florida, 
Rousso makes latkes, lights a real meno -
rah and turns on an electric one that sits 
on a windowsill at the front of her house. 
Rousso always made candles with her fam -
ily for Hanukkah and wanted the tradition 
to continue when she came to college. She 
said she now makes them in her apartment 
with her roommates or in the UF Hillel 
building.  
“I think it’s nice to be able to be around 
other people again and celebrate together,” 
Rousso said.
Alex Nelson, an 18-year-old UF wild -
life ecology and conservation freshman, 
spent the third night of Hanukkah Nov. 30 
with UF Hillel. She said being there was 
important to her because it allowed her to 
remain connected to her Jewish faith and 
be around members of her religious com -
munity.  
She said COVID-19 altered the experi -
ence of Hanukkah celebrations because of 
the isolation associated with the pandemic.
“Throughout the week, during quaran -
tine, we’d light the menorah, and I’d be 
able to spend the time with my family,” 
she said.  “However, we didn’t have the 
opportunity to observe it and celebrate it 
with our community as much as we usu -
ally would.”  
Nelson said Hanukkah is meaningful to 
her because it gives her the opportunity to 
reflect on the history of the Jewish com -
munity.
“We have many holidays in Judaism, 
and I feel like Hanukkah is one that fo -
cuses on the good and one of the positive 
experiences that we’ve had in our history,” 
she said.  
As the pandemic continues, the 
Gainesville Jewish community is deter -
mined to bring the Hanukkah celebration 
to everyone. 
Rabbi Berl Goldman is a religious leader 
at Chabad UF. He said he resonates with 
Hanukkah because of his devotion to his faith. 
“The story of Hanukkah is not only his -
toric in nature, but every single message 
of the menorah, good over evil, light over 
darkness, few over many, is such a rel -
evant message to young and old today,” 
Goldman said. 
Goldman said the center has been get -
ting creative to include Gainesville resi -
dents who may not be ready to gather in 
a group setting.
Volunteers donated more than 110 Ha -
nukkah care bags, made up of matzah ball 
soup, bagels, homemade brownies and Is -
raeli croutons, to homebound Gainesville 
residents Wednesday, Goldman said. 
“So there’s a way to bring the joy of the 
celebrations and the joy of the holiday to 
them — those that cannot meet in person 
because of immune compromised or other 
concerns,” Goldman said. “Every holiday, 
especially Hanukkah, is in the center of 
our hearts.”
Michael Joseph, the 63-year-old rabbi 
of Temple Shir Shalom, said he appreci -
ates U.S. Jews’ ability to observe the holi -
day without reservation —  a privilege the 
community has not always had.
“In the United States, particularly, it’s 
a festival of religious freedom,” he said. 
“In the course of Jewish history, it’s really 
almost a unique phenomenon that we’re 
able to have our celebration freely.”
Joseph said the holiday can be a beacon 
of hope during trying times. This message 
of Hanukkah is particularly relevant with 
challenges presented by the ongoing CO -
VID-19 pandemic, he said. 
“The nature of light at a dark time of 
year is very, very powerful,” he said.  “Last 
year, in December, we were waiting any 
day until the vaccine would be released, 
and it was that kind of light.”
He said that as the pandemic continues 
and a new variant emerges, the commu -
nity will continue to provide the glow of 
hope.
“At least the light that we can make, 
we’re determined to make and make it as 
bright as we possibly can,” he said.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.org
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.org
A DREAM DEFENDERS 
PRESS CONFERENCE IS 
SCHEDULED FOR MONDAY 
TO UNVEIL DEMANDS
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
A four-monthlong internal Ala -
chua County Sheriff’s Office inves -
tigation into the birth of a newborn 
behind bars and her eventual death, 
revealed Nov. 30 that no misconduct 
took place inside the jail. However, 
the mother’s supporters disagree. 
Erica Thompson, 25, gave birth 
in an Alachua County Jail cell Aug. 
9 after being in labor for hours. In 
a Facebook post, she wrote her 
screams for help went unanswered, 
and she later lost her baby, Ava, at 
UF Health Shands Hospital. She had 
been arrested the same day for vio -lating her probation and failing to 
appear in court on a traffic charge. 
“my daughter died in my arms at 
the hospital and I say all this to say 
ALACHUA COUNTY JAIL is respon -
sible for all my pain and suffering,” 
Thompson wrote. “they’re respon -
sible for the death of my daughter.”
Alachua County Sheriff Clovis 
Watson Jr. said the sheriff’s office 
disputes the claims. Time stamped 
photos show Thompson being 
checked on by emergency respond -
ers at 11 p.m. and by medical staff at 
5:41 p.m, 8:34 p.m and 10:21 p.m. 
“The death of Ms. Thompson’s 
baby is tragic, and we are greatly 
saddened by her and her family’s 
loss; however, I must present you 
with the facts of the case,” Watson 
wrote. 
Watson approved the findings of 
the Office of Professional Standards, 
which looked into Thompson’s ar -rest, incarceration and medical care, 
according to a release. Watson said 
neither employees nor the contract -
ed medical provider violated any 
laws or policies. 
The investigation included wit -
ness testimony of security opera -
tions staff and medical providers as 
well as a review of security footage, 
officer’s log and medical records, 
ACSO spokesperson Kaley Behl 
said. 
“It took a while to get done, but 
of course we wanted to make sure 
that it was thorough and complete,” 
Behl said. “We still have an obli -
gation to the citizens of Alachua 
County and to the inmates in the 
jail to make sure that we didn’t miss 
anything.”
Behl said ACSO policies and pro -
cedures are reviewed at least every 
year to ensure the best practice. In 
2020, the Tammy Jackson Act was passed, granting pregnant inmates 
proper care, which includes being 
taken to a medical facility and not 
being placed in restrictive housing. 
After learning of the law, ACSO 
made changes to about six policies 
to comply with the law and accredi -
tation standards, Behl said.
Activists like Tray Johns, the 
46-year-old director of nonprofit 
Dignity Power, still firmly believe 
ACSO violated the Tammy Jackson 
Act. 
Johns, who helped advocate for 
the law, said restrictive housing in -
cludes all areas of a jail.
“She needed to be transported to 
a hospital no later than an hour af -
ter she complained of contractions,” 
Johns said.
Supporting Thompson, Dignity 
Powers is working to pass “Protect -
ing the Dignity of Women and In -
fants” or “Ava’s Law” after Thomp -son’s newborn. 
The proposal, which Johns said 
will hopefully put an end to holding 
pregnant women in custody, was 
passed unanimously by the Florida 
Senate’s criminal justice committee 
Nov. 30. 
After learning of ASCO’s find -
ings, Johns said she’s still disap -
pointed in Watson’s judgment.
“Sheriff Clovis let down women 
— specifically Black women and 
Black babies,” Johns said. 
The GoDDsville Dream Defend -
ers will host a press conference at 
the Alachua County Jail Monday to 
demand a formal public apology, a 
public release of full, uncut jail and 
infirmary footage, and that ACSO 
cut its contract with Corizon Health.
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgGainesville Jewish community celebrates post-quarantine Hanukkah festivities
Internal investigation reveals no policy misconduct in death of former inmate’s babyLiana Barros / / Alligator Staff
Alex Nelson, UF freshman, lights a menorah for the sixth night of Hanukkah at 
the UF Hillel’s pajama-themed Shabbat dinner on Friday, Dec. 3, 2021.
Throughout the week, at least 10 Hanukkah festivities were held in GainesvilleMONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
I haven’t experienced back-to-
back semesters working at 
The Alligator like some of my 
peers have. That never really 
bothered me. But now, I sit here 
writing this and wish I had more 
time.
Being the engagement man -
aging editor of one of the largest 
student newspapers was never 
on my itinerary. The Alligator was the shining 
light in the distance to the sophomore at the 
University of Central Florida. But even when I 
officially became a Gator, I told myself I would 
never be capable of being on staff –– especially 
after being rejected when I applied as a news 
assistant. 
Intimidated by the staff at the time, I failed 
to realize everyone at The Alligator shares one 
thing in common: We are all student journal -
ists. But this semester, I’ve learned to really 
embrace that. 
We are student journalists.
I can give you the cliches and tell you the 
most fulfilling part was being in a role that 
oversees a staff of 70. But I won’t, because that 
would be a fact error, and those are really bad.
What I will tell you is that I’ve witnessed 
the talent, passion and professionalism of 
this semester’s staff members both in their 
demeanor and in our coverage. They have 
week-by-week raised the bar, impressing our 
readers, our professors and our peers. They’ve 
reported the same stories some of the most 
honorable news outlets have. And they even 
broke news that made national headlines. 
Through The Alligator, I’ve found my pas -
sion for connecting our readers with things 
they want and need to read. We’ve reached 
audiences like never before, curated crisp and 
clean content, and even went viral on TikTok. 
As engagement editor, I’ve read nearly every 
comment on our social media platforms this semester –– good or bad, and 
sometimes really funny. It’s ful -
filling for our likes and retweets 
to skyrocket, but it wouldn’t be 
possible without our entire staff.
At the end of it all, I’m going 
to miss editing stories, obsessive -
ly geeking over Instagram graph -
ics and creating weekly newslet -
ters. But I’m also going to miss 
the quirks of every individual on staff, hug -
ging Heather when she walks in the office, ex -
ploring quite literally every feature on Canva 
with Makiya and spending Sundays gathered 
around people I’ve learned to call my friends 
… oh, and making fun of Steven’s Chipotle or -
der. (Trust me, you don’t want to know.)
Steven and Carolina, the last 16 weeks have 
felt like an eternity of friendship. I’d be lying 
if I said I was 100% confident in my ability to 
work with two people who were considerably 
strangers, but I write this in awe of how well 
we worked as a trio. You guys amaze me ev -
ery day, and I cannot wait untill we finally get 
our dream jobs — because we manifested it.
It’s really hard to pinpoint why this mo -
ment is so bittersweet, but when you’re sur -
rounded by hard working individuals 24/7 
(and yes, I mean 24/7), it’s hard not to be con -
stantly inspired, and it’s hard not to let that 
feeling go. 
If you’re reading this and find yourself 
in the same position that I was in about two 
years ago, I’m here to tell you that you already 
have the same fire in your stomach. It’s just 
about believing it. 
The Alligator has and always will continue 
to produce good journalism. Behind every 
word, every photo and every social media 
post, just know there is a staff full of incredible 
individuals.
Kristin Bausch was the 
Engagement Managing Editor.At this exact time a year 
ago, I had one big dream 
in mind: being part of 
The Alligator.
I read every story published 
and knew all the names on by -
lines of stories I admired so 
much. It seemed so far-fetched 
to think I could be a part of that 
world. As a recently declared 
journalism sophomore, I didn’t feel experi -
enced enough.
But The Alligator believed in me. In De -
cember 2020, I received an offer for my first 
position in staff: Student Government re -
porter. From there on, my chest filled up with 
pride every time I made a call or sent an email 
for an interview introducing myself as “I am 
Carolina Ilvento, a reporter for The Alligator.” 
And to this day, it still does.
It has only been a year, but The Alligator 
has since become my life. I’ve walked out of 
class for interviews, sneaked out of personal 
events to address final edits on my phone and 
even crashed a club to cover an election — 
yup, us reporters do it all. 
Those watching from outside may see The 
Alligator as an extracurricular activity we do. 
But ask anybody in staff, and you’ll hear it is 
a 24/7 commitment. It can be exhausting and 
draining. But we all do it day after day with 
a common motivation: passion for journalism 
and the paper.
As a desk editor, I forced my reporters to 
sleep. Sounds weird, I know. What type of job 
gets staff working after hours voluntarily? The 
Alligator does. It didn’t matter if it was a Fri -
day night — if big news broke in the univer -
sity. I knew I could count on the reporters to 
cover it. And if one of them was not available, 
another had their back. 
That’s the thing about The Alligator — 
we care so much for the paper that covering 
stories is so instinctive that we may forget to 
sleep. To my uni team girls: you make me proud every day.
After around 50 Sundays of 
print nights in this paper, I am 
wrapping up my time as one 
of three leading this incredible 
newsroom. I wasn’t close to the 
other two-thirds of my Big 3 at 
first, but now they are the first to 
be notified of any new develop -
ment in my life. 
Whenever one of us had an 
off day, the others would provide words of 
comfort. 
“That is why there are three of us.”
To Steven and Kristin, thank you for exist -
ing — I could not imagine this paper without 
you. 
Leaving this paper now feels like letting 
go of a part of me. As a managing editor, I 
dragged editing (and not sleeping) Sunday 
nights. But even on nights we wrapped up the 
paper early, I found myself wanting to stay 
late in the office just to talk. Today, I am grate -
ful for the lost hours of sleep. 
Now that I realize I will no longer be walk -
ing into the office and filling a paper every 
week, I feel empty. Maybe I don’t need to 
sleep. Can I stay a bit longer? 
While it does hurt me to walk away from 
this paper, I know I will always keep it with 
me. Once in The Alligator, we are indeed in it 
for life. We reserve a spot in the closet with 
a foot-tall pile of old papers, and fill our bios 
with a proud @TheAlligator years after leav -
ing the paper. I will do no other than keep the 
legacy. 
To all former and future reporters, editors 
and staff members: If I can ever be a resource, 
please call, mostly if it is a Sunday night — I 
will be thinking of the paper anyway.
So what do you all, non-Alligator lunatics, 
do on Sundays?
Carolina Ilvento was the 
Digital Managing Editor.I’m a Cancer. I’m dramatic and emotional, so just bear with me here. 
It’s cliche to say change is hard. We know. Get over it. But it’s true, which I guess is why 
everyone says it.
As I sit behind the keys of my laptop trying to capture the emotions of my time here, I’m 
confronted with the reality of it all. It’s over. A chapter of my life is now written. 
There’s a range of emotions I’m feeling right now, but it all boils down to how much I care 
about this paper and the people who make it happen.
Ever since April, this paper has completely dominated my life. Late nights, too much caffeine 
and not enough time with the people around me. I’ll never get these moments back, but the mo -
ments have been plentiful. 
I never thought I was good enough for this paper. I started here over a year ago as the 2020 
election reporter. As a junior joining staff for the first time, I was considered a late bloomer to 
many here. This Fall as editor-in-chief was my third semester on staff. Some at The Alligator have 
twice as many semesters as I got.
I knew when coming into this newsroom that I was making up for lost time. As soon as I start -
ed, I knew I had been missing out. Journalism is stereotyped as a toxic, hyper-competitive field, 
and it can be at times. I’ve never felt anything like that here at The Alligator. Maybe I’ve been 
lucky, but my short time at this paper has been filled with some of the best friends I’ve ever had. 
I’ve learned so much throughout my time here. Valuable lessons about working in a news -
room, working with friends and finding a work-life balance even when it’s impossible. Being editor-in-chief this Fall proved to be one of the biggest chal -
lenges of my career so far. The last 16 weeks have tested my judgement, 
my willpower, my patience and my endurance. My past experience in 
political journalism also didn’t hurt. I would need it all as our community 
became rather newsworthy this semester. 
UF restricted its professors’ First Amendment rights, the university’s 
accreditor and the U.S. Congress launched investigations into UF, and 
detailed accounts of abuse under former women’s head basketball coach 
Cam Newbauer surfaced. The common denominator was The Alligator 
in the thick of it.
If one word defines this semester, it’s “accountability.”
My goal has always been to uphold the underlying purpose of the First Amendment. A free 
press should exist to serve as a check on the powers that be and provide a public service to the 
community to keep them informed on events that otherwise would happen in the dark.
Such diligence costs energy, mental health and time. Reflecting on this Fall, I am certainly 
exhausted. Those who seek to work in the darkness bank on our exhaustion. Rest assured The Al -
ligator will continue to hold our university and its community to a high standard beyond this Fall. 
It’s funny how when I found out I was going to be editor-in-chief I didn’t feel ready. Now that 
my time is up, I’m not ready for it to be over. 
I’m incredibly thankful to anyone who interacted with The Alligator in any way while I was 
here. Readers, reporters, editors and friends — you are what made this paper special.
 
Steven Walker was the editor-in-chief of The Alligator.
Your passion led me hereSundays are for The Alligator. Always.Ode to exhausting accountability
Goodbye Column Goodbye ColumnGoodbye Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Steven Walker
Twitter: @swalker_7
Kristin Bausch
Twitter: @BauschKristin
Carolina Ilvento
Twitter: @CarolinaIlventoKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
The Wise 1K
Gators volleyball clinched head coach Mary Wise’s 1000th 
win Thursday, the day before it punched a ticket to the 
Sweet 16, pg. 13 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
UF SHAKESPEARE IN THE 
PARK HELD ITS FIRST 
IN-PERSON SHOWCASE 
IN OVER A YEAR  
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
Equipped with cow print pants 
and a Southern accent, Zoe Nevins 
spent the mornings of Dec. 4 and 
Dec. 5 running around the Reitz 
Union North Lawn. The scene, more 
than just a Western outburst, was a 
homage to one of the world’s most 
renowned playwrights — William 
Shakespeare. 
The 20-year-old UF media pro -
duction, management and technol -
ogy junior is also the vice president 
of Shakespeare in the Park, which 
held its Fall Selected Scenes show -
case that weekend. The cast put on 
two 11:30 a.m. performances over 
the two days, each running about 45 
minutes. 
This semester, the showcase 
theme — media inspired by Shake -
speare — was a celebration of Shake -
speare in popular culture. The perfor -
mance featured notable scenes from 
adaptations of Shakespeare works 
alongside corresponding scenes from 
the original plays for a total of 10 
scenes. 
Nevins took on the role of King 
Lear from Shakespeare’s tragedy 
of the same name, as well as John 
Lear, the royal’s stand-in from the 2002 made-for-television Western 
drama “King of Texas.” To tie the 
two works together, Nevins and her 
fellow actors depicted both versions 
of a scene where King Lear divides 
his kingdom into three. 
Other iconic scene sets included 
Romeo and Juliet’s first meeting, 
paired with the same moment in 
“Gnomeo and Juliet;” Hamlet seeing 
his father as a ghost, paired with the 
scene from “The Lion King” where 
Simba sees the ghost of Mufasa re -
flected in the water; and a mono -
logue from “10 Things I Hate About 
You” paired with the correspond -
ing scene from “The Taming of the 
Shrew.” 
The performance — which fea -
tured a nontraditional combination 
of genres, eras and source material 
— was larger than life, Nevins said. 
She’s been involved with Shake -
speare in the Park since her fresh -
man year and said she finds the club 
a great way to embrace her lifelong 
love of theatre and acting without 
taking up too much time. 
“The club is extremely approach -
able, and that’s something we make 
a point of,” Nevins said. “Regard -
less of the amount of experience you 
have, there’s something for you to 
do.”
When Davis Elordi, a 21-year old 
UF English and history junior, joined 
the club freshman year, he had no 
experience in acting. Now, as presi -
dent of Shakespeare in the Park, he 
gets to act in and direct scenes from 
some of his favorite Shakespeare plays. He played the nurse in “Ro -
meo and Juliet,” Horatio in “Hamlet” 
and Rafiki in “The Lion King.” 
Elordi said he hoped the side-by-
side comparison of original scenes 
to their modern counterparts made 
it easier for audiences to understand 
the source material. 
“It’s a really great way to intro -
duce people to Shakespeare in a way 
that’s less overwhelming than being 
launched into a full classic, elevated 
Shakespeare play,” he said. 
The showcase was also the first 
in-person Shakespeare in the Park 
performance since its 2020 Spring Se -
lected Scenes showcase. Since then, 
the club has held all shows over 
Zoom, including two showcases and 
last year’s mainstage production — 
“Julius Caesar” set in a fraternity. 
The shift back to in person after 
an entire school year of virtual per -
formances included its own set of 
challenges. With no scripts propped 
just outside of frame, actors needed 
to be completely off-book for this 
weekend’s showcase. There was 
also a greater emphasis on blocking 
and costumes. 
Still, finally getting to perform 
outside again was a blast, Elordi 
said. Last year, he said, rehearsals 
and meetings could add an extra five 
or more hours on Zoom to student’s 
schedules — something that became 
exhausting, even when participating 
in an activity they all enjoyed. 
In-person performances also 
changed what elements Elrodi 
needed to focus on as a director. On Zoom, he said, actors had to ensure 
their facial expressions matched 
their dialogue, as the camera ex -
posed these discrepancies far more 
intimately than a live show would 
have. But being back on the Reitz 
Union North Lawn, there’s more 
room for experimentation. 
The opportunity to run freely 
across the grass and shout Shake -
spearean insults made the experi -
ence far more entertaining, Elordi 
said. 
“I’ve enjoyed being able to run 
around and pretend to be a baboon 
as Rafiki and attempt a bad accent 
before realizing that it was a terrible idea,” he said, “It’s been a lot of fun 
to experiment and be outside with 
these people who I trust a lot at this 
point.” 
Next semester will also see the 
return of in-person mainstage pro -
ductions, which are full-length 
stage productions with a twist. This 
Spring, Shakespeare in the Park will 
put on a performance of “A Mid -
summer Night’s Dream” — but with 
pirates. Auditions will be held early 
next semester.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.org
By Alan Halaly
Alligator Staff Writer
Drinking beer alongside man’s best friend 
— for a new Gainesville bar, that’s a winning 
combination.
Lebowski’s Pet Pub, an outdoor bar and 
subscription-only dog park hybrid located at 
514 N Main St., opened its gates Dec. 3 with 
a launch party. With a mural of owner Geno 
Schmelke’s three dogs wearing sunglasses — 
and Lebowski, a boxer vizsla mix, as the cen -
terpiece — the bar is ready to be a hangout 
space for dogs and humans alike.
Schmelke, 37, said he’s always dreamt of 
having a bar to call his own. A graduate of 
Gainesville High School, he said he’s been bar -
tending for over a decade, shuffling through 
bars along University Avenue in Midtown and downtown. 
After going to a similar bar in St. Petersburg 
called The Dog Bar, the longtime Gainesville 
resident knew instantly it would be a hit in a 
college town.
“It’s like you’re going into your backyard 
with your friends,” Schmelke said. “Bring -
ing your dog and just having a good time. It’s 
nothing crazy.” 
Customers are charged a fee to bring their 
dog to the bar. Subscription rates range from 
$5 for a day pass to $100 for a full year — 
about $8 a month.
The staff is made up of some of his lifelong 
friends, he said, all of whom have more than 
a lifetime of bartending experience between 
them.
Although it’s open to anyone over 18, 
Schmelke doesn’t envision Lebowski’s like a typical college town bar catered to students. 
“We’re not really the college bar,” he said. 
“We’re not really an old person’s bar. I think 
it’s just people that just want to hang out and 
relax.” 
Before opening Friday, Schmelke said the 
staff hosted a soft opening Nov. 28 with one 
purpose: raising money for a friend’s dog in 
need of bladder surgery.
Giving back to the community is a must, 
he said. He’s currently ironing out the details 
to host adoption events with organizations like 
the North Central Florida Humane Society and 
Camp Run-A-Mutt.
“We just want to have fun and be happy 
about where we’re working,” Schmelke said.
Shael Morgan, a 52-year-old Gainesville 
resident, said she appreciates the owners’ giv -
ing spirit.
“I would be less likely to go to a business 
that is interested in just perpetuating them -
selves instead of trying to give back to the com -munity and helping others,” she said.
Morgan said she’s going to subscribe to 
bring her dogs to support the staff. It’s im -
portant to her family to support the business 
because her husband worked with one of the 
owners at SharpSpring, a marketing company.
Lebowski’s will likely be a hit among both 
college students and Gainesville residents, 
Morgan said.
“Gainesville is such an outdoorsy place 
these days,” she said. “Maybe [college stu -
dents] will miss their pets, that they might 
have had to leave at home with their parents. 
They’ll go to the dog bar just to pet other peo -
ple’s dogs.”
The bar is now open weekdays from 2 p.m. 
to midnight and on weekends from 1 p.m. to 
midnight.
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgStudent actors shake up Shakespeare at Reitz
#DrinkWithYourBestFriend: Outdoor dog bar barks up a storm in downtown
THEATRETHEATRE
FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINKEsha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Makena Vargo (left) and James Bilderback (right) act out 
a scene from Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet on the 
Reitz Union North Lawn during the event hosted by UF 
Shakespeare in the Park on Sunday, Dec. 5, 2021.
Lebowski’ s Pet Pub opened Dec. 3BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953       
1-31-22-5-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made 
in the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-
636-1910. Ask about our specials!     
12-6-1-10
Potted Christmas Trees
Red Cedar, AZ Cypress, tabletop to 8 ft. tall. 
Open weekends Nov. 20 - Dec.19 and Nov. 26 
10am - 6pm. Kettle corn popped onsite 4 sale. 
Free sugarcane with purchase. 20926 NW 75th 
ST Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-1885. 
12-6-21-4-101For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
Available for August 2022 Houses walking 
and biking distance to campus. See gaines -
villequalityrentalhouses.com Feel free to text 
or call 352-339-2342. For more information or 
appointments to view houses           1-18-22-5-2
5 Real Estate
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath -
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680        
1-10-22-4-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    ________  wwiinnddooww  
11..    CChheeaapp,,  ttaasstteelleessss55..    ________  bbllaaddeess
22..    TTaabblleett  66..    SSaayy
33..    UUnnpprreeddiiccttaabbllee  77..    TTyyppee  ooff  cclleerriicc  
44..    ________  ssaaiinntt  TTIIEETTKKCC
RRYYAATTWWDDPPIIRRWWEE
TTEETTUURR
AASSPPLLCCUUEE
TTIIRREECCRRAANNOOCCEEAADD
PPOOAANNRRTTAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TTiicckkeett    55AA--WWiippeerr    66AA--UUtttteerr    77AA--DDeeaaccoonn
11DD--TTaawwddrryy    22DD--CCaappssuullee    33DD--EErrrraattiicc    44DD--PPaattrroonn    BB--WWooooddppeecckkeerr1122--66--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  BBeerrmmuuddaa  fflliicckkeerr  ________,,  wwhhiicchh  wwaass  nnaattiivvee  ttoo  
BBeerrmmuuddaa,,  wweenntt  eexxttiinncctt  hhuunnddrreeddss  ooff  yyeeaarrss  aaggoo..
BONUS2019 INDIAN FTR 1200
Call Steve 352-213-2462 
12-6-21-3-11
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
Dachshund Wanted
Purple Heart veteran looking for older dachs -
hund for companionship. My 19 year old 
dachshund died recently. I am 82 years young. 
Please call 904.536.6881 if you can help.     
1-18-22-3-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-21-16-1311Motorcycles/Mopeds 6 Furnishings
By Kevin Christian and Andrea Carla Michaels
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/06/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/06/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, December 6, 2021
ACROSS
1 Mexican dip
6 Kitten-lifting spot
10 “Notorious” 
Supreme Court 
justice, initially
13 Gold miner’s 
staked-out land
14 Polishes, as text
16 Botch the job, say
17 *Cage for a bunny
19 Actress Zadora
20 Moody music 
genre
21 __ Grey tea
22 Wasn’t feeling 
well
24 Early bird’s 
reward
26 *Tool for filling in 
holes in the wall
29 Blackjack card
31 “Superman”’ 
actor Christopher
32 Hooded snake
35 Final Four org.
37 Dutch cheese 
town
40 *Bow users’ 
musical ensemble
43 “The jig __”
44 Double-reed wind
45 Trio in H2O
46 Barnes’ 
bookselling 
partner
48 Italian three
49 *Skin response to 
fear or cold
53 Applies with a 
Q-tip
57 Finance whiz 
Suze
58 Christmas song
60 Rapper __ Kim
61 Oral health initials
62 “C’mon, get 
serious!” ... and 
an admonition 
evidently ignored 
by the starts of 
the answers to 
starred clues
66 Part of mph
67 Promised to tell 
the truth
68 “There’s no such 
thing as a free 
lunch,” e.g.
69 Hosp. triage 
areas
70 Still-life subject
71 Printer supply
DOWN
1 Carpenter’s 
fastener2 Mission to 
remember
3 Materials partner 
on a repair bill
4 Member of the 
fam
5 Gallic girlfriend
6 Indira Gandhi’s 
father
7 Grownup
8 Racetrack stop
9 And so on, briefly
10 Answered, as an 
email
11 Lawyer’s filing
12 Student’s mark
15 Ice cream drink
18 Scotch or 
masking
23 Played the 
market
25 California county 
that contains 
parts of Yosemite 
National Park
27 Copy on 
transparent paper
28 “You betcha!”
30 Recycle bin item
32 CBS forensic 
series
33 NFL tiebreakers
34 Multiple Grammy 
winner featured 
on “Uptown 
Funk”35 Prize since 1901
36 __-Magnon
38 Vaccination  
spot
39 More, in Madrid
41 Game with 
putting
42 Lend an __: 
listen
47 Is flexible
48 You, biblically
49 Flip out
50 Trial judge’s 
demand51 Between, in 
French
52 Like a designated 
driver
54 Poe’s middle 
name
55 Ship’s hull region
56 More cunning
59 Aspiring DA’s 
exam
63 Be obligated to
64 “Don’t delay!”
65 Pre-marital (just 
barely) promise
By Dave Taber and Laura Moll
(c)2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/24/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/24/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Wednesday, November 24, 2021
ACROSS
1 Little __ Muffet
5 Roger Bannister, 
famously
10 Speaker in 
Cooperstown
14 Elvis or Coca-
Cola
15 “The L Word” 
co-creator 
Chaiken
16 Whisper
17 Interstate hauler
18 Ad prizes
19 Dramatic opener
20 Adagio and 
allegro
22 Leave the city to 
evade arrest
24 Like some tanks
27 Where the old 
woman lived
28 Permits to enter
30 Title of respect
31 Exec, slangily
33 Schoolmarmish
35 List to-dos
39 Intense anger
40 It has just one 
64-Down
42 Shapiro of NPR
43 Delivery, as of a 
baby
45 Inter __
46 Recipe word
47 Relieved (of)
49 Comes to light
51 Secret fraternity 
member
55 Party or wild 
follower
57 Bit of 
encouragement
59 Vinyl-covered, as 
a floor
61 Worldwide: Abbr.
62 Absinthe flavor
65 Half a round on 
the links
66 Ohio’s lake
67 R&B family name
68 Budget sister 
company
69 Runs out of juice
70 “It’s true!”
71 Guido of Baroque 
art fame
DOWN
1 Light fog
2 Relatives of 
Slurpees
3 Server with a 
blush?4 Piece of prose
5 A hot one can be 
problematic
6 Laid up
7 Island necklaces
8 Long, thin soup 
mushroom
9 Viscous plant 
substances
10 “Bingo!”
11 Japanese 
electronics 
company
12 Cut down the 
middle
13 “Goosebumps” 
series author
21 Gomez’s furry 
cousin
23 French capital
25 Road trip game
26 Approximately
29 Nabisco brand 
name
31 Jem, to Scout 
Finch
32 Psychic Geller
34 Ballerina Shearer
36 Completely 
dominates
37 Med. injury 
detector
38 Title for two 
Beatles40 The good dishes
41 Discomfort cause
44 Makes four into 
twelve, say
46 Advanced course 
offering
48 Hold for questions
50 Take care of a 
kitty
51 Went down a 
slippery slope
52 Matisse of the art 
world53 Knot again
54 Old-time laundry 
soap brand
56 Red Square figure
58 Place for singles
60 He loved Lucille
63 Cinque e uno
64 Watcher ... and 
homophone of a 
letter that appears 
exactly once in 
every clue and all 
but two answers
11/29/2021solution  on page 12
solution  on page 1218 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
High Fliers
HIGH FLIERS by Jim Esposito.  High in the 
sky over Florida. Very high. Very funny novel 
about G-ville's bad old days by Alligator 
Alumni. Available on Amazon.com.
1-10-21-7-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND or 
email classified@alligator.org today!Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
NEED HELP WITH MATH?
ONLINE tutoring for Math, any level and 
subject. Academic Support in all subjects 
offered, too. Call Lilly @ (305) 302-7170. 
Gator helping Gators!             1-10-22-2-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- 
TRAIN ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096 . The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                        12-6-3-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts available. 
Call 888-460-2264                          12-6-3-15
DISCOUNT AIR TRAVEL. Call Flight 
Services for best pricing on domestic & 
international flights inside and from the 
US. Serving United, Delta, American & 
Southwest and many more airlines. Call for 
free quote now! Have travel dates ready! 
888-858-0128                                  12-6-3-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Save up to 89% on Prescription Drugs 
from Canada! Order your USA Name 
Brand Drugs and Generic Medications at 
Low-Cost Canadian Pharmacy Prices. Get 
Medications for Heart Disease, Diabetes, 
Blood Pressure, Men’s Sexual Health and 
More. You’re Entitled to Order up to a 90 Day 
Supply. Free Shipping. Call 1-877-821-4198     
12-6-1-16
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov-
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632                       12-6-3-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds.FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen         12-6-3-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-1615 Services 13 Wanted
Freon Wanted: : We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient. 
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 or 
visit RefrigerantFinders.com        12-6-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Facebook ads help
I need help placing website ad in Facebook, 
Google, Instagram at my location in McIntosh 
Florida. 352-591-5739.       12-6-21-1-14
the 
independent  
florida
we inform. you decide.
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Help Wanted Donut Connection
Baker needed experience preferred but will 
consider trainee, $15 per hr.  Also hiring 
counter/drive thru sales. Salary depends 
on experience. Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com     12-6-21-4-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter-
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
Summer 2022 Positions Available
The Oak Hall School Summer & Auxiliary 
Program is hiring Program Director positions 
in Technology/Stem and Enrichment for the 
summer of 2022.  Visit www.oakhall.org for 
application and information on this great op-
portunity in Gainesville!               12-6-21-5-14
CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
SOME PEOPLE DREAM OF SUCCESS, WHILE OTHER PEOPLE GET UP
 EVERY MORNING AND MAKE IT HAPPEN. — WAYNE HHUIZENGA
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
solution  below1. Ulysses Grant
2. A swarm
3. Bing Crosby
4. 1938
5. Mike6. Lois Griffin
7. Jack Dempsey
8. The Mongol Empire
9. Italy. The road connected 
Rome and Brindisi.
10. 250answers below1. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president signed leg -
islation that made Christmas a national holiday?
2. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a group of drag -
onflies called?
3. MOVIES: Who played the role of Father Chuck 
O'Malley in "Going My Way"?
4. FOOD & DRINK: In what year was the famous 
Toll House chocolate chip cookie first made?
5. LANGUAGE: What is the international radio 
code word for the letter M?
6. TELEVISION: What's the name of the mom on 
"Family Guy"?
7. PERSONALITIES: Which famous boxer's nick -
name is "The Manassa Mauler"?
8. HISTORY: Over which empire did Genghis 
Khan rule?
9. GEOGRAPHY: The Appian Way is an ancient 
road in what country?
10. MEASUREMENTS: How many milliliters are 
in 1 cup?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving 
out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.Trivia Test  answersMONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
VOLLEYBALLTHE SOPHOMORE’S 
DESIRE TO FIND A TEAM 
PROPELLED HER TO WALK 
ON WITH THE GATORS
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
Caroline Pagac’s favorite part of 
being on Florida’s diving team is just 
that: being on the team. 
Nothing is more rewarding for 
Caroline than being with her team -
mates and pushing each other to be 
better. It’s what motivated her to be -
gin the sport in the first place, and 
what pushed her along the unortho -
dox path she took to Florida. 
“It’s a team but it also becomes 
a family,” Pagac said, “It takes the 
right sport to build that, and diving 
does that.” 
Pagac is not the typical Florida 
diver, no Olympian or All-American 
— in fact, she’s only been diving for 
a few years. She walked onto the 
team in 2021 after proving her value 
with Gator Dive Club during her first 
semester at Florida. 
Lesley Pagac, her mother, saw her 
daughter’s talent at a young age. 
“I remember her taking her to the 
playground to play with the kids and 
she was so much more physically ag -
ile than some of the other kids of her 
age,” Lesley said.
Caroline’s balance led her moth -
er to sign her up for gymnastics, 
and thus began the earliest years of 
Pagac’s athletic career, joined by her younger sister, Amanda.
Although that stage of Caroline’s 
career was not so fruitful, she was 
always motivated by her sibling be -
side her. 
“To be honest, I was terrible,” 
Caroline said, “Well, I wasn’t ter -
rible, I worked really hard, and my 
little sister was actually always a 
little bit better than me so she really 
pushed me, and I kind of had that sis -
ter rivalry.”
Those around Caroline noticed 
she shared the traits of a great team -
mate and leader from a young age. 
Her mother recalled a state gymnas -
tics meet when Caroline scored a 9.4. 
Her sister, the only remaining com -
petitor, edged her out with a 9.45.
“Caroline jumped up and went 
running over to her, lifted her, twirled 
her around and was more excited 
that Amanda got the score, than her 
getting second place,'' Lesley said. “It 
was the most touching thing.” 
The feeling of celebration and 
a family environment have always 
been of utmost importance for Caro -
line, but she began having her doubts 
whether that environment was al -
ways there. She said the gymnastics 
atmosphere wasn’t as inviting, and 
her sister agreed.
“The gym that we both went to, 
it was a very, very verbally, emo -
tionally and psychologically abusive 
environment,” Amanda said. “The 
coaches were really, really bad peo -
ple. It did cause me and my sister a 
lot of sports trauma.” 
Caroline ultimately left gymnas -tics at 13.
“It’s different when you’re that 
young and you’re working that hard 
and your heart’s just not in it, there’s 
a dichotomy there that you don’t 
want to be there.” she said. 
Caroline chose to spend her time 
teaching gymnastics, and her mother 
said she set out to treat her students 
differently than she had been treated.
While Caroline bonded with her 
students and enjoyed the teaching 
process, Amanda knew she missed 
the competition. Teaching couldn’t 
replicate the team environment, and 
Caroline felt the difference, too.
“I was like ‘Wait a minute, maybe 
I have more dreams that are unfin -
ished. I have unfinished business,’” 
she said.
Upon entering high school and 
observing meets and practices for 
her school’s scholastic season her 
freshman year, Caroline decided she 
would take up diving with the local 
Coral Springs Diving club. 
She could only offer a small com -
mitment to the team at first, only able 
to practice once a week with her par -
ents working full-time jobs and no 
car of her own. However, the impact 
of the team environment was notice -
able from the start, especially com -
pared to gymnastics.
“For diving, it’s a night-and-day 
difference,” Caroline said.
Her sister saw a noticeable im -
provement in Caroline’s demeanor 
after joining the team. Caroline was 
eager to return to an environment 
where she could connect with her teammates, and it brought her a lot 
of fulfillment despite diving being a 
casual endeavor at first. 
“I wasn’t a good diver,” Pagac 
said, “I loved it, I still love it, but it 
was just fun then.” 
This all changed when she got a 
car before her senior year, now able 
to take herself to practice up to six 
days a week. That’s when Caroline’s 
club coach, Michelle Sandelin, told 
her she had a future in diving. 
“She is literally my second mom. I 
love her,” Pagac said about Sandelin. 
“If it wasn't for her, I would not be 
here because she told me to look at 
different dive programs and told me I 
could do this.” 
Pagac put her head down and 
worked her senior year, and when 
she looked up, there were collegiate 
diving offers in front of her. Unfor -tunately, there were none from her 
dream school, UF. 
She was left with a choice: forgo 
attending Florida, where she was ad -
mitted through the standard process, 
and choose to dive at the College of 
New Jersey or George Washington 
University, or abandon her diving of -
fers to attend UF. 
It wasn’t an easy choice for her 
to make. If possible, Pagac hoped to 
settle for a school similar to Florida 
academically and continue diving, 
but her love for the school and the 
financial burden of attending college 
out of state was insurmountable.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.org
 By Carson Cashion and 
Kaitlyn Wadulack
Sports Writers
Double the sweeps, double the fun.
The No. 21 Florida Gators volleyball team 
swept its first and second round NCAA tour -
nament opponents Thursday and Friday in the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center to advance to the 
Sweet 16. 
UF dominated Florida A&M Thursday night 
(25-11, 25-14, 25-8) where head coach Mary 
Wise claimed her 1,000th overall career win, 
the first female Division I head coach to hit the 
astounding milestone. 
“Trying to get to 1,001,” Wise said about 
the achievement. 
Wise’s wish was the Gators’ command. 
Florida came back into the O’Dome Friday 
night and emerged with another sweep, this 
time over the No. 24 Miami Hurricanes (25-15, 
25-20, 25-16). Win 1,001 for Wise. The Sweet 16 for Flor -
ida. 
After star outside hitter T’ara Ceasar an -
nounced she would not be competing with 
Florida in the NCAA Tournament, questions 
filtered in about how the Gators could replace 
her scoring prowess. 
Outside hitters Sofia Victoria and Thayer 
Hall and middle blocker Bre Kelley stepped up 
to the plate. Kelley boasted .625 with six kills 
over the Rattlers and had three blocks versus 
the Hurricanes. Hall hammered in a .556 hit -
ting percentage with 11 kills Thursday and 
bumped up to 13 kills in Friday’s match. Mean -
while, against both Florida A&M and Miami, 
Victoria racked up 13 kills. 
“I think her [Victoria] energy is just un -
matched,” setter Marlie Monserez said after 
Friday’s match. “My favorite part of the game 
and in the middle of the match she looked at 
me and she goes, ‘I just love playing with this 
group.’ That makes it worth it, it makes it fun.”
Victoria, Kelley and outside hitter Merritt Beason led Florida’s attack early in Thursday’s 
match. The trio opened the first set with two 
kills and a Beason ace, along with two Kelley 
kills and one by Victoria at 6-3. Later in the 
set, Hall recorded two kills of her own before 
a Beason kill sealed the first set for Florida, 25-
11. 
The Rattlers’ initially kept pace with the 
Gators in set two, but not for long. The Gators 
accelerated ahead with one kill each from Vic -
toria and Beason on top of three Rattlers’ at -
tack errors, and a Hall ace ended the second 
set 25-14. 
The Gators left Florida A&M in the dust on 
a 14-1 run in the third, featuring two Victoria 
kills and five Rattlers’ attack errors. Victoria 
cemented the sweep for Florida with a match-
ending kill at 25-8. 
Less than 24 hours later, Victoria’s fire re -
mained ablaze. The sophomore scored half of 
the Gators’ first six points en route to an early 
lead. Florida shot ahead by 10, and despite Mi -
ami’s best efforts, Victoria secured set one with a kill, 25-15. 
The Hurricanes fought desperately in the 
second set, scoring six straight to leave Florida 
trailing by two. A timeout by Wise reset her 
lineup, and the Gators surged back with a 5-2 
run. Miami never reclaimed its early set advan -
tage, and a Beason kill iced out the Hurricanes, 
25-20. 
The third set was the Gators’ playground. 
UF tallied seven of the set’s first eight points. 
Following a Miami timeout, the two teams 
traded points, but the Gators’ lead remained 
out of reach. Hall closed out the match with 
a kill, and the Sweet 16 was finally achieved 
for Florida. 
“Every team can be so different,” Wise said. 
“There’s just a vibe with this group right now.”
Next up, Florida will travel to take on No.1 
Louisville Thursday at 1 p.m. in the Sweet 16. 
The match can be streamed on ESPNU.
 
@kwadulack
kwadulack@alligator.org
@carsoncashion
ccashion@alligator.orgCaroline Pagac: For the love of the team
How Sweet It Is: Gators volleyball’s two NCAA tournament sweeps and Wise’s 1,000th overall career win  Courtesy to The Alligator
Caroline Pagac poses for a photo with her sister, Amanda.
No. 21 Florida advanced to the Sweet 16 for a matchup against No. 1 Louisville Thursday14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
eliminate careless play -- turn -
overs, penalties, mental errors.”
Napier’s staunch grip on the 
ground game is not the only thing 
that jumps out from the stat sheet. 
Rather than wielding the hammer 
of an every-down workhorse, he 
prefers the scalpel of a committee 
carousel. 
Despite the Cajuns averaging 
over 190 rushing yards per game 
in each of his four seasons (and a 
staggering 257.4 in 2019), Napier 
only gave one back more than 200 
carries in a season (Trey Ragas 
had 207 in 2018).
The new Florida coach’s magic 
number seems to be four over the 
last few years. Four of his rushers 
collected 80 attempts or more so 
far in 2021, and in each of his final 
three seasons in Lafayette, at least 
four players rushed the ball more 
than 50 times. 
No year exemplified the surgi -
cal sharing of touches more than 
2019, arguably Napier’s most im -pressive statistical season with 
UL. Three Ragin’ Cajuns running 
backs put together at least 116 at -
tempts and 820 rushing yards, a 
true backfield Ghidorah. Ragas, 
Elijah Mitchell and Raymond 
Calais combined for 33 rushing 
touchdowns, and each compiled 
three 100-yard games.
Mitchell might be Napier’s 
most impressive selling point as 
a talent developer. A 2-star wide 
receiver prospect according to 
Rivals, the Louisiana native ac -
cumulated 3,267 rushing yards, 
597 receiving yards and 46 total 
touchdowns over his four-year 
run wearing vermilion and white, 
almost entirely under Napier’s 
watchful eye.
Now an NFL rookie, Mitchell 
has nearly 900 yards from scrim -
mage through nine games with the 
San Francisco 49ers.
Napier’s dual-threat quar -
terback Levi Lewis offers more 
promising development for Flori -
da fans. The former 2-star Rivals 
prospect started for the final three 
years of Napier’s tenure, complet -
ing 61.5% of his passes and aver -
aging 7.7 yards per attempt. The 
5-foot-10 lefty threw 64 touch -
downs against just 15 intercep -tions across his three-year run.
Lewis alluringly distrubed op -
posing defenses with his legs as 
well. He carried the ball at least 
55 times each season and legged 
out 799 yards and 13 more touch -
downs since 2019. 
With redshirt freshman Antho -
ny Richardson and redshirt junior 
Emory Jones, who managed near -
ly 1,100 rushing yards between 
them in 2021, sitting in Florida’s 
garage, Gators fans should sali -
vate seeing Napier does not fear 
getting his quarterback involved 
in the rushing attack.
Florida fans should expect a 
gravitation toward the ground 
game, but Napier said the Gators 
top priority is setting themselves 
up for success.
“We’re going to play comple -
mentary football,” Napier said. 
“I think our entire plan is built 
around working together as a 
team to position ourselves to win 
the game.”
Napier’s plan won’t be un -
veiled for the world to see for 
months, but the blueprint seems 
to be in place.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgNAPIER,  from pg. 3Run-heavy
I cried waterfalls in the library of Provi -
dence High School in Jacksonville after 
my high school basketball team, Bish -
op Synder, was eliminated by Trinity 
Christian in the district tournament. 
Tears dropped from my eyes and pooled 
into a puddle on the carpet because I 
thought I’d never be a part of a team again. 
Then I joined The Alligator’s sports desk 
in Spring 2020. 
It wasn’t that simple. I didn’t know any -
thing about the largest student-run newspa -
per when I arrived at UF after transferring 
from Florida State College at Jacksonville. 
However, I met my now-best friend 
Noah Ram in Sports Media and Society my 
first semester. He led me to apply and told 
me this is where I belong if I was serious 
about journalism. I tried my hand in the 
Fall of 2019 but failed to make the cut. 
I didn’t give up. I tried again. This time, 
then-sports editor Kyle Wood called me 
and told me I was hired to cover Florida 
men’s tennis in the Spring of 2020. 
Like many other great writers and even 
better people before me, the decision to 
work at The Alligator was the best deci -
sion I’ve ever made because I found an -
other team to be a part of. The people I’ve 
encountered and made friends with at the 
sports and news desks are some of the 
most hardworking and nicest people I’ve 
ever met. 
We always were each other’s biggest 
supporters and had each other’s backs. We 
all worked hard to become better writers 
and reporters and attempted to uphold the 
standard as the best student-run newspa -
per in the country. 
We also built strong friendships at Ryan 
Haley’s apartment watching Thursday 
Night Football or bonding over pitchers at 
The Social at Midtown every Wednesday 
before the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Even though the pandemic arrived two 
months into my first semester at the news -
paper, I still strongly feel that I got the 
whole experience. I made lifelong friends 
and became a much better journalist and 
person. 
I glanced back at the first story I ever 
wrote for The Alligator from time to time during my six se -
mesters to see how 
far I’ve come and 
did so one last time 
before starting this 
goodbye column. 
Tears run down my 
face every time be -
cause of how much 
I improved as a 
journalist and the 
memories I made along the way. 
Before I say goodbye, I need to thank 
several former colleagues and current writ -
ers and editors. I’m sorry I couldn’t thank 
everyone because of word count, but if you 
weren’t mentioned, thank you, too. 
Thank you to Kyle and Evan Lepak for 
taking a shot on me and letting me live out 
my dream of covering the school I loved 
growing up.  
If it wasn’t for so many talented editors 
and writers like Kyle, Ryan, Joseph Salva -
dor, River Wells, Brendan Farrell, Payton 
Titus, Christian Ortega, Grethel Aguila, 
Michael Hull and Steven Walker, I never 
would’ve been able to write and report on 
a story that important, made national news 
and allowed me to achieve a lifelong dream 
of going on SportsCenter. 
I owe a huge thank you to Noah because 
I don’t think if I ever would’ve applied if 
we never  crossed paths. You’re my best 
friend, and I don’t know what I would do 
without you. You have such a bright future 
ahead of you, and I can’t wait to see what’s 
in store for you next. 
To Ryan and Michael, our trip to Louisi -
ana to cover the Florida-LSU football game 
is one of my favorite memories that I’ll 
cherish forever. 
To the sports desk this semester, thank 
you for making Ryan’s life and my life so 
easy. All of you are so talented and gifted. 
The future of the sports desk is so bright. If 
you guys ever need anything, I’m always a 
DM, text or phone call away. 
If you’re a journalist at UF consider ap -
plying because I promise you won’t regret 
it. 
Finally, thank you to The Alligator for 
letting me be a part of a team again.
 
Zachary Huber was the Assistant Sports 
Editor and a sports writer at 
The Independent Florida Alligator.Anyone who knows me admits I am a 
procrastinator.
For assignments, I often wait until 
the last minute because I “write better 
under pressure.”
So, it only makes sense that I penned this 
goodbye column on Dec. 4, one day before 
my name will appear in The Independent 
Florida Alligator one last time.
The truth is, I first began to think about 
what I’d say in this space in mid-August, in 
the produce section of Aldi.
It turns out, though, searching for the right 
words to describe a place where I spent three 
years of college and wrote nearly 150 stories 
proved taxing.
The time has arrived, and I can no longer 
put this task off anymore, so here goes.
As any good journalist would do, I will 
start at the beginning. (Yes, I will get to the 
moral of the story in due time).
In high school, I sought out TV Production, 
but I eventually yearned to be as far from a 
camera as a calculator.
When I arrived in Gainesville in Fall 2018, 
I first applied to The Alligator. I remember 
writing the sample story about women’s bas -
ketball in the Law Library for hours.
I got rejected, and I expected the same re -
sult in the spring when I re-auditioned.
However, on a Thursday night in late-Jan -
uary, I received a call from Jake Dreilinger in 
the parking lot of Southwest Rec that changed 
my life.
Somehow, I was hired to cover men’s ten -
nis. For the first time in my journalistic life, I 
felt worthy.
I developed lofty expectations for myself at 
The Alligator. Before I graduated, I intended to 
serve as sports editor and football beat writer.
As I prepare to cross the stage in two 
weeks, I realize none of those dreams came 
true.
But before you shed a tear, let me reassure 
you, I wouldn’t have wanted it any other way. 
I’ll explain. (Yes finally, the point!)
My first year and a half at The Alligator 
flew by as I covered gymnastics and served 
as Assistant Sports Editor in Summer 2020, 
which proved demanding but exhilarating.
However, my plan began to suffer multiple 
detours.
This Fall, I anticipated to conquer the holy 
grail of football. Instead, I was named the sports enterprise re -
porter.
Within an instant, 
everything I worked 
up for seemed to van -
ish in the wind, like 
a snap from Thanos. 
I questioned my abil -
ity and future as a 
writer.
Little did I know 
this decision helped me find my real journal -
ism dream: to tell stories of people and places 
that don’t normally land in the newspaper.
But what really made “sprots” at The Al -
ligator stand out from other jobs is the people, 
and I wanted to shout a few of them out.
To Jake Dreilinger, thank you for taking 
the chance on a freshman who didn’t know a 
lick about AP Style. You could have easily cut 
bait with the new guy, but you stuck with me, 
and I am eternally grateful.
To Kyle Wood, the OG Hybrid Reporter, 
you always worked with me on the gym -
nastics beat and helped me become a better 
writer in the process. Thank you for showing 
me sports writers can tackle topics outside the 
game.
To Ryan Haley, thank you for being such 
an understanding editor. I know this semes -
ter had some bumps along the way, but you 
are leaving this section in an amazing place. 
And thank you for reuniting the section in a 
“post-COVID” era. Your efforts haven’t gone 
unnoticed.
Finally, to Zachary Huber, my first friend 
at the J-school. I haven’t been certain about 
much, but when you got hired at The Alli -
gator, I knew you would shine. You accom -
plished more than just about anyone in your 
time. How many student journalists end up 
on national news?! I can’t put into words how 
proud I am of what you’ve accomplished. 
You’ve been my confidante since I joined 
staff. Whenever I need advice, I turn to you 
first. Keep working hard, man. You are des -
tined for greatness.
And to any aspiring journalist reading this, 
remember to trust the process and keep the 
faith. Throughout my life, I have mostly re -
jected the cliché of “everything happens for a 
reason.” But, as I reminisce about my time at 
The Alligator, I can’t help but agree.
Noah Ram was a sports writer at 
The Independent Florida Alligator.Always team Alligator Trust the processGoodbye Column Goodbye ColumnLauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
New Florida football coach Billy Napier greets fans during his 
first day on the job Sunday in Gainesville.
Zachary Huber
Twitter: @zacharyahuber
Noah Ram
Twitter: @Noah_ram1MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021   ALLIGATOR   15 
THREE DIFFERENT AGENCIES HAVE 
SIMILAR PROTOCOLS
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
No two sexual assault experiences are the 
same; but law enforcement across the county 
have similar response protocols.
Following the protocol, dispatchers head 
to the incident location upon receiving a call 
from a sexual assault victim. The victim then 
is taken to the hospital, where a rape kit is ad -
ministered. 
The hospital calls law enforcement and the 
victim service’s hotline, then the pressure is 
placed on the victim. How do they gather the 
words to explain the event they’ve not yet pro -
cessed? 
After a victim comes forward, several law 
enforcement agencies and victim advocacy 
groups throughout Alachua County are meant 
to help victims when they’re most vulnerable. 
UPD
When and why a sexual assault victim re -
ports their assault is up to them, detectives 
said. If a victim chooses to report their assault 
to University Police Department, they have 
three options: call its emergency or non-emer -
gency line, send an email or online report, or 
walk into a police station, UPD spokesperson 
Rick Taylor said.
“The patrol officer will take the first report 
and be very brief with the victim so that they 
don’t have to repeat necessarily the same thing 
to five different people,” said Bonnie Boland, 
UPD detective.
Officers work closely with UF Victim’s 
Advocates and the local hospitals to support sexual assault survivors. 
Boland said UPD dispatchers want to know 
the location of the victim, the nature of the call, 
if the victim is still in danger and if the suspect 
is still present. It’s also kept brief to prevent the 
victim from reliving the moment. 
If a victim chooses to pursue an investiga -
tion, a patrol officer will be sent to the loca -
tion to write a report, collect evidence and pre -
serve the crime scene. If a victim is nervous 
about what may be found on the scene, such 
as drugs, the department would prioritize the 
victim, Boland said. 
The victim may then be taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital to process a rape kit. A UPD 
victim service advocate may also be present 
to comfort the victim. At any time, the victim 
may ask to stop the procedures or investiga -
tion.
When a detective is assigned to the case, a 
victim service advocate may join when the vic -
tim is interviewed. The victim can also choose 
to only speak with a victim service advocate. 
In this case, the advocate wouldn’t relay any 
information to UPD against the victim’s will, 
Taylor said.
UPD victim advocate supervisor Veleta 
Roberts listens to victims share their stories. 
She collaborates with UF Counseling and Well -
ness, GatorWell and Housing to coordinate 
tools to help victims succeed at UF after his or 
her traumatic experiences. 
“We are confidential, and we are free,” 
Roberts said. “We’re here to serve them if they 
want to come and talk to somebody. They are 
not going to be forced to speak with law en -
forcement, even though we are housed with 
the police department.”
Roberts works with the victim to place a 
no-contact order on their alleged abuser, espe -cially if they live in the same residential hall 
or attend the same classes. In some cases, 
the alleged abuser must withdraw from those 
courses.
Taylor believes it’s important for victims to 
come forward so the department can actively 
pursue their cases.
“Most of the time these cases aren’t hap -
pening on some dimly lit sidewalk,” Taylor 
said. “They’re happening in places where our 
students frequent.”
UPD’s office is located at 1515 Museum 
Road near Jennings Hall. The department’s 
non-emergency line is 352-392-1111. 
GPD  
If a victim chooses to open an investigation, 
the story would be told to law enforcement at 
the crime scene, said Laura Kalt, director of the 
Alachua County Victim Services and Rape Cri -
sis Center.
It’s something she’s seen over and over. As 
of Sept. 9, 149 sexual assault cases have been 
reported to Gainesville Police Department. 
Reported cases have fluctuated among 174 in 
2018, 153 in 2019 and 129 in 2020. 
“Someone who does report to the 
Gainesville Police Department is very likely go -
ing to have an officer and advocate working 
together, getting to know them, helping them 
make this report and get through the experi -
ence of just having to relive the details,” Kalt 
said. 
Victim services workers need to build a 
rapport with the victim because retelling their 
stories can be retraumatizing, Kalt said. Above 
all, she said, putting the victim’s needs first is 
important. 
While working with GPD, she has watched 
the detective discuss the victim’s options of how to recount their story. 
If you feel like you can get through 10 min -
utes of retelling what happened, then that’s 
all we’ll do. If you want to tell me everything 
that you can and get it over with today, let’s do 
that. We’ll spend hours together or however 
long it takes.
GPD’s office is located at 545 NW 8th Ave. 
The department’s non-emergency line is 352-
955-1818.
ACSO
If a victim is uncomfortable, the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office will try to assign a 
deputy by the victim’s desired gender. Victims 
who choose not to speak with police still have 
the option to speak with victims services.
Law enforcement will instead contact the 
reporting party, which is usually a nurse or 
staff member on duty, to gather evidence, such 
as the rape kit. Rape kits should be performed 
within the first five days of the occurence for 
the most accurate results, a U.S. Department of 
Justice report read. Examiners should stick to 
two swabs per collection area to avoid dilution 
of the biological sample. 
ACSO policy states that police will not talk 
with the victim nor question the staff on what 
occurred.
If the victim decides to pursue legal action 
at a later date, police will compile evidence and 
investigate the assault further. After gathering 
evidence, the State Attorney’s Office will de -
cide whether or not to prosecute. 
ACSO is located at 2621 SE Hawthorne 
Road. The office’s non-emergency line is 352-
955-1818.
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgWhat happens when an Alachua County resident reports a sexual assault?
weeks. They begged to move. 
They no longer felt safe, 
especially after discovering 
posts from years ago describing 
similar cases of harassment.  
“This is an ongoing issue, 
and they’re doing nothing,” 
Mitchem said. “And it’s only 
going to get worse.”
The crime distressed Levee. 
It triggered memories from her 
freshman year, when she was 
assaulted at Grog.
“It made me feel so unsafe 
and powerless, and hopeless 
for what I can do, and how I 
can feel safe in my own home,” 
she said.
Levee had experienced 
revictimization, an effect 
of surviving sexual assault. 
Exposure to sexual assault 
puts survivors at higher risk 
of experiencing assault or 
harassment again. 
Caroline Pope, a 23-year-old 
sociology senior, didn’t know 
about this phenomenon until 
she was assaulted a second 
time. 
“I used to freeze like the 
first couple of times that I was 
assaulted,” Pope said. “Now, I 
actively am putting up a fight.”
One day in November 2020, 
Pope was celebrating with 
some friends in their apartment after a UF football game. Pope 
ordered an Uber home. Two 
male mutual friends were 
supposed to walk her to the 
Uber and make sure she was 
safe.
They checked her phone. 
One told her the driver 
canceled the ride. Pope asked 
them to reorder it. She got into 
the Uber, but she didn’t make 
it home.
“They didn’t order it to my 
apartment,” Pope said. “They 
ordered it to a completely 
different location.”
From there, the men took 
her to an apartment. 
The next day, Pope’s family 
came up to Gainesville to be 
with her. Pope decided to not 
report the crime but messaged 
the man who had raped her.
“I did message him about it 
though to tell him, ‘This is not 
OK,’” she said. “He responded 
with ‘I take it you don’t like 
me?’”
Later in May, Pope visited 
friends in Gainesville for a 
couple of days. She had been 
seeing a man she met through 
Tinder. Everything had gone 
well, and she liked him.
She had planned on meeting 
up with him again until he 
began to harass her over text. 
When she went out to The 
Rowdy Reptile with friends a few nights later, the man 
was also there. She asked her 
friends to keep an eye on her. 
“It was at the point where 
even the bartender was kind of 
concerned because I didn’t look 
into it, and [the assaulter] was 
very touchy-feely all over me,” 
she said. “He wouldn’t let me 
get away from his table, and I 
just wanted to leave.”
He managed to isolate Pope 
to coerce her into going home 
with him. The bar’s lights 
turned on, and the crowd 
swarmed out. She didn’t see 
her friends, so she left with 
him.
“There were things that I 
never would have agreed to 
that he did,” Pope said. 
The next day, Pope was 
administered a rape kit. She 
spoke with a detective but 
decided not to pursue charges.
“I just want to have his 
name on the books that he’s 
done this because he’s gonna 
do it again,” she said. “I know 
he is.”
Pope blamed herself for a 
long time. But through therapy, 
research and advocacy, she 
has found a way to heal as a 
survivor.
None of these cases have 
been legally resolved, but the 
survivors are taking control of 
their experiences to prevent 
future similar cases.
@MelanieBombino
mpena@alligator.orgSEXUAL ASSAULT , from pg. 2‘He’ s gonna do it again’
erties, coworkers complained about 
Still’s sexual harassment and unfair 
treatment. Following protocol, Gerenis 
reported it and HR told him it opened 
an investigation.
As of Dec. 5, neither The Collier 
Companies nor Nathan Collier could 
be reached for comment despite mul -
tiple phone calls, emails and a visit to 
two homes registered under his name.
In July 2012, Still was terminated 
from the company by executive team 
members, President Diana Miner, Vice 
President Mike Wilkie, Nathan Collier, 
CEO James Hogshead, President of Op -
erations Jennifer Clince and HR Direc -
tor Elizabeth Guynn. 
Gerenis said he got to know Nathan 
Collier fairly well during his time with 
the company, even flying on his pri -
vate jet together. 
“Either he was completely aware 
of everything going on, which is com -
pletely terrible, or he was unaware, 
which is an unconscionable lack of 
control,” Gerenis said. 
Although Still was separated from 
the company, Gerenis said other in -
stances of sexual harassment, sexual 
assault and intimidation involving 
high-up employees continued. But he 
trusted these complaints were being 
handled properly. 
A former executive leadership em -
ployee at Collier for just over a year 
confirmed these issues had been hap -
pening long before they joined the 
company. 
“It’s very much like a cult environ -
ment,” said the former executive grant -ed anonymity out of fear of retaliation. 
Nathan Collier tweeted a quote by 
Todd Whitaker Oct. 19 that read “The 
culture of any organization is shaped 
by the worst behavior its leaders are 
willing to tolerate.” 
The employee said Nathan Collier 
is a gifted public speaker who prides 
himself as a humble leader. 
“I can tell you from my own per -
sonal experience that it is a show,” the 
former executive employee said. “It is 
all an act.” 
After eight years working for the 
company, Gerenis left Collier for an -
other job opportunity. In what Gerenis 
described as coincidental timing –– es -
pecially knowing the damaging infor -
mation he had –– The Collier Compa -
nies offered a job to Still exactly five 
years after Still’s termination. 
Just weeks later, Still became the 
vice president of operations, a position 
higher than he was in before his ter -
mination. 
Gerenis later came to realize why 
Still’s rehire went so smoothly. He re -
called an extremely high turnover rate 
at all levels of the company, meaning 
there would be few employees, if any, 
that knew of the complaints against 
Still like Gerenis does. 
Gerenis was offered an HR position 
with Collier after about 10 months with 
his other job. Unaware of Still’s rehire, 
he accepted it. In Gerenis’ position, he 
learned all files are destroyed every 
five years, leaving no paper trail of any 
misconduct of employees — making 
the coincidence of Still’s timely rehire 
not so coincidental anymore.
Read the rest online at alligator.org.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgCOLLIER , from pg. 2All an act16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021
By Christian Casale and 
Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writers
Amid concern over recent 
cases of sexual misconduct on and 
around UF’s campus, data indicates 
that rates of such misconduct have 
remained consistent in recent 
years. 
Between 2015 and 2019, 
University Police Department 
data shows reported cases of rape 
averaged more than 16 reports per 
year — following a change relative 
to UF’s steady student population. 
However, in 2020, a sharp decrease 
in cases coincided with the 
COVID-19 campus shutdown that 
shook up student life and housing.
With the closure of UF’s campus 
in March 2020, reports decreased 
by more than half compared to 
previous years — with seven 
cases reported throughout the year 
while campus housing remained 
closed for almost six months. So 
far this year there have been eight, 
according to UPD’s crime log.
The log shows that of the 97 
total rape reports since 2015, only 
five have resulted in an arrest. 
Of the remaining cases, 13 were 
withdrawn and 60 are still pending. 
A major issue facing the country 
with regards to sexual assault cases 
has been delaying the examination 
of the forensic evidence related to these cases, according to the Rape 
Abuse and Incest National Network 
(RAINN). Legislation passed in 
Florida earlier this year, known 
as Gail’s Law, seeks to address 
the backlog crisis. The law creates 
a system by which rape kits can 
be monitored to provide victims 
updates on the kits’ progress 
through the justice system.  
According to UPD’s public 
guidelines, the Clery Act definition 
of rape is the “penetration, no 
matter how slight, of the vagina 
or anus, with any body part or 
object, or oral penetration by a sex 
organ of another person, without 
the consent of the victim,” with no 
victim distinction based on gender.
Under the Clery Act, instituted 
in 1990 to ensure federal oversight 
in the disclosure of campus crimes 
by colleges and universities, UF and 
universities across the country are 
required to keep students notified 
about criminal activity that could 
threaten their safety. 
Out of Florida’s largest public 
universities — University of Central 
Florida, UF, Florida International 
University and University of South 
Florida — UF is first in reported 
rape cases proportionate to student 
population, according to most 
recent Clery Act data. 
UF averaged nearly four cases 
per 10,000 students in 2019. The 
other universities had a close 
average of two to three cases per 10,000 students.
Not all instances of rape and 
sexual assault at UF are reported to 
the university, as many victims of 
sexual assault do not come forward 
with their stories. Therefore, no 
discussion of sexual assault data 
can provide a complete picture of 
the crisis. 
According to a study by 
The Association of American 
Universities, one in four female 
undergraduate students and 13% 
of all university students will 
be a victim of “nonconsensual 
sexual contact by physical force or 
inability to consent” during their 
university experience.
Comparing the study’s estimates 
to the 2019 UPD crime log would 
mean less than 1% of victims filed 
a report after their rape.
The data required for disclosure 
is generally limited to crimes that 
occur within university property 
within a mile away from campus 
borders.
At UF, the Clery Act covers all 
crimes that occur either on UF’s 
campus or in housing complexes 
that are “reasonably contiguous,” 
said Kate Moore, Assistant 
Director of the UF Office of Clery 
Act Compliance. This includes all 
on-campus residence halls, the 
three off-campus student housing 
facilities owned by UF — The 
Continuum, Infinity Hall and 
Tanglewood Village — and Greek life houses, Moore said.
Although not included under the 
Clery Act, students may sometimes 
also receive Timely UF Alerts, 
or phone notifications of notable 
crimes, that took place off campus. 
Notifications of off-campus 
criminal activity are generally 
sent out if the incidents involve 
students. The university and city 
police departments maintain a 
level of coordination to ensure 
UPD is notified of relevant off-
campus criminal activity involving 
students, said AnnaLee Rodriquez, 
UF’s Office of the Vice President for 
Business Affairs spokesperson. 
A UPD supervisor or a member of 
UF’s Office of Clery Act Compliance 
would decide what constitutes a 
timely warning based on standard 
guidelines, Rodriquez said. “It is all based on the legal 
standard for issuance,” Moore 
said. “It’s something that has that 
element of an ongoing or continuing 
threat to the campus.”
There is not complete 
consistency between rape data 
reported under the Clery Act and 
the number of rape cases included 
in the UF crime log. 
Like any other university that 
receives federal financial aid, UF 
must report timely warnings to “all 
members of the UF community” for 
potentially ongoing and dangerous 
incidents in and around its campus.
ccasale@alligator.org
@vanityhack
oateyah@alligator.org
@OAteyahWhat do numbers show about sexual assault on and around UF campus?
Carolina Ilvento / / Alligator Staff
About 5% of reported rape cases result in arrest at UF