We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperSenate shake-up
Change Party won 12 seats in last week’s election,  pg. 6
Fuchs fulfills a promise
Read the UF president’s latest column,  pg. 11California kid
The Florida golfer, now an upperclassmen, 
is ready to lead the Gators deep into the 
postseason. Read more on pg. 15
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 7
THE MARCH WAS 
ONE OF 650 OTHER 
DEMONSTRATIONS 
ACROSS THE COUNTRY
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
MaryAnn Riggs remembers 
protesting anti-abortion legislation 
in the 1970s. Over 50 years later, 
she brought the same energy to 
Saturday’s North Central Florida 
March for Reproductive Rights & 
Justice.
The 66-year-old Ocala resident 
held up a sign that read, “I can’t 
believe I have to protest this sh-- 
again.”
“You really have to let your 
voice be known nowadays,” she 
said. “If you don’t stand up and 
say what you believe in, it will 
disappear. You can’t take that 
right for granted anymore.”
Alongside 650 other Women’s 
March events happening 
simultaneously across the 
country, Gainesville pro-choice 
advocates marched in a rally 
Oct. 2. Activists highlighted 
reproductive issues, such as 
access to abortion and menstrual 
products, equitable prison birth 
conditions and Florida’s Heartbeat 
Act bill proposal.
Three hundred North Central 
Florida residents joined the 
national movement in two 
separate marches — one starting 
at Depot Park and the other 
starting at University Avenue and 
Northwest 13th Street.
The march was organized by 
a coalition of 10 organizations 
and people, ranging from student 
groups like UF College Democrats 
to community activist groups like 
North Central Florida Indivisible 
and the Gainesville chapter of 
the National Women’s Liberation 
Movement.
Danielle Hawk and Amol 
Jethwani led a crowd of over 
200 marchers from Depot Park to 
Cora P. Roberson Park, as they 
chanted, “No Justice; No Peace,” 
and “Here to stay: Roe v. Wade.”
Hawk, a 27-year-old 
Democratic candidate for 
Florida’s 3rd Congressional 
District, said abortion access is a 
personal issue for her as someone 
of reproductive age. Reproductive rights are a large part of her 
campaign’s platform, she said.
As an organizer of the event, 
Hawk said the march was 
planned to highlight the local 
issues occurring in Florida and 
Alachua County.
She said the event was 
important in bringing Gainesville’s 
two often-divided parts together: 
the university and the residential 
area.
“It’s almost symbolic to show 
our community coming together 
from different walks of life — and 
literally from different walks — 
coming together to the rally to 
unite with one another and to say, 
loud and clear, that anti-choice 
legislation has no place here,” 
Hawk said.
Simultaneously, another group 
from University Avenue and 13th 
Street marched down University 
Avenue and Southwest Sixth 
Street behind a banner that read, 
“National Women’s Liberation.”
Rachel Wolfrey, a 20-year-
old UF political science and 
public relations junior, set up a 
giveaway of 24 morning-after pills 
provided by Planned Parenthood 
Generation Action.
Wolfrey said she’s proud to 
be a part of making history by 
marching alongside the other 650 
marches happening across the 
country.
“I am one very pissed-
off woman,” Wolfrey said. “I 
am not going to sit silently or 
complacently while my rights are 
being taken away.”
Kiara Laurent and Karine 
Dieuvil, members of GoDDsville 
Dream Defenders, pointed to the 
case of Erica Thompson, who 
gave birth inside a jail cell in 
August and lost her child, as an 
example of the treatment.
Laurent said Thompson’s case 
speaks to how Black pain is often 
ignored.
“I’m here standing for Erica 
Thompson because Black women 
should be believed the first time,” 
Laurent said. “When I say I’m in 
pain, I ain’t lying. It hurts.”
Cara Loudermilk, a 24-year-
old Gainesville resident, marched 
from Depot Park holding a sign 
that read, “If men could get Hundreds march through Gainesville in support of abortion rights
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Protestors march down West University Avenue toward Southwest Sixth Street during the North 
Central Florida March for Reproductive Rights & Justice on Saturday, Oct. 2, 2021. The group of 
over 100 converged at Cora P. Roberson Park with another group that started at Depot Park.
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
Lee en español en la página 14
UF is inviting a second round 
of candidates for its Chief Diversity 
Officer vacancy this week.
The CDO position was created in 
2018 following white supremacist 
Richard Spencer being invited to 
speak on campus and an incident 
where an administrator rushed 
graduating Black students off stage.
The UF CDO search committee 
has been looking at possible CDO 
candidates since February when the university’s first and former 
CDO Antonio Farias resigned. Farias 
left UF to become the University of 
Colorado Denver’s vice chancellor.
The committee, which consists 
of 16 students, faculty and staff 
appointed by UF President Kent 
Fuchs, has since invited one round 
of candidates to campus at the end 
of the Spring semester. As of Sept.13, 
the committee agreed to interview a 
second round of possible candidates 
and invite them onto campus to 
meet and engage with students.
Some UF students and campus 
diversity organizations want to hear 
more about what’s going into the 
process to find a new CDO.
LaRaven Temoney, a 24-year-old political science doctoral student 
and secretary for the Black Graduate 
Student Organization said she 
believes the university needs to be 
more transparent about the hiring 
process. 
“I’m not sure if UF is really 
clear on what they want in a Chief 
Diversity Officer,” she said. “It 
seems like they want someone 
who’s already a Chief Diversity 
Officer.”
Temoney said an ideal candidate 
would have experience with conflict 
management and facilitating 
uncomfortable conversations. She’s 
looking for someone who is creative UF continues 7-month-long search 
for new Chief Diversity Officer
SEE RALLY,  PAGE 4SEE CDO SEARCH,  PAGE 7Students and campus diversity groups 
are concerned about the vacancyHOME
EDITIONCOMINGT oday’s WeatherSTUDENTS AND 
SUSTAINABILITY EXPERTS 
SAY THE PLAN IS A STEP 
BACKWARD FOR GREEN 
ENERGY POLICY
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
Students donning Gators shirts 
wander through the maze of 
closed-off streets on the University 
of Florida campus. 
Obscured behind some of 
the green fences and striped 
barricades, construction services 
the university’s steam pipes. 
Students are mostly oblivious to 
what resides beyond the gates, 
said Stephen Mulkey, a UF 
sustainability professor.
“I walk into the university and 
my heart just breaks,” Mulkey 
said. “How dare they do that to the 
future of these kids?”
The power plant approved over 
summer is anticipated to operate 
on natural gas, which primarily 
consists of methane. Mulkey said 
it is morally reprehensible to use a 
greenhouse gas like methane at this 
crucial juncture in history, where 
the fate of young people is riding 
on these long-lasting decisions.
The UF Board of Trustees 
approved the Central Energy Plant 
Project in June to the dismay of 
some staff and students. Protesters 
booed the board’s approval, which 
they said was made over Summer 
when many students were off 
campus due to the COVID-19 
pandemic — leaving many students 
to find out about the university’s 
plan less than three months before 
its final decision in December.
After about 50 protesters 
demanded the university 
administration halt the gas-fired 
energy plant Sept. 24, UF President 
Kent Fuchs explained the board’s 
vision for moving the project 
forward Sept. 28.
Fuchs said the initiative is 
critically important and will 
help the university meet energy 
demands for the growing campus 
and support research efforts.  
The plant will produce both 
steam and electricity while 
balancing efficiency, cost-
effectiveness and environmental 
considerations, Fuchs said. The 
facility will be located on Gale 
Lemerand Drive.
“We can’t wait to move forward 
on this far-reaching effort,” Fuchs 
said.
But chants heard by passersby 
on the corner of University Avenue 
and 13th Street demand a different 
approach. 
“No more oil, keep our carbon 
in the soil!” “Divest! Divest! It’s in 
our best interest!” 
Climate Action Gator President 
Makenzie Griffin led the protest 
charge in an attempt to stop UF’s 
plans for a gas plant that will be 
in commission for decades. The 
protest’s goal was to push the 
university away from outdated 
technology and toward more 
sustainable options, such as 
renewable energy.
“We don’t want empty promises 
anymore,” said Griffin, a 22-year-old zoology senior.
Griffin pointed to UF’s 
commitment to reach carbon 
neutrality by 2025, which she said 
is not possible if the university 
only reduces emissions by 25%.
She wants to see UF follow the 
example of other universities in 
the nation that were able to reduce 
carbon emissions by more than 
half through solar energy. Climate 
Action Gator is working to present 
a solar proposal to UF with logistics 
and pricing.
As UF approves gas-fired energy 
plans, Harvard University said 
it will end all of its investments 
in fossil fuels, according to the 
Washington Post.
“It gives me hope that other 
universities are going to follow 
suit, especially our own,” Griffin 
said. “But it’s also disheartening 
that UF doesn’t seem to talk much 
about their investments.”
While UF provides an education 
to its students, she asked what 
good that education is if there’s no 
future to apply it in.
“Do better,” Griffin said. 
“Follow in the footsteps of these 
other top universities who have 
shown that it’s possible to do 
better … I know that UF has the 
money and they have the land. Use 
it the way students want it to be 
used.”
Despite opposition from 
students and staff, UF General 
Counsel attorney Colt Little said 
the plan will drive substantial 
improvement for the university’s 
carbon footprint. 
“The University of Florida has 
ambitious green energy goals,” 
Little said.
The Central Energy Plant Project 
will be the university’s largest 
source of energy, anticipating 
a 25% reduction to its overall 
carbon footprint, Little said, 
which is roughly the equivalent of 
shifting 18,000 U.S. homes to zero-
emission electricity on an annual 
basis.
The reductions come from 
improving UF’s steam supply 
efficiency, shifting about 60% of 
campus electricity from the grid, 
applying a combined heat and 
power approach and reducing the 
distance electricity needs to travel.
Little said UF recognizes the 
plant is only the first step in a larger 
process to meet environmental 
goals. 
The university is looking 
for technological solutions that 
can burn more environmentally 
friendly fuel sources in the future. 
But faculty say there are still 
financial limitations on those 
solutions today.
“All this positive, wonderful, 
forward-looking language, yet 
the whole damn thing is built on 
methane — fracked methane,” 
Mulkey said.
He said methane is the worst 
energy source UF could use apart 
from coal. Methane heats the 
climate over 80 times more than 
carbon dioxide in the first 20 years 
after it enters the atmosphere. After 
20 years, most of the methane 
becomes carbon dioxide, which 
can last centuries.
Currently, UF’s steam needs are primarily met through a Duke 
Energy-owned and operated 
central cogeneration facility, UF 
Vice President of Business Affairs 
Curtis Reynolds said.
The Duke Energy Facility has 
been in operation for 25 years and 
is nearing the end of its service life 
and contract, Reynolds said, which 
will be decommissioned by the end 
of 2027.
The facility is not directly 
connected to the university’s 
electrical distribution system. UF is 
a retail customer of Duke Energy. 
On an annual basis, UF purchases 
more than 750,000 pounds of 
steam, he said, which is supplied 
to over 131 campus buildings.
“Through this effort, we 
would like to achieve steam 
independence,” Reynolds said.
The proposed energy project 
outlines three construction 
efforts: a central energy plant, 
thermal utility infrastructure and 
an electrical distribution system. 
None of the university’s existing 
infrastructure will be sold as part 
of this process, Reynolds said.
After scouring UF’s webpage 
statements, Mulkey said he 
struggled to find a single mention 
of methane, showcasing a lack of 
transparency. 
“It’s breaking trust with future 
generations at UF to invest in 
methane-fired — any kind of fossil 
fuel — at this point,” Mulkey said. 
Instead, he said the energy plan 
should progressively move UF to 
strictly renewable sourcing.
UF spokesperson Hessy 
Fernandez didn’t provide a 
response on UF’s current carbon 
dioxide and greenhouse gas 
emissions nor expected emissions 
for the new plant.
“At this time, the university 
cannot provide an exact amount 
of greenhouse gases content as we 
do not know the specifics around 
the plant,” Fernandez wrote in an 
email Saturday.
The contract will be for 25 to 35 
years. Construction of the Central 
Power Energy Plan is expected 
to begin in 2023, with the facility 
located on the south side of the 
commuter parking lot on Gale 
Lemerand Drive and south of 
Museum Road, Fernandez wrote. 
Mulkey believes the plant goes 
against the mission of an institution 
of higher learning: maintenance 
and renewal of civilization.
“We don’t need any more 
science,” Mulkey said. “The 
science is stark, and the reality is 
right in our face. What we need is 
political action. We need to act.”
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 7 UF moves full steam ahead with gas-fired 
power plant plans despite student protest
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021pregnant, abortion clinics will be 
on every block like Starbucks.”
“The abortion laws are all about 
oppressing women,” Loudermilk 
said. “They don’t actually care 
about babies.”
Loudermilk said abortion clinics 
are important, especially because having babies can be dangerous for 
some people, and some almost die 
giving birth.
“It changes your body 
permanently,” Loudermilk said. 
“God forbid you don’t want to 
give it up, and you don’t even get 
government assistance a lot of the 
time.”
Krista Hogun-Knight, a 40-year-old Gainesville resident, is a mother 
of three. She brought her 10-year-
old son to the protest in hopes of 
being open and honest with her 
kids about political and social 
issues.
Hogun-Knight said choosing to 
be a mother is the hardest decision 
in the world.
“Every child should be a wanted 
child, and every parent should want 
to be a parent,” Hogun-Knight said.
Also marching from Depot 
Park, Fred Sowder, a 51-year-old Gainesville resident, held up a 
sign that read, “Time 2 Mess with 
Texas.”
He said a Texas-style abortion 
ban has no place in Florida.
During the summer, Texas 
passed H.B.1500, otherwise known 
as the Texas Heartbeat Bill. The bill 
bans abortions once an ultrasound 
can detect a fetal heartbeat. 
“We don’t want the same 
law that passed in Texas here in 
Florida,” Sowder said. “Women 
should have the right to choose. 
Without question, unapologetically, 
abortion should be available free on 
demand whenever needed.”
The two marches eventually 
met at Cora P. Roberson Park, 
accumulating over 300 attendees. 
The attendees were greeted by the 
organizers who set up tables at the 
entrance and live music.
On the outskirts of the park, 
however, were a handful of anti-
abortion counterprotesters.
Jennifer Friend, a 54-year-old 
Alachua County resident, said she 
heard about the national movement 
of women’s reproductive rights 
marches and looked online for a 
local one to attend.
But Friend had a different reason 
than most for attending the rally.
As hundreds of marchers poured 
into Cora P. Roberson Park, Friend 
waited on the sidewalk holding a 
sign that read, “Don’t spread your 
legs.”
Friend said there are other 
options besides abortion and 
describes herself as a pro-lifer. 
She supports Texas’ Heartbeat Act 
and would support it if Florida 
replicated something similar.
“We already killed too many 
babies as it is,” Friend said. “It’s 
affecting all communities ... It’s just not right. Those babies have a 
right to live, and just because you 
don’t have the money to raise them 
or you don’t want to raise them 
doesn’t mean they don’t have the 
right to be on this Earth.”
Chanae Jackson, a 42-year-
old East Gainesville resident and 
activist, said the issue has become 
very personal for her. She had 
to rush her 17-year-old daughter 
J’Niyah Gilbert to Orlando Regional 
Medical Center Sept. 28 because of 
a menstrual problem.
One of the solutions that might 
have been needed to solve J’Niyah’s 
medical issue was birth control.
“People don’t understand that 
it’s bigger than somebody needing 
birth control to decide if they want 
to have sex or not,” Jackson said. 
“It actually is that meaning between 
the difference of life and death. I 
want us to think bigger.”
Elected officials like Gainesville 
City Commissioner David Arreola 
and Alachua County Commissioner 
Anna Prizzia also showed their 
support for the cause.
Arreola said he’s urging Florida 
residents to acknowledge that an 
attack on abortion rights is not 
hypothetical. With a Texas-style 
abortion ban working its way 
through the state legislature, the 
attack is already happening.
“I wanted to be here today 
because I think that the bill that was 
recently filed in the Florida House is 
a direct attack on women’s rights,” 
Arreola said. “Being here today, I 
think, is a statement to everybody, 
particularly Senators Keith Perry 
and Chuck Clemons, who are going 
to have to vote on this legislation.”
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgRALLY,  from pg. 1Right to choose
THE FLORIDA HEARTBEAT ACT WAS 
FILED ONLY 22 DAYS AFTER THE 
TEXAS HEARTBEAT ACT TOOK EFFECT
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
Texas’ abortion bill has made its way to 
the Florida legislature, reigniting a decades-
old debate. 
Florida state representative Webster 
Barnaby filed the Florida Heartbeat Act bill 
Sept. 22 — less than a month after Texas’ bill 
went into effect Sept. 1 making abortion illegal 
after a fetus’ heartbeat is detected. 
In Texas, at least $10,000 can be granted 
to anyone who sues a person involved in 
helping a woman get an abortion past the 
six-week mark — except for pregnant women 
themselves. 
Similarly, in Florida’s bill, abortion would 
be allowed until detection of a fetal heartbeat, 
which generally happens about six weeks into 
a pregnancy. With proper documentation, 
exceptions are available for victims of rape, 
incest, domestic violence or human trafficking.
On Oct. 2, more than 300 marched 
to Cora P. Roberson Park to oppose the 
legislation. Florida politicians like House of 
Representatives Democratic candidate Danielle 
Hawk and Alachua County Commissioner Anna Prizzia attended the protest, showing 
they also oppose the Florida Heartbeat Act.
Kai Christmas, a 24-year-old Gainesville 
resident, organized another protest Sept. 
9 outside Sira, a crisis pregnancy center 
located at 912 NW 13th St. — just outside 
of Gainesville’s Planned Parenthood. Crisis 
pregnancy centers are intended to dissuade 
women from getting abortions, often 
misleading women who intended to go to the 
abortion center next door. 
“They do everything to get you into the 
door,” Christmas said. “These are places that 
prey on pregnant people’s vulnerabilities.”
Christmas started organizing the protest a 
day after the Texas Heartbeat Act was put into 
place. The Texas abortion law poses a large 
threat to women around the nation, as many 
travel to Florida to seek abortions, they said. 
They said they want to see easier access to 
abortions in Florida and wishes for the 24-hour 
waiting period requirement to be terminated.
“It [Texas bill] empowers vigilante bounty 
hunters, and it incentivizes people to harass 
and surveil others,” Christmas said. “It’s truly 
unprecedented.”  
Rep. Yvonne Hayes Hinson, who represents 
parts of Alachua County in the Florida House, 
said she believes the bill was filed to challenge 
Roe v. Wade and appease state Republicans. 
She said this isn’t the first time in recent history that state lawmakers tried to unjustly 
impose restrictions on abortions. Florida’s 
current law bans abortions after 24 weeks into 
pregnancy, right before the beginning of the 
third trimester, with an exception being an 
emergency.  
“When has anyone ever legislated the male 
body like they attempt to legislate the female 
body?” she said.
Others don’t see eye-to-eye with pro-choice 
activists.
Mark Harrington, the president of the anti-
abortion organization Created Equal, is in 
favor of the act and believes it, and similar 
bills across the country, is a start to overturn 
Roe v. Wade. Created Equal supports the 
Texas and Florida heartbeat acts, as it travels 
across the country to college campuses to 
engage in conversation and conduct debates 
over abortion.
“Everybody agrees that if there’s heartbeat 
there’s life,” Harrington said. “If we can protect 
the unborn and the detectable heartbeats then 
we’re detecting human life.”
The U.S. Constitution is the supreme law 
of the land and overrides Florida’s right to 
privacy, Harrington said. Victims of rape, 
incest and domestic violence shouldn’t be 
exempt from the heartbeat acts, he said. He 
wants abortion to be abolished completely.
“We don’t have the right to kill them,” Harrington said. “The right to privacy doesn’t 
extend to a mother killing their offspring.”
Turning Point USA UF President Abigail 
Streetman, 20, is also in support of the act. 
Incremental change on Florida’s current 
abortion law is necessary, and this act is the 
best solution, Streetman said. 
“When you make the decision to sleep with 
somebody, you should know that every single 
time you make that decision you’re taking the 
risk of getting pregnant,” she said. 
The unborn have the right to bodily 
autonomy, so it doesn’t invade a woman’s 
right to privacy, Streetman said. 
On the other hand, Lauren Goodhue, the 
48-year-old executive director of the Florida 
Alliance of Planned Parenthood Affiliates, is 
baffled by the Florida bill.
“They’ve [young women] never known a 
life where they didn’t have the right to bodily 
autonomy and to decide whether and when to 
parent for themselves,” Goodhue said. 
Two similar events were held on the 
same day as the Sept. 9 Gainesville protest in 
Tallahassee and Miami, Goodhue said. There 
were also 650 protests across the country in 
support of reproductive rights Oct. 2. 
“People are ready,” she said. “They’re 
really mad about the actions of our state.”
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgFlorida lawmakers to hear Texas-style heartbeat abortion law, Gainesville residents express mixed viewsAlan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Abortion-rights protestors cross Southwest 13th Street at the North Central Florida March for 
Reproductive Rights & Justice on Saturday, Oct. 2, 2021. The group of over 100 marched to Cora 
P. Roberson Park to hear from a range of speakers including politicians and community activists.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
For a year, Gator Party has 
held control over SG Senate with 
a supermajority of more than 60 
senators out of 100 total seats. 
Change Party whittled down 
the supermajority by 12 seats last 
week.
Election night resulted in 
Gator Party securing 37 seats and 
Change securing 12. In the Spring 
2021 election, Change only won 
three out of the 50 available. 
Change campaigned on adding 
needed funds to the Counseling 
and Wellness center, renaming 
buildings named after “bigots” 
and extending the Title IX statute 
of limitations on sexual assault in 
the Student Handbook from one 
year to four.
Kenya Warner, Change Party 
treasurer, wrote in an email that 
her party’s new senators will be a 
force to be reckoned with. 
“Change senators are 
ready to step up and take the 
necessary strides that Gator has 
unfortunately been lacking in,” 
she wrote. 
Despite the parties’ differences, 
Warner wrote the two have 
mutual goals of improving the 
quality of life on campus.Gator Party campaigned for 
adding Gator 1 cards to mobile 
wallets, adding links on ONE.
UF for mental health assistance 
and re-establishing parking ticket 
forgiveness. 
Noah Fineberg, the co-
campaign manager of Gator 
Party, is excited to hear the ideas, 
initiatives and proposals new 
senators will introduce.
“I believe in building 
relationships with people, 
regardless of party affiliation,” 
he wrote in an email. “We are 
all elected to serve the students 
and while we may have different 
approaches in regards to how to 
best achieve these goals, I know 
we will still get things done.”
Warner believes Change now 
has more power to disrupt some 
of the norms seen in Senate, such 
as Gator Party leaders’ recurring 
calls to “previous question” 
when passing motions in order to 
impede objections and debate.
Utt wrote he’s seen Gator 
invoke the motion hundreds of 
times throughout his tenure as 
a senator. The motion requires 
two-thirds of senators to approve 
it, which is something Gator 
Party easily has. 
“I do feel there are going to 
be a lot of changes in Senate 
including debates,” Warner wrote. “Now that we have the 
ability to form a caucus, we’re 
able to have a more influence on 
what goes on the floor and what 
policies are made rather than 
simply holding opposition.”
Due to Gator Party’s massive 
numbers within the Senate, 
it’s difficult for minority 
senators, such as Independent 
Senator Zachery Utt, to have 
much decision-making power. 
Additionally, if the Senate mostly 
consists of a single party in 
which almost everyone agrees 
on a certain bill, senators don’t 
make room for debate.
All newly elected senators will 
be sworn in during Senate Sept. 
5, which will be Independent 
Senator Zachery Utt’s last day. 
Utt believes that despite Change’s 
low numbers, they can do plenty. 
Procedurally, however, 12 seats 
are the same as one in terms of 
the ability to pass legislation.
Bills, resolutions and motions 
are usually passed through a 
majority vote or unanimous 
consent when more than half 
of the Senate body decides 
to support a certain policy, 
according to the Senate Rules and 
Procedures. 
Other than a majority vote, it 
usually takes at least one-third 
of senators voting for something to get it done, Utt said. What the 
new Change senators can do, 
however, is set an example for 
how Senate should be run.
“They can identify corruption 
and push back against abuse,” 
Utt wrote. “They can make sure 
that voice of the student body is present in the room where 
decisions are being made — even 
if the leaders in charge choose 
not to listen.”
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgChange Party gains could challenge Senate status-quo
Catherine McCarthy / / Alligator Staff
Ryan Wilder, Change Party founder and UF alum, celebrates the 
party winning 12 seats in the Student Government Senate on 
Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2021 at the Reitz Union. Wilder previously 
served as a District C senator.Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Annabelle Groux (left) leans on Lauren Lemasters (right) while waiting to hear Student Government 
Senate election results at the Reitz Union on Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2021. Groux was elected as 
a senator for District A.Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Noah Fineberg (left) and Annabelle Groux (right) embrace while 
celebrating the Student Government Senate election results at 
the Reitz Union on Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2021. Fineberg and 
Groux were both elected as District A senators.
Newly elected officials will begin 
their one-year terms TuesdayMONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
visitevisite   alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/   o escanee el código QRo escanee el código QR
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!
NEW donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.
grifolsplasma.comNEW Plasma Donors 
EARN $500
for 5 donations!*
2315 NW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Bring Valid Student/Military ID to 
qualify for additional BONUSES!
*fees subject to change without notice004IA3
004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 9/2/21   5:27 PM9/2/21   5:27 PM
Thomas Huffman 5th Deg. AikikaiThomas Huffman 5th Deg. Aikikai
aikidoofgainesvilleaikidoofgainesville .com.com
352-494-7816352-494-7816
4424 SW 35th Terr.4424 SW 35th Terr.
SELF DEFENSESELF DEFENSE
JAPANESE SWORDJAPANESE SWORD
Free Thursday eveningsFree Thursday evenings
Free kids classes Saturday morningsFree kids classes Saturday mornings
AIKIDOAIKIDO
OF GAINESVILLEOF GAINESVILLE
Download the FREE   
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$15 Haircut with Student ID
UF FACULTY SENATE WILL VOTE TO 
FINALIZE PLANS SOON
By Mariana Larsen
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students could soon mark Feb. 9 in 
their calendars as a day off from class.
Plans are in motion to cancel a day of 
classes in Spring to celebrate the university 
reaching top five in a national list of public 
universities, UF President Kent Fuchs said.
U.S. News & World Report announced 
UF’s new ranking, which tied it with Uni -
versity of California, Santa Barbara and Uni -
versity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Sept. 
12. The publication measures how well the 
universities perform in several categories 
and counts up total points. Some categories 
include student outcomes, faculty resources 
and academic reputation, according to its 
website. 
In 2019, Fuchs wrote a tweet that read 
“Note to self— when UF reaches Top 5, ask 
the faculty if I can cancel classes for a day-long celebration.” 
Now, there is speculation on campus as to 
whether the president would keep his word. 
Fuchs confirmed he is proposing to the 
Faculty Senate to cancel classes on Feb. 9. 
It will vote on a decision within the next 
month or two, he said.
In order to cancel classes in non-emergen -
cy situations, he said it is protocol for the 
president to go through the Faculty Senate 
for approval.
“We’re going to have a day of gratitude 
and celebration,” Fuchs said. “A day to cele -
brate all the hard work that everyone has put 
in — for almost two years by then around 
COVID — and also what we call our univer -
sity values … around excellence, around in -
novation, around inclusion.”
He plans to ask different colleges and or -
ganizations to brainstorm ways they would 
like to honor the occasion before the event. 
He said there’s a possibility there will be 
food trucks as well as a concert on campus.
Jose Cespedes, a 21-year-old UF mechani -
cal engineering senior, is looking forward to a potential day off from school. He said he 
believes reaching the top five is an important 
milestone.
“You know I’d say we worked pretty 
damn hard, so maybe a day off isn’t bad,” 
he said.
Cespedes said although school ranking 
doesn’t mean much to him, he believes it 
has a value of social importance, especially 
when it comes to employers. 
“It shows the quality of students that 
these schools produce,” he said. “A rank -
ing would show ‘oh they went to a top five 
ranking?’ That means they’re a hard-working 
student.”
Fuchs said the next step to increase UF’s 
ranking is to shift the focus to improving 
each college at the university. He believes if 
all of the colleges move up in ranking, then 
it would lift the university’s ranking overall. 
Having a high ranking gives the univer -
sity national recognition and gives students 
pride about where they go to school, he said.
“It’s not like winning a football game,” he 
said. “It’s a different kind of school spirit, but it contributes to the pride in your uni -
versity. And in some sense, it makes the 
degrees that come from the university even 
more valuable.”
@MarianaLarsen29UF looks to celebrate top 5 status with day off in Spring 
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
A top 5 banner is seen on Stadium 
Road on Sunday, Oct. 3, 2021.
in his or her approach to diversity 
and inclusion while directly 
interacting with students, faculty 
and staff.
“UF on paper has a decent 
amount of diversity,” Temoney said. 
“But when it comes to rankings for 
different things, UF’s diversity and 
inclusion efforts suck compared 
to a lot of institutions at the same 
stature.”
She believes the long absence of 
a CDO hinders progress on President 
Fuchs’ promises following the Black 
Lives Matter protests last summer. 
“At the very least, put an interim,” she said. “You put an 
interim for everything else. I’m kind 
of confused why that wasn’t made 
a priority, especially when no one 
in the administration is an expert in 
[diversity, equity and inclusion].”
Carmi Thompson, president of 
UF’s chapter of the Society for the 
Advancement of Chicanos and 
Native Americans in Science, said 
the university should be open to 
different forms of knowledge and 
expertise. Sometimes those in CDO 
roles are not necessarily in it for the 
right reasons, she said.
“By having that more narrow 
lens for a job that should be 
innovative and transformative, you could miss out on other 
highly qualified candidates who 
have the background, who have 
the understanding, who have the 
compassion and the empathy 
that you need in a strong leader,” 
Thompson said.
The 26-year-old graduate 
assistant said she also hopes the 
position continues to be a voice and 
ally for those historically excluded 
from higher education.
Thompson hopes the next CDO 
takes cues from Antonio Farias. 
She said the previous CDO was 
supportive of student initiatives.  
Thompson said she hopes the 
new CDO leads with empathy and 
compassion and listens to all of 
the voices that make up the UF 
community. 
“At UF, we talk a lot about being a top-five institution,” she said. “But 
we can’t be a top-five institution if 
we do not care for the people that 
make up all of these units and all 
of these departments across the 
school.”
Although she understands 
the search process for a suitable 
candidate can be long, Thompson 
believes the CDO position is critical 
and should be prioritized among 
other administrative roles.
CDO search committee chair 
Jodi Gentry said the process has 
been extensive. UF doesn’t want 
to exclude students and faculty 
who were not on campus over the 
Summer from participating in the 
search process, she said.
“We do have a sense of urgency,” 
Gentry said. “We really do know that 
this is important and we’re moving forward. But I think it shows how 
important it is that we are looking 
for the absolute right person for us.”
Gentry said the university and the 
committee is looking for someone 
who’s been a Chief Diversity Officer 
at a university or system level before 
given how large and complex UF is. 
The committee is also looking 
for someone who has strategic 
responsibility for promoting and 
enabling inclusive excellence for 
faculty, staff and students, Gentry 
said. This is because the role of 
the CDO is to provide leadership, 
expertise and even a vision for how 
the university can work together 
and create a model for inclusion, 
diversity, equity and access.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgCDO SEARCH,  from pg. 1Sense of urgency8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
THE UNIVERSITY’S ACCESSIBILITY 
AND ACADEMIC RIGOR 
DREW HER IN, SHE SAID
By Melanie Peña
Alligator Staff Writer
With each step, Molly Wagner’s small 
frame stumbled toward the orphanage direc -
tor. She placed a book in Wagner’s lap. 
As Wagner ran her fingers along the spine 
and crinkled the thin paper, she paused and 
glanced at a photo glued onto a decorated 
scrapbook page. It was of two boys, two girls, 
a mother and a father.
“You know who these are?” the woman 
asked.
She scanned the photograph. The orphan -
age would often have families sponsor chil -
dren.
These photos must be of a family who 
sponsors my medical treatments and food. 
The woman explained to Wagner that this 
was her new family, she had been adopted. 
That was the first time Wagner, now a 
19-year-old UF psychology freshman, saw 
her family —  in a photograph while at the 
House of Love Orphanage in Guilin, China. 
She was born in China with Ullrich muscular 
dystrophy, a rare degenerative genetic dis -
ease that leads to motor difficulties. 
“I prayed about getting a family,” she said. 
“Everybody told me America was great. I’m 
going to be eating fried chicken every day.”
After arriving in the U.S. in 2011, she 
owned her identity as a person with a disabil -
ity, overcame the expectations society set for 
her and made her way to UF.  She challenged 
what it meant to be mobility impaired.
She credits much of where she is today to 
her family adopting her.
Every day, her image popped up on Mau -
reen Wagner’s screen. And every day, Mau -
reen, who volunteered remotely for An Or -
phan’s Wish, called the orphanage director 
and asked if anyone had pulled Molly Wag -
ner’s paperwork.
One evening, the director sent Maureen 
pictures from a play the orphanage put on. 
Molly Wagner, wearing a robe and a crown, 
posed with her peers on stage. Maureen Wag -
ner sent them to her husband.
“Typically, when I would send him kids 
that I thought were cute, he would never re -
ally comment,” she said.
But William Wagner rushed down the 
stairs. He turned to his wife in a frenzy. How 
much is it to go get her?
“I knew I wasn’t going to be able to pull 
her paperwork and then say no,” Maureen 
Wagner said. “She fulfilled in me my biggest 
desire. She closed that empty space in my 
heart. She completed our family.”
For a year, William and Maureen Wagner 
sorted through all the proper paperwork and 
prepared to see Molly Wagner in China. The 
family was familiar with the process. They 
adopted their daughter Lilian Wagner from 
China in 2006 when she was 2 years old.
One of their sons, Oliver Wagner, was in 
10th grade when he joined his parents’ jour -
ney to pick up Molly Wagner. 
“There’s just really no words to describe 
that — meeting someone who’s going to be 
your sibling forever,” Oliver Wagner said.
Molly Wagner also remembers when she 
met her parents and siblings. It was the first 
time she saw someone who didn’t look like 
her.
But when William and Maureen Wagner 
picked her up, they could tell she was smarter than an average 10-year-old. Her duffel bags 
were stuffed with books. She chatted away 
with the translator, who said she expressed 
herself like an adult. 
“Here was this young, very vibrant, young 
girl,” William Wagner said. “Seeking infor -
mation, wanting to learn, wanting to know 
what the world was about. So talking to her 
was filled with a lot of questions.”
After multiple train rides and flights, Mol -
ly Wagner arrived at her new home in Ohio 
and met all four new siblings: Oliver, Noah, 
Lucy and Lilian.
Soon, her family took her to a clinic for 
testing. Doctors in China knew she had an 
illness but didn’t know how to diagnose her. 
A doctor at a neuromuscular clinic traced her 
troubles walking to Ullrich muscular dystro -
phy. The condition severely weakened her 
muscles, which led to her using a motorized 
wheelchair. 
“It didn’t really bother me,” Molly Wagner 
said. “I’d dealt with it all my life. It was just 
more like an answer to why I was the way I 
was.” 
She didn’t let the diagnosis stop her from 
what she always wanted — to learn. 
And it didn’t take for her long to become a 
top student, even when the family moved to 
Port Orange, Florida.
“I did always excel in school because that 
was something I could do,” Molly Wagner 
said. “I can’t necessarily excel in video games 
or basketball or jump rope.”
Before she started high school, she craved 
the chance for challenging coursework. That 
led her to the International Baccalaureate 
program.
Maureen Wagner worried the IB pro -
gram’s workload would be too overwhelm -
ing for Molly Wagner. She pleaded for her to 
reconsider.
Oh Molly, I don’t know about that. I’ve 
heard that it’s a lot of work. 
Her pleas didn’t ring. 
I’m going to prove to you that I can make 
it in this IB program.
And so Spruce Creek High School IB Coor -
dinator Karie Cappiello registered her for the 
advanced classes.
“IB is for kids wanting an academic chal -
lenge, but more importantly, it’s for global 
thinkers,” Cappiello said. “It’s for kids that 
are super motivated to do well and active in 
school, and that’s really what I saw in Molly.”
During the span of her four years, Molly 
Wagner left a legacy behind at Spruce Creek 
High School. She even outperformed most IB 
students.
“Molly was the heart of our school,” Cap -
piello said. “It’s kind of hard not to love her.”
Molly Wagner did what most couldn’t do 
even with added obstacles. 
Everyday activities can take her up to an 
hour. She can’t jump in the shower and fin -
ish in 10 minutes. She can’t eat dinner in five 
minutes. But she could pen 4,000 word es -
says about classic literature like Romeo and 
Juliet.
“That’s two hours a night that she’s do -
ing something other than studying,” Mau -
reen Wagner said. “She typically is in bed at 
9:30 because she needs all of her ventilator 
therapy.”
The fall of her senior year, she faced an 
unforeseen hurdle.
Molly Wagner suffered two cases of a col -
lapsed lung and spent almost a month in the 
hospital. The healing process was slow, but 
she kept up with her schoolwork’s fast pace.
While in the hospital, Molly Wagner heard big news — Harvard wanted to interview her. 
Hospital nurses mobilized and prepared the 
head nurse’s office for the interview. They 
also had the ICU chief stationed nearby in 
case she needed emergency assistance. She 
was waitlisted by the university.
When Molly Wagner’s lung healed, she 
wrapped up her last semester of school with 
ease. Then, the long-awaited Senior Award 
Night arrived.  
The stage was littered with awards and 
plaques, but everybody’s eyes were set on the 
highest honor: The Hawk of the Year Award, 
an award determined by faculty nominations. 
Principal Todd Sparger pulled a dark 
drape off a photograph. The photo was of 
Molly Wagner. 
Beaming, she rolled onto the stage, and 
the crowd stood and cheered. 
“That was probably one of the biggest sur -
prises I’ve ever experienced,” she said.
Days later, she began to reflect on her col -
lege plans. She outlined a pros and cons list 
of Florida universities in terms of costs, ac -
cessibility and academics. The choice seemed 
clear.
She was set on UF after attending the 
university’s Youth Leadership Conference in 
February 2020. The conference consisted of 
leadership and group workshops, activities 
and games.
During the conference award ceremony, 
her team was honored as the best group.
Maureen Wagner gawked as she saw her 
daughter roll up the stage with her team -
mates to claim their award.
She feared Molly Wagner would have to 
pull up in the front while her partners walked 
up the stage; something that bothered her, 
but happened often. But this time the confer -
ence staff rolled a ramp for her. Maureen Wagner searched for the confer -
ence director and thanked him for accom -
modating her daughter. He told her the con -
ference counselors ordered the ramp to be 
placed that morning to ensure Molly Wagner 
had a way to celebrate with teammates on 
the stage. 
UF’s atmosphere of inclusivity continued 
to draw Wagner in.
When she visited UF, she noticed wel -
come brochures and posters that included 
people in wheelchairs along with buttons to 
open doors –– something that her high school 
didn’t have. It’s a small detail, but the photos 
made her feel represented as someone who is 
mobility impaired.
When she discovered Cypress Hall, a 
dorm recently constructed to accommodate 
mobility-impaired students, the school be -
came even more appealing. 
“I felt like that would make my transition 
easier, and then knowing that they’re also a 
really academically rigorous college, I knew 
that I wouldn’t be giving up a good education 
for accessibility,” she said.
Throughout her life, Molly Wagner always 
felt like she had something to prove. She 
needed to be better, smarter. 
“I just want to show that physical disabili -
ty does not mean mental disability,” she said. 
“I think a lot of times people don’t put that 
together. And they don’t have any reason to 
think otherwise, and that’s the problem.”
Her drive to learn made her an advo -
cate for people with disabilities. She hopes 
to challenge assumptions of motor impaired 
people and promote inclusivity. And now at 
UF, she can open her own doors.
@MelanieBombino
mpena@alligator.orgFrom China to UF, Molly Wagner challenges perceptions of disabilities
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Molly Wagner, 19, UF psychology and Chinese freshman, poses for a portrait 
outside of Anderson Hall. Wagner, who has muscular dystrophy, said she’s spent 
the past few weeks acclimating to life on campus.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021   ALLIGATOR   9 
THE CHANGE MAY AFFECT 
AFFORDABLE OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING
By Eve Thompson & Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writers
UF and the city of Gainesville are 
moving forward with discussions 
over providing graduate students with 
affordable housing.
The talks come after graduate students 
expressed concerns over plans to demolish 
Maguire Village and University Village 
South with no proposals to replace the 
complexes. The lack of room for graduate 
students on campus would leave them to 
find housing in the city, which is facing its 
own affordable housing crisis.
The issue was discussed in a city 
commission meeting June 10. 
In the meeting, Commissioner David 
Arreola called it counterintuitive to tear down the two buildings without plans 
to offer housing to those displaced. He 
said the only reason his parents were 
able to move to Gainesville was because 
of the type of housing Maguire and UVS 
offer.“These decisions are going to raise 
the price of housing for a lot of people,” 
Arreola said in the meeting. 
UF’s budget is about 72% of the total 
value of taxable property in Gainesville, 
meaning that any changes to UF’s housing 
has an impact on the surrounding city, 
Arreola said.
Additionally, UF plans to build a 
housing complex for honors students as 
well as one for athletes that will open in 
Fall 2023 adding 1,900 beds total. None 
of those beds are reserved for graduate 
students.
The number of honors students living 
on campus has decreased from Fall 2016 to Fall 2020, going from 1,031 students to 
658 students, according to public records. 
Student athletes living on campus, 
however, have increased during the same 
time period, from 108 to 168. 
The honors complex will cost between 
$175 million and $205 million to build. 
The athletics housing complex will cost 
between $60 million and $70 million. 
One room in either complex will cost 
$4,511 while a double room will cost 
$4,263 per room per semester starting in 
2024, according to public records. Today, 
the cheapest single room costs $2,930 
while the most expensive option costs 
$3,953. The cheapest double room costs 
$2,767 while the most expensive option 
costs $3,735. All prices are set to rise by 
4.5% annually.
This is a major shakeup for UF’s 
housing portfolio,” Arreola said. “They’re 
talking about closing affordable graduate 
housing, not replacing it.”
While new housing is a plus for 
affordability in the long run, housing costs 
are skyrocketing in the short term, he said. 
Arreola said he brought the issue up in 
a meeting with UF last week prompting 
plans to continue discussing a way for UF 
and the city to find a solution.
He suggested UF put money in Alachua 
County’s affordable housing trust. The 
trust was created almost a year ago but 
currently has no money in it, Arreola said.
Although it’s a suggestion Arreola likes, 
he said there aren’t any specific options 
that have been discussed yet. The future 
discussions between the university and 
the city are meant to find the best solution 
agreed upon by both parties.
UF’s Chief Financial Officer Chris 
Cowen said the university doesn’t want to 
make their situation the city’s problem. 
“If we’re closing two dorms and then saying to our married graduate students 
and families, ‘Go find housing,’ for 
that segment of the graduate student 
population, their main objective is 
affordability,” Cowen said. “And so they 
would immediately be competing directly 
with other members of the Gainesville 
community who also are looking at 
affordable housing.”
To avoid that, UF plans to partner with 
two developers by the end of the year, 
and Cowen said he believes they have 
identified a potential property to replace 
the complexes lost.
“We’ve heard graduate students,” 
Cowen said. “We understand their needs 
and we are committed to meeting them 
just as well as we can.”
Jonathan Orsini, previous president of 
the Graduate Student Council, said there 
are 1,469 beds aimed at graduate students 
and families on campus. Once the two 
complexes are demolished, there will be 
947, a loss of about 36%.
With the problem persisting in the 
city and no clear messaging from the 
university, graduate students are still 
worried about the future.
Thirty-five-year-old Emily Fahey and 
her husband, an anthropology doctoral 
student, currently live in Maguire Village 
with their two daughters. She said she 
feels at home in the complex.
“We could not afford to live anywhere 
else in Gainesville without having this 
cheap, safe option of Maguire and UVS 
and the other graduate housing villages,” 
Fahey said.
Isabella Douglas contributed to this report.
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.org
@AlexLugo67
alugo@alligator.orgUF enters talks with city about plans for graduate housing
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Maguire Village Commons is seen on Sunday, Sept. 26, 2021.
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
As of late September, more than 900 manatees have 
died in 2021, according to the Florida Fish and Wildlife 
Conservation Commission. The number of manatees that 
have died so far this year has been greater than any year 
since 2013.
A large number of the manatees in Florida waters reside 
in the Indian River Lagoon near Palm Bay, which has seen 
a significant amount of algae that prevents seagrass from 
growing adequately. Seagrass is the vegetation that grows 
in these waterways and acts as a major source of nutrition 
for manatees. 
Michael Walsh, a UF veterinary medicine professor, 
said manatees can also be found in Ichetucknee Springs, 
about 40 miles northwest of Gainesville, during colder 
months. The Florida manatee is thought to be one of the 
state’s trademark animals.
Walsh said manatees are now becoming overly reliant 
on power plant sites that produce artificial heat, which 
makes them stay in areas that might not have enough 
food. He said the decrease in the food supply is caused 
by a change in the water’s quality due in part to excess 
nutrients.
“That excess nutrient then can result in harmful algal 
blooms that contribute to the loss of sunlight because 
there’s more and more particulates that are put into the water system,” he said.
Walsh said this makes water more turbid, meaning it’s 
less transparent. 
“The more turbid your water is, the less sunlight gets 
through it,” Walsh said. “As turbidity increases, then 
the sun can’t get down into the deeper areas where the 
seagrasses are in those locations.”
Walsh said seagrass is necessary to conserve high-
quality water. As it worsens, the turbidity problem does, 
too.
“You’re into this vicious circle in terms of you take 
away the seagrass, you get poor water quality, [which] 
takes away the seagrass, which contributes to more poor 
water quality,” Walsh said.
The loss of seagrass means manatees cannot maintain 
their body temperatures in colder months, Walsh said.
Manatees have adapted to staying near power plants to 
stay warm when the weather cools, so they are generally 
not eager to leave when there’s a lack of food, Walsh said.
“When it gets to the point where [the manatees] have 
to make a choice now between where can I go for food 
versus staying warm ... a lot of them choose to stay warm 
because they don’t know where else to go,” Walsh said. 
“They haven’t done the migration that would’ve happened 
generations ago like their grandparents did or their great 
grandparents.”
Although the loss of seagrass is the leading cause of 
death for the manatee population this year, it is not the only factor. As of late September, more than 80 manatees 
have died as a result of boat collisions in 2021.
Ally Greco, Save the Manatee Club spokesperson, said 
boating tragedies can be avoided.
“If you’re out on the water, obey the posted speed 
zones,” Greco said. “They’re naturally kind of slow-
moving creatures because they don’t hunt anything, and 
they’re not prey for anything.” 
Greco also referred to her club’s website for other tips. 
Some of these tips include boating in deeper waters — 
while also being aware that manatees could be located 
there as well — and maintaining a distance if a manatee 
is spotted while one is boating.
In 2017, the federal government designated manatees 
as threatened after an endangered designation that had 
lasted for a few decades. Greco said this downlisting has 
led to a less robust effort to keep manatees protected and 
noted that it was made as a result of an examination of 
manatees’ population standing. 
Greco argued that this increase in the population 
does not mean people should be less persistent in their 
protection of manatees.
“More manatees means we have more manatees to 
protect,” he said. “So what we worry about is not having 
enough protections for their habitat.” 
She said if someone spots a manatee that is deceased 
or in distress they should call the Florida Fish and Wildlife 
Conservation Commission at 1-888-404-FWCC.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgFlorida manatees dying at unparalleled rates due to loss of food source
The Florida manatee is prominent in the state’ s freshwater springs10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
THE PROGRAM HELPS INTRODUCE 
EAST GAINESVILLE RESIDENTS TO A 
TRADITIONALLY INACCESSIBLE SPORT  
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
Dallis Brimm, 7, walked up to the tennis 
courts at T.B. McPherson Park, racket in 
hand, ready to play a round of tennis. A quiet 
rainfall hit the blue tennis court floor, but that 
didn’t stop Dallis from doing what she loves. 
Historically, more expensive and higher 
maintenance sports like tennis haven’t always 
been accessible to Black children like Dallis. 
Historic barriers like income disparities and 
post-effects of segregation linger today.
Now, there’s a discounted program in East 
Gainesville that hopes to tackle the inequality 
gap. 
The T.B. McPherson Pilot Program 
launched Sept. 13 and has brought tennis 
classes to East Gainesville for all ages at the 
park, located at 1717 SE 15th St.
The program, sponsored by the Gainesville 
chapter of 100 Black Men of Greater 
Florida and Aces in Motion, hopes to bring 
more sports programs to children in East 
Gainesville.
Dallis’ grandmother, community leader 
Latashia Brimm, heard about the program 
on Facebook and immediately thought of 
Dallis who saw tennis players on TV and took 
interest in the sport.
“She’s been excited,” Brimm said. “She’s 
been asking when she’s gonna get to hit the 
ball.”
Even though Dallis was the only one 
in attendance on Sept. 21, she took full 
advantage of it. 
“She has not expressed any interest in any 
sport other than this one,” Brimm said. 
She hopes Dallis acquires new skills she 
can use down the road and will be able to say 
she tried something new. 
Tennis facilitator Ebony Wiggins, 28, coaches kids in the program and takes care 
of the courts. 
“We wanted to branch out and start tennis 
out here so more kids can learn tennis and 
love to learn the game,” Wiggins said.
Tennis is generally a sport that requires 
families to have a disposable income, she 
said, so the program helps bring tennis to 
minorities generally underrepresented in the 
sport in East Gainesville.
Wiggins attended Abraham Lincoln 
Middle School in East Gainesville and was 
only ever familiar with basketball, soccer and 
volleyball. Her family didn’t have enough 
money for her to play tennis as a kid. Now, 
she’s excited to see children play tennis 
because of the discounted gameplay of $50 
for six weeks.
“If they decide that they love tennis and 
want to play some more, then we’re here to 
give that to them,” Wiggins said.
Christopher Champion, head tennis 
professional for Play Tennis Gainesville, 35, 
had a one-on-one session with 9-year-old 
Lainey Norton, the only child that showed up 
for the 4:30 p.m. class on Sept. 23.
Champion collaborated with 100 Black 
Men of Greater Florida Gainesville and Aces 
in Motion to bring the program to life.  
“We want to inform and educate the 
community about what tennis is, and try to 
make sure that individuals know that it’s 
accessible,” Champion said. 
He’s played the game since he was 3 years 
old and understands its influence on a person.
What separates tennis from other sports is 
the required decision making, Champion said. 
Because it is an individual sport as opposed to 
a team sport, the athlete must rely on himself 
or herself to make the complete decision. 
Jamar Hebert, the president and chairman 
of the organization, was approached by Play 
Tennis Gainesville to participate in the T.B. 
McPherson program.
“We may discover the next Venus or 
Serena,” Hebert said. Tennis is just one way to bring more 
resources to East Gainesville, Hebert said. 
Like Wiggins, Hebert recognizes a problem 
with the racial and socioeconomic makeup of 
recreational and professional tennis teams 
across the U.S. In East Gainesville, he said 
there are less sports programs offered to 
children in the area. 
“This is just one of many ways that we’re 
trying to bridge that gap,” Hebert said. “The 
game of tennis provides important life skills, 
lessons and mental and physical wellness to 
all.”
His organization hopes to inspire and 
encourage young Black males in particular, 
pushing them to join non-traditional sports 
like tennis. The organization’s motto is “what they see 
is what they’ll be,” Hebert said. 
“We firmly believe that exposing our two 
avenues into these programs, they’ll see it,” 
he said. “And hopefully they’ll be it.”
The program hosts three different groups: 
Red Ball Tennis 4 Kids, Orange Ball Tennis 4 
Kids and Love to Learn Adult Clinic. The red 
group runs from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays for ages 8 and under. 
The orange group follows the red group from 
5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. and hosts kids ages 10 
and under.  The adult group is from 6:30 p.m. 
to 7:30 p.m. on the same nights.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgEast Gainesville tennis program aims to level the playing field  
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Lainey Norton (left), 6, attends a tennis lesson led by Christopher Scott Champion 
(right), 35, during the program at T.B. McPherson Park on Thursday, Sept. 23, 
2021. The pilot program offers discounted lessons for East Gainesville residents.
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
The city of Gainesville is supporting a study that would 
create more equity for local businesses by identifying 
discrimination in the city’s current marketplace.
Atlanta-based law firm Griffin & Strong is conducting 
the disparity study in the city, CEO Rodney K. Strong said. 
The firm will determine if Gainesville is experiencing 
discrimination within its marketplace, which is made up of the 
city’s businesses. 
“I’m in this to see equitable opportunities created,” Strong 
said.
The study looks at past and current disparities by focusing 
on the city’s economic investments and who the city does 
business with to ensure both minority- and women-owned 
businesses are included. 
Past discrimination includes instances where businesses 
may be disadvantaged due to historical effects of other 
businesses being favored, Strong said. An example of this 
includes current impoverished neighborhoods that still suffer 
from effects of Black-owned businesses being refused loans 50 
years ago, Strong said.
If these types of inequity and inequality are present, then 
the marketplace isn’t equitable.
The history of disparity studies goes back toward the 
end of the Civil Rights Movement in 1967 to the creation of 
affirmative action programs. These ensured that Black people who had previously been excluded from certain spaces would 
now be included, Strong said.
This eventually led to law firms specializing in studying 
disparities, such as Griffin & Strong.
To conduct a disparity study, researchers will collect data 
on where the city is spending its money geographically, as 
well as collecting information on minority- and women-owned 
local businesses. They will also collect anecdotal evidence 
from local businesses to analyze people’s experiences doing 
business with Gainesville.
Local businesses can provide anecdotal evidence through 
surveys, interviews or the firm’s website created specifically 
for Gainesville, Strong said.
Not only does anecdotal evidence help the study, it helps 
businesses get involved with their communities, he said. This 
helps businesses create beneficial relationships they wouldn’t 
have otherwise.
“It’s a necessary component to ensuring that there is a level 
playing field for businesses in the marketplace in Gainesville,” 
Strong said.
The city decided to do the disparity study after looking 
at the city’s finances, said Sylvia Warren, equal opportunity 
manager of Gainesville’s Office of Equity and Inclusion.
The city already has a small business program that 
provides opportunities for businesses to collaborate with the 
city’s departments. It’s not an affirmative action program, and 
the study will determine if the program helps women- and 
minority-owned businesses.The study began June 7 and will finish August 2022, Senior 
Director of Consulting and Gainesville’s Project Manager 
Michele Clark Jenkins said.
The firm’s researchers are in the process of collecting data 
and will be finished mid-November, Jenkins said. They’ve 
also studied Gainesville’s policies and interviewed staff, and 
they are starting interviews. They’ve also had informational 
meetings in August with community members to educate them 
about the study and how to get involved.
“One of the biggest things that really was a bright spot for us 
so far is that we had a very good turnout to our informational 
meeting,” Jenkins said. “What that tells us is that there are 
a lot of firms in the marketplace who are really interested in 
what it is we’re doing.”
After statistical analyses on the data, Griffin & Strong will 
determine whether the city  discriminates against minority-
owned businesses or if business are dealing with the effects 
of past discrimination, Strong said. Then, the firm will 
recommend changes ranging from legislation to projects the 
city should implement.
Changes could include outreach support services, small 
business opportunities or other ideas, but the recommendations 
will be uniquely tailored to the city and findings, Strong said.
Strong said this gives historically underserved communities 
a chance to be part of a marketplace that has previously 
excluded them. More businesses create more competition in 
a marketplace, he said, which will help drive down prices and 
boost the local economy.
“We think it’s going to create a more robust economy we 
think everybody’s going to benefit from,” Strong said. “That’s 
why it’s a win-win situation.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgGainesville disparity study seeks to create opportunities for local businesses 
The study began June 7 and will finish in August 
2022 with potential recommended changesMONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
October is here, Fall is in 
full swing and many of us 
have found our groove. 
Study spots have been 
established, the quickest routes 
to classes are mapped out in ev -
eryone’s minds and thousands of 
new students have decided if they 
stand with Marston Science Li -
brary or Library West. 
I experienced the throngs of 
people crawling on campus be -
tween classes my freshman year 
in Fall 2019, but I’d forgotten just how many 
people there are. As I exited my first class on 
Aug. 23 and joined the thick crowd, I was 
thankful for the mask hiding my wide grin as 
I thought: It’s so good to be back!
But we can’t be naive. COVID-19 cases 
haven’t vanished, some still refuse to get vac -
cinated and UF students even get the choice to 
abstain from wearing masks.
The pandemic is persisting, and while it 
can be difficult to remember there is a world 
outside of the UF and Gainesville bubble, 
communities around the world, specifically 
the global south, do not have equitable access 
to vaccines, while we have the privilege to 
deny a free one.
Sitting in a three-hour lecture while your 
stomach growls loud enough for the person 
next to you to grimace isn’t anyone’s first 
idea of fun. Weaving in and out of campus 
construction as you speed walk to class only 
to sit down and try to hide the sweat stains 
screaming off your shirt is frazzling, to say the 
least. And trying to find a quiet corner in the 
library where unmasked couples aren’t loudly 
rehashing the gritty details of their weekend is nearly impossible.
But then there are days when 
you bump into a high school friend 
lounging in a hammock on Plaza 
of the Americas and a spontane -
ous Krishna Lunch picnic erupts. 
There are hilarious professors 
whose jokes wouldn’t pack the 
same punch over a lifeless Zoom 
call. And pretending you are in a 
coming-of-age film as you walk 
to the beat of Century Tower’s 
chimes during golden hour isn’t 
too hard if you use your imagination. 
College is not easy. But we’re lucky to be 
here. UF is the No. 5 best public university in 
the nation. We can get a COVID-19 test or vac -
cination appointment with a few swift clicks 
on our stickered laptops. 
Even as beads of perspiration form on your 
forehead as you make the trek to your 8:30 
a.m. lecture; even as yet another person from 
a random club approaches you on Turlington 
Plaza despite the fact they can see the AirPods 
plugged into both ears; even when you wait 
for more than 30 minutes just to drink a small, 
overpriced coffee, savor every moment. 
The sentiment is cheesy, and from some -
one who always sees the glass half empty, a 
little ironic. But given the absolute hell most 
of the world is still enduring because of a 
health crisis that some worry we may never 
truly eradicate, it’s a privilege to be tucked 
away in the UF sphere.
Positivity can’t heal a pandemic. But it 
won’t make it worse, either.
Abigail Hasebroock is a UF journalism 
junior and an aspiring optimist.A proposal was made to 
me several months ago 
that UF set aside a day 
this academic year for 
gratitude. The proposal was 
for a day of fun devoted to 
gratitude for all the sacrifices and 
contributions members of the UF 
community have made for more 
than a year and a half in the 
midst of the pandemic.  
There is so much for which we have 
to be grateful, including all the UF Health 
workers who have battled COVID-19 in our 
hospitals, administered seemingly endless 
COVID-19 tests and now vaccinated vast 
numbers of our students, staff and faculty. 
Our gratitude extends to every employee, 
all staff and faculty, who continue to excel 
in their work while maintaining personal 
health protocols. Our gratitude is also for 
UF’s students who have made incredible 
contributions and personal sacrifices 
during the pandemic.  Alumni and friends 
have also supported UF at record levels 
throughout the pandemic, for which we 
are grateful.
Feb. 9, 2022 will be UF’s Day of 
Gratitude, with an overarching theme of 
reflecting on UF’s core values.  Our core 
values include excellence, discovery and 
innovation, inclusion, freedom and civility, 
community and stewardship. I’ve seen all 
those values expressed daily across UF as 
COVID-19 has surged and waned.  Feb. 9 will also be a day of 
celebration. I’ve mentioned on 
numerous occasions for several 
years, including my now often 
repeated tweet from Sept. 9, 
2019, that we should cancel 
classes for a day-long celebration 
when UF reaches Top 5 status. 
In 1948, President J. Hillis Miller 
first announced UF’s goal of 
becoming a Top 10 university. 
It took 69 years to achieve that goal, 
which occurred in 2017. It took only four 
more years to achieve UF’s Top 5 goal. 
This achievement, which is due to the 
contributions of everyone associated with 
UF, is worthy of celebration.
Although the university president can 
abruptly close the university and cancel 
classes when there is an emergency, non-
emergency class cancelation requires 
consultation with the Faculty Senate and 
colleges.  We have begun that process and 
hope by December to confirm that Feb. 9, 
2022 will be a day set aside, without most 
formal classes, for gratitude, reflection, 
celebration and a lot of fun.
Although there is much to celebrate, the 
ongoing pandemic is demanding that many 
in the UF community continue to sacrifice. 
After more than 18 months of incredible 
pandemic challenges, I am filled with 
gratitude and admiration for the selfless 
service and sacrificial contributions by 
every member of The Gator Nation.When life gives you lemons, make Gatorade A day of gratitude, reflection and celebration: Feb. 9, 2022Column Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Abigail Hasebroock
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org
UF President 
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
Home for Sale Near Newnan's Lake
Located near Down-Town Gainesville and 
UF campus & 4 blocks from Newnan’s 
Lake, the boat dock nearby. A straightshot to 
Down-Town & the UF campus. 3 Bedrooms, 
attached garage & carport+an extra build -
ing. Fully Fenced back yard-very private, 
has beautiful Magnolia Trees & Azaleas. The 
HVAC & roof just installed. Has wood lami-
nate and vinyl flooring, no carpet. $154,900. 
Call Helen D. Karsh, RE/MAX Professionals, 
352-222-7720 for additional information and 
to view.                                        10-4-21-3-5
the 
independent 
florida
we inform. you decide.©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    SSmmaallll  sshhoovveell  
11..    AApppprrooaacchhiinngg55..    IInnjjuurryy  
22..    LLuuxxuurriioouuss  66..    BBlluunnddeerr  
33..    BBaacckk  77..    GGrreeeekk  ggooddddeessss  
44..    ________  MMaaddrreeWWLLRRTTOOEE
RRDDOOTTAAWWNNDDWWUUOO
RROORREERR
PPNNTTUUEELLOO
SSNNDDEEEEOORRAANNAAEETTHH
RRIISSRREEAAAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TTrroowweell    55AA--WWoouunndd    66AA--EErrrroorr    77AA--AAtthheennaa
11DD--TToowwaarrdd    22DD--OOppuulleenntt    33DD--EEnnddoorrssee    44DD--SSiieerrrraa    BB--OOwweenn  WWiillssoonn1100--44--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  hhaass  bbeeeenn  iinn  mmoorree  tthhaann  
1100  mmoovviieess  wwiitthh  BBeenn  SSttiilllleerr..  
BONUS
Notice of Public Sale by the Order of 
Assignee ASPHALT PRESERVATION 
SYSTEMS, INC. 
Lots begin to close: Thurs, Oct 14, 2021 
at 10:00 A.M. 
Auction will consist of: 2013 S-770 Bobcat 
Skid Steer Loader with attachments, 40” 
Asphalt Planer, 24” Asphalt Planer, 72” 
Sweeper, Forks; 2006 Ford F-650 6-yard 
Dump Truck; 2005 Belshe WB12-2EB 
Equipment Trailer; 1997 Keizer-Morris 
KM8000T Asphalt Trailer; 2004 Ford F-150 
Pickup Truck; 2000 Utility Trailer, 1000 Gallon 
Agitated Sealcoat Tank with Diaphragm 
Pump; misc. tools and office equipment. 
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com
Pick-up/removal: 
1050 Oakway, Sanford, FL 32772
Preview: 10/13 by appointment. Call for 
details (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors 
Case No. 2021-CA-008752-O
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      10-4-1-10
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-13
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RV’s 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response- Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                        10-4-5-1310 For Sale 6 Furnishings
By Chris Gross
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/04/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/04/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, October 4, 2021
ACROSS
1 Card that loses to 
a trey
6 Equine control
10 Dazzled
14 Boo-boo
15 Besides that
16 Waterslide cry
17 *Yellow tomato 
with red swirls
19 Dismiss from 
work
20 __ coffee: cool 
drink
21 Anonymous  
Jane
22 One-on-one 
teacher
23 Mortarboard 
hanger
25 Flier’s seat 
choice
27 *“Our group 
doesn’t agree”
31 Heed, with “by”
35 Couple’s 
pronoun
36 Currency for 19 
states
38 Dull movie, say
39 “Spider-Man” 
actress Kirsten
40 Staircase part
41 Fish that 
complains a lot?
42 One less than 
nona-
43 Liability offset on 
a balance sheet
44 *Phillie Phanatic, 
notably
47 Environmentally 
friendly
48 Highway divider
53 Opposite of old 
age
55 Long, long time
57 About, on a 
memo
58 Inuit word for 
“house”
59 Concludes with 
no clear winner 
... and what 
each answer to 
a starred clue 
does?
62 Bosc or Anjou
63 Snail __: letter 
carrier’s burden
64 Golfer Sam
65 Arid
66 “Do __ others ... ”
67 Singer __ Rae 
JepsenDOWN
1 Ledger entry
2 “Fear of Flying” 
author Jong
3 Impulses
4 Firewood units
5 Victorian or 
Elizabethan
6 Janet __, 
attorney general 
after Barr
7 Hamburg’s river
8 Prefix with metric
9 Never been used
10 Terrible quality
11 Low-visibility 
snow events
12 Gateway 
Arch designer 
Saarinen
13 Bucks in a forest
18 Doing nothing
22 “For shame!”
24 Meadow mom
25 Respiratory 
cavity
26 MIT’s “I”: Abbr.
28 Froot Loops 
mascot __ Sam
29 Fox-and-hounds 
pursuits
30 Shade provider
31 Alphabet 
sequence 
symbolizing ease32 Word with row 
or sail
33 Imperfect, as 
sale goods
34 Arrival’s opposite
37 Choose (to)
39 Capitol feature
43 Absorbed, as a 
cost
45 [Yawn]
46 Upscale hotel
49 Ross or Rigg
50 Prefix meaning 
“between”51 Sans-serif font
52 Impoverished
53 Golfer’s  
putting jitters,  
with “the”
54 Curved molding
55 Do some prose-
tightening
56 Nobel Peace 
Prize city
59 Big Aussie bird
60 Indian bread
61 Pres. advisory 
group
By Catherine Cetta
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/28/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/28/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, September 28, 2021
ACROSS
1 Hissed “Over 
here, behind the 
sofa!”
5 Notable Titanic 
casualty
10 Stir up
14 Latin “others”
15 Actress __ Neal 
of “Law & Order: 
SVU”
16 Give off
17 Unrefined sort
18 Trooper 
automaker
19 “Ooh, fun!”
20 Typically 
tricolored ice 
cream dessert
22 Really tough, as 
tasks
24 Either Bush, e.g.
25 Exhausts
26 Made to order
29 Do penance
32 FreeCell or 
Snapchat
35 Sewn line
36 Multilevel, as 
wedding cakes
37 Auditioner’s hope
39 Barcelona buddy
41 Rig on the road
42 Sounds from sties
44 Gaming novice, 
slangily
46 Bambi’s mother
47 Witty Wilde
48 Bad to the core
50 Crowns for some 
queens
52 Andes or Rockies
56 With 58-Across, 
salad fixings ... 
and what you’ll 
find aptly hidden 
in puzzle rows 4, 
6 and 10
58 See 56-Across
60 For all of us
61 __ curls: arm 
exercises
63 Observes
64 Unmitigated joy
65 Together
66 Teen woe
67 Bathtub bubbles
68 __ Island 
Rams: Atlantic 
10 conference 
baseball team
69 Chai and rooibosDOWN
1 Part of PBR
2 Slippery __: risky 
course of action
3 Iowa’s __ City
4 Airport surface
5 Favorable score 
for a server
6 Maria’s ayes
7 Letter after 
sigma
8 Like many 2020 
meetings
9 Meet up in 25 
years, maybe
10 Second drafts, 
say
11 “This is very 
flattering!”
12 Stead
13 Nice summers
21 Burden
23 “Ozark” actor 
Morales
25 Pizza Hut 
competitor
27 Red and Black
28 Scot’s cap
30 Memorable 
captain’s name 
that’s a sign 
backwards
31 Actress Falco32 Lhasa __
33 Thumbs-down 
reviews
34 Monitored, as an 
exam
36 Little honk
38 Walks aimlessly
40 Understood
43 Tough-to-get-out-
of situation
45 Glacier chunk
48 Peppery root
49 Bugs51 Concrete-
reinforcing rod
53 Dorothy, to Em
54 Thelma portrayer 
Davis
55 Mississippi 
quartet
56 Wheel teeth
57 “Castle Rock” 
airer
58 Sell
59 Duel tool
62 Pigeon sound
09/27/2021solution on page 9
solution  on page 13
Like a 2nd Job. BBB A+Rated, HUD-
Approved NonProfit offering Hardship/
Pandemic-related Loss Assistance for 
Credit Card & Mortgage Payments. Free 
Confidential Consultation. 561-472-8000 
Debthelper.com                                10-4-1-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
WANT TO ENJOY COLLEGE LIFE WITH 
REAL PEACE OF MIND? Searching for a 
simple, proven and stress-free approach 
to healthy, cleaner air? Then CLICK HERE 
:https://lp.constantcontactpages.com/cu/
h4i6bD1/personalairpurifier     10-18-21-4-16
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
GET VACCINATED TODAY!15 Services 20 Events/Notices 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-13
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient. 
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 or 
visit RefrigerantFinders.com           10-4-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Mi Apa Latin Cafe Servers & Managers
Mi Apa is hiring servers & managers. Servirs 
can make $18+/hr, MGRs can make $55+/yr. 
Apply @ miapajobs.com or at the Jonesville
location between 10am-12pm.  
10-4-21-6-14
Kitchen and Event Assistant
Local downtown church is looking for week-
end assistance. Sunday mornings, some 
Saturday or evenings. Must be dependable, 
able to move furniture and serve food. Email 
Sarah@holytrinitygnv.org.        10-4-21-2-14
CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE1 1: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSubmit your ad to one of the following categories today!   Contact us:  alligator.org/ classifieds   | classified@alligator.org  |  (352)373- FIND
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for 
injury or loss arising from contacts made through ad-
vertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
solution  belowWhen cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
Notice of Plan of Dissolution for the Florida 
Coalition Against Domestic Violence 
Foundation, Inc. and Florida Coalition Against 
Domestic Violence, Inc. A Plan of Dissolution 
was entered by the Circuit Court of the Second 
Judicial Circuit in Leon County, Florida under 
case no. 2020 CA 00437. The plan may af-
fect a creditor’s or party-in-interest’s rights. 
The Plan may be obtained by emailing info@
moecker.com or calling 954-252-1560. Any 
objection to the Plan must be filed with the 
Court on or before December 30, 2021, or the 
objection is waived.                         10-4-1-20
Notice To All Creditors of the Florida Coalition 
Against Domestic Violence Foundation, 
Inc. (the “Foundation”) If you are a credi-
tor of the Foundation, to assert a claim for 
payment, claim forms can be obtained by 
emailing info@moecker.com or calling 954-
252-1560. Completed claim forms must be 
mailed to Michael Moecker & Associates 
Attn: Mark Healy 841 Prudential Drive 12th 
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32207 or emailed to 
mhealy@moecker.com. Questions related to 
potential claims can be directed to Mark Healy 
at 904-210-7023. All claim forms must be sub-
mitted by January 31, 2022, or any right to a 
potential distribution may be waived.    
10-4-1-20
Notice To All Creditors of Florida Coalition 
Against Domestic Violence, Inc. (“FCADV”) If 
you are a creditor of FCADV, to assert a claim 
for payment, claim forms can be obtained 
by emailing info@moecker.com or calling 
954-252-1560. Completed claim forms must 
be mailed to Michael Moecker & Associates 
Attn: Mark Healy 841 Prudential Drive 12th 
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32207 or emailed to 
mhealy@moecker.com. Questions related to 
potential claims can be directed to Mark Healy 
at 904-210-7023. All claim forms must be sub-
mitted by January 31, 2022, or any right to a 
potential distribution may be waived.     
10-4-1-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
--spolier alert- -- - spoiler alert - ---spolier alert- -- - spoiler alert - -I never have any problem getting enthusiastic with 
a good song and a good band.
—Waylon Jennings
scan to 
subscribe
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021   ALLIGATOR   13 
Through it all,
you've been 
there
done that
seen it
and 
even read
about it
in
thealligator
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
First half fumbles
Florida football’s Saturday loss to Kentucky continued a 
disappointing recent first-half trend, pg. 16
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
STUDENTS FEEL THE PRESSURE OF ATTENDING 
A TOP-RATED PUBLIC UNIVERSITY AFTER 
SIX WEEKS BACK ON CAMPUS
By Luigi Bencosme
Avenue Staff Writer
Pass by Marston Library and you’ll see the usual suspects: 
the guy frantically flipping through the blue pages of his Study 
Edge Packet; the girl chugging her third watermelon Celsius 
while on the verge of tears; and the freshman sweating bullets 
trying to understand “Siddhartha,” the hallmark text for UF’s 
infamous “What Is The Good Life?” course. 
It’s not even finals week — October just started. 
As UF enters its first full in-person semester since the CO -
VID-19 pandemic began, a quick shift to a live learning environ -
ment, along with the pandemic fallout, caused mental health 
strains in students. Within just six weeks of the new semester, 
students at UF say they are struggling to cope with all the strain 
placed upon them to succeed.
“I feel like people are just trying to catch up for what they 
missed out on … that they couldn’t complete during the mostly 
online COVID time,” said Leslie Zepeda, a 20-year-old UF psy -
chology junior.
Zepeda said for her, along with many other pre-med stu -
dents, this first semester back in person has been extremely chal -
lenging because of the lack of available hands-on experiences in their field. 
“With COVID, it’s been very hard to get the opportunities 
that med schools require,” Zepeda said. “Physicians aren’t really 
allowing people to shadow them because of COVID regulations.” 
She said volunteer opportunities and research lab positions 
have also become extremely competitive due to the various reg -
ulations put in place. 
Zepeda isn’t the only one who feels the competition has in -
creased. Tatiana Gomez, a senior biology major on a pre-dental 
track, feels students are becoming more competitive to adjust 
to harder college application expectations and increasing test 
scores. 
“Pre-med is so toxic,” she said. “Everyone’s like ‘I get A’s in 
physics 1’ and I’m over here like ‘I barely passed physics.’”
Gomez is the president of the Pre-Dental American Student 
Dental Association, a Study Edge ambassador, a member of 
Delta Delta Sigma Pre-Dental Honor Society and an Equal Ac -
cess Clinic volunteer. As a part-time research assistant who also 
shadows an orthodontist, she said feels burnt out.
The Fall semester — the first full-capacity and in-person se -
mester since March 2020 — has challenged her to adapt to rapid 
changes in learning environments, she said.  
“Now I have to calculate getting up in the morning, getting 
dressed, getting on the bus, going to campus, walking to class. 
And it’s just … very overwhelming,” Zepeda said. 
Zepeda said UF’s structure is inherently competitive — a 
mentality that can trickle down to the student body. 
“I feel like students as well see each other more as competi -tion than friends or classmates,” Zepeda said. “It’s very rare, the 
people that will reach out and help.”
Though UF offers various mental health resources on cam -
pus, including the Counseling and Wellness Center and the Ga -
torWell Health Promotion Services, many students believe this 
isn’t good enough. Some students are aware of the services, but 
they aren’t too sure of their effectiveness. 
“The students don’t go to that [CWC],” Gomez said. “I think 
they could do a much better job than what they’re doing right 
now.”
Zepeda believes UF places an emphasis on academics while 
failing to adequately address the mental health aspect of suc -
ceeding in such rigorous courses.
This year, for example, UF was ranked as a top public uni -
versity in the country, according to U.S. News & World Report. 
Still, some students believe this achievement came at the cost of 
their well being. 
“I feel like sometimes they just don’t really adjust [to] the 
needs of students because they want to be at the top and get to 
the best,” Zepeda said.
As students are left with inadequate resources to ease their 
stress, Gomez suggested they find options outside the university 
to take care of their mental health. 
“Talk to people,” Gomez said. “Literally just give yourself 
breaks. Actual breaks. Having a spa night, hanging out with 
your friends, going out to eat to different places really helps.”
lbencosme@alligator.orgUF students struggle with burnout in first semester back on campus  
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE
EL CAIMÁN
LOS ESTUDIANTES Y LOS GRUPOS 
DE DIVERSIDAD DEL CAMPUS 
ESTÁN PREOCUPADOS POR 
EL PUESTO VACÍO
Escrito por Camila Pereira
Periodista de El Caimán
Traducido por Saira Gonzalez 
Periodista de El Caimán
Los estudiantes y los grupos de diversidad 
del campus están preocupados por el puesto 
vacío.
UF está invitando a una segunda ronda de 
candidatos para su vacante de Director de Di -
versidad esta semana.
El puesto de CDO se creó en 2018 luego de 
que el supremacista blanco Richard Spencer 
fuera invitado a hablar en el campus y un inci -
dente en el que un administrador agarraron y 
apresuraron los estudiantes negros graduados 
fuera del escenario.
El comité de búsqueda de CDO de UF ha es -
tado buscando posibles candidatos para CDO 
desde febrero, cuando renunció el primer y ex 
CDO de la universidad, Antonio Farias. Farias 
dejó UF para convertirse en el vicerrector de la 
Universidad de Colorado en Denver.
El comité, que consta de 16 estudiantes, 
profesores y personal designado por el presi -
dente de UF, Kent Fuchs, ha invitado desde 
entonces a una ronda de candidatos al campus 
al final del semestre de la primavera.
A partir del 13 de septiembre, el comité acordó entrevistar a una segunda ronda de po -
sibles candidatos e invitarlos al campus para 
reunirse e interactuar con los estudiantes.
Algunos estudiantes de UF y organizacio -
nes de diversidad del campus quieren saber 
más sobre lo que está sucediendo en el proceso 
para encontrar un nuevo CDO.
LaRaven Temoney, una estudiante de doc -
torado en ciencias políticas de 24 años y secre -
taria de la Organización de Estudiantes Grad -
uados Negros, dijo que cree que la universidad 
debe ser más transparente sobre el proceso de 
contratación.
“No estoy segura de sí UF tiene muy claro 
lo que quieren en un director de diversidad”, 
dijo. “Parece que quieren a alguien que ya 
tenga experiencia en director de diversidad”.
Temoney dijo que un candidato ideal ten -
dría experiencia en el manejo de conflictos y 
facilitando conversaciones incómodas. Busca 
a alguien que sea creativo en su enfoque de la 
diversidad y la inclusión y que interactúe di -
rectamente con los estudiantes, el profesorado 
y el personal.
“UF en papel tiene una cantidad decente 
de diversidad, pero cuando se trata de clasifi -
caciones para diferentes cosas, los esfuerzos 
de diversidad e inclusión de UF apestan en 
comparación con muchas instituciones de la 
misma estatura”, dijo Temoney.
Ella cree que la larga ausencia de un CDO 
obstaculiza el progreso de las promesas del 
presidente Fuchs luego de las protestas de 
Black Lives Matter el verano pasado.
“Por lo menos ponga un interino, pones un 
interino para todo lo demás”, dijo. “Estoy un poco confundido por qué no se convirtió en 
una prioridad, especialmente cuando nadie en 
la administración es un experto en [diversidad, 
equidad e inclusión]”.
Carmi Thompson, presidenta del capítulo 
de UF de la Sociedad para el Avance de los Chi -
canos / Hispanos y Nativos Americanos en la 
Ciencia, dijo que la universidad debería estar 
abierta a diferentes formas de conocimiento y 
experiencia. A veces, aquellos en roles de CDO 
no necesariamente están en él por las razones 
correctas, dijo.
“Al tener ese lente más estrecho para un 
trabajo que debería ser innovador y transfor -
mador, podría perderse otros candidatos alta -
mente calificados que tienen la experiencia, 
que tienen la comprensión, que tienen la com -
pasión y la empatía que se necesita en un líder 
fuerte ”, dijo Thompson.
La asistente graduada de 26 años dijo que 
también espera que el puesto continúe siendo 
una voz y un aliado para aquellos histórica -
mente excluidos de la educación superior.
Thompson espera que el próximo CDO se 
inspire en Antonio Farias. Ella dijo que el CDO 
anterior apoyó las iniciativas de los estudiantes 
e hizo grandes cosas.
Thompson dijo que espera que el nuevo 
CDO lidere con empatía y compasión y es -
cuche todas las voces que componen la comu -
nidad de UF.
“En UF hablamos mucho de ser una de 
las cinco instituciones principales, pero no 
podemos ser una institución de las cinco me -
jores si no nos preocupamos por las personas 
que componen todas estas unidades y todos estos departamentos en toda la escuela’’, ella 
dijo.
Aunque comprende que el proceso de 
búsqueda de un candidato adecuado puede ser 
largo, Thompson cree que el puesto de CDO 
es fundamental y debe priorizarse entre otros 
roles administrativos.
La presidenta del comité de búsqueda de 
CDO, Jodi Gentry, dijo que el proceso ha sido 
extenso. UF no quiere excluir a los estudiantes 
y profesores que no estuvieron en el campus 
durante el verano de participar en el proceso 
de búsqueda, dijo.
“Tenemos un sentido de urgencia”, dijo. 
“Realmente sabemos que esto es importante y 
estamos avanzando, pero creo que muestra lo 
importante que es que estemos buscando a la 
persona adecuada para nosotros”.
Gentry dijo que la universidad y el comité 
están buscando a alguien que haya sido Direc -
tor de Diversidad a nivel universitario o de 
sistema antes, dado lo grande y compleja que 
es UF.
Pero, como miembro del gabinete, también 
están buscando a alguien que tenga la respon -
sabilidad estratégica de promover y permitir la 
excelencia inclusiva para la facultad, el person -
al y los estudiantes, ya que el papel del CDO es 
proporcionar liderazgo, experiencia e incluso 
una visión de cómo la universidad puede tra -
bajar en conjunto y crear un modelo de inclu -
sión, diversidad, equidad y acceso.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.org
sgonzalez@alligator.orgUF continúa la búsqueda de siete meses por un nuevo director de diversidadMONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.MEN'S GOLF
AFTER HIS FIRST 
POSTSEASON IN 2021, THE 
JUNIOR IS READY TO TAKE 
HIS TEAM FARTHER
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
Ricky Castillo played his final 
round of the spring season in 
Glendale, Arizona, competing 
for an individual title in the final 
round at the NCAA national 
championship.
The Florida junior’s first taste of 
the game, however, materialized 
in much less intense atmospheres 
with much lower stakes: friendly, 
non-competitive matches with his 
older brother, Derek.
“I got into golf because my 
older brother got into golf, and I 
always looked up to him,” Castillo 
said. “That’s what I wanted to do 
just because my older brother was 
doing it. We were just out there 
enjoying it and having fun with 
my dad.”
Golf became an integral part of 
Castillo’s life at age 5, when he 
first began playing with Derek. 
After learning from his father, 
Mark Castillo, he became a 
regular on the green.
“[His] work ethic is funny 
because his life is golf, and his 
love is golf, so if you want to call 
golfing all the time ‘work,’ his 
work ethic was terrific,” Mark 
said. “He just wanted to go all the 
time.”
That same motivation which 
drives the now-No. 6 men’s 
amateur in the world to succeed 
in Gainesville was first fostered 
in his hometown of Yorba Linda, 
California, where he did whatever 
he could to get on the course as 
much as possible.
“Ricky is not a country club 
kid,” his father Mark Castillo 
said. “He couldn’t just go to a golf 
course whenever he wanted and 
play, so he had to kind of work 
around the schedules of the golf 
courses to be able to practice.”
An avid golfer himself, Mark 
became the head coach on 
Castillo’s team at Valencia High 
School. 
“We didn’t have the best team 
or anything, but I really enjoyed 
my team,” Castillo said. “Most 
players don’t have their dad as their high school golf coach, but I 
got the chance to have that, so it 
was pretty awesome.”
Castillo built quite the portfolio 
during his high school years: He 
was named a two-time American 
Junior Golf Association (AJGA) 
Rolex Junior All-American and 
represented the U.S. at the 2018 
Junior Ryder Cup. 
Despite Castillo’s success 
as a Valencia Tiger, his father 
emphasized his behavior off the 
course -— advice Castillo still 
applies to his game years later.
Be a good person before being 
a good golfer. Your golf will be 
better if you’re happy with who 
you are.
Ricky wasn’t the first Castillo 
family member who played for 
Florida head coach J.C. Deacon. 
He worked as an assistant coach 
at the University of Nevada-Las 
Vegas from 2011 to 2014, where 
he coached Derek. Deacon met 
Castillo when the Californian was 
11.
“He’s always been an 
unbelievable player since the first 
time I ever met him,” Deacon said. 
“He’s always been pretty quiet 
and reserved and confident, and 
he’s just kind of really blossoming 
those attributes that are obviously 
very, very important to be a 
successful athlete.”
Deacon spotted Castillo’s 
knack for the sport early on 
and knew he wanted him in 
Gainesville. 
Deacon manifested it. 
You’re going to play for me one 
day. 
Sure enough, almost a decade 
later, Castillo followed Deacon 
across the country to the Sunshine 
State.
“Florida wasn’t ever really in 
my mind or anything like that,” 
Castillo said. “As soon as I went 
here, I just knew that it was the 
place for me.”
Castillo acclimated to his new 
environment quickly with the 
support from his team.
Castillo connected with former 
Gator John Axelsen, who was a 
junior when Castillo first arrived 
on campus. Axelsen guided and 
mentored his younger teammate. 
You don’t need to do anything 
special. Just play your game. Do 
what you know you can do. You’ll 
be perfectly fine.Castillo listened to Axelson’s 
advice and began to bloom as he 
started his collegiate career. In his 
debut season, he led the team in 
scoring average (70.08), top-25 
finishes (7) and total eagles and 
birdies (89 combined). He capped 
off his season with back-to-back 
wins at the Sea Best Invitational 
and the Gator Invitational in the 
spring, the latter of which was 
played on Florida’s home course.
There isn’t a recipe to follow 
that will shape someone into a 
player like Castillo. He thrives on 
his detail-oriented nature. 
“Sticking to the same plan, 
being more organized [is] as 
simple as keeping my room 
clean and keeping my car clean,” 
Castillo said. “Just stuff like that 
because it leads to the golf course. 
I’ll feel better about myself if I 
know when I come back, I'll have 
a clean room or clean car.”
With his mindset locked in, the 
Yorba Linda native showed out in 
his second year at Florida.
After the COVID-19 pandemic 
canceled the postseason of his 
freshman year, Castillo teed into his first championship in 
the spring of 2021. The Gators 
finished 22nd and didn’t qualify 
for the match play of the national 
championship, but Castillo 
advanced to the final day as an 
individual and finished 12th. 
The then-sophomore led the 
team in scoring average, birdies 
and eagles and top-25 finishes 
for the second straight season. 
Deacon, however, said his 
young star yearns for more than 
accolades for himself. 
“He really wants this team to 
be great,” Deacon said. “That's 
something that I really admire 
about him. It's not just about 
him. He wants this team to be 
successful, and he’s willing to 
help any one of his teammates.”
Florida’s goals are loftier than 
before with Castillo’s direction, as 
the team begins a new campaign.
“On paper, we have one of the 
best teams out there,” Castillo 
said. “I think we have the best 
team out there. We haven't really 
played that well, but I know we 
just have to have a few things 
click and go our way and just keep working hard in every aspect 
of our life.”
But Castillo feels a change. 
This year’s squad has made the 
locker room a more comfortable 
atmosphere than previous teams.
“Freshman year, we had 
friends, but everybody kind of 
had their own little groups of two 
or three where they would hang 
out,” Castilllo said. “Now, we 
literally have everybody hanging 
out at the same time, all the time, 
so it's just stuff like that that 
really helps us.”
While Castillo senses the 
team is ready to turn a corner, 
he also reflects on the changes 
he experienced. He competes for 
national championships instead of 
playing for fun with his brother. 
He plays for a Division I program 
instead of his local high school.
However, all the changes 
haven’t altered his love for the 
game. Instead, they deepened it. 
Now, he’s ready to lead his team 
as far as it can go.
@carsoncashion
ccashion@alligator.orgFocus, drive prepare Ricky Castillo for junior season  
Courtesy of the UAA
Florida's Ricky Castillo competes in the first round of the 2021 NCAA  Cle Elum Regional at 
Tumble Creek Golf Club in Cle Elum, Wash., on May 19, 2021.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$559999
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   
&& KARAOKE KARAOKE
on theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$44offoff
allall  FLATBREADSFLATBREADS
$$33
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
KEY LIME PIE KEY LIME PIE 
SHOTSSHOTS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
nightnight
GO GO 
GATORS!GATORS!
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
FOOTBALL
THE NO. 20 GATORS AGAIN FAILED TO GET OFF TO 
A STERLING START AGAINST A CONFERENCE FOE
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Florida quarterback Emory Jones stood just shy of the 
Kentucky logo at Kroger Field, waiting for a play call that 
never came.
As the redshirt junior looked to the Florida sideline, the 
Gators’ trainers and staff began jogging to the far side of 
the field. The orange and blue offensive line slowly stood, 
Jones stood frozen for a moment, and the UF offense began 
to filter back toward its locker room for halftime.
The No. 20 Florida Gators lost their second game of the season in Lexington, Kentucky, on Oct. 2, a 20-13 upset to 
the Wildcats, to eliminate any postseason dreams. Head 
coach Dan Mullen and his team got the ball back with just 
under two minutes before halftime and three timeouts to 
play with, but Mullen instead elected to let the second 
quarter bleed out, closing out the latest in a long line of 
recent first-half mismanagement for the Gators. 
Florida allowed just 44 yards of offense between four of 
Kentucky’s five drives in the first half. Outside of Wildcats 
wideout Wan’Dale Robinson taking a screen pass and 
scampering 41 yards to the end zone, the Gators defense 
surrendered 88 total yards on 22 other plays.
So, how was the supposed No. 10 team in the country 
beating an unranked opponent by three points?
Florida offered a conservative aerial gameplan, as Jones 
completed 10 of his 11 first-half passes, but only three 
gained more than 10 yards. The Gators punted on a fourth 
and 3 from the Kentucky 41-yard line on their opening 
possession. Their fourth drive saw a third and 1 balloon 
into third and 11 after a pair of false start penalties, two of 
eight such offenses on the night.
The curiously close game continued a concerning trend 
for the Gators under Mullen’s tenure: a history of starting 
slow in the first 30 minutes and playing down to inferior 
opposition.
A week ago, Florida took its home field against 
Tennessee. While the Gators elevated their national status 
into the mesosphere by nearly toppling No. 1 Alabama 
the week before, the Volunteers limped to Gainesville two 
weeks removed from a loss to Pittsburgh. Mullen and his 
squad seemed destined for a romp.
Florida led by three at halftime.
Even in the vaunted Alabama performance, the team put 
itself in a massive hole early with three first-quarter Tide 
touchdowns and a 12-point halftime deficit. Florida outscored 
Alabama 20-10 in the second half, but the early hole the Gators found themselves in was dug by their own shovel.
Mullen’s early issues aren’t solely a 2021 problem, 
either. Last year, during an 10-game all-Southeastern 
Conference schedule, Florida clung to a one-possession 
lead at the break in three games — twice to unranked 
opponents — and trailed unranked Louisiana State 24-17 
through two quarters. In three more games, a score in the 
final two minutes of the first half prevented a one-score 
lead.
To repeat in less words: Against Florida’s last 14 
SEC opponents, the Gators either trailed or led by one 
possession in the final two minutes of the first half 10 
times. In Mullen’s past eight conference games, including 
the conference championship, he’s been outscored 128-118 
in the first 30 minutes.
For context, defending national champion Alabama led 
by less than 14 points at halftime three times in its previous 
16 games against Power 5 opponents, including a 18-point 
lead over Tennessee and 25-point lead over Kentucky last 
season. No. 2 Georgia, Mullen’s primary opposition in the 
SEC East, led by 18 or more points in five of its previous 
13 Power 5 games. 
Holding Mullen to the standard of Alabama head coach 
Nick Saban, a seven-time national champion, isn’t a fair 
bar, but the two have played a lot of the same opposition 
within the previous two years, including the Volunteers 
and the Wildcats, and the overlap betrays the gap which 
remains between the two programs.
The Gators found moral victories in a pair of one-
possession losses to the Tide over the previous 10 months, 
but if Mullen wants to avoid speed bumps like LSU a 
season ago and Kentucky last night, he can’t let teams 
hang around for the first three quarters.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgEarly errors: Florida’s first-half woes continue in Kentucky upset
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida Head Coach Dan Mullen during the Gators 
win over South Florida on Sept. 11, 2021.
