We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperBehind the mask
What it’s like to be Albert and Alberta,  pg. 5
Up close and personal
GHS students document a year of COVID-19,  pg. 8The inevitable delayed
Florida baseball had its season come to a bitter 
end Saturday in a 19-1 thrashing by South 
Alabama,  pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 35
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
In its effort to make a safer and 
more sustainable campus, UF will be -
gin its first steps this summer to trans -
form the academic core of campus into 
an auto-free zone.
To accomplish the long-term goal of 
increasing traffic safety, the university 
will implement an 86-acre bicycle and 
pedestrian zone in the heart of campus. 
This project includes the construction 
of the Newell and Northeast Gateway 
projects, which will incorporate more 
pedestrian access into campus and a 
connection from UF to the city, respec -
tively.
The changes are expected to make 
campus easier to navigate as the uni -
versity works toward becoming more 
pedestrian-friendly by 2024, Director 
of Planning Linda Dixon said.
Along with 13 other projects 
planned to take place over the next 
three to four years, construction of the 
two gateways will begin in August, as 
proposed in UF’s Landscape Master Plan.
As a result of the deadly accidents of 
the last year, the bicycle and pedestri -
an zone will limit vehicles in the north -
eastern corner of campus access along 
Buckman Drive. To maintain transit 
and auto access, the former one-way 
Inner Road will now become a two-
way road, according to the Transporta -
tion and Parking Strategic Plan. 
The area will stretch diagonally 
across the core of campus, uniting the 
Plaza of the Americas and the Reitz 
Union Lawn with a curbless, brick-
paved walkway that will replace cur -
rent roadways.
In order to accommodate the con -
struction, UF will eliminate some 
scooter and vehicle parking within the 
new auto-free core of campus.
Kim Walsh-Childers, a UF jour -
nalism professor, is concerned about 
whether this parking loss will make 
finding a parking spot even harder.
“There are faculty who have to drop 
kids off at daycare, and they can’t do 
HER AUNT AND GUARDIAN 
WERE ARRESTED AS SUSPECTS
By Jake Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office found 
13-year-old Delia Young’s body on Wednes -
day, June 2 after she had been reported miss -
ing on May 16.
Her legal guardian, Marian Williams, 57, 
was arrested May 26 and her aunt, Valerie 
Young, 52, was arrested May 27 as suspects in 
the case of Delia’s disappearance.
A week after the arrests, ACSO executed a 
search operation around 7 a.m. Wednesday, 
June 2. ACSO spokesperson Kaley Behl said 
human remains were found in Northwest Ala -
chua at about 5 p.m.
On June 4, the medical examiner’s office 
confirmed they were the remains of Delia. De -
tectives will continue to work with medical ex -
aminers to determine a cause of death. 
Valerie Young reported Delia missing on 
May 16 at 10:49 a.m., according to the arrest report. Valerie Young said 
Delia had disappeared the 
night before and said Delia 
had a history of running 
away.
ACSO tweeted about 
Delia’s absence May 19, 
urging community mem -
bers to call the ACSO com -
munications center with 
any information about her whereabouts. 
Williams confessed to being involved with 
Delia’s disappearance after going to the Alach -
ua County Sheriff’s Office on May 26.  
Williams told detectives she was in her 
home the day before Delia was found dead 
when she witnessed Valerie Young beating De -
lia with an electrical cord. 
Behl said it is unclear why Valerie Young 
was beating Delia.  
Williams said Valerie Young stopped after 
Williams asked her to, but later that evening, 
Delia was limping and had large welts on her 
legs. Williams said she asked Delia if she want -
ed to go to the hospital, but she refused. 
Williams said she last saw Delia alive on the floor of her bedroom using a computer. 
On May 17 around 7 a.m., Williams said she 
discovered Delia dead on the floor of her bed -
room. She said she called Valerie Young, who 
was not at the home, in a panic and the two 
discussed where they would hide Delia’s body. 
Williams said they both believe the death 
was a result of the beating she endured from 
Valerie Young.
Williams said they put Delia’s body in a 
pink tote and put it in a bedroom at a house 
Williams owns located at 21830 NW 47th Ter -
race in Lacrosse, Florida. 
On May 18, Williams said she returned to 
the home in Lacrosse and discovered the tote 
outside the house. Delia’s body was not inside, 
and Williams said she burned the tote. 
Williams was charged with aggravated 
manslaughter of a child, neglect of a child 
with great bodily harm, and obstruction and 
destruction of evidence. Valerie Young was 
charged with aggravated manslaughter, ag -
gravated child abuse, evidence tampering and 
depriving Delia of medical care.
Williams’ mother told detectives she heard 
rumors about Delia suffering beatings, but she had not seen any injuries. 
In an ACSO press release, Sheriff Clovis 
Watson Jr. expressed his appreciation for the 
deputies who worked on the case and the sup -
port from the community. 
Maria Papallo, 56, was not connected to the 
case but said it felt personal to her as a daycare 
owner who worked with children for over 37 
years. 
“It bothers me a lot,” she said. “These poor 
little innocent children are in this world getting 
hurt, and when it’s too late, that’s when we 
know.” 
Papallo also advocates for the Florida De -
partment of Children and Families to investi -
gate guardians on their background more often. 
“Just because a child is related to some -
one by blood, it doesn’t mean they’re in good 
hands,” Papallo said. “As professionals in 
daycare, our backgrounds are looked at. I’m 
not sure to what extent their backgrounds are 
looked at, but I feel like they really need to look 
further into who they give these children to.”
@frlJakeReyes
jreyes@alligatorUF plans to create an 
auto-free zone on campus
A 13-year-old girl’s remains have been found after going missing in GainesvilleMingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Jeremy Mall, 25, a culinary teacher at East Side high school, practices rock climbing in a 
homemade crop top at The Knot Climbing Gym on Tuesday, June 1, 2021. Mall is an avid 
“Crop Top Tuesday” participant, and he said climbing in crop tops is “fun and freeing”.
 SEE TRAFFIC SAFETY , PAGE 4
Delia Maria Young
The university will begin construction on 
two gateway projects in the late SummerT oday’s Weather
STRING NEWS OFFERS 
USERS A FRESH WAY 
TO CONSUME NEWS  
By Makiya Seminera
Alligator Staff Writer
Attending conference calls with 
investors in the car, filing patents and 
staying up until dawn to discuss app 
updates — all in a day’s work. 
Seeking to counter the spread of 
misinformation on social media, a 
group of nine UF students developed 
an app called String News. The 
founding team envisioned the app 
as a platform for users to view 
free, reliable news stories without 
distractions, such as misleading 
infographics and memes easily found 
on social media.
“We're trying to target people that 
care about journalism, love to read 
the news and love to stay informed,” 
String News COO Israel Lopez-
Morillo said. “But we also want to 
target the people that love to spend 
time on social media.” 
Strings News, listed as String: 
News Without the Noise in the 
app store, aims to streamline news 
consumption with over 14,000 news 
sources and fewer user-made posts.
The app launched on the Apple 
App Store March 19 and has gained 
816 total users on the app, as of June 
4. 
After witnessing vast amounts 
of misinformation about COVID-19, 
Black Lives Matter protests and the 
2020 election flooding social media, 
the String News team — Christian 
Ancheta, Israel Lopez-Morillo, Jeremy 
Cheng, Justin Schwartz, Sarwaan 
Ansari, Gianni Cerri, Micah Sheerin, 
Anthony Nasnas and Zac Epperson 
— wanted to make a platform that 
could serve as a solution to the issue.
“I think a lot of people in tech 
are approaching [the misinformation 
issue] from a very high level, like 
they're trying to create these super 
complicated machine-learning 
algorithms to detect misinformation,” 
String News CEO Christian Ancheta 
said. “But we think this is quite 
like a pretty low-tech solution [by] 
literally just increasing the visibility of credible sources producing this 
information.” 
When the app’s first line of code 
was written in November 2020, 
the team aimed to create a better 
platform for users to access and share 
the news with friends. Now, the 
String team’s objective has shifted to 
get more people to access news by 
appealing to a wide readership.
By providing a universal newsfeed 
for users on top of a personalized 
“for you” page, the String News team 
hopes to decrease the presence of 
social media echo chambers — an 
online environment where users’ 
opinions are reinforced through 
repeated interactions with people 
who share similar attitudes. 
“We want our users to have a 
more holistic experience [than] when 
they do on other news apps,” Ancheta 
said. “A person who wouldn't 
normally read news might be 
attracted because we have Thrasher 
magazine as a source or something. 
Then, maybe as a byproduct, they're 
following The New York Times. And 
now, The New York Times has a 
reader that they didn't initially have.” 
Throughout Ancheta’s time as 
an undergraduate, he’s been on a 
mission to create a better way to 
inform the public.
In 2019, Ancheta created Quantum 
Analytics — a company designed to 
make financial information from the 
news more accessible for everyday 
investors. A year later, the idea 
behind Quantum Analytics shifted to 
a new platform: String Finance. With 
the help of String News CFO Jeremy 
Cheng, Lopez-Morillo was recruited 
to join the team to work on String 
Finance, which ultimately expanded 
into the current String News app. 
Before becoming business 
partners, Ancheta and Lopez-
Morillo were roommates during their 
freshman year at UF — making their 
home at the Innovation Academy 
Living Learning Community (LLC) in 
Beaty Towers. With a common goal 
to make meaningful change, Ancheta 
and Lopez-Morillo’s friendship grew 
as they became part of the String 
News founding team 2020.
“I don't really live the life of a 
typical college student anymore. But I mean, if that's what's necessary 
in order to make String the next big 
thing, then I'm all for it,” Lopez-
Morillo said.
The Innovation Academy — a 
program meant to equip students 
with entrepreneurial mastery — has 
been an instrumental resource at 
UF that has provided Ancheta and 
Lopez-Morillo with the valuable 
business skills they use in the daily 
operations of String News. 
Innovation Academy director Jeff 
Citty, Ed.D. has served as a mentor 
to the pair and a loyal supporter 
of String News using the app on a 
weekly basis since its launch.
“I think they’re 100% bought 
into what they’re doing and they’re 
putting in a lot of energy into this, 
which is a key for success for them,” 
Citty said.
After launching the app, the 
String team has shifted their focus 
to marketing on forum websites like 
Reddit and garnering investments 
from venture capitalists from Miami, 
Tampa and Orlando.
“We have an actual vision that we 
want to see carry through, so finding 
investors who truly understand the 
problem and believe in the vision 
is really important for us,” Ancheta 
said. 
Not only does String News plan 
to expand its audience and investors, 
but it is also planning to continuously 
improve user experience. Features 
such as direct messages and audio 
from news podcasts or radio 
segments are just a few of the ways 
the team plans to diversify their 
business.
@makseminera
mseminera@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the VOLUME 115 ISSUE 35
 UF students create app to 
combat misinformation 352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Alex Brown / / Alligator Staff Ashley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  
and services at tobaccofreeflorida.com/quityourway.NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led virtual sessions are now available for all Florida residents, 
regardless of insurance status. Participants are also eligible to receive free 
nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
FFoorr  mmoorree  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  vviirrttuuaall  GGrroouupp  QQuuiitt  sseessssiioonnss,,  ccoonnttaacctt::
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
UF Area Health Education
Cente rs (AHEC) Program 
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA|4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
SCENTHOUND, 
A WELLNESS-FOCUSED COMPANY, 
OPENED FOR BUSINESS MAY 24
By Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville’s first wellness-centered grooming company 
is ready to cater to all dog owners.
Scenthound, located at 2835 SW 91st St. in the Haile 
Publix Market Square, opened May 24 and provides 
grooming services focused on the overall wellness and 
routine care of all dogs rather than just the haircuts or 
baths associated with traditional groomers.
Joseph and Kathryn Pizzurro, co-owners of the new 
Gainesville location, have lived together in Alachua County 
for over eight years with their rescue dog Pi. Their love 
for animals, ranging from fish to horses, developed during 
their childhoods and influences their work to this day.
With each service, Scenthound performs a S.C.E.N.T. 
check — an evaluation of each dog’s skin, coat, ears, nails 
and teeth. The evaluation is digitally sent to each owner to report any issues before they become health concerns, 
Kathryn Pizzurro said. 
“The philosophy behind Scenthound and our services is 
that it would be attractive to any dog parents out there,” 
Joseph Pizzurro said. “One of the things that occurred 
during the pandemic was the rise of the adoption of dogs 
throughout our community, and we feel that we are able 
to offer an affordable and convenient way to help those 
families take care of their dogs.”
Scenthound has 66 different locations across seven 
states, and the Gainesville location is the first in all of 
North Central Florida, Joseph Pizzurro said. The next 
closest location is in Jupiter, Florida, more than 250 miles 
away. 
Kathryn Pizzurro said Scenthound offers a monthly 
membership called their “Clean Club.” This service allows 
members to receive 25% off all grooming services.
The monthly cost for Scenthound’s grooming services 
depends on the size and coat of each dog, Kathryn Pizzurro 
said.
In addition to monthly grooming costs, there is an 
annual membership fee to become a “Clean Club” member. 
However, dog owners do not need to have a membership to use Scenthound’s services. The “Clean Club” is just an 
initiative to encourage monthly care for the dogs, Joseph 
Pizzurro said.
“The membership base model builds a routine for the 
family and a familiarity and comfort for the dog over time,” 
he said. “It just becomes part of the overall routine of the 
family in the same way that children need to go to the 
doctor at regular intervals.”
Kathleen Troy, 60, is the owner of an English Cream 
Golden Retriever named Cooper and is a new member of 
Scenthound’s “Clean Club.”
“I am going to try to do it every month because they are 
fantastic,” Troy said. “I wish Gainesville had something 
like this years ago.”
Joseph Pizzurro said he and Kathryn Pizzurro are 
excited to bring Scenthound to Gainesville.
“The response from the community has been very 
positive, and we look forward to working with dog owners 
throughout the region in helping maintain the health and 
wellness of their animals,” he said.
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.orgA new dog grooming service arrives in Gainesville
Mingmei Lit / / Alligator Staff
Knox, the dog, (left) smiles as Scenthound pet groomer Marcus Jenkins (right) wipes Knox’s paw on Tuesday, 
May 25, 2021.
can’t do it at 6 o’clock in the morning, or 7 
o’clock in the morning, so they have to be 
able to come to campus at 8:30 and still be 
able to find parking,” Walsh-Childers said.
The Transportation and Parking Strate -
gic Plan suggests reallocating lost parking 
to areas surrounding the bicycle and pe -
destrian zone. It also plans to expand ex -
isting parking garages and build new ones 
over the next 10 years.
As the pioneer campus-reform project, 
the Newell Gateway will be implemented 
at the intersection of Newell Drive and 
West University Avenue, converting the 
roadway on Newell Drive north of Inner 
Road into a pedestrian walkway as part of 
the efforts to create a bicycle and pedes -
trian zone. New traffic signals will also be imple -
mented on Northwest 16th Street to im -
prove pedestrian safety.
The university permanently removed 
motorcycle and scooter parking in an area 
near Library West to accommodate the 
construction as of May 10, senior direc -
tor of Transportation and Parking Services 
Scott Fox wrote in an email.
Paula Mello, a 24-year-old UF English 
and sustainability studies senior, rides her 
scooter to and from class. She has struggled 
to find parking on campus and even shat -
tered her mirrors trying to cram her scooter 
into the crowded Library West parking lot. 
“I feel like parking on campus is always 
a struggle everywhere, so I feel like getting 
rid of parking is not a straight out, perfect -
ly great idea,” Mello said.
To combat the loss of motorcycle and scooter parking, the Transportation and 
Parking Strategic Plan recommended im -
plementing six new parking zones. Follow -
ing the university’s goal to reduce internal 
mobile traffic, these spots will be outside 
the core of campus.
Meanwhile, the Northeast Gateway will 
serve as the major connection from UF 
to the Innovation District in downtown 
Gainesville, providing a drop-off area next 
to Tigert Hall.
Because of the new campus vehicle re -
strictions, RTS bus routes are expected to 
be rerouted around the bicycle and pedes -
trian zone, according to the Transportation 
and Parking Strategic Plan.
Fatima Mirza, a 22-year-old UF alumna, 
used to take the bus to campus, but after 
construction started this year she resorted 
to purchasing a bike to get to her classes.
“I feel that changing the bus routes 
wouldn’t really help students like me and 
others that heavily rely on that as a means 
of transportation,” she said.RTS will examine and test out new 
routes and schedules in hopes of minimiz -
ing changes and finding optimal routing for 
the community, according to the Transpor -
tation and Parking Strategic Plan.
Plans for the auto-free zone stem back 
to 2018, but the Landscape Master Plan 
and the Transportation and Parking Stra -
tegic Plan wasn’t adopted until June 2019 
by UF’s Board of Trustees. Both plans were 
later evaluated and incorporated into the 
Campus Master Plan in December 2020, 
Dixon said.
The university also encourages stu -
dents, faculty and staff to bike and walk to 
campus to minimize vehicular traffic.
“To experience that as a more park-like 
environment that really provides, priori -
tizes bicycling and walking over vehicles, 
I think that that will be a very transforma -
tional change,” Dixon said.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgTRAFFIC SAFETY , from pg. 1Fewer parking spotsMingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Sarah Headley, a pet groomer at Scenthound, sprays 
water on Daisy, the dog on Tuesday, May 25, 2021. 
Scenthound, a new pet grooming business opened in 
Gainesville on May 24.
MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021   ALLIGATOR    5 
MCVEY HAS OVER 20 
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN 
COLLEGE ATHLETICS
By Antonia LaRocca
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College has a new ath -
letics director for the first time in 20 
years.
Greg McVey, who has over 20 
years of experience in intercollegiate 
athletics, said he is excited to take 
over the director role at Santa Fe Col -
lege and help student-athletes grow 
both on and off the field. McVey ar -
rived at the college as the new direc -
tor of athletics May 17, according to a 
Santa Fe College press release.“I think I bring a lot of experience 
with a very unique lens,” he said. 
McVey most recently oversaw 
an athletic department with 15 in -
tercollegiate sports programs and 
the renovation of two athletic train -
ing facilities at Garden City Commu -
nity College in Kansas, according to 
a Garden City Community College 
press release. He was the college’s 
athletic director for 18 months, ac -
cording to the release. 
“Having the experience with a 
large, comprehensive athletic depart -
ment, I think, has taught me how to 
try to be as efficient with my time as 
I possibly can,” McVey said.
Now at Santa Fe College, McVey 
said one of his priorities is working 
on being the best in the three C’s: competition, classroom and commu -
nity.
“It’s all about the student-ath -
letes, trying to develop them in all 
three of those areas so they can go on 
and handle whatever they’re going to 
face in their life,” McVey said.
McVey said he is ready to work 
with the staff to help improve the col -
lege’s athletics department and assist 
students in becoming better athletes, 
students and community members.
“One of the things that I’ve always 
kind of prided myself on is continu -
ous improvement — always trying to 
get a little bit better each day, wheth -
er it be on the field, in the classroom 
or in the community,” McVey said.
Garden City Community College’s 
assistant men’s basketball coach Mike Harding said McVey was a de -
pendable and upbeat boss.
“I’ve had nothing but great ex -
periences with working with Greg,” 
Harding said. “His work ethic — 10 
out of 10 in my book.”
McVey is replacing Jim Keites, 
who is retiring after 25 years at the 
college. Through his experience in 
the position, Keites said, for some -
one to succeed as an athletics direc -
tor, they need to have a passion for 
athletics, support from family and 
friends and a high energy level.
Keites worked to expand athletic 
opportunities and scholarships for 
students, renovate facilities and help 
establish the college’s Athletics Hall 
of Fame, according to a Santa Fe Col -
lege press release. “I’ve always been happy to serve 
the college and the community,” 
Keites said. “It’s been a pleasure.”
McVey said Keites has been help -
ful during the transition period. The 
former director has guided McVey in 
understanding the college’s systems 
and the current state of the depart -
ment, McVey said. Keites’ last day 
on campus was May 28, according to 
the release.
Following his admiration and re -
spect for Santa Fe College’s values 
and reputation, McVey said he looks 
forward to meeting the staff through -
out the campus and growing in his 
new position
@antoniarlarocca
alarocca@alligator.org
STUDENTS MAINTAIN ANONYMITY 
IN THE ROLE OF ALBERT AND 
ALBERTA GATOR
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
Albert and Alberta Gator’s green, fuzzy 
heads bob above the Gainesville crowds as they 
greet enthusiastic Florida fans.
The duo is a symbol of UF, taking photos 
with students and fans, showing up to UF-
hosted events and embarking on city-wide 
community functions. The students behind the 
beloved characters, however, carry the spirit of 
the school while their identities remain hidden. 
Ellis Cunningham, 24, embodied the role 
of Albert — becoming what those in the role 
call “friends of the gator” — his senior year 
and endured a season of memories, smiles and 
sweat.
Cunningham took to Instagram May 2, 
2019, with five photos showing off his scaly 
surprise at the end of his senior year. 
It was the first time Cunnigham took off his 
suit head in front of the camera, as Albert and 
Alberta demand anonymity from their student 
actors. 
“It was cool to finally be out of the Alligator 
closet,” Cunningham said.
Students are encouraged to hide their secret 
mascot identities from the public until they 
graduate. The secrecy isn’t lip-tight though. 
Because Cunningham lived with his 
girlfriend at the time, he soon told her the 
secret. The individual decides which, if any, people they tell. 
Cunningham gave countless excuses to 
friends for his absence, including a marketing 
internship he was a part of when not in 
costume.
Being a “friend” to the popular Gators duo 
demanded 15 to 20 hours of conditioning and 
appearances a week, Cunningham said. 
While all eyes were on the beloved Albert, 
Cunningham’s vision was blurry through the 
mesh slots. Even in temperatures as low as 40 
degrees, sweat was inevitable, he said.
The price paid off for Cunningham though, 
as Albert left a stronger impression on him than 
most. 
The grad student drew inspiration from the 
role as he ventured into sports management. 
Cunningham wasn’t sure what he wanted to do 
with his undergraduate marketing degree until 
he was exposed to collegiate sports. 
Cunningham described the mascot role as 
rewarding for his professional life.
He now has a marketing internship with 
the Florida Gators and is pursuing a master’s in 
sports marketing.
Cunningham covered every D1 Gators sport 
in his tenure and grew a particular liking to 
basketball coverage. Unlike football, mascots 
can get away with watching the game for a 
while at the O’Dome, Cunningham said.
Sporting events are one to two-hour 
appearances for Albert and Alberta, 
Cunningham said.
Football games are the exception. The sport 
that packs The Swamp requires attention from 
the duo like no other.
“Best friends” of Albert and Alberta arrive at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium four to five hours prior 
to kickoff to gear up for the event. 
Prior to the 2020 COVID-19 football 
regulations, the whole team of mascots suited 
up to go to a myriad of pregame traditions. The 
pandemic-affected 2020 season didn’t allow for 
such.
For the pregame, Albert and Alberta 
attended Gator Walk, the pep rally near Alumni 
Hall, and cheered at Alligator Alley — a bricked 
pathway outside the stadium’s northern stands 
packed with fans. 
The mascots then greeted guests with 
exclusive seating in the Skybox Suites as the 
game kicked off and then went back down to 
the field at the start of the second half.
During his mascot tenure, Cunningham 
grew acquainted with UF graduate Charlie 
Newton, a 27-year-old materials engineer.
Newton was Albert’s “friend” from 2013 to 
2016 — from sophomore to senior year.
Like Cunningham, Newton experienced 
game days in The Swamp like no other.
During his tenure, there were only two 
Alberts and two Albertas, each handling their 
respective shifts throughout the Gators game. 
One pair would meet at the north end zone of Steve Spurrier-Florida Field and cheer as 
players ran out of the tunnel. They would then 
walk to Emerson Hall for Gator Walk.
The other pair would be ready inside the 
stadium for pre-game rituals — such as the 
Two Bits chant — and took the field for the first 
half. The groups switched for the second half; 
group one hit the field and group two walked to 
the custom box seats.
“Football’s a production,” Newton said. 
Newton’s most enriching times in the suit 
happened outside of football games, however.
In January 2014, Newton flew to California 
for the 2014 Farmers Insurance Open PGA golf 
tournament with pro-golfer Camilo Villegas 
— a former UF golf player. He also rubbed 
shoulders with famous golfers like Tiger Woods 
and Phil Mickelson. 
Newton participated in a skills competition 
in the summer of 2016 in Orlando for the 
Celebrity Mascot Games, where all proceeds 
went to charity.
He also worked an unusual Albert 
appearance in 2015 where he advertised 
the Florida Gators door to door inside Beaty 
Towers. 
A few residents asked Albert to stand over 
their sleeping roommates as they woke up.
“The person that I woke up in Beaty Towers 
is never gonna forget that,” Newton said.
Newton also traveled outside of UF’s 
campus for local community events. 
Most organizations in Gainesville receive 
one free Albert and Alberta appearance request 
per school year, Newton said. Because of 
this, elementary schools, nursing homes and 
churches are common locations for the duo. 
“People cherish memories and photographs 
that they take with Albert and Alberta,” Newton 
said.
Sara Sheffield, a 25-year-old nurse, slithered through her time in the costume a tad differently 
as the “friend” of big, green girl boss Alberta.
The UF graduate played the role from 2014-
2018. 
Sheffield traveled to Jacksonville for the 
2014 Florida vs. Georgia game  — the Gators 
won 38-20 — and then to California in July 
2016 to film a commercial for ESPN.
“Honestly, it’s a once-in-a-lifetime 
experience with so many memories that I’ll 
never forget,” Sheffield said regarding the role. 
What separates Alberta from Albert is her 
empowerment for women, Sheffield said. Most 
universities only have one mascot, but UF 
represents a wider demographic with Albert 
and Alberta.
“It was really more about the characters 
than myself,” she said.
The role taught Sheffield how to maintain 
confidence and break out of her shell, she said. 
Unlike most UF mascots — who try out 
for their sophomore year or later — Sheffield 
chomped around in the suit all four years of 
college. 
Sheffield’s sister Tricia was a “friend” of 
Alberta from 2005-2008 — a time when Gators 
sports won four national championships — and 
pushed her to join the team.
Sara Sheffield applied to be Alberta’s 
“friend” when she was still in high school.
“I was very nervous because I was in a 
room full of college students,” Sara Sheffield 
said regarding her audition for the role.
Spirited, energetic and unmissable — 
noteworthy characteristics that define the 
famed Gators. While their presence runs 
the streets of Gainesville, their accompanied 
mascots run on anonymity.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgGreg McVey is Santa Fe College’s new athletic director 
The faces behind the famed Gators
Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
UF mascot, Albert Gator, takes a picture 
with Gator fans Sloane Jansen, 8, (left) 
Molly Jansen, 4, (middle) and Brynn Jansen, 
6, (right) at the Florida Ballpark at Alfred A. 
McKethan Field on Sunday, May 2, 2021.Mingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
Paul McEuen, 7, chases UF mascot, Albert Gator, during a baseball game at the 
Florida Ballpark at Alfred A. McKethan Field on Sunday, May 2, 2021.
UF plans to demolish 36% of on-cam -
pus Graduate Family Housing, as 
reported in the Gainesville Sun and 
The Alligator. This is one instance 
in a series of recent decisions that 
shows UF does not value graduate students as 
much as it values our labor. 
Much of the other infrastructure changes 
set forward in the recently approved Campus 
Master Plan are narrowly focused on UF’s com -
mitment to the undergraduate experience and 
reaching “Top 5” status in the U.S. News and 
World Report Public University ranking scale. 
However, unsettling recent events beyond 
campus development, such as the investigation 
into the June 2019 suicide of UF Ph.D. student, 
Huixiang Chen, and UF’s varying COVID-19 
policies indicate to graduate students that both 
our campus resources and potentially our lives 
are disposable here.
For the past two years, graduate students 
have been vocal against the demolition of two  
Graduate Family Housing Villages: Maguire 
Village and University Village South (UVS).
These buildings have been deemed struc -
turally unsound and past the point of repair 
due to their being built in the 1970s. Despite 
this, details of any independent building in -
spection, along with reasonable estimates for 
costs of renovations, are kept a mystery by UF 
Housing and Residence Education, the bureau -
cracy responsible for the planned demolition. 
The UF Department of Housing and Resi -
dence Education indicated to graduate stu -
dents early on that the motivation for demol -
ishing the two villages stems from a desire for 
financial gain. There has been little interest in 
replacing the 536 bedrooms that will be lost 
with similarly affordable graduate housing to 
serve the low-income and primarily interna -
tional graduate workers who call Maguire and 
UVS home. 
In fact, it was the work of UF’s Graduate 
Student Council, not UF Housing, which sur -
veyed 254 current Graduate Family Housing 
residents and discovered 81% made less than 
$30,000 per year and 73% were international 
students, who already face disproportionate 
financial barriers to living and working in the 
U.S. 
Requests for negotiation and transparency 
from UF Housing on the matter of Maguire and 
UVS continually end in gridlock. 
UF Housing exercises its right to privacy as 
one of the University’s 18 direct-support orga -
nizations (DSO) — public-private hybrids not 
subject to Sunshine Laws. This enables UF to 
follow monetary incentives, act against the in -
terests of the Gator community, and present 
cherry-picked data on housing needs — de -
spite being a public land-grant institution. UF 
Housing has proposed no viable replacement 
graduate housing and continues to accept $25 
application fees for a housing pool that has 
been reduced greatly by the quiet phase-out of 
Maguire and UVS apartments.
While UF Housing has been secretive in its 
decision-making process and a source of frus -
tration for the UF graduate community, it is 
merely a DSO tool for senior UF administrators 
to execute plans in securing the coveted “Top 5 
Public University” ranking and to garner more 
national attention. Results of the March 18-19 
UF Board of Trustees meeting indicated UF is 
so dedicated to rankings that it will overlever -
age itself by $250 million to begin construction 
on the “Gator Residential Complex,” a 1,400-bed undergraduate housing facility to supple -
ment UF’s “elite” on-campus living experience 
and “Top 5 brand.” 
While the $250 million project was vet -
ted to improve undergraduate “involvement 
in academic and social experiences,” gradu -
ate students are left asking — what about us? 
Despite graduate workers being the primary 
laborers in achieving UF’s record research 
spending during the pandemic, none of these 
accomplishments or the expanded research 
potential ahead of us, garner real investment 
in our wellbeing.
UF has consistently placed graduate assis -
tants at the bottom of their concern list. At the 
beginning of the pandemic, it took three and 
a half months for the labor union, Graduate 
Assistants United and UF to reach a Memo -
randum of Understanding protecting gradu -
ate assistants from being terminated due to 
productivity drops related to COVID-19. At the 
end of the Fall 2020 semester, UF was already 
pushing for faculty and graduate assistants to 
return to in-person teaching, despite a vaccine 
not yet being widely available. Many ADA ac -
commodation requests from faculty and GAs 
to work from home during the Spring 2021 se -
mester were denied. 
Another illustration of UF’s flippant attitude 
towards graduate assistants is their handling of 
the June 2019 suicide of Electrical and Com -
puter Engineering graduate assistant Huixiang 
Chen. Despite verbal and emotional abuse 
from his faculty supervisor, former professor 
Dr. Tao Li, which Chen cited in his suicide 
note, UF failed to remove Tao Li from cam -
pus until his grant money dried up after he 
was implicated for academic misconduct and 
instituted a 15-year publishing ban from their 
journals. 
Even after UF suspended him from campus, 
Tao Li remained on UF’s payroll until he re -
signed May 15 of this year. UF contracted with 
the law firm Gray Robinson to conduct the in -
vestigation into alleged mentor abuse by Tao 
Li that drove Huixiang Chen to suicide. After 
almost two years of radio silence, Gray Robin -
son submitted a bare-boned, three-page report 
in which they concluded no abuse had taken 
place. 
The findings of these investigations indicate 
that the threat to UF’s intellectual property was 
taken more seriously than the loss of one of 
our peers. Verbal and psychological abuse of 
graduate assistants by their mentors is a wide -
spread, national problem and UF squandered 
their opportunity to show graduate assistants 
they will be protected against one of the largest 
occupational hazards in academia. 
The best part of UF is the people, and we 
must advocate for compassionate policies to -
wards the overworked and overlooked portion 
of UF’s population that is graduate workers. 
We have outlined UF’s many missed oppor -
tunities in advocating for its graduate students 
and workers, which in the most extreme case, 
ended with the loss of Huixiang Chen. 
Please, UF, learn from these mistakes and 
invest more resources and time into your grad -
uate community: starting with affordable hous -
ing and protection from workplace abuse.
Amanda Pritzlaff and Bryn Taylor are 
members of the UF Graduate Assistants 
United (GAU) which is the official labor 
union representing more than 4,000 graduate 
employees at the University of Florida.Demolition of affordable graduate housing 
is another blow to UF’s graduate assistantsColumnMONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinionsLUNES, 7 DE JUNIO DE 2021
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman El Caimán Opinions
CONTRACOVID EMPEZÓ CON 
HUMILDES COMIENZOS, Y AHORA 
SE HA CONVERTIDO EN UNA FIGURA 
CENTRAL EN INFORMAR A LOS 
LATINOS DE GAINESVILLE
Por Isabella Barnet
Escritora de Caimán
Mas de un año después del primer caso de 
COVID-19 en el condado de Alachua, el capí -
tulo ContraCOVID de Gainesville se mantiene 
firme en el cumplimiento de su misión: pro -
porcionar información actualizada y multil -
ingüe información para la comunidad.
ContraCOVID fue fundado por estudiantes 
y profesionales de la Escuela de Medicina de 
Harvard. El capítulo local de Gainesville fue 
fundado a mediados de junio de 2020 por 5 es -
tudiantes universitarios en la UF. Una de sus 
cofundadoras, Aya Tal-Mason, se graduó en 
la primavera de 2020 pero se sintió motivada 
para hacer algo sobre COVID-19 después de 
conocer el capítulo nacional fundado en Bos -
ton, Massachusetts.
“Tenemos una voluntad muy profunda de 
hacer un cambio positivo y estamos muy en -
tusiasmados de hacer algo bueno para la co -
munidad”, enfatizó Tal-Mason.
En el tiempo desde que se fundó el capítulo 
local de Gainesville, ContraCOVID ha crecido 
para encontrar mejores formas de satisfacer 
las necesidades de los grupos subrepresenta -
dos mediante la expansión de su alcance. A 
través de sus esfuerzos dirigidos por volun -
tarios, sus guías de recursos comunitarios es -
tán disponibles en 4 idiomas diferentes y un 
estudio de investigación conducido por ellos 
encontrará mejores formas de responder a las 
necesidades de la comunidad local durante 
COVID-19.
Las guías impresas no solo se ofrecen en 
inglés, sino también en español, mandarín y 
coreano con la ayuda de estudiantes volun -
tarios. Un equipo de recursos recopila la infor -
mación esencial, los traductores interpretan 
la información y las guías se distribuyen a la 
comunidad.
En el corazón del trabajo de ContraCOVID 
está la urgencia de mantener informadas a las 
personas en un momento en el que ellos están 
inundados con recursos e información enga -
ñosa. COVID-19 se asocia a menudo con vivir 
en una “infodemia”, o una sobreabundancia 
de información que incluye intentos delibera -
dos de desinformar, según la Organización 
Mundial de la Salud.Las guías no siempre llegan a comunidades 
aisladas debido a barreras físicas; para com -
batir esto, las redes sociales de ContraCOVID 
se actualizan constantemente con gráficos in -
formativos disponibles en inglés y español.
Según el Centro para el Control de Enfer -
medades, sólo el 14.1% de los latinos e his -
panos han recibido al menos una dosis de 
una vacuna, aunque constituyen el 17.2% de 
la población de Estados Unidos. Aunque la 
falta de vacunas entre la población latina es 
el resultado de varios factores, las tendencias 
nacionales muestran que se debe en gran me -
dida a la inaccesibilidad más que a la descon -
fianza pública.
“Buscamos cómo conectar a la comunidad 
Latinx, pero hasta ahora no hemos encontra -
do una forma directa de hacerlo ... lo mejor 
que podemos hacer es encontrar clínicas por 
ahora”, dijo Tal-Mason. 
Organizaciones como estas no solo sirven 
como guías informativas, sino también como 
verificadores de información pública a través 
de su propia investigación. Los hashtags 
#MythBustMondays y #FaceTheFactsFriday 
de ContraCOVID son solo una de las formas 
en que la organización aborda la información 
errónea que rodea al COVID-19.
Allison Castiblanco, una estudiante de 
salud pública de 22 años en la UF, ha servido 
como traductora de español en las redes socia -
les de ContraCOVID desde julio de 2020.
Aunque su trabajo parece pequeño en 
comparación con todo el equipo de ContraCO -
VID que se enfoca a desarrollar información 
para latinoamericanos, los traductores son es -
pecialmente importantes debido a los efectos 
desproporcionados que tiene COVID-19 en las 
poblaciones minoritarias. Las barreras del idi -
oma son solo una de las luchas que enfrentan 
los inmigrantes cuando navegan por los recur -
sos durante la pandemia.
“Hay muchos temas que mucha gente [en 
la comunidad latina] no conoce, y eso se debe 
principalmente a la falta de intérpretes y per -
sonas lo suficientemente competentes para 
traducir”, dijo Castiblanco.
Castiblanco enfatiza que todavía hay otros 
problemas de salud pública que enfrentan los 
latinos y pueden ser temas futuros de inves -
tigación para ContraCOVID una vez que se di -
sipe COVID-19, ya que esta pandemia expuso 
cómo esta comunidad es afectada de manera 
desproporcionada. 
“No caiga en la idea errónea de que COVID 
se acabó porque no es así. Sé que hay vacu -
nas, pero aún debemos estar seguros ”, dijo 
Castiblanco.No son los típicos trabajadores de primera línea: 
cómo ContraCOVID informa a los desinformados
Isabella Barnet / / Alligator Staff
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Hard work pays off
Halley Taylor’s journey from an under recruited prospect to 
gym star inspires the next generation. Read more on pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Download the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
THE NEW BAR OPENED ITS 
DOORS ON MAY 28 
By Karter Nancy
Avenue Staff Writer
If you “Just Can’t Get Enough” of 
synthwave, the arcade and all things 
‘80s, Gainesville’s newest bar may 
have you drinking your way back in 
time. 
That 80’s Bar Gainesville at 19 
West University Ave. opened its 
doors May 28. 
The new dance club is owned by 
Lawrence Clay who owns other local 
bars off University Avenue, includ -
ing Bricks Nightclub, Spurred Up Sa -
loon & Billiards and The Lab Bar & 
Lounge.
Clay said he hopes That 80’s Bar 
resonates with the not-so-typical col -
lege town customer.
“I wanted to move away from col -
lege students and more towards an 
older crowd. It’s a great corner here 
because we have Madrina’s and Cry 
Baby’s, and that’s the kind of the age 
we’re going for,” Clay said. 
When brainstorming the visual 
theme for the bar, Clay said he want -
ed to include concepts like Pac-Man, 
MTV, The Smurfs and other ‘80s car -
toons.
The artwork on the bar’s walls 
was created by McKinna Salinas and 
includes paintings of rollerskates, a Rubix cube, shutter shades, a classic 
Nintendo NES and a Pac-Man board. 
Salinas studied art at UC Davis in 
California and moved to Gainesville 
about two and a half years ago. The 
24-year-old said she’s painted several 
of Clay’s bars and creates murals for 
the Trader Joe’s off Archer Road.
Salinas said her favorite part of 
the ‘80s is the “fun, vibrant colors,” 
and she thought it was cool to cre -
ate bright paintings that matched the 
aesthetic. 
Leslee Cone, 22, visited the bar 
with a group of friends and said the 
artwork drew her to the establish -
ment. So far, it’s one of her favorite 
things about the new business. 
Cone said she hasn’t experienced 
much of the bar yet but expects it to 
become a spot for dancing. 
The bar also has a Pac-Man arcade 
cabinet, and Clay said he hopes to fill 
the space with more arcade games in 
the future. 
Prior to That 80’s Bar, House of 
Beer sat in its current location. Clay 
said he anticipates its previous cus -
tomers to check out his new business. 
Dominic Horvath, 29, said he vis -
ited the location when it was House 
of Beer.
“This is my first time at the ‘80s 
bar,” Horvath said. “We’re here for 
the funk of ‘80s music and dancing.” 
For some customers, growing up 
in the ‘80s is what drew them into the familiar vibe. 
Brittiany Frady, 31, said as an 
“‘80s kid” and lover of the era’s mu -
sic, the bar caught her interest.
“I expected ‘80s music, ‘80s-
themed decorations and the bar de -
livered,” Frady said. 
Clay said the bar has not been op -
erating long enough to see whether 
COVID-19 is impacting business. But 
he said the day of the grand open -
ing attracted a “decent” turnout, and 
things have been going well since. 
The bar fills the space with ‘80s 
music all night long, and on Satur -
days guests can sing ‘80s-themed 
karaoke. 
Clay said his favorite ‘80s song is 
Cyndi Lauper’s “Girls Just Want To 
Have Fun” and Whitney Houston’s “I 
Wanna Dance With Somebody (Who 
Loves Me).” 
He also said the bar has happy 
hour every day from 7 p.m. to 10 
p.m., a low-calorie cocktail menu and 
couches to lounge on. 
Clay assures the bar’s employees 
will give guests a great experience by 
“talking to them, exchanging infor -
mation and making good drinks.”
“It’s fun,” he said. “You can come 
here, let loose and not care about 
anything.”
@writtenbykarter
knancy@alligator.orgCARS FOR CANCER RAISES 
AWARENESS AND MONEY 
FOR CHILDREN’S 
CANCER RESEARCH
By Abigail Hasebroock
Avenue Staff Writer
Six-year-old Mariana Altomare 
was too young to have any vivid 
memories of her father’s battle with 
lung cancer. 
Altomare, now an 18-year-old 
Eastside High School 2021 gradu -
ate, said she and her brother re -
member hearing about how her 
dad needed surgery, but it wasn’t 
until they were a few years older 
that they understood what he en -
dured. 
“It’s weird finding out about 
that and being scared about that af -
ter it’s already happened,” she said. 
“That never stops being a worry, 
that never stops being a concern.” 
Although their father’s experi -
ence is a set of spotty memories for 
the siblings, his survival inspired 
Michele Altomare, a 22-year-old UF 
computer science senior, to launch 
Cars for Cancer in 2019. The com -
pany offers T-shirts, hoodies, stick -
er decals, key chains, windshield 
banners and car air fresheners, 
which are promoted at car shows across the United States. 
Cars for Cancer raises funds and 
awareness for children’s cancer re -
search, and part of the proceeds go 
directly to St. Jude Children’s Re -
search Hospital in Memphis, Ten -
nessee. 
Michele Altomare said the car 
scene is a vast community of peo -
ple, some of whom have a con -
nection to cancer. This community 
makes it possible to pull together 
those who want to contribute to the 
company. Some even pledge their 
vehicles to raise awareness. 
Juan Reina did just that. The 
26-year-old from Cape Coral, Flor -
ida, emblazoned his 2013 Hyundai 
Genesis Coupe with a pink breast 
cancer awareness ribbon. 
Because most of his family lives 
in Colombia, Reina is especially 
close to his family nearby, includ -
ing his cousin Karen Sentner, who 
was diagnosed with breast cancer 
in October 2018.  “It was like my 
sister being diagnosed with breast 
cancer,” he said. “It broke my 
heart.”
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org“That 80’s Bar takes Gainesville residents back in time” Car enthusiasts fund cancer research  
NIGHTLIFENIGHTLIFE
 ENTREPRENEURSHIPENTREPRENEURSHIP8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
THE 2020-21 YEARBOOK STAFF OPERATED 
50% ONLINE, 50% IN-PERSON
By Alan Halaly
Alligator Staff Writer
In her final year of high school, Reyhan Kepic only 
drove to school for one important 8:30 a.m. class — year -
book. 
The 18-year-old Gainesville High School senior spent 
her final year of school in Alachua County Public Schools 
digital academy, joining the rest of her classes from her 
bedroom every day.
As editor-in-chief of the school’s yearbook, Kepic led 
a team of 14 staffers — seven of whom attended class in-
person while the other half participated online. She was 
tasked with reviewing page spreads, formatting text and 
sorting through photos taken by the staff.
At the beginning of the Fall semester, the staff had one 
outstanding task — documenting a year of Hyflex classes 
spent wearing masks and on Zoom.
“Students are going to be able to remember how it 
used to be through this yearbook,” Kepic said. 
The yearbook’s theme this year, “Up Close and Per -
sonal,” aimed to take a deeper look into how students 
fared through the COVID-19 pandemic. Gainesville High 
School’s yearbook is just one example of schools across 
the world tasked with capturing student life amid CO -
VID-19. Because of tight deadlines and COVID-19 safety 
restrictions, the staff needed to get creative to fill its year -
book.
The group relied heavily on portrait photos and stories 
that focused on student life outside of school grounds. 
The yearbook has a page documenting unique student 
hobbies during quarantine. The staff interviewed a stu -
dent who worked at the children’s clothing store Justice 
when it went out of business and included photos a stu -
dent took with her new pet ducks. 
To Kepic, the yearbook will be a relic of how the stu -
dents experienced the COVID-19 pandemic.“It’s like a little time capsule,” she said. “There’s a 
lot of COVID incorporated into it, which just shows how 
much it was affecting us. But we still were able to finish 
it.”
Claire Fisher, a 15-year-old Gainesville High School 
sophomore, has participated in the yearbook class virtu -
ally. Digital Academy students like Fisher are broadcasted 
on the whiteboard while they collaborate with in-person 
students via an online Walsworth Yearbooks platform. 
“We’ve been trying to make it so that we’re telling the 
story of people during the pandemic,” she said. “So we 
want to ask a lot of questions about COVID and specifi -
cally how they are hosting their events.”Yearbook teacher Wayne Eury, 48, said each year 
about 600 students at GHS usually order the yearbook, 
which costs $80. He wished more students on campus 
would purchase one.  
“It’s the only technology guaranteed to still work in 20 
years,” Eury said. “I still have my yearbooks from middle 
school.”
He said his team of students became inspired after they 
looked at GHS’s old yearbooks, especially the 1919 copy 
that was made during the Spanish influenza pandemic. 
“Everybody now can just take pictures with their 
phones. Back then, it was much harder,” Eury said. “If 
they could do it 100 years ago, we can do it now.”
Early in the pandemic, the yearbook staff saw a jump 
in donations to their Hurricane Angel program, through 
which businesses, parents and community members can 
donate money to provide a yearbook to a senior unable to 
purchase one for financial reasons. 
Each year, six or seven books are donated through the 
program. But in 2020, Eury said more than 100 donated 
yearbooks were distributed to students. 
“It really blew me away,” Eury said. 
One of the assistant editors, Hailey Overstreet, a 
17-year-old Gainesville High School junior, said while the 
goal of this year’s yearbook was to document the var -
ied student experience during COVID-19, the staff didn’t 
want to harp on the negatives.
“We tried to focus the yearbook on the lifestyle of kids 
and what’s going on in their lives despite COVID,” Over -
street said. “We wanted to get as real and raw of a story 
from each student as possible.”
She said it’s bizarre to look back at photos where ev -
eryone posed so close to each other.
“I go through old yearbooks, and I see photos from pep 
rallies,” Overstreet said. “It’s bonkers. I look at photos, I 
see myself and I’m like, ‘Wow, I’m standing very close to 
that person.’”
Overstreet said the team decided to structure the year -
book by month rather than by section — a testament to 
how much health guidance rollout influenced student life 
as the pandemic continued to unfold.  
Jacoby Hine, a 17-year-old Gainesville High School ju -
nior on the yearbook staff, said perseverance was key to 
completing the yearbook.
Despite COVID-19 challenges, Hine said he is proud of 
the group for submitting the yearbook by the deadline in 
a time when students needed it most. 
“There’s got to be a yearbook,” Hine said. “You can’t 
just not have a yearbook.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgGainesville High School documents a school year of COVID-19
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Reyhan Kepic, 18, a senior at Gainesville High School and the editor-in-chief of the school’s yearbook points at 
a computer screen as she explains the layout of a page spread in the GHS yearbook on Monday, April 12, 2021.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Two pages of the “Up Close and Personal” issue of the Gainesville High School yearbook that showcase how 
students dealt with an online-school environment during the COVID-19 pandemic.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
say: "I found it in the alligator!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-121For Rent
furnished
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            8-15-21-13-2
For Rent 2BR 1BA house, screened porch, 
fenced yard. Walking distance to Butler 
Plaza, Celebration Point and bus transpor-
tation. Available 8/1 Call: 352-494-3277.    
6-7-20-2-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail-
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod-
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.  
8-1-21-9-2
11..    HHeessiittaatteedd
11..    CCooww  oorr  ooxxeenn  55..    VViieeww
22..    LLeeaanniinngg,,  ssllaannttiinngg  66..    MMeeaann,,  iinnddiiccaattee
33..    MMooddeell77..    ________  uuppoonn  
44..    FFrroolliicckkeedd  LLDDAAKKEEBB
NNOOVVBBIIEEVVAATTIISS
MMYYLLIIPP
IILLIITTSSGGNN
XXLLEEPPMMAAEEEERRAAGGDDEE
LLEEDDYYAAPPAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--BBaallkkeedd    55AA--VViissttaa    66AA--IImmppllyy    77AA--AAggrreeeedd
11DD--BBoovviinnee    22DD--LLiissttiinngg    33DD--EExxaammppllee    44DD--PPllaayyeedd    BB--SSlloovvaakkiiaa66--77--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  bboorrddeerrss  PPoollaanndd,,  UUkkrraaiinnee,,  HHuunnggaarryy,,
AAuussttrriiaa  aanndd  tthhee  CCzzeecchh  RReeppuubblliicc..  
BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RVís 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          6-7-5-13
14 Help Wanted
AllStar Cheer/Tumbling Coach
Florida TeamCheer is looking for energetic 
cheer/tumbling coaches.
AllStar experience required. 
Send your resume to ftcgators@aol.com
or call 352-222-9977                         7-6-21-5-14
Front Desk Reception SIMEDHealth
SIMEDHealth is looking for both PT and FT 
Front Desk Receptionists for our Gainesville 
locations. Please go to our website to apply: 
http://simedhealth.com/jobs.  
6-7-21-5-14
Newberry Animal Hospital has several po-
sitions open on their client service team. 
Do you have great customer service skills, 
smile, and attitude? Are you enthusiastic, 
friendly, and a naturally happy team player? 
Can you have at least 2 full days of availabil -
ity each week? We can teach you everything 
else you need to know for the job! Previous 
reception experience a plus. We are a drug 
free workplace and do require candidate em-
ployment testing. Apply: https://www.new-
berryanimalhospital.com/careers
6-7-21-2-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-15-21-13-1513 Wanted 5 Real Estate
By John R. O’Brien
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/07/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/07/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, June 7, 2021
ACROSS
1 10-year-old 
Oscar winner 
O’Neal
6 Head lock
11 Title for Lee or 
Grant: Abbr.
14 The Colosseum, 
e.g.
15 Beyond bad
16 Messenger 
molecule
17 *Selling point for 
a used car
19 Homer’s “rosy-
fingered” dawn 
goddess
20 Jacob’s twin
21 “Young Sheldon” 
network
22 Beauty’s beau
24 Part-time player
26 Raise, as sails
28 *Going out with 
another couple
32 In the stars
35 Lena of “Alias”
36 Expected in
37 Old-school 
“OMG!”
38 With “the,” 
rare batting 
feat whose 
components 
begin the 
answers to 
starred clues
40 Note to the staff
41 Villain Luthor
42 Work bound to 
sell?
43 Former Swedish 
cars
44 *High club in a 
deli
48 Krall of jazz
49 Power failures
53 Former senator 
Lott
55 Bad firecracker
56 Hair clump
57 Anthem 
contraction
58 *Metaphor for the 
perfect person for 
the job
62 Printer problem
63 Chris of “Captain 
America”
64 Arnie __, Don 
Draper’s neighbor 
on “Mad Men”
65 Suffix with direct
66 Dentist’s request
67 Wind: Pref.DOWN
1 Uses a stun gun 
on
2 Come about
3 Coffee break hr.
4 Like a tour 
without a  
leader
5 Prefix with ware
6 Pair of shillings, 
in British slang
7 Uses oars
8 West end?
9 Fresno-to-L.A. 
dir.
10 Belgrade native
11 “Wish I’d thought 
of that!”
12 Grandson of 
Adam
13 Creator of the 
GOP elephant
18 Hosiery hue
23 Approx. number
25 Whale group
26 Satan’s realm
27 “Garfield” canine
29 Age of Reason 
philosopher  
John
30 Anesthetized
31 Most ’90s  
Prizms
32 Pool table 
surface33 Stress or worry, 
it’s said
34 Wildlife 
preservation 
method
38 Either “Fargo” 
director
39 Film wise man 
with his own 
grammar
40 Very long race
42 Nonsense
43 Wimbledon unit
45 Bowling target46 Golfing venue
47 Spiral-horned 
antelope
50 Pretense
51 Zimbalist Jr. of 
“77 Sunset Strip”
52 Shorthand pro
53 WWII Japanese 
general
54 Raise, as kids
55 Animal lairs
59 Egg: Pref.
60 __ cave
61 New Deal agcy.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/02/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/02/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, June 2, 2021
ACROSS
1 Many veggie 
dishes
7 No
13 Go places
14 Type of eyeglass 
spray
16 Quito apron-like 
dress?
19 Alt. spelling
20 ORD postings
21 “Off with her 
head!” head 
owner
23 Fed. power dept.
25 Sana’a citrus 
fruit?
29 Tubular hangers 
in delis
32 “Either thou, __ 
... must go with 
him”: Romeo
33 Spanish 
Surrealist
34 Yoga surface
35 Grand in scale
36 Legendary 
Spanish knight 
El __
37 Suva car wash 
implement?
41 When doubled, 
amply covered 
New Orleans 
classic
43 Chowder, e.g.
44 Set on fire
45 Bjorn with five 
Wimbledon wins
47 “Bird Set Free” 
singer
48 Live wires
52 Bamako dog?
55 Rob of “9-1-1: 
Lone Star”
56 Move about, as 
water in a pan
57 Campus sports 
org.
60 “What’s more ... ”
61 Yerevan flower?
66 Big name in 
electric shavers
67 Gift of the gifted
68 Pulls a chair up 
to, as a table
69 Slight amount
DOWN
1 Rick who tours 
Europe on PBS
2 Little-known 
information
3 Winner’s wreath
4 Actress Gardner5 __ Gardner, 
co-producer of 
“Moonlight” and 
“Selma,” among 
others
6 Vending machine 
feature
7 Go unrenewed
8 What the 
names of three 
contiguous U.S. 
states begin with
9 USPS delivery
10 Source of Souls
11 Butcher’s waste
12 Pulled a 
switcheroo on, 
say
15 Pained 
expression
17 2020 World 
Series team
18 Food safety 
concern
22 City west of Tulsa
24 Malek of  
“Mr. Robot”
26 Attend to a spill
27 One of a “Great” 
five
28 “__ done!”
30 Rank above capt.
31 “I’m telling the 
truth!”
35 Part of ERA37 Down in the 
dumps
38 Garden base
39 Singapore Sling 
liquor
40 End-of-list abbr.
41 PCs, originally
42 Critter in old 
Qantas ads
46 Gadgets
48 Ten: Pref.
49 Complained
50 Renting 
alternative51 Tranquil
53 “SNL” alum  
Oteri
54 Pricey bar
58 Muses may 
represent them
59 Genesis guy
62 Word with profit 
or weight
63 They, in French
64 Obamacare, for 
short
65 Quarterback 
Manning
06/01/2021get VACCINATED todayanswers on page 101. MOVIE:  Which 1985 
Brat Pack movie featured the 
theme song "Don't You (For -
get About Me)"?
2. FOOD & DRINK: What 
is the color of the spirit called 
absinthe?
3. GEOGRAPHY:  Which 
Central American country used 
to be called British Honduras?
4. TELEVISION:  What is the 
dog's name on "Family Guy"?5. MEDICAL: What is the 
common name for the condition 
called lateral epicondylitis?
6. LANGUAGE:  What does 
the Japanese word tsunami 
mean in English?
7. BUSINESS:  In what year 
did Amazon launch?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM:  
What animal has no vocal 
cords? 
9. U.S. STATES:  What is the 
only state that borders just 
one other state?
10. SCIENCE:  What is em -
pirical science?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by FifiRodriguez
Warehouse worker needed. Must be 
able to lift heavy merchandise. Drug 
free workplace. Must pass drug test 
and background check. Full time posi-
tion includes weekends and evenings.  
Wage based on experience. Apply in person 
at Furniture Country.                    6-7-21-1-14
Customer service/Office Local busy Furniture 
Store has an immediate opening for cus-
tomer service/office position. You must have 
good math skills and able to handle money 
and use an adding machine. Multi tasking 
and good communication skills are a plus. 
The position hours would be Tues-Sat 11am-
7pm. Wage based on experience. Please 
email resume                6-7-21-1-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille
NOW HIRING
Until June 13th, we'll be hosting interviews 
for Spurrier's Gridiron Grille! We need 5-star 
restaurant talent to join our team. Applications 
must be submitted online & an interview will 
be scheduled with those qualified. No walk-ins 
due to the high volume of applicants. Apply at 
spurriersdraft.com                        6-7-21-5-14
16 Health Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
ATTENTION SENIORS
The average funeral cost is $9000+Don't leave 
your family to pay your debts. State Approved, 
Final Expense Life Insurance Plans Are Now 
Available as Low as $25 a month Hurry and 
Call Before Enrollment Ends.
800-555-5555 M-F 9am-6pmEST            6-7-3-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21NOTICE OF ON-SITE/VIRTUAL HYBRID 
PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a hybrid - on-site and 
virtual public meeting via communications 
media technology to which all interested 
persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: June 21, 2021 at 5:00 p.m.
ON-SITE John R. “Jack” Durrance 
Auditorium, County Administration Building, 
Gainesville, Florida
VIRTUAL: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, 
Facebook and the Alachua County Video on 
Demand Website [link below]
www.alachuacounty.us/video
Live Broadcast Public Comment Call-In - 
Call 1-800-876-7516
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning) or 
may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida one week prior to the 
meeting. Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a hybrid on-site 
and virtual meeting via communications 
media technology. Public participation for this 
meeting on-site for this meeting is accommo -
dated, but is limited due to social distancing 
requirements. On-site public participants are 
encouraged to wear a face-covering mask at 
all times. For on-site public comment, partici -
pants will be prompted and should follow the 
direction of the Chair to participate. The public 
is encouraged to participate in the virtual pub -
lic meeting. The public may submit comments 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area through email (escalante@ncfrpc.org) 
or by calling into the public comment mes -
sage line when prompted to call during the 
meeting. Public comment will be taken by tele -
phone for all non-ministerial items on which 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area votes. Once public comment is opened 
for an item under discussion, please call 
the public comment telephone number. In 
addition, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization will open telephone 
lines for a public comment session for the 
public to discuss items not on the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area agenda. 
Virtual Citizens Comment agenda item calls 
should be limited to transportation planning 
issues within the Gainesville Metropolitan 
Area. Duration of the Citizens Comment 
agenda item may extend as long as calls are 
received. For all Call-In Comments, Callers 
will be put in a queue, and prompted when it 
is their turn to speak. TO AVOID FEEDBACK, 
CALLERS TO THE PUBLIC COMMENT 
MESSAGE LINE MUST TURN DOWN THEIR 
MEETING SOUND WHEN ADDRESSING 
THE COMMISSION. Both call-in and on-
site participants should state their names 
and limit comments to three minutes. The 
public is encouraged to submit any written or 
photographic documents prior to the meeting 
to escalante@ncfrpc.org. Any questions 
regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area Office at 352.955.2200, extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommodations 
under the Americans with Disabilities Act or 
persons who require translation services (free 
of charge) should contact Michael Escalante 
at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at least 48 
hours prior to the public meeting
6-7-21-1-20
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 20 Events/Notices
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring for all positions. 
Full time/part time, day/nightshift. Apply at 
fivestarpizza.com/employment
* Delivery drivers
* Pizza makers
* Phone personnel
* Food prep
* Managers
6-7-21-8-14
Sun Country Sports Center is now hiring 
Summer Camp Counselors
Fun, friendly work environment with awe-
some kids facilitating fun sports activities! 
Gymnastics, Rock Climbing, Swimming, 
Games, Crafts and much more! Apply to-
day at suncountrysports.com/jobs      
6-7-21-4-14
Furniture Delivery Driver, Tues-Sat MUST 
HAVE a valid driver's license and a clean 
driving record. Must pass driving test, back-
ground check and drug test. DFW. Must 
be able to lift heavy merchandise. Apply in 
person at Furniture Country. Wage based on 
experience.                                 6-4-21-1-14
Trivia Test  answers1. "The Breakfast Club"
2. Green
3. Belize
4. Brian
5. Tennis elbow6. Harbor wave
7. 1994
8. Giraffe
9. Maine
10. Science based on observation
 and experiment
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
found found   
something? something? 
place a place a FREEFREE   "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
solution  below
solution  below
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
advertise in the:
new 
student
edition
August 16, 2021
advertising@alligator.org
for more infoscan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:get 
VACCINATED!MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sportsFollow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast. 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
THE FORMER WALK-ON 
EARNED A SCHOLARSHIP 
THIS SEASON
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Halley Taylor’s love for Florida 
gymnastics started when she was 
10 years old in the summer of 2010. 
Starstruck and in a T-shirt three 
sizes too large, Taylor nervously ap -
proached Amy Ferguson, her hero, 
at the Florida Gators gymnastics 
camp. She had just won Camper of 
the Day. 
Ferguson asked the young gym -
nast for a high five and a photo, and 
then Ferguson signed her award. Be -
fore her time on the Florida gymnas -
tics team from 2009-2012, Ferguson 
trained at the same gym as Taylor, 
LaFleur’s Tampa Gymnastics. As the 
shutter of the camera clicked, she 
sat and hoped she could one day be 
a Gator, too. 
This was the beginning of Tay -
lor’s climb. She grew into a premier 
gymnast and turned down sev -
eral scholarships to walk on to the 
Gators gymnastics team after several 
years of hard work, finally earning a 
scholarship her junior year. 
Before she starred at Florida, 
Taylor struggled to catch the atten -
tion of college programs. She didn’t 
receive scholarship offers until the 
latter part of high school, while 
many other high-school gymnasts 
were being showered with scholar -
ships and committed to programs 
before their junior year. Taylor en -
tered her senior high school season 
unsure where she would compete 
next; she believed all the scholar -
ship opportunities for gymnasts in 
her class had dried up. 
Then, Taylor dominated the Gas -
parilla Classic in St. Petersburg, her hometown, during her senior year. 
She recorded the top score in every 
event except for floor, where she 
finished second. She recorded a 9.65 
on beam and the uneven bars that 
cemented her place as the top gym -
nast in her division. It is one of her 
father’s proudest moments of Tay -
lor’s gymnastics career. 
She won the Jose Gaspar Award 
as the highest-scoring gymnast in 
her skill division. Taylor’s team -
mates from LaFleur’s Tampa Gym -
nastics jumped up and down in ex -
citement and shed tears of pride. 
“It was pretty amazing because 
she’s been working at this since pre -
school,” her father, Timothy, said. 
The senior received three schol -
arship offers from North Carolina 
State, the University of Missouri and 
the University of Arkansas. None of 
those offers mattered when she was 
accepted into UF. 
Orange and blue runs deep in the 
Taylor family. Her father and her 
grandfather were both Gators. De -
spite not being offered a scholarship 
from UF, she passed on her other of -
fers to follow her 10-year-old dream 
of being a Florida gymnast.
Taylor’s parents still took of -
ficial visits to other schools so she 
wouldn’t have regrets about her 
decision. But even after a round of 
tours, Taylor still only envisioned 
herself in Gainesville.
She stepped foot on UF’s cam -
pus for the first time as a student in 
August 2018, finally living out the 
dream she had since her early days 
of camp when she officially made 
the team. Now, entering her senior 
season with a scholarship in hand at 
Florida, Taylor said the team have 
become the sisters she never had. 
She said she enjoys how the 
Florida coaches let the gymnasts 
lead and have more of a role in the direction of the team compared to 
other schools. For example, the 
“stick chain” given to any Gators 
gymnast who sticks a landing was 
implemented by junior Nya Reed in 
January. 
Despite being a walk-on, Taylor 
said there was no disparity between 
her and the rest of the team. 
“Everyone on the team treated 
me exactly the same way,” she said. 
“Whether you’re on scholarship or 
a walk-on, you can’t tell the differ -
ence in the gym or out of the gym. 
Everyone works hard, and everyone 
does their part.”
That hard work paid dividends 
for Taylor and the team in 2021 
where they held the top spot in 
national rankings for most of the 
season. Florida head coach Jenny 
Rowland had 12 gymnasts she could 
call upon to deliver when the team 
was fully healthy. Injuries, howev -
er, piled up for the Gators when the 
postseason began which kept them 
from winning the National Champi -
onship. 
After only competing in one 
non-exhibition routine her first two 
years, Taylor shined during her 
third. The highlight of her season 
came on Feb. 19 versus No. 11 Ken -
tucky, where she was thrust into the 
lineup for vault, beam and floor af -
ter the Gators ruled out Reed, Trin -
ity Thomas, Savannah Schoenherr, 
Sydney Johnson-Scharpf and coach 
Rowland after all five had to quaran -
tine due to COVID-19 contact trac -
ing. 
Still without a scholarship, Tay -
lor rose to the occasion. She record -
ed new career-highs in two events, a 
9.825 on the balance beam and a 9.8 
in her floor routine. 
“I was really nervous,” she said. 
“It was a little bittersweet because I 
wanted my entire team to be there, 
even though some of them had to 
watch from home.”
Taylor felt her hard work finally 
paid off after the Kentucky meet, but 
her personal achievements reached 
new heights on March 30. Rowland 
called Taylor up to the front of the 
gym to share her motivation for 
practice — a daily team tradition — 
just two days before NCAA region -
als.
She said Rowland has a gymnast 
identify a word and quote of the day 
before each practice began, and it 
was her turn. 
Fighting through her fear of pub -
lic speaking, Taylor walked to the 
front of the gym and stood to the 
left of her coach. After Taylor spoke, 
Rowland had her own speech to 
give about what Taylor meant to 
Florida gymnastics. 
“She has really excelled this year, being a leader and a great team 
member.” Rowland said in a video 
of the event. “Someone you can go 
to. She has given what she’s got and 
given all her heart in the gym and 
out of the gym.” 
Then speaking directly to Taylor, 
Rowland presented Taylor her with 
a long coveted scholarship.  
The Gators practice facility burst 
with screams and applause from 
her teammates and coaches. Taylor 
started to shiver and immediately 
buried her face into her hands to 
hide her tears and red face. 
Schoenherr rushed forward to 
give Taylor a hug as the rest of the 
squad swarmed her to celebrate. 
“The best part was how much 
love I got from the team that day,” 
Taylor said. “They were so proud of 
me.”
Rowland appreciates the hard 
work Taylor put in the past three 
years. 
“Taylor has given so much to this 
program, and we didn’t want that to 
go unrecognized,” she said. “We are 
grateful and thankful for everything 
she’s done for this program.”
Once the cheers died down, Tay -
lor asked for a moment to share the 
news with her parents, but Timothy 
and her mother had already seen the 
moment captured on Instagram. 
Alicia Taylor, her mother, 
watched the video and immediately 
texted Timothy urging him to look 
at the Gators gymnastics Instagram 
account. His jaw dropped when he 
heard coach Rowland offer Taylor 
the scholarship.“It was just unbelievable because 
it was something we didn’t expect,” 
Timothy said. “I think more than 
anything it legitimized her hard 
work.”
When Taylor called him, Timo -
thy told her how proud he was of 
her as tears swelled in their eyes. 
Timothy appreciated the reaction 
of her teammates, too, and the joy 
they showed for Taylor. 
“They really have a tight bond,” 
Timothy said. “They’re really close; 
they respect each other, and they 
love each other.”
Though she fits the T-shirt now 
and her scholarship certainly out -
weighs her Camper of the Day 
award, the Gators gymnast Taylor 
took a picture with 11 years ago is 
still cheering her on.
“It has been so incredible to 
watch her journey from those first 
days at Gator Camp to being an inte -
gral member of the team,” Ferguson 
said. “She really shows that if you 
are committed to your dreams with 
all your heart, you can achieve any -
thing.”
Taylor still has no regrets about 
walking-on to the Gators gymnastics 
team. She looks forward to this sum -
mer when a young Gators gymnas -
tics camper walks shyly up to her 
the way she walked up to Ferguson 
all those years ago. Now, though, 
Taylor is the hero and blueprint for 
that gymnast as she inspires the next 
generation.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgHard work pays off for UF gymnast Halley Taylor
Courtesy to The Alligator
A young Halley Taylor poses with her “Camper of the Day” award 
after Gators gymnastics camp.
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Halley Taylor performs on the beam against Kentucky on Feb. 11.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 7, 2021
BASEBALL
THE GATORS TRAILED 19-1 
WHEN THE RAIN ROLLED IN TO GIVE THE PLAYERS 
TWO HOURS TO PONDER THE IMMINENT DEFEAT
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
The rain beat down on Florida Ballpark for almost two 
hours on June 5, forcing fans under the awnings and the 
Gator baseball team into the locker room. Thunder toyed 
with the sound barrier and water ponded on the outfield 
grass. 
The game Mother Nature halted, however, wasn’t the 
postseason classic UF fans hoped for. In a must-win re -
gional elimination game, the Gators trailed 19-1 with just 
two innings left to play.
The South Alabama Jaguars, the Sun Belt champions 
and the third seed in the Gainesville region, obliterated 
Florida in the sixth and seventh innings. The Jaguars tal -
lied 10 consecutive hits in the sixth to score 10 runs before 
a trio of seventh-inning home runs bumped the lead from 
14 to 15 and then 18 runs before the skies darkened. 
“Lars (Assistant coach Lars Davis) was doing the math 
in the rain delay,” Florida head coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
said. “I think he came up with like a one-in-934,000 
chance for 10 consecutive hits like that considering their 
individual batting averages.”
The game started well despite early South Alabama 
runs. The Gators cut the lead to a single run after a sac -
rifice fly from catcher Mac Guscette in the third inning. 
They trailed just 4-1 with two outs in the bottom of the 
sixth.
Left fielder Jacob Young said the team was more fo -
cused on the game rather than the idea that their 2021 
season may be over.
“You never really think about the end of it,” Young 
said. “You’re just kind of hoping that you can limit it and 
the bats can get hot for a couple of innings and give your -
self a chance.”
The Jaguars’ clinic at the plate in the sixth and seventh innings, however, suffocated whatever spirit for a come -
back remained. 
Enter the rain delay. The radar demanded play be sus -
pended in the bottom of the seventh, and the Florida base -
ball team retreated to their locker room, the season’s lifes -
pan extended for a few hours as the players sat in limbo.
“You’re not doing much when you’re down 19-1 in a 
must-win game,” Young said. “We just kind of kept to 
ourselves and were mostly in our own thoughts.”
The forced intermission and looming end of the season 
gave Young one topic to ponder — exactly how much his 
teammates and Florida baseball meant to him.
UF, through the added year of eligibility after last sea -
son’s cancellation, kept an abnormally high number of 
players from a season ago. Eight of the team’s nine leading 
position players and 13 of the 14 pitchers who appeared 
in 2020 returned for another season in Gainesville. As a 
result, the team spent a lot of time forging their locker 
room bonds.
Young, who said he’d met three of his best friends 
through the team, fought back tears and a cracking voice 
in his press conference talking about how much his team -
mates meant to him.
“We’re a very close team,” Young said. “Of course, we 
wish it ended differently, but you’re never going to forget 
the memories and the friendships.”
The game finished quickly once the clouds receded 
and the sun reemerged with 10 consecutive outs, the 19-1 
defeat etched in stone as South Alabama celebrated on 
Florida’s home grass. 
“It’d be rough any way it ended,” Young said. “But to 
end it like that, knowing we didn’t play like we can, how 
we have, it’s definitely a tough feeling.”
O’Sullivan knew his players wanted more for them -
selves from their final appearance in 2021, but he offered 
perspective for the unanimous preseason No. 1. He high -
lighted their performance in the second half of the season 
and the fact that the No. 15 seed hosted its own regional.
“I know the players are probably disappointed right now,” O’Sullivan said, “obviously because this is the last 
chance they’ll have for this group to be together, but we 
have a lot to be proud of.”
Florida now has a long eight-month offseason to put 
the South Alabama loss behind them until its next opening 
day and its next shot at glory.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.orgThe inevitable delayed: Florida baseball ends season with rain delay and blowout loss
Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Nathan Hickey walks towards the dugout 
Friday against South Florida. The Gators lost 19-1 
against South Alabama Saturday to be swept out of 
their host regional and end their season.
