We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperNew look Gators offense for new season
Florida prepares for new season 
without Kyle Trask, Kyle Pitts, 
Kadarius Toney and more . Find this 
story on pg. 14Protesters demand apology from ACSO
About 100 people gathered to protest the treatment of Erica 
Thompson, and t he death of her newborn , pg. 10
Former ACPS teacher accused of touching students
He is still employed by the district,  pg. 9FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 1
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Dr. Brantlee Richter, UF assistant professor of plant pathology, shows their support to the 
protestors at Tigert Hall on Friday, Aug. 20, 2021. Richter believes that the retention of good 
faculty is at risk without a better plan to combat COVID-19 in the coming semester.
COVID-19
P.K. YONGE PARENTS RALLY FOR 
MASKS WHILE ACPS RETAINS MASK 
MANDATE, DEFYING A STATE ORDER
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
As the COVID-19 Delta variant cases and 
pediatric hospitalizations surge, so do parents’ 
nerves at the start of the new school year.
One out of every four COVID-19 cases re -
ported in Florida from Aug. 13 to 19 were age 
19 and under, according to the Florida Depart -
ment of Health.
Alachua County Public Schools already has 
students and staff in quarantine as pediatric 
COVID-19 hospitalizations reach new peaks. 
The district also retained its mask mandate 
despite threats from the state. Meanwhile, 
P.K. Yonge Developmental Research School 
parents gathered to promote mask-wearing 
because the UF administration does not man -
date them.Risking school board funding, ACPS re -
fused to comply with a 48-hour state ultima -
tum to change its required mask policy Aug. 
20. With a potential lawsuit on the horizon, 
school officials said the board’s goal was to 
protect students, staff and the community.
UF’s labor union sent a letter Aug. 11 in 
support of ACPS’ mask mandate.
“All students have a right to safe spaces for 
education,” according to the United Faculty of 
Florida at UF letter. “Local schools and cam -
puses need to be empowered to make deci -
sions that protect their students, faculty and 
staff.”
Two weeks into the Fall semester, the 
whole ACPS district reported 1,156 students 
and 43 staff members in quarantine — a num -
ber that more than doubled since Aug. 13. 
Fifty new cases were reported on Aug. 20, 
according to the school district’s COVID-19 
dashboard.
Meanwhile, parents’ decisions of what 
learning options are best for their children 
could be impacted as pediatric COVID-19 hos -pitalizations are on the rise. Alachua County 
reported a record 14 pediatric hospitalizations 
Aug. 18, according to the county COVID-19 
dashboard as of Sunday. UF Health Shands 
Hospital reported more children in its inten -
sive care unit than ever before Aug. 12.
Masks remain optional at UF’s P.K. Yonge 
Developmental Research School  
On Aug. 16, students settled into their sec -
ond week at P.K. Yonge with more than 10 
pro-mask demonstrators at the entrance at 
about 7 a.m. Because the school is affiliated 
with UF, masks remain optional. 
As the winding conveyor belt of cars 
dropped children off, they peered curiously 
out the windows, toying idly with their face 
masks. Occasionally, parents offered a honk 
in solidarity for the demonstrators.
Parents held signs that stated, “Masking for 
a friend,” and “Spread kindness not germs!”
Geraldine Klarenberg, UF professor and 
P.K. Yonge parent, said she was excited to see 
the ACPS temporary mask mandate, but dis -appointed with P.K. Yonge.
“We banded together with a whole bunch 
of parents and we decided to do some positive 
messaging,” Klarenberg said. “It’s part of be -
ing kind to wear your mask for each other and 
not just for yourself.”
With two vaccinated children of her own 
in middle and high school, she worries for her 
ineligible and unvaccinated stepson at home. 
Activists started a petition, which Klarenberg 
signed, and wrote a letter to the P.K. Yonge 
administration and Florida Board of Trustees, 
demanding mandatory masks indoors for the 
fall.
It accumulated more than 200 signatures 
and later presented the letter to UF President 
Kent Fuchs and the P.K. Yonge administra -
tion.
“Now is the time to act with courage and 
ethics,” according to the letter. “It is up to you 
to show our students that science speaks loud -
er than threats, that safety matters more than ACPS returns to an uncertain Fall, P.K. Yonge remains mask-optional as youth COVID-19 cases surgeSEE COVID-19,  PAGE 6
SEE P.K. YONGE,  PAGE 5
By Christian Casale, Max 
T aylor & Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writers
UF faculty and staff gathered at 
the steps of Tigert Hall Aug. 20 to 
protest the university’s COVID-19 
policies and demand change as the 
Fall semester approaches.
Renewed fears of infection come 
as the virus’ Delta variant spreads, 
leading UF researchers to predict a 
new peak in late August or early 
September. The rally’s organizers, 
UF’s chapters of the United Faculty 
of Florida and Graduate Assistants 
United, hand-delivered their de -
mands to UF President Kent Fuchs’ 
office. 
Their demands included: mask 
requirements for all indoor gather -
ings; a vaccine requirement for all 
faculty, staff and students; an on -
line option for classes during the 
first three weeks of the Fall semes -
ter; and transparent and frequent 
UF COVID-19 reports.
“We are doing our part to stand 
up against leadership who refuse 
to listen to the advice of public 
health experts,” Meridith Miska, 
co-president of GAU, said at the 
rally. “We will continue to fight for 
the common-sense right to public health and safety requirements, 
like wearing a mask and getting 
vaccinated.” 
The crowd of about 40 demon -
strated a common feeling of frus -
tration with UF administration’s 
lack of clear communication about 
its COVID-19 plan for the Fall se -
mester. 
Following recent emails an -
nouncing contradictory COVID-19 
plans, including mask policies and 
online class options, many faculty 
were in an uproar on social media 
over the weeks preceding the start 
of Fall classes.
The university has insisted it 
does not have the authority to 
mandate masks or vaccines, per 
state guidelines. After the protest, 
UF spokesperson Hessy Fernandez 
strongly encouraged everyone to 
get vaccinated and reiterated the 
university is expecting everyone to 
wear a mask inside all UF facilities.
Although masks are expected, 
they are not required.
“We know members of the UF 
community have concerns and are 
facing unique challenges as a re -
sult of the pandemic, and we will 
use the resources and tools avail -
able to us to address them,” Fer -UF faculty and staff demand vaccine and mask mandates
Protestors delivered a list of COVID-19 
policy demands to the president’ s officeWELCOME
EDITIONBACKT oday’s WeatherUF ALUMNUS DEDICATES LIFE 
TO INSPIRING OTHERS
By Elena Barrera
Alligator Staff Writer 
A humble beginning in small-
town Jennings, Florida, might have 
meant small dreams for some, but 
Jose Alvarez reached for something 
bigger.
“I like to say I am an overcomer,” 
Alvarez, a Hispanic, first-generation 
UF alumnus, said. “I overcome 
things so that others can walk right 
over them.”
He lived up to his title as an over -
comer and paved a future for his sib -
lings and youth throughout Florida. 
Alvarez, 26, graduated from UF 
in 2017 with a bachelor’s degree in 
family, youth and community sci -
ences and a minor in nonprofit orga -
nizational leadership. He continued 
his studies at UF and graduated with 
his master’s degree in leadership de -
velopment this summer. 
Four years after receiving his first 
degree as a Gator, Jose Alvarez now 
watches his youngest sibling, Da -
vid Alvarez, 18, start his journey at 
the university that opened so many 
doors when he was a student. 
“I’ve seen how far he has gone,” 
David Alvarez said. “He’s success -
ful, so now I’ve got to live up to that 
standard, so I’ve pushed myself to go 
a little further than I would usually 
push myself.” 
Jose Alvarez said he feels like he 
was chosen to pave the way for his 
25-year-old sister, Ismelda Alvarez, 
and his brother. Ismelda Alvarez 
graduated from UF in 2018 with a 
bachelor’s degree in public relations, 
and David Alvarez began his first se -
mester at UF this summer as a food 
science and nutrition major.
After graduating, Jose Alvarez 
started working as a mentor, entre -
preneur and motivational speaker — 
acting as a guide for his siblings and 
others alike to attend and graduate 
college despite their challenges.
“It’s kind of crazy,” Ismelda Al -
varez said. “We used to talk about 
dreaming bigger and going after our 
goals, and now to see it unfold is cool because you see your dreams and 
goals become a reality.”
Jose Alvarez’s successes stemmed 
from his strong belief in what a high -
er education could do. 
“I have learned to be a student 
at all times,” he said. “Attending 
the University of Florida gave me a 
glimpse of the opportunities that can 
be open when you are committed to 
becoming a better you.”
Coming from a low-income, sin -
gle-parent home, affordability was 
a true obstacle Jose Alvarez had to 
consider. His time at UF was made 
possible by the Machen Florida Op -
portunity Scholarship, which histori -
cally grants low-income, first-genera -
tion students with funds to cover all 
college expenses. 
Through this scholarship, Jose 
Alvarez received a full-ride scholar -
ship to attend UF, covering all of his 
expenses, he said. Both his siblings 
also received the Machen Florida Op -
portunity Scholarship. 
Jose Alvarez started to dream big 
during his junior year of high school. 
He had goals of becoming a doctor 
and planned to return home to help 
the people in his community. By 
senior year, Jose Alvarez knew the 
clock was ticking before college ap -
plications were due, and he knew he 
had a decision to make —  one that 
would impact his future career. 
Despite others’ doubts and con -
cerns about Jose Alvarez’ goals, he 
chose to only apply to the University 
of Florida. 
“My counselors, teachers, even 
my own dad told me I should aim a 
little bit lower because we knew that 
it was hard to get into UF,” he  said. 
He said not many people from his 
community went to UF, so he did not 
have role models whose footsteps he 
could follow. However, determined 
to do whatever it took to reach his 
goals, Jose Alvarez found guidance 
through one of his peers. 
“This girl in my class — who was 
the class president — I knew she was 
an overachiever, and everyone knew 
that she would get into UF,” he said. 
“So every class she took, I took. We 
had all six periods together because 
I was like ‘if she was taking all these 
classes and everyone believed she was going to get into UF, then I need 
to do the same thing.’” 
Jose Alvarez’s efforts paid off, 
and he started his academic journey 
at UF in the summer of 2013 as a pre-
med microbiology student. It was not 
long before Jose Alvarez figured out 
he did not have a passion for medi -
cine.
He even tried to combine his fa -
ther’s goals with his own by pursu -
ing pediatrics. 
“I began to realize that my pur -
pose was really to use every platform 
that I have to influence as many 
people as possible, and I wouldn’t be 
able to do that if I spent all my time 
studying and going through medical 
school,” Jose Alvarez said. 
Jose Alvarez said his father, Ser -
gio Alvarez, was influential for his 
achievements and passion for higher 
education.
“I am very proud, happy and 
grateful. It is wonderful to see all 
their hard work pay off,” Sergio Al -
varez said. “Nothing is impossible., 
w We just had faith in God.” 
Jose Alvarez said he wants to lead 
by example and be a source of inspi -
ration for future Hispanic high school 
students who want to go to college. 
“I did not have anyone to teach 
me the ropes,” Jose Alvarez said. “I 
literally get paid by universities to 
share this story with their students, 
especially in their pre-collegiate pro -
grams to inspire their students to go 
to college and help them understand 
that they also have the power to 
change the trajectory of their family’s 
life and many generations to come.”
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 1 First-generation UF student paves 
way for a triple Gator legacy
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021
NO CROWDS! NO CONTRACTS!
JUST RESULTS! 
ATHLETIC TRAINING   SMOOTHIE BAR STRENGTH TRAINING PERSONAL TRAINING TANNING  
. Juice Bar
. 24 Hour Access
.Boxing
.Cardiovascular Training
. Personal & Group 
Training.Athletic Performance
Training
.Massage Therapy 
. Pro Shop
.Turf Training  
.Sauna
 
3441 W. University Ave. Gainesville, FL
352-373-4439
 
*Please see club for details*MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
NOW HIRING
UF C OMMENCEMENT
BASKETBALL
VOLLEYBALL
GYMNA STICS
SWIM & DIVE
CONCER TS
CAREER 
CAREER F AIRS
FLEXIBLE HOURS
CENTER OF CAMPUS
EXCITING ENVIRONMENT
PART OF THE A CTION
SELF-SCHEDULING
WIDE RANGE OF CREW S
@OC onnellCTR
EVENT S
 PERK S
APPL Y TODAY:
WWW.OCONNELL CENTER. UFL.EDU /PART-TIME-EMPL OYMENT
5001 NW 34th Blvd
352-505-6644   •   africanunique.comGrocery, Beauty, Fashion, Wellness
Thomas Huffman 5th Deg. AikikaiThomas Huffman 5th Deg. Aikikai
aikidoofgainesvilleaikidoofgainesville .com.com
352-494-7816352-494-7816
4424 SW 35th Terr.4424 SW 35th Terr.
SELF DEFENSESELF DEFENSE
JAPANESE SWORDJAPANESE SWORD
Free Thursday eveningsFree Thursday evenings
Free kids classes Saturday morningsFree kids classes Saturday mornings
AIKIDOAIKIDO
OF GAINESVILLEOF GAINESVILLEpolitics, and that their lives matter.”
Chris Demers, UF faculty and parent of 
an 8th- and 11th-grader at P.K. Yonge, felt 
compelled to come out and demonstrate 
with a positive message for masking. Poli -
tics are coming before safety, he said.
“We don’t feel like PKY administration 
is taking this surge very seriously,” Demers 
said. “This Delta variant is nothing to mess 
with.”
On his daughter’s first day of class on 
Aug. 10, she told him she and one other 
student were the only ones wearing masks, 
although that has begun to change.
Experts on how to limit classroom spread
UF Health hosted a well-attended town 
hall webinar on how to protect children 
going into the new school year and ease 
parents’ fears over the Delta variant surge.
“Now with relaxed social measures also 
adding to it, it’s spreading like wildfire,” 
Dr. Kartik Cherabuddi with UF Health In -
fectious Diseases said.
New COVID-19 variants are likely, Ch -
erabuddi said, if vaccine rates don’t dra -
matically increase.  
“That’s the biggest reason to get vac -cinated now,” Cherabuddi said. “So we 
don’t let these viruses get ahead of us and 
mutate so they can escape from the vaccine 
or be more infectious.”
Toward the end of June and July, CO -
VID-19 hospitalizations and ICU numbers 
rapidly increased, he said. 
“Every single day, we’re having more 
patients than we had the day before,” Ch -
erabuddi said. “The hospital is just full.”
Dr. Sonja Rasmussen of UF Health Pedi -
atrics and Epidemiology pointed to studies 
that have shown people are twice as likely 
to be hospitalized if infected with Delta and 
with unvaccinated people at the greatest 
risk. The vaccine offers the best protection 
against symptomatic disease, hospitaliza -
tion and death, she said, pointing to the 
high unvaccinated rate among hospitaliza -
tions.
The U.S. had a record-breaking number 
of kids hospitalized with COVID-19 Aug. 
14, according to Reuters, which is a prob -
lem for ACPS families with children under 
12 not eligible for a vaccine.
Read the rest online at alligator.org
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgP.K. YONGE,  from pg. 1Spreading like wildfire
ANTICIPATING A LEGAL BATTLE, FOUR 
SCHOOL BOARD MEMBERS COULD 
LOSE PART OF THEIR SALARIES  
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Public Schools plan to require 
masks despite risking cuts to school board mem -
bers’ salaries, according to school board officials.
A State Board of Education order gave ACPS 
and Broward County School Board 48 hours to 
comply with statewide guidance to make wearing 
masks in public schools optional.
Although there may be potential losses and 
consequences, ACPS chose to reject the guidance. 
The decision goes against Gov. Ron DeSantis’ 
executive order prohibiting mask enforcement 
policies in K-12 schools.
The ACPS mask mandate requires medical 
documentation to opt out of masking, which con -
tradicts the state rule allowing parents to opt stu -
dents out without medical reasons or additional 
requirements, according to the State Board of 
Education order.
“Students may wear masks or facial coverings 
as a mitigation measure; however, the school 
must allow for a parent or legal guardian of the 
student to opt-out the student from wearing a face 
covering or mask,” according to the Florida De -
partment of Health Emergency Rule.
The order states the Florida Department of 
Education will cut annual salaries by one-twelfth 
of the total annual compensation of the board. All 
four current school board members who could 
be affected are Leanetta McNealy, Tina Certain, 
Gunnar Paulson and Robert Hyatt because they 
all voted to impose the mask mandate.
ACPS will be required to report each of their 
salary information. If the school board doesn’t 
comply with statewide guidance, each member 
will lose one-twelfth of their total salary every 
month until the rule expires or is withdrawn, ac -
cording to the order.
The order states the slash in funding cannot 
affect student services or teacher pay. 
The annual salary of the four school board 
members is $40,287 each, ACPS spokesperson 
Jackie Johnson said. The members could each 
lose roughly $3,350 this month as an “initial 
step.” 
It’s unclear how much could be lost each 
month the order is defied. 
“They feel that the protection of the health and 
safety and lives of students and staff and helping 
to protect the community in what is obviously a 
time of critical crisis is more important than the 
potential loss of their salaries,” she said.
If the school board does not provide salary compensation information within the 48 hour 
period, the Florida Department of Education will 
withhold state funds based on the most recent es -
timates until it is provided.
ACPS Superintendent Carlee Simon wrote in 
a statement the Alachua County Commission has 
offered to make up any loss of funding the state 
may impose. It’s unclear as of Friday how much 
money the commission will provide or how the 
district may utilize it.
“Based on the dramatic spike in cases and 
quarantines in our schools and community, we 
believe universal masking is absolutely critical to 
keeping schools open,” Simon wrote. “I’m grati -
fied by the outpouring of positive messages the 
district has been receiving.”
Simon received a call Friday afternoon from 
U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona, who 
offered his support and that of the entire U.S. De -
partment of Education for any school district fac -
ing repercussions for imposing CDC-recommend -
ed COVID-19 prevention strategies.
Cardona wrote in a statement that President 
Biden recommended he remedy financial penal -
ties imposed by the state using CARES, CRRSA or 
American Rescue funds, according to a statement 
from the U.S. Department of Education.
“It is deeply troubling to see state leaders put -
ting politics ahead of the health and safety of our 
students,” he wrote. “The President asked me to 
do everything I can to help protect our nation’s 
students and support the local leaders who are 
fighting for them.”
Both ACPS spokesperson Johnson and Super -
intendent Simon said they expect a legal battle 
to come from the state’s threat to school board 
salaries. 
“Over the next few days, we will continue to 
do what we have been doing, which is looking at 
all options that we have available to us, and that 
includes legal options,” Johnson said. 
School board meetings with experts in pediat -
rics, immunology and emergency medicine have 
made it clear masks are necessary during this CO -
VID-19 surge, Johnson said.
She notes the surge is putting an enormous 
strain on the county’s health care system, citing 
increasing hospital and ICU beds and staff over -
whelmed and overburdened with emergency 
care.
“This is backed up by science and by local 
medical experts who are obviously intimately fa -
miliar with the local situation,” Johnson said. “It’s 
the right thing to do. It protects our students and 
staff and the entire community — it helps lessen 
the strain on our medical system here in Alachua 
County.”
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgAlachua County Public Schools to defy 
state ultimatum to make masking optional    
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Chris Demers participates in the pro-mask demonstration put on by parents as 
children arrive at P.K. Yonge Developmental Research School Monday, Aug. 16, 
2021. Demers has a child in eighth grade and in eleventh grade at P.K. Yonge.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021
nandez wrote in an email to The 
Alligator.
Nearly every protest speaker 
decried Gov. Ron DeSantis for his 
administration’s COVID-19 policies 
and battle with Alachua County 
Public Schools’ mask mandate.
“This governor has decided he’s 
no longer interested in being gov -
ernor; he’s interested in running 
for president,” Gainesville Com -
missioner David Arreola said at the 
rally. “We are in a crisis, and the 
time for politics must be put aside. 
We have to put our health first, we 
have to put our safety first.”
Speakers also criticized UF’s 
administration for choosing Gov. 
DeSantis’ policy over recommenda -
tions from health experts. ACPS im -
plemented a mandatory mask poli -
cy, setting an example that protest 
attendees felt UF should follow.
“I hope that the UFF and all 
of the people who have good ex -
pert sense will follow the Alachua 
County Public Schools and do what 
we’re doing,” Leanetta McNealy, 
Alachua County school board 
chair, said at the rally. “I’m hop -
ing that the leadership at this great 
institution will follow what we’re 
doing.”
The Florida State Board of Edu -
cation threatened to cut funding for 
the school board if it continues to 
require masks in its schools.
Rachel Hartnett, Graduate As -
sistants United co-president, spoke 
at the rally. She said she has Type 
2 diabetes and fears she’d lose her 
life if she tested positive for COV -
ID-19 while teaching in person.
“I’m hoping that UF will see 
sense,” the 33-year-old English 
Ph.D. candidate said. “I myself 
will be in a class on Monday; I 
will ask my students to wear 
masks, which is all I can do. I 
will disclose my chronic illness 
to them hoping that will convince 
people who are unwilling or re -luctant to wear a mask.”
As co-chair of the joint UF, UFF 
and GAU COVID task force, Hart -
nett said both organizations have 
been working together to com -
municate their dissatisfaction with 
the university’s COVID response. 
Prior to the rally, representatives 
have attended town hall meetings 
to present their demands to the UF 
administration.
“We’ve been doing everything 
— sending emails, trying to get an -
swers and transparency — and so 
far, nothing has happened,” she 
said. “There’s been no clear-cut 
reasoning or explanation, which is 
why we have been forced to utilize 
other means.”
At the Aug. 19 faculty sen -
ate town hall meeting, Hartnett 
said neither Fuchs nor UF Provost 
Joseph Glover gave answers re -
garding what graduate assistants 
should do if they test positive for 
COVID-19. Those questions came 
after UF recommended instructors 
use their sick days if they have to 
quarantine.
But Hartnett said graduate as -
sistants only get five sick days per 
semester, which is less than the 14-
day quarantine time recommended 
by the CDC.
“So I guess if we run out of 
those five days and are still show -
ing symptoms, we should just 
come to campus,” she said.
Co-chair of the UFF-UF COVID 
task force Steven Kirn said UFF 
has been presenting to UF admin -
istration these demands and filed 
grievances on behalf of the faculty 
members for violating the 2021-24 
Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Kirn said the CBA explicitly 
states UF must provide, at mini -
mum, a teaching environment 
which is safe, secure and healthy.
As part of the state university 
system, he said UF administration 
would have to defy the governor 
and state’s orders like many other 
universities and schools have but 
will not, due to the political ties.“The sense of the collegiality of 
a community of scholars and learn -
ers, and the trust that comes with 
that has really been disrupted,” 
Kirn said. “And I think that’s one 
of the saddest parts of this, is that 
it’s turned into a political football. 
And I think faculty feel rather dis -
enfranchised in the process.”
Kirn said UF faculty and staff 
want to teach, but they are frus -
trated, sad and disappointed with 
UF’s decision for the Fall and be -
lieves the lack of trust, disconnect 
and politicization will have a last -
ing impact in the UF community.
“It’s going to be a long haul ef -
fect and I think that is quite un -
fortunate,” he said. “The kind of 
corporatization of the university, I 
think it is very unhealthy.”
UF faculty and staff also par -
ticipated in an open letter to UF’s 
administration and the State Uni -
versity System Board of Governors, 
demanding immediate action to de -
velop a plan for the Fall semester 
addressing the risks the community 
may face.
The open letter demands were 
similar to those communicated at 
the Aug. 20 rally: enforcement of 
a mask mandate permission for in -
structors to move classes online for 
the first three weeks of the semes -
ter, as it was originally planned in 
an email to students on Aug. 14.
As of Aug. 22, the open letter 
garnered more than 800 signatures.
Suffering from asthma, 63-year-
old UF English professor Malini Jo -
har Schueller, said she was scared 
for her life upon seeing UF’s email 
on Fall procedures. She signed the 
open letter with no hesitation.
“I feel very disappointed and 
disgusted with this whole mandate 
because I’ve taught since 1986, 
and given my life to this university 
and now it’s like nobody gives a 
damn,” she said.
COVID-19 is reaching peaks in 
Florida, and Schueller said many 
of her friends who are in charge 
of hospitals’ intensive care units in 
Florida have expressed how severe 
cases are in the state.
John Biro, an 80-year-old UF 
philosophy professor, said he also signed the open letter as he doesn’t 
feel safe teaching in person with 
the current COVID-19 policies and 
wishes UF would be more transpar -
ent.  
“There’s a lot of PR, but no gen -
uine consultation and certainly no 
evidence of genuine concern,” Biro 
said.
He has two colleagues, he said, 
who have been denied permission 
to teach online and forced to teach 
in person despite one of them hav -
ing a young immunocompromised 
daughter at home and the other be -
ing more than 75 years old and also 
immunocompromised. 
“Many colleagues who are des -
perate to be allowed to protect 
themselves by teaching online, at 
least until this surge subsides, and 
UF’s response is, ‘We don’t care — 
you do what you’re told,’” he said.
Biro said one of the things he 
noticed amongst the signatures 
of the open letter was the lack of 
names of the younger, untenured 
UF professors despite their support 
for these demands.
“I can sign that letter because, 
even though they can make life un -
pleasant for me and do unpleasant 
things to me, ultimately, I feel safer 
than a young, untenured professor whose job is on the line,” Biro said.
Lauren Diepenbrock, UF assis -
tant professor of entomology and 
extension specialist, took to Twitter 
to express her discontent with UF’s 
lack of enforcing effective health 
and safety protocols following the 
death of one of her coworkers Aug. 
15.
Despite knowing the backlash 
she could face, Diepenbrock is not 
one to keep quiet about significant 
issues, especially if she disagrees 
with them, she wrote in an email.
UF Health will administer a 
third dose of a COVID-19 vaccine 
only for immunocompromised in -
dividuals meeting CDC criteria, UF 
Health spokesperson Ken Garcia 
wrote in an email.
However, UF Health strongly 
encourages everyone who is eligi -
ble to get vaccinated, and as soon 
as boosters are approved by the 
CDC for everyone, then they will 
be provided based on eligibility, 
Garcia wrote.
@VanityHack
@MTaylor_Journ
@CamilaSaPereira
ccasale@alligator.org
mtaylor@alligator.org
cpereira@alligator.orgCOVID-19,  from pg. 1No clear-cut reasoning
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Attendees march into Tigert Hall to deliver their demands to President 
Fuchs after the protest held at Tigert Hall on Friday, Aug. 20, 2021.
IT IS SET TO LAST UNTIL AUG. 26 AND 
CAN BE RENEWED UP TO SIX TIMES
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County residents and visitors now 
need to wear a mask in public indoor areas for 
the next week following a vote from the Ala -
chua County Commission. But the mandate 
doesn’t include UF buildings and facilities.
Following an Aug. 18 county commission 
vote, the mandate went into effect Aug. 19. It 
expires on Aug. 26 and requires anyone age 2 
or older to wear a mask in public, indoor ar -
eas including gyms, restaurants, retail stores 
and supermarkets. 
There is no formal application or identifi -
cation needed to go maskless due to a medical 
condition — it’s based on the honor system.
Those with medical exemptions, like 
trouble breathing due to chronic conditions, 
can choose not to wear a mask. They are not 
required to show documentation of their con -
dition and should instead explain in general 
terms why they can’t wear a mask, according 
to the emergency order. 
The emergency order does not apply to the State University System or the State College 
System. This means UF and Santa Fe College 
are excluded from the mask mandate. On 
UF’s campus, masks are expected, but not 
mandatory.
UF students only need to wear masks 
when they are off campus and within county 
limits, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said, 
adding that the university also encourages 
students to get vaccinated.
“It’s proven safe, it’s free. We just want 
everybody to go get it,” Orlando said. 
The emergency order for masking must be 
seven days long and can be renewed only up 
to six times, which is a total of 42 days, be -
cause of a Florida Senate bill outlining those 
requirements, county spokesperson Mark 
Sexton said.
The same bill allows Gov. Ron DeSantis 
to void any emergency order if he deems it 
“unnecessarily restricts individual rights or 
liberties.” However, Sexton said the expert 
testimonies at the Wednesday county com -
mission meeting and Alachua County’s cur -
rent COVID-19 numbers show the need for a 
mask mandate.
Healthcare professionals spoke in sup -
port of masking and vaccines at the meeting, 
including UF Biology Professor Derek Cum -mings and Eric Lawson, Chief Executive Offi -
cer of North Florida Regional Medical Center. 
Until Aug. 26, the county plans to focus 
on educating people about the mandate rath -
er than issuing citations to those who don’t 
comply, according to the emergency order. 
To do so, the county has been posting about 
the mandate on its Facebook page and has 
provided signs for businesses to print out and 
display in their storefronts, Sexton said.
Most county residents present at the 
Wednesday meeting spoke in favor of the 
mandate. One public commenter pointed out 
a portion of the county’s population is under 
12 years old and cannot be vaccinated — 23% 
are under 18 according to the U.S. Census — 
which makes masking more important.
Sarah Rockwell, an expert in special edu -
cation, said her daughter has a medical dis -
ability and cannot attend school because of 
the Delta surge. Rockwell, who supports 
masking, said even her daughter loves match -
ing her masks with her outfits. 
“It’s about modeling the correct behavior, 
it’s about making it a positive experience,” 
Rockwell said.
One resident, Nathan Skop, said the coun -
ty should push vaccinations more than mask -
ing as vaccines reduce the possibility of se -vere illness with COVID-19, and some people 
don’t wear their masks properly. He said he 
supports personal choice over government 
mandates.
“Shouldn’t the focus be more on vaccina -
tion rather than masking?” Skop asked.
The mandate comes as the state and coun -
ty are facing a spike in cases, Paul Myers, 
administrator for the Florida Department of 
Health in Alachua County, said at the meet -
ing. As of Aug. 20, there have been more than 
30,000 total cases of COVID-19 in the county 
since the beginning of the pandemic with a 
new case positivity rate of 14.7%.
With more than 151,000 people vaccinated 
as of Aug. 20, the county firmly believes vac -
cines will prevent severe illness and death.
“A relatively painless and free vaccine 
can prevent a very, very expensive hospital -
ization,” Myers said. “If you think that be -
ing hospitalized in any way is some sort of 
vacation, when you can just get a relatively 
painless pinprick in your arm. You get hospi -
talized, you’re getting way more than a pin -
prick.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgHere’s what to know about Alachua County’s seven-day mask mandate  MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
amazon.com/UofFloridaYour ultimate
college hack
Start your 6-month trialAlligator flashback:  Fall 1969
In Fall 1969, I was an enter -
ing graduate student from 
Kentucky, marveling at the 
energy and engagement on 
the UF campus. Headlines in The 
Alligator ranged from a lack of 
student parking to demonstra -
tions from both the left and the 
right regarding whether UF Stu -
dent Government should join the 
National Student Association (“A 
tool of the CIA!” vs. “A commu -
nist front”) to reports on incoming student 
orientation. However, even these reports 
included stern warnings from then-Presi -
dent Stephen C. O’Connell about agitation 
against the university or interfering with 
its normal functioning – neither of which 
were defined, although they could lead to 
severe disciplinary consequences for both 
students and faculty.
It was a time of great turmoil includ -
ing issues like the Vietnam War and the 
draft, academic and speech freedom and, 
especially, racial justice. In 1970-71, UF 
had more than 22,000 students, just 343 
of whom were Black, leading to anti-dis -
crimination demonstrations, including an 
extended sit-in in President O’Connell’s 
Tigert Hall office. Other actions he re -
called focused on the Vietnam War: cam -
pus teach-ins, walkouts and street dem -
onstrations. These included phalanxes of 
police in full riot gear charging up and 
down University Avenue, firing tear gas 
into the Krystal restaurant (now Chipotle) 
and chasing “hippies” into the then-new 
Smathers Library. Fast Forward: UF Campus, Fall 2021
Some things have certainly 
changed. Now, UF has more than 
double the number of students. 
The students of 1969 would rec -
ognize only the historic campus 
buildings near 13th Street and 
University Avenue. And for the 
last 20 months or so, much of 
what happens both on and off 
campus has been dominated by 
COVID-19 and its aftermath. The 
rhythm and tempo of campus life 
have changed, and the absence of students, 
faculty, staff and visitors – and the result -
ing strange silence – has been striking.
From a faculty perspective, these have 
been among the most demanding of times: 
turning on a dime from face-to-face teach -
ing to virtual, revamping classwork, mas -
tering new learning technologies, juggling 
student advising sessions and necessary 
department activities, continuing research 
projects and more. But it has also meant 
challenges of maintaining personal rela -
tionships with faculty colleagues and staff 
(including those just arriving at UF), find -
ing substitute ways to sustain a sense of 
collective purpose and momentum and 
building rewarding relationships with stu -
dents. And in the midst of it all, dealing 
with the occasional – but real – sense of 
isolation and loneliness that have been 
part of this experience for us all.
 Read the rest online at at the 
alligator.org/section/opinionsWelcome to the start of the Fall 
semester and the new academic 
year! Because Linda and I live on 
campus, we experience the new se -
mester much like students. In the 
past few days, I’ve listened to the 
Gator Band practicing for football 
halftime, handed out T-shirts and 
seriously considered riding the me -
chanical gator at GatorNights in the 
Reitz Union, dropped by the Gator 
Fair on the Plaza of the Americas and 
paid for the orders of those ahead of me in line 
at Marston Science Library Starbucks. 
The first day of classes, I’m planning, if 
they let me, to drive a golf cart around campus, 
shouting out random compliments on my way 
to sitting in on a class. Professor Foley, brace 
yourself for someone wearing a suit who asks 
awkward questions. As our children frequently 
say, serving as UF’s president is a tough job, but 
someone has to do it.
Although I have never looked forward as 
much to a new academic year, the start of this 
semester is different than I anticipated just last 
month. I didn’t expect to be wearing a mask 
while indoors, and I didn’t expect I would soon 
need to get a COVID-19 booster shot. In the past 
few weeks, the COVID-19 Delta variant has 
spread across our state and Gainesville commu -
nity, setting stunning records for new cases per 
day and filling our hospitals to capacity. Our he -
roic health care workers have never been more strained and exhausted as they care 
for the desperately ill. 
We as a Gator community will 
decide whether this Fall semester is 
one of the very best in the history 
of the university or one of the worst 
with widespread serious illness and 
possible death. If all students, staff 
and faculty get vaccinated and wear 
a mask while indoors, then it will be 
one of the very best semesters ever. 
If I could, I would guarantee a fabu -
lous semester by forcing every student, faculty 
member and staff to wear a mask and get vacci -
nated, but I can’t. Thus, I ask everyone to make 
the right choice — get the shot, and wear the 
mask.
This Fall, Linda and I will be inviting stu -
dents into our Dasburg House home once a 
month for lunch and a talk by a member of the 
UF faculty. The first talk next month will be by 
Cynthia Barnett, and I’m buying every student 
who attends a copy of her new book, “The 
Sound of the Sea: Seashells and the Fate of the 
Oceans.” We’ll soon advertise on social media 
how to sign up for the talk.
Although studying and working at a univer -
sity is always serious, I very much look forward 
to filling this Fall semester with not only hard 
work but also lots of purposeful fun. Work 
hard, wear the mask, get the shot and have a 
joyful Fall. I am confident that this is going to 
be a wonderful year. Go, Gators!
UF disappoints students and faculty: then and nowReady for a Joyful and Successful Semester
ColumnWork hard, wear the mask, get the shot and have a joyful Fall
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.LUNES, 23 DE 
AGOSTO DE 2021
www.alligator.org/
section/elcaimanMONDAY,  
AUGUST 23, 2021
www.alligator.org/
section/opinions El Caimán Opinions
EX ALUMNO DE UF DEDICA 
SU VIDA A INSPIRAR A OTROS, 
INCLUYENDO SUS DOS HERMANOS
Por Elena Barrera
Escritoria del Caim án
Un comienzo humilde en el pequeño 
pueblo de Jennings, Florida, pudo haber sig -
nificado pequeños sueños para algunos, pero 
José Álvarez buscó algo más grande.
“Me gusta decir que soy un vencedor”, 
dijo Álvarez, un alumno hispano de UF de 
primera generación. “Yo supero las cosas 
para que otros puedan caminar sobre ellas”.
Él cumplió su título de vencedor y allanó 
el futuro para sus hermanos y jóvenes en 
toda la Florida.
Álvarez, de 26 años, se graduó de UF en 
el 2017 con un bachillerato en ciencias fa -
miliares, juveniles y comunitarias y una es -
pecialización en liderazgo organizacional. 
Continuó sus estudios en UF y se graduó con 
su maestría en desarrollo de liderazgo este 
verano.
Cuatro años después de recibir su primer 
título como un Gator, Álvarez ahora ve a su 
hermano menor, David Álvarez, de 18 años, 
comenzar su trayecto en la universidad que 
le abrió tantas puertas cuando era un estu -
diante.
“He visto lo lejos que ha llegado”, dijo Da -
vid. “Él es exitoso, así que ahora tengo que 
estar a la altura de ese estándar, y me he es -
forzado para ir más allá”.
Álvarez dijo que siente que fue elegido 
para hacer el camino para su hermana de 
25 años, Ismelda Álvarez, y su hermano. 
Ismelda se graduó de la UF en 2018 con una 
licenciatura en relaciones públicas, y David 
comenzó su primer semestre en UF este ve -
rano como estudiante de ciencias de aliment -
ación y nutrición.
Después de graduarse, Álvarez comenzó a 
trabajar como mentor, emprendedor y orador 
motivacional, actuando como guía para que 
sus hermanos y otras personas asistieran y se 
graduaran de la universidad a pesar de sus 
desafíos.
“Es un poco loco”, dijo Ismelda. “Solía -
mos hablar de soñar en grande y perseguir 
nuestras metas, y ahora ver cómo se desar -
rolla es genial porque ves que tus sueños y 
metas se hacen realidad”.
Los éxitos de Álvarez se derivaron de su 
firme creencia en lo que podía hacer con un 
título profesional.
“He aprendido a ser un estudiante en todo 
momento”, dijo. “Asistir a la Universidad de 
la Florida me dio una idea de las oportuni -
dades que se pueden abrir cuando estás com -
prometido a convertirte en un mejor tú”.
Al provenir de un hogar monoparental 
de bajos ingresos, la asequibilidad era un 
verdadero obstáculo que Álvarez tuvo que 
considerar. Su tiempo en UF fue posible gra -
cias a la beca Machen Florida Opportunity 
Scholarship, que históricamente otorga a los 
estudiantes de primera generación de bajos 
ingresos, fondos para cubrir todos los gastos 
universitarios.
A través de esta beca, Álvarez recibió 
fondos para asistir a UF durante los cuatro 
años de carrera, cubriendo todos sus gastos, dijo Álvarez. Sus dos hermanos también re -
cibieron la beca Machen Florida Opportunity 
Scholarship.
Álvarez comenzó a soñar en grande du -
rante su tercer año de secundaria. Tenía el 
objetivo de convertirse en médico y planeaba 
regresar a casa para ayudar a la gente de su 
comunidad. En su último año, Álvarez sabía 
que el tiempo corría antes de la fecha de en -
trega de las solicitudes universitarias, y sabía 
que tenía que tomar una decisión, una que 
afectaría su futura carrera.
A pesar de las dudas y preocupaciones de 
otros sobre los objetivos de Álvarez, eligió 
postularse solo para la Universidad de la 
Florida.
“Mis consejeros, maestros, incluso mi 
propio papá me dijeron que debería apuntar 
un poco más bajo porque sabíamos que era 
difícil ingresar a UF”, dijo Álvarez.
Dijo que no muchas personas de su co -
munidad fueron a UF, por lo que no tenía 
modelos a seguir cuyos pasos pudiera seguir. 
Sin embargo, decidido a hacer lo que sea 
necesario para alcanzar sus metas, Álvarez 
encontró orientación a través de uno de sus 
compañeros.
“Esta chica de mi clase, que era la presi -
denta de la clase, tenía un gran rendimiento 
y todos sabían que iba a entrar en UF”, dijo. 
“Así que todas las clases que ella tomó, yo 
las tomé. Tuvimos los seis períodos juntos 
porque pensé que si ella estaba tomando 
todas estas clases y todos creían que iba a 
ingresar a UF, entonces yo tenía que hacer 
lo mismo “.
Los esfuerzos de Álvarez dieron sus frutos 
y comenzó su viaje académico en UF en el 
verano de 2013 como estudiante de micro -
biología en pre-medicina. No pasó mucho 
tiempo antes de que Álvarez se diera cuenta 
de que no tenía pasión por la medicina.
“Amaba la juventud y me di cuenta de 
que mi papá era el que quería que yo fuera 
médico”, dijo Álvarez.
Incluso trató de combinar los objetivos 
de su padre con los suyos al dedicarse a la 
pediatría.
“Comencé a darme cuenta de que mi 
propósito era realmente usar todas las plat -
aformas que tengo para influir en la mayor 
cantidad de personas posible, y no podría 
hacerlo si pasaba todo mi tiempo estudiando 
y estudiando en la escuela de medicina”, dijo 
Álvarez. 
Álvarez dijo que su padre, Sergio Álvarez, 
fue influyente por sus logros y pasión por la 
educación superior.
“Estoy muy orgulloso, feliz y agradecido. 
Es maravilloso ver que todo su arduo trabajo 
ha dado sus frutos ”, dijo Sergio. “Nada es im -
posible, simplemente teníamos fe en Dios”.
Álvarez dijo que quiere predicar con el 
ejemplo y ser una fuente de inspiración para 
los futuros estudiantes hispanos de secundar -
ia que quieran ir a la universidad.
“No tenía a nadie que me enseñara lo 
básico”, dijo Álvarez. “Pero ahora, las univer -
sidades me pagan para hablar con sus estu -
diantes en programas preuniversitarios para 
inspirarlos a ir a la universidad y ayudarlos a 
comprender que también tienen el poder de 
cambiar la trayectoria de la vida de su familia 
y de muchas generaciones por venir.”Estudiante de UF de primera generación allana 
el camino para un legado triple de Gators
Kent Fuchs
UF President
Steven Kirn
Co-chair of combined UFF-
UF/GAU COVID T ask Force;
Retired UF ProfessorMONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021   ALLIGATOR   9 
EVEN DECADES LATER, 
MANY STUDENTS FEEL AFFECTED BY 
GREGG S. FISSENDEN’S BEHAVIOR
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
As she sat in her classroom at Newberry Elementary School, 
a fifth-grade student just wanted to learn.
While she focused on reading book assignments, her teach -
er, Gregg Steven Fissenden, would pace between desks and 
randomly creep behind her. As students read aloud, he would 
lower his hands, rub her back and shoulders and lace his fin -
gers through her hair.
That was 24 years ago. He remains employed by the school 
district to this day.
More than two decades later, the teacher jumped from class -
room to classroom and shuffled to different Alachua County 
elementary schools as reports were made against him. 
“It was so bad that here we are in our 30s, and when you 
mention the man’s name, everyone cringes,” said the former 
student, who wanted to remain anonymous.
Fissenden received a directive warning March 21, 2005, 
from the principal of William S. Talbot Elementary School in 
Gainesville after multiple students came forward with com -
plaints about the teacher rubbing and touching them. Six 
months later, Fissenden received a letter of reprimand from the 
principal for continued touching of students. 
Years later, the teacher’s behavior lingered. 
In August, social media posts sharing the teacher’s disci -
plinary record circulated around the Gainesville and Alachua 
County community. 
Many elementary school parents believe justice hasn’t been 
served.
Traci Graves, a 49-year-old Gainesville resident and former 
ACPS parent, feels uneasy about Fissenden’s actions. Her con -
cerns stem from years of stories that remain unreported and 
sometimes untold. 
In 2003, her son told her Fissenden kissed a girl in the Wil -
liam S. Talbot Elementary School cafeteria, she said. 
When Graves volunteered in Fissenden’s class for events, 
the teacher acted like any ordinary fifth grade reading teacher. 
She felt shocked when she learned about his alleged behaviors 
on Facebook.
“It’s really sad for me to think that these girls are going to 
school and feeling uncomfortable all day around their teacher, 
when that’s supposed to be a learning environment,” she said.
Graves offers her sympathy to those affected by Fissenden’s 
actions. 
“They shouldn’t have to feel scared or worried about what 
their teacher is going to do that day,” she said.
Several students in the 2017-18 school year also submitted formal complaints about Fissenden rubbing their backs and 
shoulders. The report describes students’ accounts of discom -
fort in his classroom.
Florida Commissioner of Education Richard Corcoran sub -
mitted an administrative complaint for the teacher’s behavior. 
Fissenden signed a settlement agreement on Oct. 24, 2019, 
which a hearing panel in Tallahassee approved on July 31, 
2020. 
Fissenden was placed on probation for two employment 
years, fined $1,000, sent to a recovery network program and 
given notice of the “three strikes” provision, a Florida law stat -
ing that penalties will severely worsen for an offender once they 
reach three offenses. 
While he isn’t allowed to teach in the classroom, his teacher 
certifications are valid until June 2022. 
The educator was removed this year from High Springs 
Community School and no longer works directly with children, 
ACPS spokesperson Jackie Johnson said. Fissenden is now an 
online-course creator for Alachua eSchool. Johnson couldn’t be 
reached for comment about why Fissenden is still employed.
Fissenden worked at Newberry Elementary School from 
1996-2000. He then transferred to William S. Talbot Elementary 
School and worked there from 2001-2018. His last teaching role 
was at High Springs Community School from 2018-2020.
Fissenden didn’t admit or deny any allegations against him, 
according to the settlement agreement. After multiple calls 
for comment, all numbers registered under Fissenden’s name 
appeared to be disconnected. His alleged actions, however, 
weren’t limited to the previous reports.
Scarlett Giesler, a 27-year-old Gainesville resident, with -drew her fourth-grade daughter from High Springs Community 
School at the beginning of the school year after hearing about 
Fissenden’s touching allegations. Now, her daughter logs into 
Florida Virtual School from home. 
“I have completely lost trust, respect, faith, any kind of prob -
able decency toward Alachua County School Board to have 
someone like this still teaching,” Giesler said.
The student from Fissenden’s 1997 fifth grade class at New -
berry Elementary, who remains anonymous, can’t shake the 
frightening memories of the teacher. Despite her young age, she 
and her classmates knew the behavior was out of line.
“It just felt gross,” she said. “And even at that age, we all 
felt that way.”
Students even nicknamed Fissenden “Mr. Feel and Touch,” 
she said. They branded him a pervert because he touched stu -
dents throughout the entire school year.
She was glad to see Fissenden is being held accountable on -
line but remained baffled he’s still employed by the district.
“It was so bad that students would complain to their par -
ents,” she said. “I didn’t even realize he was teaching until I 
started seeing posts on social media about him doing this years 
and years later.”
She’s deeply troubled by the amount of time that has passed 
since her days in a Newberry Elementary classroom, squeamish 
as the teacher strolled down the aisles. Troubled by the exact 
same complaints 24 years later — all without any severe disci -
plinary action taken against him.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgFormer ACPS teacher accused of touching students still employed by district
Melanie Peña / / Alligator Staff
Esta es una exposición bilingüe.Come hang out and take it slow 
with Flash and his friends!
LEAVES 
SEPT. 12
FREE for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
With linked arms and voices chanting 
“there’s blood on their hands” and “Black 
women matter,” about 100 protesters 
overtook the entrance of Alachua County Jail 
on Aug. 21.
Residents held up signs that read “protect 
Black babies” and “jails kill” in solidarity 
with Erica Thompson, a 25-year-old Alachua 
County resident who lost her child Aug. 9 
after her cries for help were ignored and she 
was forced to give birth inside her jail cell.
Protesters say the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office violated Florida’s Tammy 
Jackson Act, which ensures inmates in 
labor are immediately taken to a medical 
facility, given proper care and not placed in 
restrictive housing against their will. Gov. 
Ron DeSantis signed the bill into law in 2020 
after Tammy Jackson was in labor for seven 
hours isolated in a Broward County jail.
Florida Prisoner Solidarity raised more 
than $8,000 through a GoFundMe page for 
her food, transportation and postpartum 
care.
Thompson, known as Heaven to her close 
family and friends, came to the protest but 
declined to comment.
Danielle Chanzes, a 28-year-old 
community organizer for the Florida Prisoner 
Solidarity and Dignity Power, shared 
Thompson’s story through a megaphone.
“We want to make sure that the 
community is paying attention,” Chanzes 
said. “We’re not going to let this go. This 
happened right here in our community, 
and so we need to make sure that this gets 
attention until Heaven and Ava get the 
justice they deserve.”
Sarah Goff, a 44-year-old Alachua County resident, brought her two daughters to the 
protest. She said she joined the protest to 
physically show her support in hopes to 
inspire others to stand up for women’s rights.
“I think it’s important for my children 
to be the agents of change,” Goff said. “I’m 
honest with them, and I think that they 
understand these issues.”
At 5 p.m., marchers were met with 
barricades blocking the entrance of the 
Alachua County Jail. Deputies were waiting 
for them. Some officers told protesters they 
would not be allowed to visit the property 
again if they engaged with the protest. As 
a precautionary measure, one organizer 
passed out emergency contact forms in the 
event protesters were arrested.
Karine Dieuvil, a 21-year-old Dream 
Defenders organizing lead, said she expected 
the Sheriff’s office to react in this way.
“We wanted to be completely lawful in the 
way that we organized the process because 
we want to make sure that we’re ensuring 
the safety of our community members,” 
Dieuvil said. “The only reason we pushed off 
into the street was because we were forced 
to. There was nowhere else to go and despite 
that was property we were allowed to be on 
in order to exercise our freedom of speech.”
After confronting ACSO officers at the 
entrance of the jail, protesters lined up in 
the street and halted traffic. Before police 
arrived, organizers blocked drivers from 
passing through and asked them to turn 
around.
Around 30 minutes into the protest, 
Gainesville Police Department officers 
showed up and assisted with moving traffic. 
GPD cars were later seen at both ends of the 
street blocking traffic and leading cars onto 
other roads so they would not encounter 
protesters.Thompson was arrested for two active 
warrants for charges of a felony violation of 
probation and failure to appear on a traffic 
charge, according to an Alachua County 
Sheriff Facebook post. The post states 
Thompson went into premature labor and 
gave birth to her daughter Ava in the jail. 
ACSO transported her and her baby to the 
hospital where her baby died.
On Friday, ACSO held a press conference to defend Thompson’s arrest and handling 
of Ava’s birth. The office released photos to 
verify the timeline of events leading to and 
following Ava’s birth. ACSO also has a video 
not yet released to the public as of Friday 
of Thompson’s time in the jail — Lieutenant 
Brett Rhodenizer, the lead investigator 
with the ACSO’s office of professional 
standards, said the video is still a part of 
the department’s ongoing investigation into 
what happened.
Rhodenizer said the photos and video 
show that deputies checked on Thompson 
every 15 minutes, but she didn’t ask for help 
until she knocked on the door at 10:20 p.m.
Whether protesters were met with 
opposition didn’t matter to Tray Johns — 
a 46-year-old executive director of Dignity 
Power, an organization for incarcerated 
women that helped pass the Tammy Jackson 
Act.
Feeling her labor rights as an inmate 
were violated, Thompson sought advice 
from Johns, who felt responsible to ensure 
her case was heard and other women don’t 
suffer in future similar situations.
“She said, ‘I had my baby in the jail. Can 
you help me?’” Johns said. “‘Girl, I’m on 
my godd--- way!’ That’s what I said. And 
the next morning I got up out of my bed in 
Orlando, packed up my grandbabies and 
came up to Gainesville.”
Some, like Johns, remain unconvinced 
that ASCO should be absolved of 
responsibility. This demonstration was to see 
tangible change come from what happened 
to Thompson, Johns added.
“We’re hoping that (Sheriff) Clovis 
(Watson) holds true to his word,” Johns said. 
“Instead of him protecting Black women, he 
doubled down and called her a liar. She’s a 
25-year-old girl. And the undeniable thing: 
she was pregnant and had her baby in his 
jail. And the least he could’ve done was 
apologize.”
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.org‘Blood on their hands’: Protesters demand Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office apology for newborn’s death hours after being born in jail 
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Protestors lock arms to block traffic on Northeast 39th Avenue outside Alachua County Jail on Saturday, Aug. 21, 2021. 
They moved into the street because deputies blocked the entrance to the Alachua County Jail.Lauren Witte / / Alligatort Staff
Tray Johns, FedFam4Life executive director, talks to the officers blocking the 
entrance to Alachua County Jail during the Justice for Heaven and Ava protest 
on Saturday, Aug. 21, 2021.
About 100 protesters took to the streets to protest the treatment 
of Erica Thompson and the death of her newborn daughterBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
vaccines  
saving lives since 1796 
6 Furnishings
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE- 
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN 
SETS $149 KING SETS $199 NEW 6 
DRAWER DRESSERS $220 NEW 5 
DRAWER CHEST $199 WE HAVE OVER 
300 MATTRESSES IN STOCK: SAME DAY 
DELIVERY: WE DELIVER COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH AVE 
GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953          9-07-5-6©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    RReessiissttaanntt,,  eexxeemmpptt  
11..    CCoonnvveeyy  55..    GGiiaanntt  ________
22..    HHaannddlleedd,,  ggoovveerrnneedd  66..    SSppaarrkkllee  
33..    CClloosseesstt  77..    CCooppyy  ________
44..    PPrreevviioouuss  MMUUIIEENNMM
RRTTMMIIAAPPPPAAAADDNN
MMAAGGEELL
MMAAGGNNDDEEAA
SSAARREETTNNEERROOEETTDDII
RROOFFEEMMRRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--IImmmmuunnee    55AA--PPaannddaa    66AA--GGlleeaamm    77AA--EEddiittoorr
11DD--IImmppaarrtt    22DD--MMaannaaggeedd    33DD--NNeeaarreesstt    44DD--FFoorrmmeerr    BB--MMaatttt  DDaammoonn88--2233--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  ddrrooppppeedd  oouutt  ooff  HHaarrvvaarrdd  
ttoo  ppuurrssuuee  hhiiss  aaccttiinngg  ccaarreeeerr..  
BONUSDONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. 
Your donation helps fund the search for miss-
ing children. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & 
RV's too!  Fast Free Pickup-Running or Not 24 
Hour Response-Maximum Tax Donation- 
Call (888) 515-3443
8-23-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-21-13-1413 Wanted 6 Furnishings
By Fred Piscop
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/23/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/23/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, August 23, 2021
ACROSS
1 Periods of history
5 __ Pujols, fourth 
MLBer to reach 
6,000 total bases
11 Area for 
experiments
14 __ Raton, Fla.
15 Ballerina, at times
16 Bullfight “Bravo!”
17 *Hitchhiked
19 Take the gold
20 Took the wheel
21 Drained of 
energy
23 Firebug’s crime
26 Changes 
direction
27 Create a raised 
logo on, say
31 “My pleasure”
33 Señor’s squiggle
34 Said further
35 Put money in, as 
a parking meter
38 Board game with 
nine rooms
39 Picture within a 
picture
40 Heap, as of wood
41 Weeding tool
42 Judicial orders
43 Zesty dip for 
tortilla chips
44 Line in pressed 
pants
46 Movie theater 
feature
47 Throbbed
49 CNN journalist 
Hill
51 Doctoral 
candidate’s 
project
53 Beers served with 
lime
58 Tell a tall tale
59 Cry to one 
blocking your 
view at a concert 
... and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
62 Classifieds, e.g.
63 Apple device 
featuring Siri
64 Italian wine 
region
65 Go out with
66 Skimpy 
swimsuits
67 Wanton lookDOWN
1 Recedes, like the 
tide
2 Sports blowout
3 Wile E. Coyote’s 
supplier
4 “The __”: “What 
she’s having”
5 Trees with 
catkins
6 Takes charge
7 Granola __
8 Prefix with dermis
9 Wine list heading
10 Picked up the 
check
11 *Something kept 
to avoid attention
12 Sci-fi visitor
13 Gives a little
18 Clear of data, 
e.g.
22 Erect, with “up”
24 Golden-ager
25 Network 
junctions
27 Mark with acid
28 Venus de __
29 *Dressing with 
Buffalo wings
30 Tribute in verse
32 Dog doc
34 Biscotti flavoring36 “If all __ fails ... ”
37 Faculty head
39 Nest egg 
acronym
40 Four, for most 
golf holes
42 “Way to go, 
team!”
43 Winter neck 
warmer
45 Hi-__ audio
46 Biscuits at teas
47 Book with maps48 Reprimand
50 Cake topping
52 Many a jayvee 
player
54 Taken by mouth
55 Carrot, on a 
snowman
56 Start the kitty
57 Mix, as a liquid
60 Abbott and 
Costello’s first 
baseman
61 Oui’s opposite
1234 56789 10 11 12
13 14 15
16 17 18
19 20 21
22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
31 32 33
34 35 36 37
38 39 40 41
42 43 44
45 46
47 48 49 50 51 52 53
54 55 56
57 58 59
60 61 62
By Ed Sessa
(c)2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/17/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/17/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, August 17, 2021
ACROSS
1 Where time is 
served
5 Hindu divinity 
whose name is a 
homophone for a 
herding dog
9 Spanish kiss
13 River of Pisa
14 More under the 
weather
15 “If you ask me,” 
to a texter
16 Vase-making 
dynasty
17 “I won’t do this 
anymore”
19 BBC nickname, 
with “the”
20 Scones go-with
21 Mind-boggler
22 Lions’ calls
24 “What a long 
week!”
25 Copenhagen’s 
__ Gardens
27 Chef lead-in
28 ’50s dance party
31 Grossed
32 Christmastime
33 What to buy 
to solve P_T  
S_J_K
34 Elevator guy
35 Sleigh driver
37 ’60s civil rights 
gp.
38 UCLA’s __-12 
Conference
39 Fodder holder
40 Cheap booze
42 Opposite of NNW
43 Kept in the loop, 
in emails
44 Fluctuates
45 Dallas NBA team
46 Aired again
47 Actress MacRae 
who played 
Alice Kramden 
on “The Jackie 
Gleason Show”
50 Pro
51 Role in “Son of 
Frankenstein”
54 Dog breeders’ 
group
56 Go off the board
57 ESPN MLB 
analyst
58 Military divisions
59 Range 
component60 Hardy’s “___ of 
the D’Urbervilles”
61 Tolkien creatures
62 Greek sandwich
DOWN
1 Door frame 
segment
2 R&B vocalist 
India.__
3 Conscience
4 Captain’s 
records
5 Works by Swiss 
cubist Paul
6 Thomas __ 
Edison
7 Martial artist 
Bruce __
8 Come and 
go, e.g., 
grammatically
9 Major condition
10 Kindle download
11 Carpentry wedge
12 Chaplin of 
“Game of 
Thrones”
14 Essential worth
18 Cordial flavoring
23 “The Greatest”
24 Promote big-time
25 Sporty sunroofs
26 Teensy amounts27 Church 
assembly
28 Greenery in 
suspended 
baskets ... or, 
phonetically, 
what 3-, 8- or 
14-Down is?
29 Perfectly timed
30 Agreements
36 Brewpub orders
37 Unowned, free-
ranging pooch39 Weigh station?
41 Galley implement
45 Gives a hoot
46 Beats but good
47 Three-handed 
game
48 “Psst! Over __!”
49 Grandson of Eve
50 Move like a bee
52 Finished
53 City near Tahoe
55 “Inside Politics” 
airer
08/16/2021answers on page 121. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE:  
What word represents the letter 
"Q" in the NATO phonetic alpha -
bet code?
2. MOVIES:  Which actress, as a 
child, won a Best Supporting Ac -
tress award for her role in "The 
Piano"?
3. ADVERTISING SLO -
GANS:  What product is adver -
tised with the slogan "Vermont's 
Finest"?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the 
English name for the country 
called Suomi by its people?5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-
century novel begins with the 
line, "All this happened, more 
or less"?
6. ANATOMY: What part of the 
brain deals with hearing and lan -
guage?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What is the 
most expensive spice on Earth?
8. TELEVISION: The TV series 
"Melrose Place" was a spinoff of 
which earlier drama?
9. U.S. STATES: Which state is 
known as the Beaver State?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: 
What is the descriptive name for 
animals that are active at dusk 
and dawn?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by FifiRodriguez
solution  on page 12HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/ answers below1. Jacksonville Jaguars owner Sahid Khan 
was a lead investor in what pro wrestling 
promotion that was founded in 2019?
2. What sporting event for people with 
disabilities was created by German-Brit -
ish neurologist Ludwig Guttmann and 
first held in 1948?
3. John Salley was the first NBA player to 
win championships with three different 
teams. What were they?
4. The football term for a blocker push -
ing an opponent to the ground is named 
after what popular breakfast food?
5. What member of the 1996 Olympic 
USA gymnastics "Magnificent Seven" 
team published a memoir called "Off 
Balance" in 2012?
6. The second-shortest (5 feet, 5 inches) 
goaltender in NHL history played three 
seasons with the Chicago Blackhawks 
and went on to a broadcasting career. 
Who is he? 
7. What Finnish driver, known as "The 
Iceman," won the 2007 Formula One 
Drivers' Championship?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
Help Wanted Part Time
Yard Help No Grass Cutting. Flexible Schedule 
$15/hr to start. Cash
Payout Weekly. Minimum 5 hours Weekly, 
Near Campus. Call 727-
741-8764. Wooded Lot Needs TLC.  
8-30-21-2-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '21  
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-7-21-6-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME.
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact:  fairoaks1879@aol.com   
8-30-21-8-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Sun Country Sports is hiring for Fall! 
After School Counselors,
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone, Rockwall and 
more. Apply today at
suncountrysports.com/jobs.
8-23-21-4-14  
Experienced Swim Lesson instructors need -
ed for UF and Sun Country West.  Weekday 
afternoons (either M/W or T/TH), Saturday 
mornings, and/or Sunday afternoons.  Email 
resume to Jill at jwilby@cox.net.  
8-23-21-3-14
Car Wash Help Wanted
Earn up to $20/hr! Now hiring for general car 
wash labor. Part time/Full time shifts avail-
able. Must have valid FL license. Apply online 
@ parkplacecarwash.com.         9-27-21-7-14
Trivia Test  answers1. Quebec
2. Anna Paquin
3. Ben & Jerry's ice cream
4. Finland
5. "Slaughterhouse-Five," Kurt Vonnegut6. The left hemisphere
7. S a f f ron
8. "Beverly Hills, 90210"
9. Oregon
10. CrepuscularSports Quiz  answers1. All Elite Wrestling (AEW).
2. The Stoke Mandeville Games.
3. The Detroit Pistons (1989-90), Chicago Bulls 
(1996) and Los Angeles Lakers (2000).
4. Pancake.
5. Dominique Moceanu.
6. Darren Pang.
7. Kimi Raikkonen.
solution  to the left
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE1 1: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUND
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www. alligator .org/classifieds
(352)373- FIND
classified @alligator.org
Visit alligator.org/classifieds and submit your 
ad to one of the following categories today!
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for 
injury or loss arising from contacts made through ad-
vertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
the 
independent  
florida
we inform. you decide.12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021   ALLIGATOR   13 
GAINESVILLE BUSINESSES 
PREPARE FOR THOUSANDS 
OF STUDENTS’ RETURN 
IN THE FALL
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Now that students are returning 
for in-person classes, businesses are 
optimistic after a year of economic 
hardship caused by the COVID-19 
pandemic. More customers means 
more workers can be hired.
Across the country, businesses 
have dealt with issues over their 
supply chain, increases in product 
prices, less in-store traffic and staff 
shortages. According to a survey by 
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
52% of businesses nationwide laid 
off employees, with or without pay, 
between July and September 2020. 
Satchel Raye, owner of Satchel’s 
Pizza, located at 1800 NE 23rd Ave., 
and Satch Squared, located at 405 
SW Fourth Ave., cut 26 employees 
off payroll when both restaurants 
stopped in-person dining in March 
2020. When he reopened indoor din -
ing in May 2020 at his two locations, 
Raye said he was fortunate to rehire 
his former employees.  
“When we opened back up, we 
started hiring them back,” Raye said. 
“Now we’re back to the staff we had 
before.”
Preceding the start of the pan -
demic, Gainesville reached its lowest 
recorded unemployment rate at 2.8% 
in December 2019. Four months later, 
with the onset of COVID-19, the city 
reached 9.2% — its highest unem -
ployment rate. 
As of June, Gainesville’s unem -
ployment rate is 4.9%, according to 
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics’ 
most recent data.  
While many restaurants avoided 
closing permanently, the city wit -
nessed many local favorites shut 
down during the pandemic. Larry’s 
Giant Subs’ — the popular late-night University Avenue location — closed 
in May 2020. Felipe’s Mexican Taque -
ria, known for attracting crowds to its 
Latin nights and buy-one-get-one-
free margaritas, also said goodbye to 
Gainesville in November 2020.
Still soldiering through pandemic-
related challenges like staff shortages 
and less in-person patronage, the 
businesses left standing are hoping 
for change with the Fall semester.
Some restaurants adopted take -
out-only policies until September 
2020, which allowed them to scrape 
by with less employees. 
Having opened early 2020, Raye 
said Satch Squared’s takeout orders 
kept his business afloat at the begin -
ning of the pandemic. As he prepares 
for an influx of customers with stu -
dent return,  Raye has had trouble 
finding more employees. He’s hope -
ful Satch Squared may become a stu -dent favorite.
“We found there’s a lot less people 
who show up for interviews,” Raye 
said. “We don’t know what to expect 
with students coming back.”
Phyllis Marty is the CEO of Career -
Source North Central Florida which 
helps connect Alachua County and 
Bradford County residents to poten -
tial employers. She said rather than 
local businesses that normally don’t 
provide healthcare and dental ben -
efits, retail and food service workers 
have flocked to distribution and ad -
vanced manufacturing centers, such 
as Walmart, Nordstrom, Amazon and 
Sysco.
“Restaurants are struggling to get 
workers,” Marty said. “But advanced 
manufacturing, they don’t have a 
problem getting people hired.”
Online orders also became popu -
lar during the pandemic to avoid in-person contact while shopping. Cor -
daroy’s, a furniture store known for 
its bean bag chairs, located at 3417 W 
University Ave., found success in on -
line sales when in-store traffic drasti -
cally decreased. 
Cordaroy’s store manager William 
Von Wowern said the need for furni -
ture geared toward relaxation while 
people were in quarantine, like beds 
and bean bag chairs, helped the busi -
ness stay open. 
Although the store kept busy with 
online sales, Von Wowern echoed 
Marty and Raye’s concerns about 
staffing as his employees were spread 
thin.
“We’ve had some issues with the 
warehouse employees,” he said. “We 
have just enough people, so we’re 
definitely hiring.” 
Ward’s Supermarket, a locally-
sourced grocery store located at 515 NW 23rd Ave., is struggling to get 
products it normally carries. Store 
manager Angie Mohr said she has 
also seen product prices increase, as 
the store is not getting as many ship -
ments as it used to. 
Despite these issues, Mohr was 
proud to say the store kept all its staff 
employed and avoided letting go of 
employees. She said she’s ready for 
the Fall semester.
“We hire a lot of young people,” 
Mohr said. “This is a stepping stone 
job.”
While many restaurants are now 
offering dine-in services, staff short -
ages continue to limit their full poten -
tial.
Ryan Phillips, general manager 
of One Love Cafe, located 4989 NW 
40th Place, said his restaurant offers 
an outside seating area that accom -
modates for social distancing. Unfor -
tunately, he said the cafe has still had 
to brave a lack of employees, continu -
ing through today.
The cafe used to be open Tuesday 
through Sunday but had to decrease 
its hours of operation to Thursday 
through Sunday during the pan -
demic. Phillips said the restaurant 
started closing in the afternoon before 
reopening for dinner, mainly due to 
slow business and limited staff. It 
continues to have limited hours.
Phillips said going forward, his 
priority is to hire new staff.
Because the pandemic caused 
some students to stay in their home -
towns for online classes instead of at -
tending class on campus, Gainesville 
lost a significant amount of its popu -
lation. This Fall semester is offering 
local businesses the chance to get 
back on track.
“All business in Gainesville is de -
pendent on students,” Phillips said. 
“Summertime is always a huge drop 
in business, so now that school’s 
coming up we’re expecting to pick 
back up.”
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgStudent return to Gainesville could alleviate pandemic troubles for local businesses
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Satchel Raye, 53, stands in the Satch Patch behind Satchel’s on Friday, Aug. 13, 2021. When 
asked how he felt about the upcoming fall, Raye said, “I’m glad the football games are coming 
back.” Satchel’s opened in Gainesville in 2003.
THE DEPARTMENT PROPOSES 
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS FOR 
UNDERSERVED NEIGHBORHOODS
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
Just miles from a swamp of orange and blue 
sits a rich history of Black neighborhoods. 
Although Gainesville residents have adapt -
ed to the college environment within the city, 
many UF students living within the university 
bubble will never learn about East East Gaines -
ville’s history.
The Gainesville Community Reinvestment 
Area, which is now a department of the city 
commission, was created in 1979 to reinvest 
in underserved communities and reverse what 
community members felt was years of neglect. 
It was then known as The City of Gainesville 
Downtown Community Redevelopment Agen -
cy, which began to revamp College Park/Uni -
versity Heights, Fifth Avenue/Pleasant Street, 
Downtown and Eastside. 
Throughout the past two decades of reform, 
the initial GCRA tax funds were used exclusive -
ly to invest in the four redevelopment areas but 
are now extended to the one reinvestment area 
set by the city and county commission. 
The GCRA was involved with major proj -ects including the redevelopment of the 17-acre 
“Power District” between downtown and De -
pot Park in 2016 and a $3.5 million dollar Mid -
town makeover in 2017.
Former District 1 City Commissioner Sch -
erwin Henry, whose jurisdiction included the 
majority of Gainesville’s east side, worked on 
the development of the often underserved area 
from 2006 to 2012. Henry witnessed the GCRA 
become a city department after years of work -
ing under a Florida statute. 
“The county felt that the College Park area 
had become self-sufficient and did not need the 
degree of reinvestment that it was receiving,” he 
said. “They felt that those dollars could be redi -
rected to other areas such as East Gainesville.”
Henry believes the GCRA hasn’t kept the 
promises it was founded upon, and it could 
have served as an economic catalyst for districts 
in need of reinvestment.
“There has been minimal reinvestment in 
the East Gainesville area as well as the Pleasant 
Street area,” he said.
As a part of its 10-year reinvestment plan, 
the GCRA promised economic development 
initiatives, infrastructure improvements, and 
housing and food reinvestment. The plans were 
proposed and approved in March 2020.
Still some are skeptical about the GCRA’s in -
volvement in East Gainesville’s neighborhoods.
Chanae Jackson, a 41-year-old community activist, was interested in seeing the fruition of 
The Historical Heritage Trail, a project to mark 
the cultural significance and historic landmarks 
of Fifth Avenue and Pleasant Street. But she is 
disappointed the city has delayed the project 
since 2009.
“A lot of people are really unaware that 
Black people in East Gainesville have a rich his -
tory,” Jackson said. “It’s always pushed back.”
She believes the department doesn’t imple -
ment programs that align with the Black com -
munity’s wants and needs. It’s important that 
the GCRA hires more consultants who are East 
Gainesville natives, she said.
Although it’s vital for East Gainesville resi -
dents to be a part of the reinvestment conver -
sation, she said she knows people who tried 
to participate and did not have their concerns 
heard.
“True investment in the community are 
things like health care centers and accessible 
grocery stores,” Jackson said. “The GCRA is not 
improving the quality of life of the community 
with their investment projects.”
Tricia Lopez, a project manager and adviso -
ry board liaison for GCRA, is currently looking 
for applicants for their citizen’s advisory board. 
The selected 15 participants will represent their 
community by attending a monthly meeting for 
a two-year term. The deadline to apply for a po -
sition on the board is Aug. 31. Decisions made during citizen advisory board meetings are re -
ported to the assistant city manager and the city 
commission.
Lopez is aware East Gainesville residents 
are anxiously waiting for the start of projects 
after seeing many of them share their feelings 
in GCRA meetings.
“With only an eight-person team and limit -
ed funding, we could not start all of our projects 
at once,” Lopez said.
Sheila Payne, a 64-year-old Gainesville resi -
dent, has participated in a few GCRA citizen’s 
advisory board meetings and is on the executive 
board of the Alachua County Labor Coalition. 
She believes the No. 1 priority of a depart -
ment like the GCRA should be building more 
housing.
“I am disgusted with both the city and coun -
ty’s lack of getting more housing built,” she 
said. “Too much money is spent on community 
outreach and listening sessions and not enough 
on finding those organizations who can tap into 
federal and non-profit money to partner with to 
build and manage affordable housing.”
Ultimately, for decades, the GCRA has been 
trying to strengthen the roots of people in the 
neighborhoods it knows and loves.
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgA guide to the Gainesville Community Reinvestment AreaMONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
UF LOOKS TO FILL 
PRODUCTION HOLE LEFT 
BY DEPARTING PLAYERS
By Michael Hull
Sports Writer
The 2020 Florida Gators offense 
set the SEC ablaze through the air. 
Quarterback Kyle Trask, tight end 
Kyle Pitts and wide receiver Kadar -
ius Toney led the Gators to an SEC 
Championship appearance. The 
historic offense averaged nearly 
40 points and 510 yards per game. 
Florida’s success revolved around 
its passing game, as UF averaged an 
SEC-leading 388 passing yards per 
game in 2020.
The leading trio from last season 
all moved on to the NFL, leaving a 
gaping hole in the Gators offense 
this season and demanding massive 
renovation this offseason. Here is a 
positional breakdown of the 2021 
Florida offense and how different it 
might look.
Quarterback
Trask is now learning from Tom 
Brady with the Buccaneers, allowing 
quarterback Emory Jones to finally 
take over the Florida offense. The 
redshirt junior spent his last two sea -
sons in Gainesville as a gadget player 
and in clean-up duty behind Trask, 
but he’s shown flashes of greatness. 
He played just 95 snaps in 2020 but 
was the team’s third-leading rusher, 
totaling 217 yards on the ground. Pro 
Football Focus gave him a rushing 
grade of 86.1 — which topped every 
quarterback in the country.
Jones also possesses underrated 
arm talent. Again, small sample size, 
but he completed 58% of his passes 
in 2020 for 217 yards, two touch -
downs and one interception. Jones’ athleticism is known, but 
the key to success for No. 5 is con -
sistency. Jones is a night and day dif -
ference at quarterback from Trask, as 
he’s more mobile and athletic but not 
quite as accurate. Mullen attempted 
to hammer home Jones’ passing abil -
ity during camp, saying on Aug. 12 
there are times during practice where 
the coach will force his quarterback 
to stay in the pocket and not allow 
him to scramble and use his legs. 
Despite these training tactics, the 
offense will still have to adjust to 
Jones’ typical style of play.
Quarterback Anthony Richardson 
is the other quarterback in the locker 
room who could see significant play -
ing time like Jones did the last few 
seasons. While Jones seems to have 
a firm handle on the starting job, the 
redshirt freshman could make a push 
if Jones struggles. Similar to Jones, 
Richardson is mobile and has a 
strong arm. He only appeared in four 
games last season, but he was a four-
star recruit and 247Sports’ ninth-
ranked dual threat prospect coming 
out of the local Eastside High School. 
Richardson had a strong camp, and 
Mullen said he feels comfortable 
with both quarterbacks heading into 
2021.
Running back
Simply put, even Florida’s coach -
es know the team needs more pro -
duction from its running backs in 
2021. A new offensive scheme and 
mobile quarterback should help with 
that, but the backs also need to im -
prove. Senior Dameon Pierce led the 
unit last season, totaling 501 yards 
on 107 carries for an average of 4.7 
yards per carry. Redshirt senior Ma -
lik Davis followed Pierce in yards 
with 306, but he also led the unit 
with 379 yards receiving. 
The duo should be expected to lead the backfield again, but they’ll 
be supplemented by redshirt sopho -
more Nay’Quan Wright, Miami 
transfer Lorenzo Lingard and Clem -
son transfer Demarkcus Bowman. 
Wright and Lingard were both used 
sparingly in 2020 — Wright played 
75 snaps while Lingard played eight. 
They should both see the field more 
in a run-heavy offense this season. 
Florida running backs coach Greg 
Knox spoke about the group’s talent 
on Aug. 18 and knows they have to 
rise to the occasion this season.
“I tell my guys all the time we got 
to step up,” Knox said. “We got to 
play much better, we got to do a bet -
ter job. We got to be the bell cows.”
Knox was especially complimen -
tary of the transfers Bowman and 
Lingard, calling them home-run hit -
ters.
“If they get in open space, they 
are a threat to put that ball in the end 
zone,” Knox said.
Wide Receiver
The receiver position saw a mass 
exodus of production in the off -
season. Florida’s top two receivers 
from a year ago, Toney and Trevon 
Grimes, both pursued their NFL 
dreams. Now, it’s up to veterans Ja -
cob Copeland and Justin Shorter to 
anchor a young group of wideouts. 
Copeland will don the sacred No. 
1 this season. Worn by Gators greats 
like Toney and Percy Harvin, the No. 
1 jersey carries extra weight in The 
Swamp, and Copeland is ready to 
embrace the responsibility.
“[I’m] making sure all my young -
er receivers stand up, stay tall with 
everything going on, make sure they 
keep their head in the game and de -
velop as time comes,” Copeland told 
the media Aug. 11.
The redshirt junior saw 40 targets 
thrown his way last season, hauling 
in 23 for 435 yards. Copeland played 
more of a deep-threat role in 2020, 
but he should see his role and target 
share expand in 2021 with the losses 
of Toney, Grimes and Pitts.
Shorter, meanwhile, should serve 
as a large red-zone target for Jones. 
The former Penn State wideout’s 
6-foot-5, 227-pound frame is a wel -
come addition to the offense after its 
main 2020 red-zone threat, Pitts, was 
drafted fourth overall by the Atlanta 
Falcons. While Shorter wasn’t able 
to establish himself in Happy Valley, 
he was an elite recruit coming out of 
high school. He was ranked as the 
best wideout in the country in the 
class of 2018, according to 247Sports.
The rest of the receiver room is 
flooded with talent and will battle 
for playing time. Redshirt sopho -
more Trent Whittemore operated 
most often from the slot in 2020, 
tallying 128 yards. He will compete 
with redshirt seniors Rick Wells and Jordan Pouncey for playing time in -
side. Sophomore Xzavier Henderson 
should also see time on the field. 
Brother of former Gator C.J. Hender -
son, the sophomore only hauled in 
nine receptions in his freshman cam -
paign, but his speed and size (6-foot-
3) should help him get snaps in 2021.
Tight End
Florida won’t replace Pitts’ pro -
duction from the tight end spot this 
season. That’s not an insult to the 
current roster, but rather a compli -
ment to just how incredible Pitts’ 
2020 campaign was. The former 
Gator won the John Mackey Award 
for the nation’s top tight end and be -
came the first player at his position to 
ever be named a finalist for the Bilet -
nikoff Award, given to the country’s 
top receiver. 
Despite the loss of Pitts, the 
Gators still have weapons in the 
tight end room. Junior Keon Zipperer 
and redshirt senior Kemore Gamble 
are the two names to note entering 
2021. Both saw an uptick in play -
ing time last season when Pitts was 
sidelined with an injury, and they 
seized the moment. Gamble scored 
a touchdown against Georgia, while 
Zipperer tallied 47 yards and two 
touchdowns versus Arkansas. Again, 
neither player will touch Pitts’ pro -
duction from a season ago, but they 
can both line up in multiple areas on 
the field and are solid blockers.
Offensive Line
Florida’s offensive line will be es -
sential to the team’s success this sea -
son. While most of the emphasis last 
year was on pass-blocking, the shift 
to the run game will lead to more 
power run-blocking from the group. 
Redshirt junior left tackle Richard 
Gouriage is excited for the shift and 
said on Aug. 19 the rest of the line 
feels the same way. 
“That's what we came to Florida for, just to pound the rock down a 
defense,” he said. “That's what we 
just really here for, to get in that en -
dzone.”
Gouriage started at left guard in 
all 12 games in 2020 but will move 
outside to block the quarterback’s 
blindside at left tackle after Stone 
Forsythe’s departure to the NFL.
Pro Football Focus ranked the 
Florida line ninth in the SEC entering 
2021. To surpass that projection, the 
Gators will need junior guard Ethan 
White to live up to the hype he’s 
received this offseason. Gouriage 
said the chemistry between him and 
White is growing, calling the left 
guard phenomenal during media ses -
sions. White missed time in 2020, 
but he was extremely effective when 
he saw the field, not allowing any 
sacks in the four games he played. 
While the left side of the line deals 
with high-upside youth, the right 
side will most likely feature older 
veterans. Right guard Stewart Reece 
announced his return to UF as a grad 
student for 2021, while redshirt se -
nior right tackle Jean Delance returns 
for his sixth season. Both face com -
petition from other backups on the 
roster but are the projected starters 
as of now.
Center is the main question mark 
along the line. After the graduation of 
Brett Heggie, both Reese and White 
were in the conversation for the start -
ing center spot, but the Gators are 
expected to roll with redshirt sopho -
more Kingsley Eguakun. Mullen said 
Eguakun embraced everything that 
being a starting center comes with. 
Head coach Dan Mullen has a 
whole new set of toys to play with 
and an offensive attack to retool be -
fore kickoff on Sept. 4 in The Swamp 
versus FAU.
@Michael_Hull33
mhull@alligator.orgNew year, new Gators: Breaking down Florida’s offense in 2021
Alligator File Photo
Florida quarterback Emory Jones gets ready for a play against 
Idaho during Florida’s 63-10 win on Nov. 17, 2018.Alligator File Photo
Florida running back Malik Davis runs with the ball during Florida's 38-
24 win against Vanderbilt on Sept. 30, 2017, at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021   ALLIGATOR   15 
BRING A GUEST ANYTIME…FREE • USE OF TANNING* 
USE OF HYDROMASSAGE • USE OF 2,000+ LOCATIONS WORLDWIDE
50% OFF SELECT DRINKS • AND A GREAT DEAL MORE
Must be 18 years old, or 13 with parent/guardian. Home club only. Billed monthly to 
a checking account. Subject to annual fee. State/local taxes may apply. Commitment 
may apply. Offer available at participating locations only. Planet Fitness locations are 
independently owned and operated. ©2021 PFIP, LLC
*Local and State restrictions may apply in the frequency of tanning. 
Must be 18 years or older to use tanning.Join PF Gainesville now and 
GET ALL THE PERKS of PF Black Card® membership:$2299 A MONTH!$0DOWN 
OFFER ENDS SEPTEMBER 6, 2021
join now at planetfitness.com or see us in-club at
2210 NW 13th Street, Gainesville.AS A STUDENT, EXERCISE YOUR RIGHT TO A
GREAT DEAL.
Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified
Family Medicine
Mon-Fri 
8:00am-5:00pm
Sat-Sun 
9:00am - 2:00pm
First Care Urgent  Care
NOW OPEN WEEKENDS
Providing adult and pediatric (aged 3+) evaluation and 
treatment for:
• COVID-19 Evaluation, T esting, & Vaccination
• Respiratory Illness, Colds, Flu, Sinus Infections
• Acute Injuries & Illness 
• Sprains, Strains, Fractures
• Vaccinations
• Allergic Reactions
• STD T esting
• Worker’s Compensation
• Occupational Medicine
• Drug Screening
• DOT Physicals
• Pre-Employment Physicals
4343 W. Newberry Road, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
SIMEDHealth.comSOCCER
By Jesse Richardson 
Sports Writer 
Florida soccer may not have a tally in the win col -
umn yet, but the confidence is still growing within 
the locker room as the young season matures.
The Gators started 2021 with an 0-1-1 record after 
their comeback draw against the Texas Longhorns 
Aug. 22, and leaders are starting to emerge for new 
head coach Tony Amato.
Amato is slowly settling in with his team as he 
discovers more about his arsenal stepping onto the 
pitch.
“I think the biggest thing is, we’re all still figuring 
each other out, right?” Amato said. “We’ve trained 
like, 11 times and played a couple of games. I thought 
we saw today, like down a goal late in the game, our 
urgency grew.”
“It’s just hard to win college soccer games and 
you can talk about tactics all day long and passing 
and all these sorts of things but at the end of the day, 
you have to be able to fight back.”
Sophomore goaltender Alexa Goldberg is without 
a doubt the spark plug which ignited her team thus 
far after remarkable performances against both Texas 
and South Florida. The netminder racked up 20 saves 
in two matches played, many of which came at cru -cial points in the game. 
She made her clutchest save within the last 10 
seconds of the overtime battle with the Longhorns. 
Texas midfielder Lexi Missimo beamed a desperate 
shot toward the top shelf for the win, but Goldberg 
made a miraculous leap to punch the ball over the 
crossbar and save the 1-1 draw.
The emergence of Goldberg was unforeseen, as 
the keeper only donned the gloves for the Gators a 
total of three times: her two starts this season and 
one forgetful performance last year against Missouri.
Offensive leaders like graduate midfielder Kit 
Loferski and redshirt forward Nicole Vernis have rose 
to the occasion to create chances which were scarce 
in the USF match. Loferski took two of Florida’s six 
shots compared to the Bulls’ 15 shots on goal.
Both Loferski and Vernis showed aggression on 
the defensive side of the ball and created their own 
chances via turnovers.
Florida has kinks in the system, but diamonds can 
only be formed with high pressure. The Gators’ sea -
son continues Thursday with a showdown against 
UCF. Kickoff is scheduled for 7 p.m.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgSlowly but surely: Florida soccer’s morale takes a turn for the better
Alligator File Photo
Fans sit in the stands of Donald R. Dizney Stadium before a game on 
Oct. 30, 2020, against Tennessee.
Gators stand 0-1-1 after first week under new head coach Tony Amato16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2021
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
DAILY SPECIALSDAILY SPECIALS
$$559999
CHIPS & SALSA TRIOCHIPS & SALSA TRIO
$$33OFFOFF
 ALL “SPECIALTY ALL “SPECIALTY 
COCKTAILS”COCKTAILS”
$$66
CHICKEN TENDERSCHICKEN TENDERS
$$77
BUFFALO TENDERSBUFFALO TENDERS
$$33
DOMESTIC DRAFTSDOMESTIC DRAFTS
$$44
 SIGNATURE SHOTSSIGNATURE SHOTS
$$44
DOUBLE WELLSDOUBLE WELLS
$$55
FLORIDA CRAFT FLORIDA CRAFT 
DRINKSDRINKS
$$66
 BETTER MARGARITABETTER MARGARITA
$$77
 MOJITO MEJORMOJITO MEJOR
$$33
FIREBALL; SLANE; FIREBALL; SLANE; 
JÄGERMEISTER; JÄGERMEISTER; 
AND RUMPY’SAND RUMPY’S
$$55
SLIDER BASKETSSLIDER BASKETS
2 SLIDERS AND A SIDE OF FRIES, 2 SLIDERS AND A SIDE OF FRIES, 
NO SUBSTITUTIONSNO SUBSTITUTIONS
$$779999
LOADED SACK, SWEET POUTINE, LOADED SACK, SWEET POUTINE, 
TENDER MOUNTAIN, KC CHIPSTENDER MOUNTAIN, KC CHIPS
SMOTHERED SMOTHERED 
SHAREABLESSHAREABLES
HAPPY HOURHAPPY HOUR
MON-FRI: 4MON-FRI: 4 pmpm – 7 – 7 pmpm
SAT:SAT:  11 am - 7 pm  11 am - 7 pm
SUND aY: aLL D aY! SUND aY: aLL D aY!
ROOFTOP ROOFTOP 
OPEN WED-SUN!OPEN WED-SUN!
$$55
 $$66
 MOSCOW MULESMOSCOW MULES
FLAVORED FLAVORED 
MULESMULES
FOOD SPECIALSFOOD SPECIALS
FOODFOOD
DRINK SPECIALSDRINK SPECIALS
$$33
$$33
$$44
$$1616
WELLSWELLS   (singles only, no shots)(singles only, no shots)
KEY LIME PIE SHOTSKEY LIME PIE SHOTS
FIRST MAGNITUDE DRAFTSFIRST MAGNITUDE DRAFTS
WHITE CLAW BUCKETSWHITE CLAW BUCKETS
$$44OFFOFF
$$33
$$1010
ALL FLATBREADSALL FLATBREADS
CHILI & SOUP BOWLSCHILI & SOUP BOWLS
ALL SIGNATURE SALADSALL SIGNATURE SALADS
$$33
$$44
$$55
$$66
FIREBALL SHOTSFIREBALL SHOTS
SWAMP HEAD DRAFTSSWAMP HEAD DRAFTS
JACK’D DEAL JACK’D DEAL ((Jack Daniels, Honey, & Fire)Jack Daniels, Honey, & Fire)
DOUBLE VODKA RED BULLDOUBLE VODKA RED BULL
$$22
$$22
$$33
BUD LIGHT BOTTLESBUD LIGHT BOTTLES
WELL DRINKS WELL DRINKS (singles only, no shots)(singles only, no shots)
TRULYTRULY
$$33
$$33
$$44
TEQUILA SHOTS (TEQUILA SHOTS ( wellswells ))
HOUSE MARGARITA (HOUSE MARGARITA ( on tapon tap ))
LOADED PALOMA CORONALOADED PALOMA CORONA
$$1010
$$66
$$1010
DOMESTIC BEER BUCKETSDOMESTIC BEER BUCKETS
SHANDY SHANDY   (WHEAT OR LIGHT BEER(WHEAT OR LIGHT BEER
                  WITH DEEP EDDY’S FLOAT)                  WITH DEEP EDDY’S FLOAT)
BUD LIGHT LEMONADEBUD LIGHT LEMONADE
SELTZER BUCKETS SELTZER BUCKETS 
ALL DAY HAPPY HOUR!ALL DAY HAPPY HOUR!
(See Happy Hour specials)(See Happy Hour specials)
ALL DAY HAPPY HOUR!ALL DAY HAPPY HOUR!
(See Happy Hour specials)(See Happy Hour specials)
HAPPY HOUR HAPPY HOUR 11AM - 7PM11AM - 7PM   (See Happy Hour specials)(See Happy Hour specials)
$$55OFFOFF
 ALL ALL Social Fare Entrees Social Fare Entrees 
(Sunday Supper Club)(Sunday Supper Club)
$$22OFFOFF
BUCKET, BUNS & BUDSBUCKET, BUNS & BUDS
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
& BURGERS& BURGERS
$$559999
MAC N CHEESEMAC N CHEESE
no modifications with the no modifications with the 
exception of heat preferenceexception of heat preference
mondaymonday
tuesdaytuesday
thursdaythursday
saturdaysaturday
wednesdaywednesday
fridayfriday
sundaysunday
ROOFTOP ONLYROOFTOP ONLY   (2(2pmpm - 8 - 8 pmpm) ) 
SUNDAY FUN DAYSUNDAY FUN DAY
ROOFTOP ONLYROOFTOP ONLY   (9(9pmpm - Close)  - Close)   PITCHER PERFECT WEDNESDAYSPITCHER PERFECT WEDNESDAYS
DRINKSDRINKS
food 7food 7 p m p m - 10- 10 p mp m
drink s 7drink s 7 p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
food 7food 7 p m p m - 10- 10 p mp m
drink s 7drink s 7 p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
food 7food 7 p m p m - 10- 10 p mp m
drink s 7drink s 7 p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
food 7food 7 p m p m - 10- 10 p mp m
drink s 7drink s 7 p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
food 7food 7 p m p m - 10- 10 p mp m
drink s 7drink s 7 p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
food 7food 7 p m p m - 10- 10 p mp m
drink s 7drink s 7 p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
food 4food 4 p m p m -8-8 p mp m
drink s 11drink s 11 a m a m - 12- 12 A mA m
*excluding game/event days *excluding game/event days 
apps, salads, entrees, tacos
*excluding game/event days *excluding game/event days 
$10 BOTTOMLESS MIMOSAS  •  $3 PINK LEMONADE FIZZ  •  $3 GRAPEFRUIT POINSETTIAS
$3 DOMESTIC DRAFTS  •  $5 FLORIDA CRAFT DRAFTS  •  $4 SIGNATURE SHOTS $5 LIQUOR PITCHERS  •  $9 L.I.T. PITCHERS  •  $5 DOMESTIC PITCHERS  •  $9 CRAFT PITCHERS
T-T-nn-T TUESDAYS-T TUESDAYS
((tacos & tequila)tacos & tequila)
WINGS & THINGSWINGS & THINGS
Soup, Salad & BreadSTUFFSoup, Salad & BreadSTUFF
$$33OFFOFF
$$669999
9999¢¢
$$779999
ALL TACOSALL TACOS
TENDER BASKETTENDER BASKET
(4 tenders & fries)(4 tenders & fries)
WINGS WINGS ( 5  p i e c e  m i n i m u m ,          ( 5  p i e c e  m i n i m u m ,          
5 piece increments)5 piece increments)
NACHOSNACHOS
ROOFTOP ONLYROOFTOP ONLY   (10(10 pmpm - 12PM) doors @ 8:30  - 12PM) doors @ 8:30 pm pm   
ALL YOU CAN DRINK WELLSALL YOU CAN DRINK WELLS
KARAOKE ON THE ROOF!KARAOKE ON THE ROOF!
$$33OFFOFF
ALL SEAFOODALL SEAFOOD
OPTIONSOPTIONS