We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGiving Day
UF raises $25.3 million on Gator Giving Day,  pg. 4
McCarty Woods
Students protest building on McCarty Woods conservation 
area,  pg. 1 1Football’s economic impact
Local businesses felt the impact of reduced 
capacity football games after months 
surviving the COVID-19 pandemic,  pg. 14
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 22
OVER A YEAR AFTER THE LAST IN-PERSON 
GRADUATION CEREMONY, UF IS BRINGING 
THE TRADITION BACK 
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Spring 2021 graduation ceremony will be held 
in person at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center with 20% 
capacity, social distancing and mandatory masking.
The university announced plans Friday to have 14 in-
person ceremonies at the O’Connell Center between April 
29 and May 3, with the same safety protocols used for 
athletic events at the arena. Make up in-person recognition 
ceremonies for 2020 graduates are still being planned. 
Students who wish to partake in the Spring 
commencement ceremonies must register by March 31 on 
their One.UF accounts. Those who previously signed up 
must re-register  due to the increase in ceremonies.
The commencement ceremonies will require tickets for 
people to attend. Graduates who register between Feb. 19 
and March 31 will receive two guest tickets, according to 
the announcement. Each graduate’s set of tickets will be 
seated as a pair. There will be no extra tickets available 
for any ceremony.
Attendees will be required to physically distance and 
wear masks.
UF will open Ben Hill Griffin Stadium for family and 
friends who cannot attend the events at the O’Connell 
Center to view each ceremony live on the big screen. The 
maximum number of people allowed in the stadium will be 
about 17,000, and masks will be required.
Each ceremony will also be livestreamed for people 
at home who are unable to attend the in-person events, 
according to the announcement.
The ceremonies will be the first in-person 
commencement since December 2019, as the COVID-19 
pandemic pushed all 2020 graduations online. In the Fall, 
the University Athletic Association opened limited in-
person attendance at Gators football games, drawing some 
criticism from recent graduates who were forced to have 
virtual graduation. 
One factor that has helped make in-person graduation 
possible is COVID-19 data showing a decline in cases. UF is 
now using less than 3% of its quarantine space. With few 
exceptions, UF President Kent Fuchs said there has been a 
universal decline in the positivity rate for COVID-19.
Normally, each ceremony has about 1,000 students 
and 10,000 guests. However, this Spring, Fuchs said the 
total occupancy will be about 2,000 students and guests, 
or about 20% of the usual total and limiting the number 
of guests per candidate to two. At that rate, about 584 
students will partake in each commencement ceremony, 
and there will be fewer staff and volunteers working each 
one, according to the announcement.
In traditional Spring commencement, Fuchs said UF 
has a high participation rate with an average of about 
8,500 students attending ceremonies out of about 10,000 
receiving degrees. 
“We have to do something more than we’ve done in the COURSES WILL BE HELD AT 
STANDARD ROOM CAPACITIES 
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF could return to a pre-pandem -
ic world with the start of the Sum -
mer B 2021 semester.
Some of UF’s face-to-face cours -
es, which begin June 28, will return 
back to normal capacity levels, ac -
cording to an email sent to a course 
scheduling listserv from Colin Yoko -
mi, UF’s assistant university regis -
trar, and several departments across 
campus.
An academic schedule will be 
released mid-March, UF Provost Jo -
seph Glover said at a UF Senate Fac -
ulty meeting Thursday.
It is unclear if masking will still 
be mandatory and which courses 
this will affect. UF Spokesperson 
Cynthia Roldán did not answer questions about what the univer -
sity means by a return to normalcy; 
what masking, capacities, cleaning 
and social distancing will look like; 
the classes that will be affected; 
what encouraged the university to 
make these decisions nor the medi -
cal professionals who were consult -
ed about this matter. 
Roldán wrote in a statement 
Friday that UF is still finalizing its 
Summer class plans.
“We will continue to monitor 
developments with vaccines and 
conditions with the virus, and we 
will announce plans for this sum -
mer when we have more certainty,” 
Roldán wrote in an email. 
Summer A and C courses will fol -
low room capacities set by the Cen -
ters for Disease Control and Preven -
tion, according to Yokomi’s email.  
At the faculty meeting, Glover 
said UF’s COVID-19 guidelines for Summer B and Fall would be “re -
laxed,” but did not give any specific 
plans. Glover and the university are 
following the guidance of a medical 
advisory group, which currently ap -
proves of their future plans, he said.
“At the moment, on the advice of 
the medical advisory group that we 
consult every week, the Summer A 
term we will continue to operate as 
though we are in the midst of the 
pandemic, but in Summer B, we will 
commence a return to normalcy,” 
Glover said. 
The university will consult the 
medical guidance committee for the 
last time in mid-May before solidify -
ing these plans, Glover said. 
“As I said, we do consult with 
them every week, and every week, 
we ask them, ‘Should we change 
course?’” he said. “In fact, we con -
sulted with them today, and asked UF announces plans for
in-person graduation this Spring
UF plans to loosen COVID-19 
restrictions starting in Summer BAshley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
SEE SUMMER B,  PAGE 4SEE GRADUTATION,  PAGE 4A student’s 
guide to 
the Student 
Government 
Spring 2021 
election: 
learn where 
to vote and 
how voting 
has changed 
since last 
year, meet 
the SG 
executive 
candidates 
and learn 
more about 
each party’s 
platform.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 22
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM: CITY OFFICIALS ARE 
DISCUSSING INCREASED 
PEDESTRIAN LIGHTING AND 
ROAD REDESIGNS
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville City Commissioners 
will meet with Florida traffic officials 
in a mounting effort to make roads 
safer after two student deaths less 
than two months apart on University 
Avenue.
The City Commission has broken 
down its efforts into a series of short- 
and long-term policies. Commission -
ers believe there are a number of im -
mediate changes that can be made to 
stretches of the state highway inside 
the city, such as lowering the speed 
limit, equipping sidewalks with better 
lighting and increasing traffic enforce -
ment.
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe said 
about 15 to 25 pedestrians and cyclists 
die each year in Alachua County.
“It's a recurring problem, and we 
have got to get everybody working to -
gether on this,” Poe said.
In order to move forward with 
some of these changes, the commis -
sion is wrestling for control over the 
road with the Florida Department of 
Transportation.
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-San -
tos said many steps to make Univer -
sity Avenue safer for pedestrians will 
take collaboration with the FDOT, 
UF, Alachua County Commission and 
elected leaders at the state level.
“It's horrible to see residents of 
our community senselessly killed 
and injured,” Hayes-Santos said. “It's 
mainly because our roads are not de -
signed for pedestrian safety.”
In the discussions with FDOT to 
make University Avenue pedestrian- 
friendly, the city is requesting fund -
ing to draft a road redesign proposal. Without this initial funding, Commis -
sioner David Arreola said he believes 
not much can be done.
Being a state highway, Arreola 
said the road is designed to allow as 
many cars as possible to travel quick -
ly, which conflicts with bicycle and 
pedestrian safety. 
“The whole road needs to be re -
designed in a way that slows traffic 
down,” he said.
Arreola is the chair of the Metro -
politan Transportation Planning Or -
ganization, a joint operation between 
Gainesville and Alachua County 
Commissions for transportation plan -
ning in and around the city. Both 
commissions will meet Feb. 22 to dis -
cuss safety changes that can be made 
to state roads and create better cross -
walk designs on unmarked crossing 
areas to decrease jaywalking.
He said the committee is ask -
ing that FDOT commits funding to 
redesignredesigning University Av -
enue, and in the meantime, lower the 
speed limit and put up additional light 
signage on the road. 
“I think that these things could 
save lives,” Arreola said.
He said he asked FDOT District 
Secretary Greg Evans, who manages 
Alachua County’s state roads, to at -
tend the Monday meeting. Evans will 
send a representative from his office 
to discuss short-term safety upgrades 
to roads, Arreola said.
Hayes-Santos also mentioned re -
ducing University Avenue’s speed 
limit and lane widths. The road’s cur -
rent speed limit is 30 mph, but com -
missioners did not say how much 
lower a new limit should be. 
Hayes-Santos said there are other 
actions the commission can take that 
are a step up from smaller measures 
like a city ordinance that restricts 
people from standing on medians 
less than 6 feet wide that passed on 
Feb. 4. One solution is to upgrade city lighting along poorly lit busy roads. 
At a Feb. 11 meeting, Gainesville 
City Planner Lawrence Calderon said 
streetlights being scattered unevenly 
around the city is partly to blame for 
the poor lighting on sidewalks.
The city began replacing its more 
than 12,000 city streetlights with LED 
technology after March 2013. As 
of Feb. 11, GRU has replaced 72% 
of outdoor lights in city limits with 
LEDs. GRU chief operating officer 
Thomas Brown expects the project 
will be finished by the end of April.
The commission voted unani -
mously Feb. 11 to have city staff 
research increasing lighting in dark 
zones where it is inadequate.
City Commissioner Reina Saco 
said greater enforcement of traffic 
laws through the Gator STEP pro -
gram is a step in the right direction. 
From Jan. 18 to Feb. 15, GPD issued 
349 speeding tickets and 26 careless 
driving tickets, according to Gator 
STEP data released by the GPD. 
“Those are all short-term solutions 
because they’re immediate and may -
be the lesson will hold,” Saco said. 
“I've always thought that you never 
forget a traffic ticket, ever. But that's a 
moderately cheap lesson compared to 
accidentally hitting someone.”
@jack_prator
jackprator@alligator.org
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer 
After two weeks of deliberation, 
the Gainesville City Commission 
abandoned a new bar and restau -
rant mask mandate.
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos’s order to move forward 
with the mandate ended at the 
Thursday meeting when no other 
commissioners voted in favor of it.
At the meeting, City Manager 
Lee Feldman said a mask mandate 
inside businesses without require -
ments in the greater Alachua Coun -
ty area would send mixed signals to 
residents and be difficult to enforce.
“Conflicting messaging leads to 
confusion,” he said. 
On Jan. 4, the commission ap -
proved the drafting of an emergen -
cy order to enforce mask-wearing 
inside businesses. The order would 
have required patrons to stay seat -
ed while eating and drinking in bars 
and clubs, similar to a Hillsborough 
County order from December.
At a previous commission meet -
ing, Feldman was asked to discuss 
the effectiveness of Hillsborough’s order with Hillsborough County of -
ficials. He said Hillsborough's order 
has been difficult for the county to 
enforce.
The few businesses that Hill -
sborough County fined deemed 
this as “just the cost of doing busi -
ness,” he said. The $150 fines there 
haven’t increased the effectiveness 
or the enforcement of Hillsbrough’s 
mask mandate.
“They’re only seeking voluntary 
compliance through this,” he said.
Commissioner Harvey Ward 
agreed enforcement was a big 
roadblock to the order. He said he 
doesn’t want to make false prom -
ises of enforcement the city can’t 
fulfill.
Ward made a plea to college stu -
dents packing bars: “If you know 
better, do better.”
He said he did not know what 
more the commission has the pow -
er to do to get bar patrons to wear 
masks.
“I have always hated — and this 
just makes it much worse —  to see 
people treat Gainesville like it's not 
real,” he said. “Like they’re here for 
college and everything surrounding them here just doesn’t matter. It 
just breaks my heart.”
Mayor Lauren Poe said he de -
cided not to vote for the mandate 
because of a low positivity rate 
and data from the Alachua County 
Health Department that showed the 
virus is spreading more in homes 
and retail spaces than in bars. 
“This seems like we’re attacking 
the wrong problem,” Poe said.
He said creating restrictions on 
bars and clubs could jeopardize 
their cooperation with the Healthy 
Gainesville Initiative, a UF student-
led mask marketing campaign 
funded by the city. The project 
was designed around these bars so 
a mask mandate might undo this 
work, he said.
Poe said an emergency order is 
not needed now, but if cases begin 
to rise in the next couple weeks, the 
commission still has the option to 
resume discussions of stricter mask 
requirements.
@jack_prator
jackprator@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgGainesville City Commission 
responds to traffic safety concerns
Gainesville City Commission drops proposal 
of a mask mandate in local businesses  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Esta es una exhibición bilingüe.Come hang out 
and take it slow!
at the 
Florida 
Museum 
FREE for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients352-226-5976      |      supremebeautyllc.com
Wigs, Eyelashes, Clothes    
a n d  M o r e !      ABOUT 100 COMMUNITY MEMBERS, 
GAINESVILLE RESIDENTS AND LOCAL 
OFFICIALS GATHERED TO HONOR 
THE 12 VICTIMS
By Alan Halaly and Emil 
Munksgaard Grosen
Alligator Staff Writers
Latoya Brazil didn’t know the story of 
how her great-grandfather Lester Watts was 
lynched in Gainesville until she was 17 years 
old. Brazil’s great-grandmother, who was with 
Watts when he was shot, sat Brazil and her 
cousin down and told them the story. 
Seventy-nine years after Watts was killed, 
Brazil brought her family members from across 
the country together to honor Watts and other 
Gainesville victims.
“From that story, there was a burning in -
side of my cousin,” Brazil said. “That’s why 
we are here today to know the true story of 
what happened that night and what the com -
ings were.”
On Saturday, bright smiles quickly turned 
to tears as people lined up to scoop soil into the 
clear jars marked with the names of Gaines -
ville’s lynching victims.  
About 100 community members, 
Gainesville residents and local officials gath -
ered Saturday for a soil collection ceremony 
planned by the Gainesville Subcommittee 
of the Alachua County Community Remem -
brance Project (ACCRP) and the Equal Justice 
Initiative (EJI) at the Alachua County Adminis -
tration Building. 
The EJI’s Community Soil Collection Proj -
ect gathers soil at lynching sites in ceremonies 
throughout the country to display in exhibits 
that bear victims’ names at The Legacy Mu -
seum in Montgomery, Alabama. Community 
organizers along with former County Commis -
sioner Robert Hutchinson traveled across the 
city to the known lynching sites to collect the 
soil.
Newberry, whose victims are widely rec -
ognized as the Newberry Six, held a similar 
ceremony earlier this month. Saturday’s cer -
emony is the first event of its kind to be held 
in Gainesville. 
Little is known about most of the Gainesville 
lynchings, but historians are aware of at least 
50 Alachua County victims. 
Lynchings, along with other accounts of 
white supremacy, are often poorly document -
ed, according to a New York Times report. 
More accounts of lynchings recently became 
public, such as the 2017 county report that un -
covered more than 21 new victims. Two jars of soil dedicated to each of the 
known Gainesville lynching victims killed be -
tween 1868 and 1942, sat on tables in front of 
the lectern next to bright red roses placed be -
side them.
Guests poured soil into the jars after a slate 
of speakers including pastors, local officials 
and community organizers delivered speeches, 
sang songs and recited poems. One set of jars 
was dedicated to victims whose stories remain 
undiscovered. Of the two jars per victim, one 
jar will be on display in The Legacy Museum 
and the other will stay in the county.
Guests occasionally bowed their heads in 
prayer, some closing their eyes to reflect on the 
county’s history.
At the lectern, Assistant County Manager 
Carl Smart recounted all of the known details 
about city victims in a captivating tone. He ex -
pressed anger about the lack of accountability 
for the crimes of lynching mobs throughout the 
city’s history.
Smart said collecting soil has a significance 
beyond face value. 
“The soil is symbolic of the blood crying 
out from the grounds,” he said. “While collect -
ing soil from the site of a lynching is a simple 
gesture, it’s an important act of remembrance 
beginning a process of healing and uniting us 
to move forward.”
Attendees sat in chairs or stood quietly and 
nodded solemnly. Some were dressed in Black 
Lives Matter shirts, holding pamphlets that 
read “Stop Police Killings!”
Cynthia Curry, a 65-year-old Gainesville 
resident, said she came to the ceremony partly 
because she knew the family of Dr. Patricia 
Hilliard-Nunn, a UF professor who initiated 
lynching research in the county. 
As a Black person, Curry said it’s important 
to engage with the county’s past. She thought 
the ceremony was a beautiful tribute to the 
victims. 
“It’s a matter of history,” she said. “It’s to 
hopefully recognize the sins of our past and 
reconcile them going forward.”
Speakers took to the lectern for creative, 
lively performances throughout the ceremony. 
Gainesville resident Marvin Winston Jr. per -
formed an original spoken word poem called 
“Ancestors.” He delivered the poem with flow 
and style, pausing for emphasis to engage lis -
teners as their spirits were lifted.
“I know I’m dreaming but can you picture 
what I’m seeing?” Winston Jr. recited. “An 
ancestor chained to me saying: ‘Be ready. 
Go ahead and spit, we got the beat ready.’ 
And he’s saying to me: ‘Youngin, here’s your 
chance.’”Nii Sowa-La and Ayoka Sowa-La performed 
a libation ceremony, a traditional African ritu -
al, where Nii poured water on the ground as a 
tribute to fallen ancestors. 
Emma Ronchetti, an 18-year-old UF public 
relations junior, stood in line to pour soil to 
honor the victims. Ronchetti said the ceremo -
ny was somber, emotional and important, but 
wonders why it’s taken so long for Gainesville 
to officially recognize its past. 
“It’s crazy that it’s 2021 and that we’re just 
now learning about this,” Ronchetti said.
Four community pastors led the crowd in 
prayer, speaking to themes of unity, oneness 
and divine love. The Rev. Gerald Duncan, a 
pastor at Prayers By Faith Ministries, said 
there’s more that unites us than divides us as 
humans.
“Our precious creator, thank you for remov -
ing the scale from our eyes and exposing the 
scars and the wounds of despair that accom -
pany many through life,” Duncan said. “Give us the courage and will to change the system.”
Bre Lamkin, a 36-year-old EJI project man -
ager, visited Gainesville from Montgomery to 
attend the ceremony. Lamkin said the fight for 
racial justice persists today through advocating 
against the death penalty and police brutality. 
After traveling around the U.S. for similar 
ceremonies, she said she was excited to see the 
Watts family come together and honor their 
relative. 
“We have to do something about this,” she 
said. “And it starts with people like you, gath -
ering here on a Saturday morning to memorial -
ize these victims.”
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.org
@EmilMunkGrosen Gainesville’s first soil collection ceremony memorializes the city’s known lynching victims
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Alachua County Commissioner Marihelen Wheeler, 69, (right) and her 
granddaughter Tashayla Downer, 8, (left) fill a jar with soil to honor Andrew Ford 
at the Gainesville Soil Collection Ceremony on Feb. 20, 2021. Ford was lynched 
in Gainesville on Aug. 24, 1891, according to a pamphlet from the Alachua 
County Community Remembrance Project.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021THE UNIVERSITY TOPPED 
ITS GOAL OF 20,000 
INDIVIDUAL DONATIONS
By Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
UF raised $25.3 million during its 
third annual Gator Giving Day fund -
raiser Feb. 18, making it the highest 
yielding year. 
This year, UF topped its goal of 
20,000 individual donations with a 
total of 22,198 individual donations. 
Last year, it raised about $23 mil -
lion, topping the previous amount 
of $12.6 million in 2019. 
The College of Design, Construc -
tion and Planning got 1,233 con -
tributors, making it the college with 
the most contributors this year. The 
College of Journalism and Commu -nications was hoping to get the top 
spot for the third year in a row, but 
fell short with just 916 contributors. 
Gator Giving Day is part of a 
larger push to keep UF rising in the 
ranks of top public universities in 
the U.S. News and World Report. 
UF is currently ranked No. 6, and 
3% of the annual rating is factored 
by alumni donations.
The money will go toward fund -
ing colleges and programs across 
campus. UF held in-person events 
last year during Giving Day but 
moved most online this year due to 
COVID-19.
Brian Danforth, the interim exec -
utive director of the UF Alumni As -
sociation, said a breakdown of how 
the UF Foundation’s Giving Day 
budget was spent this year is not 
available.
He said UF Advancement re -turns $9 for every $1 invested in 
fundraising, but did not elaborate 
further. 
According to its 2019 990 tax re -
turns, the UF Foundation spent $14 
million on fundraising and reported 
a negative net revenue meaning it 
lost $7.3 million.
GNV Unite, a protest group that 
has spoken out against UF’s Spring 
reopening plans, led a Giving Day 
boycott to bring awareness to UF’s 
shortcomings in dealing with the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
Danielle Hawk, the head organiz -
er of GNV Unite, said UF is the No. 6 
nationally ranked public university, 
but hasn’t acted like it’s top-ranked 
in the way it has responded to the 
pandemic. 
“We’re not trying to take down 
the institution of higher education,” 
Hawk said. “What we’re trying to 
do is hold UF to a higher standard.” 
A total of 20 people contributed 
to the boycott effort, and they con -
tacted about 250 donors during Giv -
ing Day.
Hawk thinks boycotting Giving 
Day one year won’t have a huge 
impact on students because of how 
much money the university already 
has and will continue to receive be -
yond Giving Day.
She argued it hurts students to 
tell them they’ll get the on-campus 
experience this semester just to be 
put in HyFlex classes. It’s also harm -ful to put students in an environ -
ment where they show up to class 
after partying during a global pan -
demic, she said.
Some students feel differently 
about the boycott.
“If we want to go about pro -
testing our COVID measures at the 
university, there’s probably a better 
way that wouldn’t cause as much 
collateral damage to the students,” 
Bradley Band, a 19-year-old UF be -
havioral and cognitive neuroscience sophomore, said. 
The point of the boycott is to get 
better resources to students and fac -
ulty, but boycotting the fundraiser 
would go against that goal, Band 
said.
“Cutting back on funding during 
Gator Giving Day would mostly only 
hurt ourselves,” Band said.
@alexlugo67
alugo@alligator.orgUF raises more than $25 million on Gator Giving Day
that question, and the answer 
was no.” 
Despite the university’s plans 
for Summer B, it announced its 
Center for Precollegiate Educa -
tion and Training, or CPET, Sum -
mer programs would not permit 
overnight stays because of COV -
ID-19 safety precautions, accord -
ing to its website. CPET will still 
offer online youth programs. 
During the meeting, Dr. Mi -
chael Lauzardo, UF’s director of 
Screen, Test & Protect, said the 
university is looking at Fall like 
Summer B and remaining opti -
mistic. Through vaccine distri -
bution, Laurzardo believes herd 
immunity, which occurs when 
a significant number of people 
are immune to the virus, can be 
achieved by early Summer, he 
said. 
However, Lauzardo said it’s 
unclear if everyone will be vacci -
nated by Summer. He said 750 to 
1,000 random students could be 
chosen for a clinical trial testing 
if college students can be infec -
tious post-vaccine, but otherwise 
emphasized patience.
Although there are still un -
knowns and his mind could 
change based on the data, Lau -
zardo believes masks may no lon -
ger be worn by Fall, he said. 
“It’s not unrealistic to think 
that we’re going to be out of this 
by the Fall and that things will be different,” Lauzardo said. 
Lauzardo’s comments come 
after the CDC released a study 
Feb. 10 stating double masking 
could better prevent the spread 
of COVID-19. While the univer -
sity is aware of this guidance, it 
does not plan to change current 
mask protocols. 
Corey McZeal, a lecturer in the 
department of sociology and crim -
inology, law and society, will be 
teaching Principles of Sociology 
during Summer B, he said. When 
McZeal first applied to teach the 
course, it was scheduled to be 
online; however, in January, his 
department informed McZeal it 
would be taught face-to-face in -
stead, he said. 
McZeal said he was not 
shocked by the change. This se -
mester, he is teaching two cours -
es in person and is not worried 
about the Summer teaching style 
because it’s what he’s used to. 
McZeal is unsure what COVID-19 
restrictions will be enforced in 
Summer and assumes social dis -
tancing will not be in effect, he 
said. 
“We haven’t gotten any guid -
ance on that yet, so I’m just kind 
of anticipating that it’s going to 
be like COVID is over,” he said. 
In the past, the course’s ca -
pacity has been 150 students, 
McZeal said. He does not believe 
it will be any different for Sum -
mer. 
Frank Bosworth, interim direc -tor of the School of Architecture, 
wrote in an email that he also 
has limited information about the 
university’s plan. However, the 
university expects the school to 
offer face-to-face courses at stan -
dard capacities, Bosworth wrote 
in an email. 
“At this time we have not dis -
cussed the impact of this, nor do 
I have a sense of how the facul -
ty feel about it,” he wrote in an 
email. 
Matthew McKay, a doctoral 
student and graduate teaching 
assistant in the department of ge -
ography, said the university told 
his department to mimic Summer 
2019 when planning for Summer 
B. It will have discretion over 
Summer A, meaning the depart -
ment can choose to teach online, 
he said. 
According to the information 
McKay received in an email from 
an academic assistant Feb. 4, 
both Summer A and Summer B 
will each have one course face-
to-face, he said. The Summer A 
course will have two sections, 
McKay said. 
However, McKay himself will 
be teaching all online during 
Summer A, he said. 
“As much as I would rather go 
100% back to normal life, I don’t 
think it’s safe to do so for one 
thing,” he said. “I know it’s not.”
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.orgSUMMER B,  from pg. 1Unclear if masks will be mandatorypast,” Fuchs said during a Senate Faculty meeting Thursday. “We 
work hard at creating a rich virtual experience. All the colleges 
have participated in this, and those have been marvelous. But this 
is the one area where there’s a dramatic difference between in-
person commencement graduation ceremonies and virtual.”
Fuchs said while he may not attend a few professional degree 
programs, he plans to attend and be part of the 14 ceremonies 
scheduled from April 29 to May 3.
Because of the limited capacity, three ceremonies will be held 
each day, and the O’Connell Center will be sanitized in between 
each event, according to the announcement. Hand sanitizer 
stations will be available on-site.
Besides fewer graduates at the ceremony, there will be no 
processional, nor recessional, which involves formally entering 
and exiting the ceremony. There also will be no platform party, 
and college deans will not be shaking hands with students, 
according to the announcement. Doctoral students will wear their 
hoods, which are usually placed on them as part of the ceremony, 
throughout the event. Every graduating student present will be 
individually recognized as they walk across the stage. 
UF Student Government plans to hold various events in the week 
prior to its Senior Send Off. The festivities will be across campus 
to ensure physical distancing, according to the announcement. 
Participants will be required to wear masks during the events as 
well. 
UF will work with the City of Gainesville, the Greater Gainesville 
Chamber of Commerce and the Alachua County Hospitality 
Council to encourage social distancing, masking and sanitizing at 
hotels and restaurants.
“We may be on the cusp of making real progress against this 
incredible virus,” Fuchs said. “So, I’m encouraged.”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgGRADUATION,  from pg. 1Two guests per graduate
• Graduation will be in person at O’Connell Center 
between April 29 and May 3 with 20% capacity, social 
distancing and mandatory masks
• Students who wish to participate must register by 
March 31 on One.UF 
• Students who previously signed up must re-register 
• Commencement ceremonies will require tickets to 
attend
• Graduates who register between Feb. 19 and March 31 
will receive two guest tickets 
• No extra tickets available for any ceremony
• Every graduating student present will be individually 
recognized as they walk across the stageChasity Maynard / / Alligato Staff
Derek Chamberlin, 30, a UF fisheries and aquatic sciences doctoral 
student, walks his dog, Clyde, across Plaza of the Americas on Feb. 
17, 2021.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
IF RESIDENTS SUCCEED, IT COULD 
BE THE FIRST NEW FLORIDA 
COUNTY IN ALMOST 100 YEARS         
By Jack Prator
Alligator Staff Writer 
Some Alachua County residents have a plan 
to resolve differences over ongoing issues like 
mask mandates and GRU rates. After six years 
of discussion surrounding a new county split 
from Alachua County, there are still many un -
answered questions. 
The new county –– Springs County –– would 
incorporate Newberry, High Springs, Alachua, 
Archer, LaCrosse and parts of Gainesville in 
its territory. The proposed eastern boundary is 
34th Street, enveloping the city’s booming west 
side and knocking on UF’s doorstep.
A petition supporting the split that started 
seven months ago reached its previous goal of 
7,500 online signatures in February, with 1,000 
more hard copy signatures.
If residents successfully secede, Springs 
would form the first new Florida county in al -
most 100 years. The last time it happened was 
in 1925, when Gilchrist County split from Ala -
chua. 
However, some local officials, lawyers and 
residents aren’t convinced the plan is practical. 
Because it’s been almost a century since the 
state created a new county, the legal process 
lacks a modern example to follow. Unanswered 
questions about taxes, infrastructure and school 
districts strain the feasibility of a successful 
Springs County secession.
The county’s goals center around smaller 
government, lower taxes and fewer social pro -
grams, according to its website. In December, 
about 100 Alachua County residents gathered 
in High Springs for the opening of The Springs 
County welcome center. Supporters cited 
“wasteful spending,” high GRU bills and neglect 
of cities other than Gainesville as the driving 
force behind the movement for a new county.
Legislative Process
Where or if a county line is drawn is up to 
the discretion of the Florida Legislature, which 
is made up of the Florida House and Senate, 
said Joseph Little, a UF professor emeritus of 
law who focuses on local government and other 
topics.
“If [the legislature] wished to, it could bun -
dle up counties,” he said. “It’s got the authority 
to do what it wants to do. It’s the lawmaking 
process. There’s nothing peculiar about that.”However, Little said there is more to consid -
er in this process than there was when Gilchrist 
County was founded in 1925. Denser popula -
tions, bigger government reach and school dis -
tricts raise questions that Springs County lead -
ers have yet to answer.
The last movement for a new state county 
occurred in 1993, when upset residents of cities 
in Duval County, such as Jacksonville Beach, 
Neptune Beach and Atlantic Beach, pushed for 
a split.
Much like Springs County’s namesake, a 
homage to North Florida’s freshwater springs, 
the proposed coastal county adopted the name 
Ocean County.
But in 1995, Jacksonville Mayor John Del -
aney was elected. With a resident and former 
mayor of Neptune Beach in office, citizens’ sup -
port for Ocean County dried up, and it did not 
get enough traction to be voted on in the state 
legislature.
It would be unlikely for the Florida Legisla -
ture to approve Springs County without a vote 
from Alachua County residents, Little said.
At the welcome center opening in Decem -
ber, State Rep. Chuck Clemons pledged to file a 
bill in August to do just that.
Clemons did not respond to multiple emails 
and phone call requests for comment.
Springs County supporters tout Clemons’ 
pledge as a milestone, but Newberry Mayor Jor -
dan Marlowe said they aren’t reading the fine 
print. 
The vote would measure support of the new 
county, but is not required to create one, which 
is done through a majority vote by the state leg -
islature, Marlowe said. It is not up to the people.
One of the biggest factors in Springs Coun -
ty’s viability is the question of whether it can 
support itself financially, he said.
Gilchrist County, the last state county to be 
created, is labeled “fiscally constrained” by the 
Florida Legislature. This means that its tax base 
can’t support its spending and is bailed out by 
the state.
If Springs County splits Alachua County and 
the city of Gainesville along 34th Street, there 
is a possibility that both counties may become 
fiscally constrained, Marlowe added.
“There’s no way Tallahassee is gonna say 
yes to that,” he said. “Because that means that 
now they have to subsidize two counties — 
right now, Alachua County pays for itself.”
Marlowe said there are many questions 
about taxes an accountant would need to an -
swer to find out if the new county could finan -
cially support itself.
“Until we can answer those questions, it’s 
really impossible to have an intelligent conver -sation about Springs County,” Marlowe said. 
“Because you’re not talking about anything.”
Alachua County spokesman Mark Sexton 
said the commission hasn’t spent much time 
discussing Springs County, adding that no city 
commissions have moved to join the county.
“There’s not a single small city in the rural 
areas of the county that have made a motion to 
support Springs County,” he said.
Sexton said Springs County is the minority 
view of a few thousand people in a county of 
260,000.
“But the solution to that is not for every 
county in the United States to break off and let 
their minority party constituents form their own 
county,” he said. “The solution in the United 
States in our republic, is you do the hard work, 
and you convince voters.”
He said the county has been busy navigat -
ing the pandemic with a mass vaccination effort 
underway.
“The county commission has a lot of serious 
business in front of them,” Sexton said. “And, 
you know, Springs County has not risen to the 
top of the priority list.”
“ A Political Divorce”
Renewed interest in separating from Alach -
ua County came when the County Commission 
flipped its decision and chose not to rescind the 
mask mandate after receiving pressure from the 
Gainesville City Commission, Tim Marden, the 
face of the Springs County movement and New -
berry city commissioner, said.
“It was pretty much the straw that broke the 
camel’s back,” Marden said.
The largest factor in support of a new county 
is the feeling that the Gainesville and Alachua 
County commissions are leaving other cities out 
of discussions, Marden said.
He said the Gainesville City Commission’s 
mention of shutting down bars and restaurants 
influenced the county’s discussion of closing 
down those businesses. 
Marden is a National Development Officer 
for The John Birch Society, a fringe, right-wing 
organization. This is an affiliation he has pub -
licly defended.
He rejected the idea that the new county 
would have to build everything from scratch, 
explaining that roads, power poles and sew -
age systems would all be annexed by the new 
county.
Debts and assets alike within the proposed 
borders would belong to Springs County.
“All the assets are divided up just like a di -
vorced couple,” Marden said. “I’ve been calling 
this a political divorce.”The ultimate goal of Springs County is to 
create less friction in government, Marden said, 
adding that government expenses and taxes 
create this friction. The county government will 
focus on what he calls core government, includ -
ing roads, public safety, utilities and courts. 
“And that’s what pits people against each 
other,” he said. “It doesn’t need to be that way.” 
Splitting Up Gainesville
One of the largest hurdles for Springs County 
concerns its would-be border of 34th Street, 
which would divide Gainesville into two coun -
ties. 
Littlewood Elementary School sits on the 
west side of 34th Street. Across from the school 
is Westwood Middle. Under Springs County’s 
proposed borders, the sister schools would be -
long to two different school districts.
While there is some support for Springs 
County in west Gainesville, Marden said this is 
where the movement’s efforts have received the 
most pushback. Kansas City and Memphis are 
examples of cities belonging to multiple coun -
ties and states; Gainesville could easily do the 
same, he added.
But Todd Hornberger, a 53-year-old 
Gainesville resident and supporter of Springs 
County, believes drawing the line at 34th Street 
is unrealistic.
“It’s just too close, it’s just too too much in 
the heart,” he said. “You’d be cutting Gainesville 
right down the center.”
Instead, he said the line should run farther 
west along Parker Road located in the city out -
skirts.
Hornberger, who’s lived in the city for more 
than 50 years, said he’s in the fight for Springs 
County for the same reasons as many other sup -
porters –– high GRU utility bills and Alachua 
County’s focus on social programs rather than 
core government issues.
He said the county’s wasteful spending on 
community projects and GRU’s hybrid cars 
while kicking the can on important ones like 
roads and infrastructure are his biggest com -
plaints, and it should listen to its people.
Marden said Springs County would have 
five commissioners on its board, representing 
Newberry, High Springs, Alachua, Archer and 
LaCrosse — cities within the borders.
“You’re going to steal Alachua out of Ala -
chua County?” Hornberger said. “Yeah, right.” 
@jack_prator
jprator@alligator.orgIs a new Florida county likely? Here’s Springs County explained
HIS WHEREABOUTS 
ARE UNKNOWN AS OF 
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
By Anna Wilder
Alligator Staff Writer
Editors’ note: This story 
includes mention of 
sexual assault. 
Gainesville and UF Police De -
partments are searching for a man 
accused of battery after he was re -
ported for following women and 
touching them inappropriately near 
Florida State University’s campus. 
The battery occured Jan. 29, and 
the FSU Police Department has since 
issued an arrest warrant for Vincent 
Steven Mickelsen, 36. Mickelsen 
was then spotted by UF students 
near Midtown Feb. 12. 
UF sent out a public safety alert 
Feb. 15 on Twitter with a descrip -
tion of Mickelsen and a situational awareness alert.  
UPD Lt. Jacob Pruitt said UF was 
notified when Mickelsen was spot -
ted in the area and released a pub -
lic information bulletin about him. 
UFPD will execute the warrant from 
FSUPD and arrest Mickelsen if he 
is found, Pruitt said. However, as 
of Wednesday, Pruitt said he isn’t 
aware of any reports of Mickelsen 
following anyone home at UF.
Mickelsen has not been arrested 
and UFPD and the Gainesville Police 
Department are asking the commu -
nity to help locate him, UF spokes -
person Steve Orlando wrote in a text 
message. Local law enforcement is 
working with FSUPD, he wrote.
“We’re taking it very seriously,” 
Orlando wrote.
UF students and Gainesville resi -
dents have circulated posts on Face -
book and other social media claim -
ing to have seen and encountered 
the suspect on UF’s campus. As of 
now, those rumors have not been 
proven.“Contrary to 
some social me -
dia posts, he’s 
not a serial rap -
ist and he has 
not been spot -
ted anywhere 
on campus,” Or -
lando wrote. 
FSUPD said 
Mickelsen has rented a hotel in Tal -
lahassee three times since Decem -
ber. The department identified a 
Tennessee address, drivers license 
and license tag that belong to Mick -
elsen, FSUPD spokesperson John 
Baker said. 
On Jan. 29 Mickelsen checked 
into the same hotel again which was 
the day of the suspected battery.
At around 2 a.m. that morning, 
an 18-year-old freshman at FSU said 
Mickelsen followed her and a friend 
home from Clydes & Costello’s, a bar 
in Tallahassee. She asked to remain 
anonymous because she is now part 
of the ongoing battery investigation and fears for her safety. 
She said she and her friend were 
returning home from the bar when 
he approached them. She said he 
told them they were the most beauti -
ful girls he had seen and that he was 
24-years-old. 
She said Mickelsen touched her 
friend on her butt. This incident is 
what ultimately led to Mickelsen’s 
arrest warrant. He offered the stu -
dent and her friend mittens and 
asked her to wear them. She said she 
proceeded to put them on. 
They started to walk away, but 
Mickelsen followed them, she said. 
The student said she and her 
friend asked him why he was walk -
ing toward the dorms, but Mickelsen 
avoided the question and chased 
them as they ran inside. 
The 18-year-old said as they ran 
up the stairs, Mickelsen cornered 
her. All she remembers is him tell -
ing her to take her mask off so he 
could kiss her before she escaped to 
her dorm.The next night, she said she saw 
him again, this time following other 
women. She contacted FSUPD and 
told them about her and her friend’s 
experiences. 
On Feb. 11, FSUPD received re -
ports that Mickelsen was in another 
Tallahassee bar, Baker said. Police 
brought him in for questioning, but 
because they could not positively 
identify if the man was Mickelsen at 
the time, they released him. By the 
time police identified him the next 
morning, he had checked out of his 
hotel and left. 
 FSU investigators have tried to 
call Mickelsen to get in contact, but 
have received no response. FSUPD 
posted on social media warning stu -
dents to contact police if they saw 
him. 
UFPD advised the public to not 
approach Mickelsen and instead call 
UFPD at 352-392-1111.
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.orgMan wanted for battery at FSU spotted in Gainesville 
Mickelson
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
THE ITALIAN ICE SHOP IS 
EXPECTED TO OPEN BY JUNE
By Kristin Bausch
Avenue Staff Writer
A familiar treat to some and a new treat 
to others, Jeremiah’s Italian Ice is finding 
its way into the Gainesville community. 
Butler Plaza announced Wednesday the 
new franchise will be located at 3232 SW 
35th Blvd., right next to McAlister’s Deli 
in Butler Esplanade. It is slated to open by 
June.
Butler Plaza’s director of marketing, 
John Dickerson, 34, said he’s “thrilled” 
Gainesville is continuing to grow despite 
the troubles from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Since the announcement on social media, 
Dickerson said there has already been posi -
tive feedback.
“I was really happy to see that with the 
name like Jeremiah’s, it looks like a lot of 
people have visited them in other cities,” 
he said. “It looks like they’re excited that 
they’re coming here to Gainesville.” 
Jeremiah’s Italian Ice is most known for 
its gelati, which is Italian ice layered with 
soft serve ice cream. Flavors range from the basics, such as chocolate and straw -
berry, to unique flavors like cookie butter, 
passion fruit and “scoop froggy frog,” also 
known as mint chocolate chip. 
Evan Waldt, the co-owner of the up -
coming Jeremiah’s, said after his business 
partner first tried Jeremiah’s 10 years ago, 
they knew they wanted to be the ones to 
operate a Gainesville franchise.
“We just kind of knew that Gainesville 
needed something that was what Jeremi -
ah’s is,” he said, “like the coolest and kind 
of vibrant colors and the unique flavors 
and lots of choices.”
Waldt said Jeremiah’s is a business that 
stems from core values like creating a fun 
and enjoyable experience. 
“That’s what frozen dessert is all 
about,” he said. “That kind of moment of 
bliss, where you bite in, and the ice cream 
may not melt away, but maybe some of 
your troubles will melt away and an atmo -
sphere where you’re greeted as a friend.” 
Sara Florio, a UF elementary education 
sophomore from Fort Lauderdale, said she 
was excited when Butler Plaza announced 
on Instagram that Jeremiah’s would be 
coming to Gainesville.
The 20-year-old said Jeremiah’s is a “home favorite,” where she has made great 
memories with her friends.
“I think that Gainesville will actually 
love Jeremiah’s because it’s different than 
anything I feel like we have,” she said. 
“Also, a lot of UF students come from Or -
lando and South Florida where there are 
Jeremiah’s locations.”
Florio said she is most looking forward 
to getting her cookies and cream gelati 
with vanilla ice cream.
Waldt said Jeremiah’s will not only pro -
vide a quick and easy way to get a dessert, 
but it will also provide jobs to students 
who want to work in a positive environ -
ment.
“You know, there’s a lot of folks that 
assume that just because it’s a franchisors 
thing, that it’s not a locally owned busi -
ness, and that’s just not always the case,” 
he said. “In Butler, I think you have a real 
opportunity to be kind of at the core center 
of not just Gainesville, but a lot of all North 
Florida.”
Waldt said he is looking forward to 
working in a place where everyone’s goal 
is to make Gainesville great. 
“We’re just honored that the Gainesville 
community is as excited as we are to have some rocking flavors,” he said. “And who 
doesn’t like a scoop froggy frog? I mean, 
come on.”
@BauschKristin
kbausch@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Back in the diamond
Seniors Kendyl Lindaman, Jaimie Hoover and Katie Chronister 
return after the team’s promising 2020 spring season was cut 
short due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, pg. 15 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Scan to listen to the Avenue staff  
talk pop culture news on the 
Alligator’s podcast.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
REGISTRATION IS NOW 
OPEN FOR THE UPCOMING 
MUSICIAN-FOCUSED 
GROUP THERAPY
By Valeriya Antonshchuk
Avenue Staff Writer
Alex Klausner grew up with the 
Gainesville music scene. Now, he is 
working to make it better. 
Klausner, a 30-year-old 
Gainesville native and UF alumnus, 
founded Upbeat GNV as a passion 
project amid the onset of the CO -
VID-19 pandemic. The group of -
fers free therapy programs geared 
toward musicians in an effort to 
uplift mental health within the 
Gainesville music community.
After a few pilot programs last 
fall and the official launch of its 
first mental health workshop this 
month, Upbeat GNV has now 
opened registration for its free mu -
sician’s process group,  launching 
in March. The organization has 
been working with local therapists 
who volunteer their time to the 
group’s programs.
The March session will be a free 
musician process group, guided by 
local musician and therapist Daim -
ian Holiday Scott. The program will function like a talk therapy group 
and host five people, Klausner said. 
All sessions currently take place on 
Zoom, and people who register are 
encouraged to return each week 
for the duration of the month-long 
program. He said all are welcome to 
return for multiple sessions so long 
as there is space for new musicians 
to join.
Klausner had just followed his 
music dreams to California when 
the pandemic struck and shut down 
live music. Returning to Gainesville, 
he said he sought to help uplift his 
community during this challenging 
time for the industry. 
As a drummer for Rehasher, a 
Gainesville-based punk rock band, 
Klausner said he personally under -
stands some of the mental health 
challenges many musicians face, 
now heightened by the COVID-19 
pandemic.
“Well, if we’re in this dark, ter -
rible time, then I want to be one of 
the people that’s doing something 
to try and make things better for 
people,” Klausner said.
Growing up with Gainesville’s 
music scene, Klausner said he 
wanted to give back to a communi -
ty that has impacted him strongly.
“I wanted to create a resource for 
my music scene,” he said. “Those 
are the people that I love and care about. And those are the people 
that have raised me. Gainesville 
music, like, raised me from the time 
I was a teenager. And I’m here be -
cause I’m like, okay, I want to do 
something that’s going to give back 
to the people that gave me my life.”
Exploring his own mental health 
challenges, Klausner said he did 
some research about musicians’ 
mental health. He referenced a book 
called “Can Music Make You Sick?” 
which provided statistics revealing 
the mental health challenges many 
musicians face. 
The data indicated that in a 
self-reported survey, over 70% of 
musicians reported high levels of 
anxiety, and nearly 70% suggested 
they had suffered from depression. 
This survey was conducted in 2016, 
which was before the COVID-19 
pandemic struck and affected many 
musicians’ jobs.
Facing those numbers, the Up -
beat GNV team said they wanted to 
create an accessible way for musi -
cians to get help and connect with 
others in their community.
Inspired by the organizational 
model of Nuçi’s Space, a Georgia 
organization providing accessible 
mental health resources focused to -
ward musicians, Klausner sought to 
create a group with a similar func -
tion in Gainesville.“If you’re underinsured or in a 
position where therapy is just not 
accessible, this is a way that we can 
help bring forward affordable, good 
quality care to our community,” he 
said. 
In addition to monthly therapy 
programs, Upbeat GNV also offers 
a free affordable therapy resource 
guide on its website. Klausner said 
he wants to highlight low-cost men -
tal health support options and ex -
pand understanding of the resourc -
es that are available.
“I think what is a real barrier for 
people is confusion,” he said.
While Klausner and his team 
sought out to support musicians in 
facing the challenges COVID-19 has 
imposed on the music industry, es -
pecially pertinent to those who play 
live, Klausner said he hopes to see 
Upbeat GNV continue to grow.
“Our goal is to establish a long-
standing resource for our commu -
nity,” he said. 
Emma Magee, 24, serves as the 
lead branding consultant for Up -
beat GNV. Though now based in 
New York, she met Klausner and 
his co-director, John Gray Sher -
myen, from her involvement with 
the Gainesville music scene during 
her undergraduate years at UF, and 
Magee said she was excited to help 
launch the brand.“We’re trying to bring the pas -
sion and the life of the Gainesville 
community into that mental health 
space to say, ‘Hey, there are so 
many ways that you can find treat -
ment, and it’s so easy, and it can be 
very affordable. Here’s where you 
need to go, here’s how we can help 
you,’” she said.
She echoed Klausner’s empha -
sis on raising awareness of the af -
fordable resources available to this 
community. 
“We want the community to 
know that we’re here for them and 
that we have free resources and 
free classes and workshops and 
therapists who are dedicating their 
time to give everybody the most 
help at the cheapest possible cost, if 
any cost at all,” Magee said. 
As Upbeat GNV closes out its 
first official February session, a 
musicians’ mental health workshop 
by Let it Shine Counseling, LLC, 
the group sets out to continue its 
growth.
Registration for the March pro -
gram is open now. It will be held 
March 10, March 24, April 7 and 
April 14th from 7-8:30 p.m.
@Vantonshchuk
vantonshchuk@alligator.orgJeremiah’s Italian Ice is coming to Butler Plaza
Upbeat GNV launches free mental health programs to support Gainesville music scene
FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINK
MUSICMUSICMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
STUDENTS CAN CHOOSE FROM 
SIX ON-CAMPUS VOTING SITES. 
EARLY VOTING 
WAS NOT APPROVED
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Government Spring 
election will take place in-person on Feb. 
23- 24 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at six 
campus voting sites listed on the SG web -
site.
Students can vote at the Reitz Union 
Computer Lab, the Social Lounge at South -
west Recreation Center, the Broward Hall 
Recreation Room, the Murphree Area Of -
fice Conference Room, the Springs Office 
Conference Room and the Cypress Meeting 
Room.
Students can also return their absentee 
ballots to the SG Office by the 8:30 p.m. on 
the last day of elections.
To vote, students must present their 
Gator 1 Card, their driver’s license or any 
other government issued identification 
matching the name on the university reg -
istrar’s list, Supervisor of Elections Hayley 
Price wrote in an email.
“To stay safe while voting, I encourage 
students to follow event guidelines pro -
vided by the university, use social distanc -
ing practices, use the hand sanitizer pro -
vided, and properly wear a face mask at all 
times,” Price wrote.
Price did not answer seven emails from 
The Alligator asking about specific mea -
sures being taken to ensure the safety of 
students while voting, including disinfec -
tion of polling machines and regulations to 
limit student capacity in voting sites.
Students have five fewer options of 
voting sites to choose from compared to 
last Spring. Chair of Elections Ryan Wiele, 
who is responsible for determining polling 
locations, said the decrease of sites was be -
cause some locations were unavailable due 
to COVID-19 procedures. 
“We appreciate the support and flexibil -
ity of the locations we were able to secure 
and believe that they will provide students 
with enough locations to participate in the 
election safely,” Wiele wrote in an email.
An early voting option was not includ -
ed in the Spring election special rules this 
year.
General election procedures are deter -
mined by election codes Senate establishes. 
An additional set of rules, the special elec -
tion rules, is determined by the SG Election 
Commission to adapt voting procedures to 
the needs of each individual election.
Fall 2020 special rules included early 
voting, allowing students to submit their 
ballot two weeks prior to election day to 
avoid crowded polling sites over the two 
election days. 
Senator Zachery Utt (Murphree Area, 
Inspire) submitted an authorization, a 
piece of legislation ordering an officer to fulfill a prescribed duty, Feb. 7 to the SG 
Judiciary Committee, a group of senators 
who hear all non-budget related legisla -
tion, asking for early voting in the Spring 
2021 election. 
Senator Noah Fineberg (District A, 
Gator), a voting member of the Judiciary 
Committee, said he felt uncomfortable 
passing the resolution, as he believed it 
may be unconstitutional. Article III, Section 
7 of the Student Body Constitution says no 
changes can be made to the election laws 
over the five weeks preceding the election. 
Utt said this resolution would not break 
that law, because it would simply be an ad -
dition of a rule and not a change of code 
or law.
The Judiciary Committee unanimously 
failed the authorization of early voting this 
semester.
Along with four other senators, Utt fur -
ther filed a resolution to impeach Wiele fol -
lowing a claim that he failed to maintain 
a “fair and efficient election” as mandated 
by the election codes and used his power 
to disenfranchise students. 
Utt criticized Wiele for his unrespon -
siveness regarding early voting questions, 
as well as his decisions to reduce the num -
ber of voting sites and stop early voting 
while there are still COVID-19 cases on 
campus.
In Fall 2020, Senate passed special rules 
allowing early voting. However, its consti -
tutionality was questioned, as the UF Stu -
dent Body Constitution states SG elections 
must take place on Tuesday and Wednes -
day of the sixth week from Fall term.
Mark Merwitzer, a 21-year-old UF po -
litical science junior, submitted a case to 
the SG Supreme Court in Fall asking for an 
interpretation of whether the addition of 
early voting to the special rules was con -
stitutional.
The court determined the case could 
not be heard because it required a signa -
ture of 20 members of the Student Body 
to interpret any provision of the constitu -
tion, leaving the early voting question up 
in the air.
This Spring, Merwitzer asked the SG 
Supreme Court not to hear or ratify the 
election results because of an incomplete 
Senate if he is not given the opportunity 
to interview to fill a vacant seat. Typically, 
election results are approved by Senate by 
a majority vote after the election.
The Supreme Court ruled Tuesday the 
Replacement & Agenda Committee needs 
to grant Merwitzer an interview for the 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Sen -
ate seat. Merwitzer submitted another 
case Thursday arguing that the committee 
failed to follow the court’s ruling. 
The Supreme Court has not scheduled 
a hearing as of Feb. 21, and the case may 
become obsolete if it is not heard before 
the last day of elections on Feb. 24.
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgHERE ARE THE MAJOR RUNNING 
POINTS FOR ALL THREE SG PARTIES 
THIS ELECTION CYCLE
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Gator Party and the Change Party released 
platforms highlighting stances on traffic safety, sus -
tainability and racism.
Students will vote for 50 UF Senate seats and the 
Student Body president, vice president and treasurer 
Feb. 23 and 24.
Gator released a 17-point platform Monday with 
plans to increase traffic safety on campus, facilitate ac -
cess to Student Government resources and enhance 
the student experience through student involvement 
projects. Change’s 21-point platform, released Tues -
day, focused on issues of racism, traffic safety and 
mental health.
Traffic Safety
Following a string of deadly pedestrian crashes on 
West University Avenue, student organizations and 
UF administration have taken measures to improve 
traffic safety for students. Senate passed three resolu -
tions in January advocating for traffic safety but has 
not brought concrete improvements to campus thus 
far. 
Both parties said they want to improve traffic 
safety by collaborating with the Florida Not One More 
movement, a student-run organization that advocates 
for traffic safety on and around UF campus. 
Kailey Kiss, a 21-year-old UF public relations senior 
and founder of Florida Not One More, said no matter 
the result of the election, she hopes to see Change and 
Gator follow through with their platform promises and 
translate their words into action.
“As students, we want the parties to work with 
us,” Kiss said. “We can’t wait on another school year 
because our lives are on the line.”
Gator has proposed to include a complete streets 
approach to make University Avenue accessible to 
all travelers regardless of the mode of transportation. 
The platform also includes plans to increase lighting in 
the Norman area and make an expansion of red decal 
parking at Norman garage permanent.
Gator campaign managers did not answer The Al -
ligator’s questions about how the party will advocate 
for a Complete Streets approach, bring concrete action 
toward traffic safety and execute its goal of expanding 
red parking decal areas. 
Change wants to advocate for pedestrian safety 
measures on campus by lobbying in Tallahassee for 
reduced speed limits on University Avenue, as well as 
working with the university and the city to create tun -
nel walks and possibly a skywalk near the Murphee 
and Stadium area.
Change’s platform director and treasurer candidate 
Amy Nicholas said these changes would be a result of 
SG’s lobbying and advocacy efforts in working with 
the Board of Trustees and Gainesville City Commis -
sion to propose legislation for public safety.
Sustainability
Along with a national concern on climate change, 
the announcement of the McCarty Woods’ destruction 
for a future construction site has brought faculty and 
student attention to sustainable measures on campus.
Gator advocates for the protection of conservation 
areas on campus. The party’s campaign managers 
have not answered questions on what conservation 
areas the party will advocate for and how.
Change’s platform points include reviewing the 
campus Climate Action Plan, advocating for univer -
sity investment in renewable energy companies and 
promoting sustainability on campus through a thrift 
shop with Gators Going Green, a student organization 
focused on bringing sustainable improvements to the 
university.
Nicholas said Change will focus on adding social 
equity to UF’s Climate Action Plan through the imple -
mentation of the thrift shop, which would allow stu -
dents to decrease their carbon footprint by recycling 
clothes. She also said the party will support the Neu -
tral UF Coalition initiative to make UF carbon-neutral 
by 2025.Finances
With a $22 million budget, allocating funds to stu -
dent organizations is the main priority for both parties.
Following student organization struggles with SG’s 
budget allocation, SG released a new funding model 
in Summer 2020. 
Gator will focus on fighting against base tuition 
hikes to keep the cost of attendance low and updating 
the Docutraq system, the platform student organiza -
tions use to sign up for funding, to be more accessible 
for student organization treasurers. The Docutraq up -
date would incorporate changes from the new funding 
model. 
Change has plans to create accountability mea -
sures for SG political party funding. 
Nicholas said Change wants to revisit the election 
codes to ensure all political parties receive equal cam -
paign funding. She also said it would advocate for a 
neutral arbitrator to “ensure there is no bias in regard 
to how funding will be distributed.”
Student experience
Gator has plans to create a cabinet-sponsored proj -
ect to provide a certification week in which students 
would have access to a wide range of certifications 
and training and promote free access to engineering 
and graphic paper, as well as index cards.
Regarding health and wellness, the party also has 
platform points advocating for more funding on proj -
ects focused on mental health, counseling, and trained 
assistance to first-generation students.
Gator campaign managers did not answer ques -
tions regarding costs, specific logistics or a timeline of 
any of the platform points.
Change is continuing some points from its Fall plat -
form, maintaining its stance to change racist name -
sakes of UF buildings, such as the Reitz Union, and 
advocating for online voting for SG elections. 
Change also has plans to pursue a new food ser -
vice vendor contract for 2022, stepping away from 
Aramark’s food service, to ensure student employees 
are paid a living wage.
Nicholas said the party is focusing on providing eq -
uitable resources and inclusion to all students.
Change wants to create opportunities for interna -
tional and first-generation students to enter the work -
force with companies seeking out these specific stu -
dents.
“We want to advocate for a space for them to have 
professional opportunities and to build a community 
as well,” Nicholas said.
Additionally, Change is advocating for the im -
provement of UF’s Counseling and Wellness Center 
by making it more accessible to students and provid -
ing additional resources to sexual assault victims by 
changing statutes to allow victims to resource to the 
university four years after the assault, as opposed to 
one.
Gator is running for 48 out of 50 Senate seats. The 
party is not running for one of the Graduate seats nor 
the Design, Construction and Planning seat, according 
to the SG website.
Change has 41 candidates running for Senate seats, 
except for one Agricultural and Life Sciences seat, 
Building Construction, Medicine, Nursing, Dentistry, 
one Sophomore and three Graduate seats, according 
to the SG website.
Keg Party
A third party, the Keg Party, has not released its 
platform points as of Feb. 21. Keg Student Body presi -
dent candidate Michael Ackerman said he would be 
working with his colleagues to get student input on 
the development of the platform. 
During the SG Executive Debate Tuesday, Keg 
party members discussed giving stimulus checks to 
students and renaming campus buildings named after 
racist and homophobic people. In a meme posted on 
the party’s Instagram account, they also advocated for 
more alcohol availability on campus.
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.orgUF student voter guide to 
the SG Spring electionUF Student Government Spring 
election party platforms  
Aubrey Bocalan
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021
Ashley Hicks / / Alligator Staff
Amy Nicholas never set 
out to be a politician.
In high school, Nicholas 
worked with the Nathaniel 
P. Reed Hobe Sound Nation -
al Wildlife Refuge to write 
grants and create programs 
within the community. Her 
friend and roommate Madi -
son Hillgruber said Nicholas 
had always been interested 
in the beauty of nature and 
the environment.
Now, she’s running for 
Student Body treasurer. The 
20-year-old natural resource 
conservation and political 
science sophomore joined 
the political scene after she 
learned about the lack of 
representation in SG. 
Last summer, the Black 
Student Union asked Senate 
to execute demands such as 
changing building names 
tied to racist people like J. 
Wayne Reitz and Steven C. 
O’Connell, requiring diver -
sity training for administra -
tive faculty and instating 
a zero-tolerance policy for 
hate speech. When Nicho -
las learned none of BSU’s 
demands had been met, she decided to join SG.
“You will be asked one 
day what you did to fight in -
justice directly, and I would 
hope that we all have the 
ability to say that we create 
positive change,” she said.
If elected, Nicholas said 
she intends to increase 
funding for the UF Counsel -
ing and Wellness Center to 
further develop individual 
and group counseling and 
create multicultural group 
counseling opportunities so 
every student can feel rep -
resented. 
She would also advocate 
for changing the names of 
buildings such as the Reitz 
Union —
named after J. Wayne 
Reitz, a former UF President 
who supported segregation 
and anti-LGBTQ+ move -
ments at UF — because they 
don’t represent the margin -
alized communities of UF. 
Nicholas also wants to make 
the university more accessi -
ble for disabled students by 
installing more ramps and 
advocating for the addition 
of a cabinet to represent dis -
abled students in SG. 
Madison Hillgruber, 
Nicholas’ roommate and 
close friend, said Nicholas 
is always looking for oppor -
tunities to learn. Hillgruber 
works with children with 
autism and learning dis -
abilities and said Nicholas 
turned to her to make her 
running platform more ac -
cessible and inclusive.
“She really cares,” Hill -
gruber said. “She genuinely 
wants to see change, and 
she wants to see the univer -
sity succeed.”Matthew Rodriguez’s in -
volvement in student organi -
zations is all-encompassing.
When his sister asked him 
what’s new in his life, he be -
gan to explain his involve -
ment with the Latin Ameri -
can Summit and his current 
campaign to be Student Body 
vice president. When she 
pressed him for information 
outside of his academics, he 
replied, “This is my life.” 
Rodriguez said represent -
ing the Student Body fear -
lessly will be one of his top 
priorities if elected as vice 
president under the Change 
Party. 
“We were elected to 
represent every student on 
campus,” the 22-year-old UF 
public relations senior said. 
“Whether they look like us or 
believe the same things as us 
or come from the same back -grounds, they’re still a part of 
the Student Body.” 
Rodriguez, who’s from 
South Florida, said he doesn’t 
want students to be afraid of 
or intimidated by SG. He said 
he wants his constituents to 
feel comfortable confiding 
in him and trust that he will 
represent them well. 
Rodriguez, who is cur -
rently a Gator senator, said 
he switched to Change be -
cause, over the Summer, 
he realized the Gator Party 
didn’t align with his morals.
Rodriguez said he first 
pushed back against the 
party after Branden Pearson 
was nominated to Internal 
Affairs Agency Head. As a 
member of both the Latinx 
and LGBTQ+ community, 
Rodriguez said Pearson’s his -
tory of racism and homopho -
bia impacted him person -
ally. Rodriguez also received 
negative feedback from Gator 
after drafting a resolution 
urging UF administration to 
end the use of prison slavery 
in UF’s agricultural opera -
tions, he said.
“I argued with my own 
party day after day against 
things that I thought truly 
were detrimental to the stu -
dent body,” he said. “It was 
me at the forefront without 
fear of any retribution.”Wynton White switched to the 
Change Party this Spring after previ -
ously serving as a Gator senator in 
Summer 2020 because he believes 
many Gator officials see the opportu -
nity as a resume-builder instead of a 
way to help students.
White, a 22-year-old sports man -
agement senior, was motivated to run 
for Student Body President after being 
shocked at the lack of action in Student 
Government. 
“Time after time, students came 
into Senate and they advocated, they 
told personal stories, and they weren’t 
listened to,” he said. 
He believes minority voices should 
be better represented in SG, something 
he can help achieve as a Black man, 
he said. 
He said his time working for the 
Gators football team as a defensive stu -
dent assistant coach taught him how to 
navigate college life on the schedule of 
a student athlete; his experience work -
ing at places such as Rec Sports helped 
him relate to students who also have to 
balance work and studies. 
White’s said his first priority is traf -
fic safety. He intends to advocate for 
the state to give Gainesville control 
over University Avenue, an idea he said came from Florida Not One More, 
a student-run traffic safety advocacy 
group. He will also advocate for a tun -
nel underneath the road and a sky 
bridge connecting midtown with the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center, which 
would alleviate the high-pedestrian 
traffic, he said. 
White did not elaborate on how he 
would specifically advocate for these 
changes or the practicality of building 
this new infrastructure. 
Change would work on a compre -
hensive process to address the CO -
VID-19 pandemic, White said. 
As Student Body president, he 
would also advocate for student an -
tibody testing to potentially exempt 
those with antibodies from biweekly 
testing and encourage them to donate 
blood. Change also plans to enact a 
marketing campaign to enforce mask 
mandates and ensure students act re -
sponsibly when going out to bars or 
restaurants with friends, he said. 
Sarah Duval, a long-time friend 
of White’s, said they’ve been close 
friends since a high school debate com -
petition at Harvard University when he 
impressed her with his performance. 
Harvard was his first out-of-state 
tournament, which are usually more 
difficult than local tournaments. De -
spite this, Duval said White performed 
much better in his event of Lincoln-
Douglas debate than any of his team -
mates expected. 
Since then, she said their friendship 
developed and strengthened even as 
she moved to Washington D.C. to at -
tend American University while White 
headed to Gainesville. She said White 
was always a great teammate, and one 
of his traits she remembers the most 
was his commitment to the craft.
“He’s one of the most hard-work -
ing, ambitious, creative people that I 
know,” she said.Amy NicholasMatthew Rodriguez Wynton White
Change’s Student 
Body Treasurer Can -
didate
Experience :
• Change platform 
director (Fall 2020)
• Alachua Conservation 
Trust advocacy intern
• Membership 
coordinator of UF Ignite
• UF Campus Diplomat
• Co-chair of UF 
College democrats 
environmental caucusChange’s Student Body Presi -
dential candidate
Experience :
• Impact Party Senator (Spring 
2019) 
• Gator Party Senator (Fall 2019)
• Vice-chair of the SG Budget and 
Appropriations Committee
• Vice-chair of the SG Information 
and Technology Committee
• General Education Committee 
member
• Gators Football Team’s 
Defensive Student Assistant CoachChange’s Student 
Body Vice Presidential 
candidate
Experience :
• Gator Party Senator 
(Summer 2020 - present)
• Florida Cicerones 
presidential host
• Students Taking Action 
Against Racism outreach 
team member
• Latin American Summit 
director
• Co-chair of the LGBT 
Caucus
• City of Gainesville 
community research fellowMeet the candidates running for the Spring 2021 executive ticket 
GATOR, CHANGE AND KEG 
PARTY HAVE CANDIDATES 
RUNNING FOR STUDENT 
BODY PRESIDENT, VICE 
PRESIDENT AND TREASURER 
POSITIONS
By Sofia Echeverry & Carolina 
Ilvento 
Alligator Staff WritersMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   9 
Benjamin Haut doesn’t be -
lieve Student Government has 
used its $22 million budget to -
ward students’ best interests. 
That’s why the 21-year-old 
business administration senior 
and member of the Alpha Epsi -
lon Pi fraternity is running for the 
Student Body treasurer position 
with the Keg Party.
With a budget that large, 
Haut said he would like to see 
more funding coming from SG 
back into the pockets of stu -
dents. He said not many projects 
are advertised and available to 
the average student, except for 
the rent relief that “no one knew 
about.”
However, the 2020-2021 SG 
budget includes funding for stu -dent organizations and resources 
such as membership to campus 
gyms, student entry to the Harn 
and Florida Natural History mu -
seums, and guest Accent speak -
ers. 
He said Keg is still working 
on the specific funding projects 
and plans they will focus on.
“I want to feel that some kid 
who just got into UF and had 
this great idea can find funding 
through SG to turn that idea into 
reality,” he said. “And that is just 
not the case right now.”
Haut said he wants to make 
sure students feel like they can 
talk to them openly and freely, 
without being scared of shar -
ing progressive and innovative 
ideas.
“We are here for students,” 
he said. “We want the people 
who feel like they don’t have a 
voice to be heard.” 
Jared Meiselman has known 
Haut since high school and said 
he is one of the nicest and down-
to-earth people he has ever 
known. 
Meiselmen, a 22-year-old his -
tory and political science senior, 
said Haut is always looking to 
help people, whether they ask 
for it or not. He said Haut has 
the habit of helping people fix 
their form while exercising at UF 
Southwest Recreation Center.
“He is always looking for his 
next move to make a difference,” 
Meiselman said.Braeden Allen is run -
ning for Student Body vice 
president because he feels 
the current Student Gov -
ernment system is not rep -
resentative of the Student 
Body.
“Student Government at 
UF has been inaccessible 
to the average student for 
a while,” Allen, a 22-year-
old environmental science 
senior, said. “I mean, it is 
my fourth year here, and 
I am still not sure of what 
happens in that place.”
Allen said his decision 
to run in this election was 
very spontaneous, as he 
and the other two party 
members decided to regis -
ter a few days before regis -
tration ended.
Among the Keg Party’s 
plans, Allen said he wants 
to work to get rid of the two-factor authentication 
policy to log into UF sites, 
such as Canvas and One.
UF. 
“That is so annoying,” 
he said. “We would love to 
get rid of that.”
Allen said while he has 
no SG experience and is 
not familiar with the codes 
and procedures, he is will -
ing to work with his party 
to learn more about SG and 
prepare to take over the 
position.
“If given that power, we 
would use it to be upon the 
average student, not repre -
senting the Greek life or a 
section of the student pop -
ulation -- but representing 
everyone,” Allen said.
Richard Georgia, Allen’s 
fencing coach, said Allen is 
selfless and wants to help 
people without ever ex -
pecting anything in return. 
Georgia said during Allen’s 
time as a summer camp 
leader, he would talk to 
shy kids to make sure ev -
eryone felt included.
“Braeden has a way of 
making people comfort -
able,” he said.If elected as Gator’s Student 
Body president, Cooper Brown 
said he would be the first Pathway 
to Campus Enrollment (PaCE) stu -
dent to serve in the position.
“I really just want to show 
PaCE students, Innovation Acad -
emy students, transfer students, 
 non-traditional students, that 
you are just a part of the Gator na -
tion as any other student and that 
you can leave your mark,” he said.
Brown, a 22-year-old agricul -
tural education communication 
senior, joined SG Senate Spring of 
his freshman year. 
Yvonne Brown said she always 
knew her son was a natural leader.
“He knows how to work hard 
for what needs to get accom -
plished,” she said.
Brown’s leadership extends to 
all ages. In his free time, he coach -
es a children’s baseball team. After 
they won a game during a chal -
lenging season, he drove home 
with a big smile on his face.
“Cooper is the coach,” Clay -
ton Stein, a 22-year-old food and 
resource economy graduate, said. 
“He is not someone who will yell 
at you from the stands; he is down to get dirty with you and feel the 
weights of a loss with you.”
Stein said he met Brown dur -
ing fraternity recruitment and be -
came his ‘big brother’ in Kappa 
Sigma. 
He described Brown as de -
pendable, saying he always works 
alongside other SG members and 
his fraternity brothers and is pres -
ent behind the scenes to get things 
done.
“He really wants to get to 
know people and understand their 
needs,” Stein said.
Brown said traffic safety is one 
of his priorities. He emphasized 
the importance of the Student 
Body president’s role in serving as 
the only student vote in the Board 
of Trustees, which is responsible 
for the effective use of the univer -
sity’s resources.
Brown said he will use his 
position in SG and the Board of 
Trustees to work with the Florida 
Department of Transportation 
advocating to increase students’ 
safety.
He said his administration is 
committed to enhancing the over -
all student experience through 
Accent, Student Government Pro -
ductions and Cabinet events to 
alleviate the pressures that come 
with being a student during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
“The role of Student Govern -
ment throughout the pandemic 
should be to still bring students 
together in a way that is safe,” 
Brown wrote in an email.
In accordance with his cam -
paign hashtag #CountOnCoop, 
Brown said he wants the Student 
Body to not only see him as an ad -
vocate but also to count on him as 
a friend. 
“I am hoping that students re -
ally do feel comfortable approach -
ing me about anything, whether it 
is a problem we can find a solu -
tion for, or if it is simply building a 
genuine friendship,” he said.Giovanna Mompremier 
wants to dismantle the belief 
that Student Government is 
not for people who look like 
her. 
Mompremier, a 21-year-
old UF public health graduate 
student, said she would use 
her position as Student Body 
treasurer to be an active rep -
resentative for those who may 
not be represented in the cur -
rent SG system. 
“My goal is to make sure 
that my power and influence 
are rooted in my culture, 
my Blackness and my hard 
work,” she said. 
Mompremier is a Haitian 
American woman and daugh -
ter of immigrant parents. Au -
gustin Mompremier said as a 
child his daughter was always 
looking to do extra and vol -
unteer. 
Mompremier also wants 
to ensure all students and or -
ganizations are able to obtain 
adequate funds from SG.
As BSU’s treasurer, Mom -
premier said she had experi -
ence from the student orga -
nization side of the funding system. She said she worked 
closely with the SG budget 
system and studied the fund -
ing codes to better understand 
them and provide equitable 
funding to different organiza -
tions.
“I am here to serve you — 
the Student Body as a whole,” 
she said. “Your demands and 
needs are important to me, 
and it is my responsibility to 
cater to those.”
Mompremier referenced 
the strong impacts COVID-19 
has on many students’ finan -
cial situations and said she 
wants to work to make the 
SG funding system an acces -
sible resource for the Student 
Body.
To accomplish this, Mom -
premier plans to update the 
Docutraq system, a system 
student organizations use to 
request funding, and expand 
the SG printing sites to more 
areas on campus.
Gator began advocating 
for expanding printing ser -
vices in Summer, asking UF 
Information Technology for 
a printing lab in Norman Hall 
by the end of Fall.
Vanessa Nevy, a 21-year-
old advertising senior and 
one of Mompremier’s closest 
friends, said  Mompremier 
always stops to listen to the 
people tabling at Turlington 
Plaza, something she thinks 
represents her heart and care 
for people.
“She cares about what 
anyone has to say,” Nevy 
said.
Michael Ackerman said the 
idea to create a new Student Gov -
ernment party came to him three 
years ago when he met Braeden 
Allen and Benjamin Haut while 
doing keg stands at a party. And 
so, the Keg Party was born.
Ackerman said the three were 
freshmen with big aspirations and 
ambitions coming into college and 
decided they wanted to run for of -
fice. Now, three years later, they 
are.
Ackerman, a 21-year-old fi -
nance senior, is one of the found -
ers of Keg Party, the new party 
running for the executive ticket 
this Spring. Ackerman is running 
for the Student Body president po -
sition.
“The most important thing 
about us: We’re fun,” he said. 
“We like to pride ourselves on 
the fact we are all new to Student 
Government and a very people-
centered party.”
As a new member of SG, Ackerman admitted to not being 
familiar with all the policies and 
responsibilities that come with the 
position. He also said he is “some -
what” familiar with the Board of 
Trustees, the university’s final 
authority body in which the Stu -
dent Body president serves as the 
sole student vote — a responsibil -
ity Ackerman would be assuming 
within a week, if elected.
Keg has not released an official 
platform yet, but Ackerman said 
the party’s main focus is to pro -
vide student stimulus checks — or 
“stimmy” checks as advertised in 
the party’s campaign. The party is 
also advocating for more alcohol 
sales on campus.
“If you go to the Reitz Union 
and want some Pollo Tropical, 
what’s stopping you from getting a 
beer alongside it,” he asked.
Ackerman is also advocat -
ing for safely reopening fraternity 
houses and parties on campus 
while following COVID-19 safety 
guidelines. He believes the univer -
sity has done a good job at keep -
ing students safe but would like to 
implement plans to safely speed 
up the reopening process.
“Our goal is to make college 
life fun and normal again as quick -
ly and safely as possible,” he said.
Jane Ackerman said her son 
has always excelled at everything 
he does, and knows this is no ex -
ception.
“He has very strong convic -
tions; however, he is very open-
minded and willing to listen to all 
sides,” she said.One of Faith Maniti’s favorite 
stories is “David and Goliath.” 
She particularly likes its theme 
of “desirable difficulties,” which 
emphasizes the hidden advan -
tages one can access while over -
coming an obstacle in life.
Maniti, who lost her mother 
right before she began high 
school, said she strives every day 
to follow in her mother’s steps to 
be kind and help others in some 
capacity. Maniti moved to the 
United States from the Philip -
pines when she was 7 years old 
with her mother, who wanted to 
give her a better education.
“Watching my mom and the 
strength she put in as a single 
mom, no college degree, bring -
ing us to where we were out of 
nothing, is something I try to be 
every day,” she said. “Nobody 
wants to lose a parent, but it’s 
a matter of how you react to it 
that can control the course of 
your life.”
Maniti is a 20-year-old po -
litical science junior running for Student Body vice president. 
As an Asian American woman, 
Maniti is passionate about con -
tributing to the representation of 
minority groups in policymak -
ing.
One of Maniti’s main projects 
aims to increase diversity and 
inclusion in the university by 
assigning student organizations 
to different cabinets. These cabi -
nets would be responsible for 
advocating for the organization’s 
needs within SG and helping stu -
dents find a good fit for them.
Through this, she hopes to 
facilitate the process for students 
to find an organization they iden -
tify themselves with and create 
a better understanding through 
each organization of different 
student experiences on campus, 
to make them aware of realities 
outside their own bubbles.
“This position at the end of 
the day is a title, and at the very 
core of it, every part of my job is 
just to be here, to be accessible 
and to serve,” she said.
Evelyn Veras, a 24-year-old 
UF Law student who was SG 
multicultural cabinet director as 
an undergraduate, is one of Man -
iti’s closest friends and a mentor. 
Veras’s favorite memory of 
Maniti was during the Gamma 
Eta Sorority recruitment process 
when she first saw Maniti’s po -
tential to serve the student body 
as a leader.
Veras said Maniti is naturally 
the center of attention. However, 
she was surprised to see Maniti 
take a step back in a conversa -
tion with a group of girls during 
chapter recruitment and encour -
age them to share their opinions 
and insights.
“She wasn’t compromising 
her leadership, she was not shin -
ing away from it, but she was 
spreading it to other people,” 
Veras said.
Benjamin Haut Braeden AllenCooper Brown Giovanna 
Mompremier
Michael AckermanFaith Maniti
Keg Party’s Treasurer 
Candidate
Experience :
• Dance Marathon dancer
• Gator Growl volunteer
• Intern at Simply180 
marketing company
• Intern at BoatSetter boat 
rental service
• Intern at Silverman 
Thompson Slutkin and White 
law firm
• Intern at Northwestern 
Mutual financial services 
company
• Co-founder of Mint Rides 
electric scooter companyKeg Party’s President 
Candidate
Experience :
• Finance and accounting 
intern at Maroon Group, LLC
• Operations Supervisor at 
UF RecSports
• Accounting intern at J. 
Tech Sales, a Maroon Group 
company
• Employer Relations 
AmbassadorGator Party’s Student 
Body Vice President 
candidate
Experience :
• SG Freshman Senator — 
Spring 2019
• SG Budget and 
Appropriations Committee
• SG Information and 
Communications Committee
• SG Cabinet Student Life 
Divisions Chair
• Gamma Eta Sorority Vice 
President of Administration
• Asian Kaleidoscope 
Month Scholarship Pageant 
Director
• Student member of 
the University’s Student 
Petitions Committee
• Florida Greek 
Ambassador
Keg Party’s Vice 
President Candidate
Experience :
• Captain of Fencing Club
• Part time employee of 
Super-Sensitive Musical 
String Co.Gator Party’s Student 
Body President candidate
Experience :
• Freshman Leadership 
Council
• Director of Sales and 
Associate Producer of Sales and 
Outreach Gator Growl (Feb. 
2018 - Oct. 2019)
• Student Government 
Senate (Spring 2018 - present)
• Budget and Appropriations 
Chair (March 2019 - March 
2020)
• Senate Pro-Tempore (March 
2020 - Oct. 2020)
• Senate President (Oct. 
2020 - present)Gator Party’s Treasurer 
Candidate
Experience :
• Black Student Union 
(BSU) Treasurer
• Multicultural of Pre-
Health Students (MAPS)
• Gainesville Doctors 
Without Borders (GDWB)
• Treasurer of Gator Party 
(Spring 2020)EditorialMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/opinionsRegardless of who you 
vote for, just vote
You’re probably tired of hearing the same end-of-the-world 
This year, Black History Month may feel differ -
ent for many of us, especially after the death 
of George Floyd and the Black Lives Matter 
protests that had taken place during summer. 
The world has opened its eyes to the centu -
ries of racism that Black people have experienced 
and is now putting forth efforts to promote diver -
sity and inclusion. Institutions like UF have claimed 
to engage in anti-racism, but are they missing the 
mark?
Well, let’s take a look.  
Over the summer, UF President Kent Fuchs 
shared his plan to combat racism on campus in an email en -
titled, “Another step toward positive change against racism.” 
However, if this was truly ‘another’ positive change against rac -
ism, what was the positive change before this anti-racism plan? 
Just a year ago, a young Black student was called the N-
word by a white student on a Student Nighttime Auxiliary Pa -
trol (SNAP) van. Around that same time, the university also 
invited Donald Trump Jr. as a speaker on campus with open 
arms despite student pushback. If we wanted to go even further 
back, in 2017, UF hosted white supremacist Richard Spencer 
and spent $500,000 on his security detail. 
For comparison, UF has committed $400,000 toward its Ra -
cial Justice Research Fund to benefit the Black experience.
Where was the positive change against racism then? If any -
thing, UF has maintained a historical consistency in its lack of 
accountability for racism, and organizations like the Black Stu -
dent Union (BSU) have continuously taken notice of this and 
advocated against it.
Last summer, the BSU created a petition calling for the safety 
and general well-being of Black students at the university. It 
is obvious Black students do not feel safe on campus, but the 
administration’s solution to this problem has continually been 
to create task forces and workshops, rather than addressing the 
culture of racism at the core of UF.
Fuchs’ lack of acknowledgment for UF’s role in allowing 
anti-Black sentiment on campus was not the only thing missing 
from his June email. It also failed to fully recognize the lack of 
diversity and inclusion of Black students on campus.
Over the past few decades, Black student enrollment at UF 
has decreased significantly. In 2009, Black students accounted 
for 10.1% of total students, but in 2020 the Black population 
fell to 6.7%. 
Historically, these circumstances are not anomalies for UF. On April 15, 1971, thirteen years after the desegrega -
tion of the university, the BSU organized a sit-in in 
Stephen O’Connell’s office at Tigert Hall to address 
the lack of Black students and faculty on campus. 
After being met with police, 67 students were ar -
rested and nearly a third of Black students left the 
university. This demonstration known as “Black 
Thursday,” prompted the university to open the In -
stitute of Black Culture (IBC) and launch the African 
American Studies program. 
While this event was monumental for Black stu -
dents at the university, almost fifty years later BSU is 
still demanding the recruitment and protection of Black students 
and faculty. 
As long as UF has the mentality of pursuing action to im -
prove race relations on campus when it is convenient and bene -
ficial for them, Black students will continue to suffer. It certainly 
calls into question the motives behind UF’s delayed action to 
end prison labor contracts or consider renaming buildings, even 
though students had been protesting these issues for years. 
Being inclusive of Black people and creating spaces where 
we can feel comfortable on campus means allowing us to be 
present in every space available, from the Board of Trustees 
(BOT) down. As the most powerful body on campus, the UF 
BOT’s lack of diversity and complete absence of Black represen -
tation is unacceptable and needs to change. 
The question remains: how can UF be a more equitable in -
stitution? 
Well, it starts with the plan proposed by President Fuchs 
last summer, but it does not end there. While the plan for racial 
justice from UF pushes the university ahead in the fight against 
racism, we need to create environments where Black students 
actually feel safe. 
As important as it is to amplify the Black experience, it is 
even more important that we improve that experience as well. 
In order to adequately care for its Black students, UF needs to 
listen to them, and take their concerns seriously. 
As students, it is imperative for us to continue holding the 
university accountable for the ‘positive change’ it promised to 
take last summer. Ensuring racial justice will not be easy, but it 
is necessary for the advancement of our university.
Aysia Gilbert is a History and African American Stud -
ies sophomore at UF. A mother in California recently sent me an email.  
We’d never met, but she wanted to tell me about 
her son, a University of Florida student who is 
taking classes and working on campus.  She 
wrote to thank our faculty and staff for the edu -
cation and experience her son is having this year.
“He is having an amazing year at UF despite COVID,” she 
wrote.  She contrasted the positive experience of her son at UF 
with what her daughter is enduring at another highly ranked 
university in California.
Her words touched me and reminded me how important it 
is to say these words: I, too, am extraordinarily thankful.
I am thankful to UF’s faculty.
Because of them, this student from California and his thou -
sands of classmates are having an exceptional year of learning 
and life-changing experiences, despite so many hardships. The 
commitment of UF faculty members to excellence and to their 
students as they adopt new and challenging ways of teaching 
— both in person and online — is so appreciated and remem -
bered by students and their family members.
And, in the midst of COVID-19, UF faculty members have 
continued to excel in their research and better communities 
locally and globally through their clinical and leadership.
I am thankful to UF’s staff.
I am thankful to the thousands of staff members who have 
worked without stopping in the midst of COVID-19 to sup -
port our students, to enable our faculty to excel and to keep 
Gainesville and other statewide campuses moving ahead full 
speed. Amid disruptions and unfamiliar demands, your per -
sistence has ensured that students can fully experience college 
life.
We are all so grateful to UF Health clinicians, epidemi -ologists and their colleagues who have 
guided and enabled us to work, learn 
and live safely on our campus in the 
midst of COVID-19.  Due to their work 
and the work of health professionals 
worldwide, COVID-19 cases are falling 
steeply both locally and globally.  Along 
with the distribution of vaccines and 
our commitment to sustaining physical 
distancing and wearing of masks, the 
outlook is incredibly positive.
This brings me to my final expres -
sion of thanks. 
Thank you, students! You are persisting and you are excel -
ling.  
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently 
recognized UF as the top among six universities for indoor 
mask compliance.  You are persisting in keeping others and 
yourselves safe.  You are also excelling in your studies, both in 
person and online.  You are experiencing a different, but rich, 
life as a college student.
COVID-19 has proven to be difficult and exhausting. How -
ever, there is nothing more encouraging to me than knowing 
the hard work of our faculty and staff is making a real dif -
ference and that our students are persisting and excelling, as 
described in the email from the mother in California.  
I am so encouraged and grateful that this academic year 
is not just historic, but also great.  We have kept our campus 
open. We have been there for our students. We have contrib -
uted to solutions in our community and our planet.  For all 
that and more, all of you have my deepest gratitude and that 
of many others.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. You can find his 
monthly column in The Alligator.
Is UF Doing Enough For Its Black Students?Amid the pandemic, gratitude
ColumnFrom the Desk of President Fuchs
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.sentiment before elections that “the stakes have never been 
higher.” We’ve even joined in on the madness in the past. But 
after seeing the difference one or two votes could have made 
during last semester’s UF Student Government elections, the 
importance of voting is as relevant as ever.
In the Fall 2020 SG elections, voter turnout was abysmal as 
only 6,130 students out of 57,841 turned out to cast their vote, 
about 3,000 students less than the Fall 2019 SG elections. Sure, 
these low turnout numbers could be attributed to the COVID-19 
pandemic and the UF provost’s ardent stance on the unconsti -
tutionality of online voting. However, we think what transpired 
last semester was also a symptom of a disease that’s been plagu -
ing UF much longer: voter apathy. 
For years, we’ve witnessed the same groups reign in SG. We 
see the party flags declaring allegiance outside frat houses. We 
know about students who are expected to return home with an 
“I Voted” sticker. And when these students are bribed or have 
their meals withheld, we hear about that, too. 
But what if you’re not in an organization that incentivizes 
you to vote? Are you still at the polls?
The Gator Party did not win a supermajority last semester 
from record-high voter turnout. It won because of a minority of 
voters who have consistently turned out to ensure its victory. 
Gator knows this, too. We’ve witnessed its indifference first -
hand in years past. Often when The Alligator tried to get into 
contact with Gator members for various stories, requests were 
left unanswered or with very few details, ensuring a further 
breakdown of transparency.
We’re not surprised though. Why would a party that has 
the whole Student Government system backing them care to be 
transparent?
It also doesn’t help encourage students to vote when the 
other SG parties have their own faults. The Change Party’s cam -
paign was centered around branding itself as an anti-Gator Par -
ty rather than promoting its own platform –– filled with some 
unrealistic goals. And the Keg Party is, well, the Keg Party. 
However, despite all of the parties’ individual shortcomings, 
it is still essential that you vote and have your voice heard. SG 
is a fundamental part of enhancing our campus life: it handles 
a $22 million budget composed of your student fees to fund our 
libraries, our museums, our gyms, our multicultural organiza -
tions, and the Reitz Union, just to name a few. 
So, if you feel Gator represents your best interests, go vote. 
If you feel you want to alter SG’s leadership dynamics with 
Change, go vote. And if you’re sick of SG drama and want to 
see more alcohol sold on campus with the help of Keg, go vote.
We want to see SG elections that are representative of the 
student population. The first step to reaching that goal is ex -
tremely simple: the mobilization of students to vote in SG elec -
tions. 
So, if you don’t belong to a student organization that incen -
tivizes you to cast your ballot, we hope The Alligator provides 
the push you need to go vote in SG elections. We saw the power 
of the youth vote during the 2020 Presidential Election. Bring 
that same energy to the polls on Feb. 23 and 24. 
The Editorial Board is made up of the Editor-in-Chief, 
Digital Managing Editor, Engagement Managing Editor, 
and Opinions Editor.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Payton Titus
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORMakiya 
Seminera
OPINIONS
EDITORKaelyn Cassidy
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORKarina Elwood
EDITOR-IN-
CHIEF
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Aysia Gilbert
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   11 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
AMY WILLIAMS’ PROPOSAL TO JOIN 
THE MISSION WAS ONE OF THE 13 
SELECTED OUT OF OVER 
100 SUBMISSIONS
By Abigail Hasebroock
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Amy Williams watched meteor 
showers with her parents as a kid she knew 
it was only a matter of time before she would 
begin exploring the depths of space herself. 
Now, Williams’ galactic aspirations are 
directly contributing to one of the most ambi -
tious missions to Mars. 
The 35-year-old UF geological sciences as -
sistant professor is participating in her second 
mission to analyze for signs of ancient life 
on Mars through NASA’s Perseverance rover 
team, which landed on the red planet Thurs -
day. The rover initially launched from Earth 
July 30, and, according to the countdown on 
its website, it landed around 3:55 p.m. NASA 
broadcasted the live landing at 2:15 p.m. 
“I’ve got a lot of nervous energy,” she said. 
“I’m very excited about the opportunity to 
search for life in the universe.”
The proposal she wrote to join the mission was one of the 13 selected out of over 100 
submissions, Williams said. When decisions 
were released in the fall, she initially refused 
to check to see if hers had been accepted for 
fear of rejection, despite previously serving on 
NASA’s Curiosity rover team.  
Two women pursuing their Ph.D.s in Wil -
liams’ lab group have also joined the mission. 
One of them is Lydia Kivrak, a 23-year-old UF 
astrobiology doctoral student, who believes 
Williams’ proposal was accepted because of 
her experience in detecting organic molecules, 
which she said is one of the rover’s objectives 
through the use of a Raman spectrometer, a 
tool that detects molecule vibrations. 
“The neat thing about Perseverance is that 
it has an instrument that has never before been 
sent to Mars,” she said. 
In a UF press release posted Feb. 8, Denise 
Buckner, the second doctoral student in Wil -
liams’ lab group who joined the mission, said 
working on the Perseverance team is the cool -
est thing she has ever done.
“Conducting research on another planet 
and exploring places no one has ever explored 
before is the most exciting work I can possibly 
imagine,” she wrote. 
Williams said she and her colleagues 
around the world will be following a Martian day schedule of 24 hours and 37 minutes long 
for the first three months of the rover’s mis -
sion. Each workday will begin 40 minutes later 
than the previous day. 
“Your schedule shifts around the clock, so 
9 a.m. one day, 9:40 the next day, 10:20 the 
next day,” she said. “Not seeing the sun until 
you’re kind of ready to go to bed; it’s very chal -
lenging.” 
The Perseverance rover is engineered to 
search for data that can indicate signs of an -
cient life more extensively than the Curiosity 
rover including retrieving samples to potential -
ly send back to Earth. Williams said taking the 
mission to this next step is a dream come true. 
“It is the first step in, I would say, one of 
the grandest planetary architectures that we’ve 
taken on since sending humans to the moon,” 
she said. “Mars sample return is going to be 
the biggest next step in our understanding not 
only of Mars but it’s going to give us a lot of 
insight into planetary evolution in general.” 
Chance Sturrup, one of Williams’ under -
graduate students working on projects with 
applications to Mars research, said he is fasci -
nated by the sheer amount of new information 
and opportunities for experiments the mission 
holds. 
“We’re not going to find little green men on Mars,” the 21-year-old UF geology senior said. 
“But we might find little green specks and bac -
teria, and that would be amazing. Even just the 
remnants of possible preserved bacteria would 
be incredible.”
Sturrup said he and his lab group planned 
for a remote watch party to witness the land -
ing Thursday. The slight nerves Sturrup experi -
enced about something going awry were over -
whelmed by his eagerness for the landing and 
the consequent discoveries, he said. 
“Knock on wood, right? Something could 
go wrong, but the people are incredibly skilled 
and talented, and I’m sure everything’s gonna 
go fantastically well,” he said. “It’s just incred -
ible to be able to see it first hand.” 
Williams’ said she is motivated by her abil -
ity to provide useful tools and positive experi -
ences for her students, in whom she wants to 
instill excitement and foster success for their 
future careers. 
“You gotta have a good reason to get up ev -
ery morning, and it makes you want to partici -
pate in and give 100%,” she said. “One hun -
dred and ten percent, if you’re on Mars time.”
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.orgUF assistant professor on NASA’s Perseverance rover team talks Mars landingJulia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Students involved with the Save McCarty Woods 
campaign protest in front of the Florida Ballpark 
on Friday, Feb. 19, 2021. The protest was held in 
opposition to the UF Board of Trustees decision 
to designate 2 acres of the McCarty Woods con -
servation area as a future development siteJulia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Sierra Scauzillo, 22, a wildlife ecology and conservation senior, 
and lead organizer of the Save McCarty Woods campaign paints 
a “HONK IF U LIKE OXYGEN” sign to hold during a protest on 
Friday, Feb. 19, 2021.Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Genevieve Printiss, 20, a forest resources and 
conservation junior and protest organizer (right) 
stands in the rain to protest development on UF’s 
McCarty Woods in front of the Florida Ballpark 
with CJ Olmstead, Savannah Cantrell and Dakota 
Holder (left to right) on Friday, Feb. 19, 2021.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.PHONE REPS NEEDED NOW!  Easy 
Commission Work!  Customers Asked To Be 
Contacted, Paid Daily! Choose Your Hours! 
Email:  Jessica@rent2ownservices.com    
3-8-21-4-14 
Local Camp Hiring w/Family Envir.
Lifeguard and Adventure Staff
On-Site Training available
Apply Online: campkulaqua.com
& Call Kristen (352) 318-5501
3-1-21-5-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         4-19-21-15-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
We are seeking current 4-40 & 2-20 licensed 
insurance producers for a new Property and 
Casualty Agency opening soon in the Ocala and 
Gainesville areas. Must have license before hire. 
Flexible schedule, competitive pay, base wage 
plus commission and bonuses. If interested 
please email amandamree@gmail.com with 
your contact information to set up an interview.
3-8-21-8-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-
wich makers and bartenders. Must have a 
strong work ethic, great customer service 
skills, and reliable transportation. Applications 
can be submitted to the store located at 
2327 NW 13TH STREET in Gainesville.                                             
3-22-21-5-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-15
16 Health Services
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Part Time Asst needed for Fraternity 
Management. We handle finances, opera-
tions, and properties for Fraternities at UF.
Must be able to multi-task and have good 
attitude. Must know Microsoft and have reli-
able transportation.
Office exp. and/or Greek Life a plus but not 
req. Office hours are M-F 9-5. Approx 15hrs/
week. Start at $9.50/hr. Email resume to 
info@fratmanagement.com    
3-1-21-3-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-141For Rent
furnished14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-6
10 For Sale
Split Oak Firewood
Great for bonfires & fireplaces $75 for 1/4 of 
a cord stacked and delivered. Or you pick 
up in Ocala $60 for 1/4 of a cord. Call Mike 
352-572-1261.                             3-1-21-5-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-1213 Wanted
readreadmemesolution on page 13
By Fred Piscop
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/22/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/22/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 22, 2021
ACROSS
1 Hand-dyeing 
method
6 Alaskan 
malamute team’s 
burden
10 __ Field: Mets’ 
home
14 Lose strength
15 Attire for Caesar
16 Closely related
17 “Really!”
19 Pinball flub
20 Metal-shaping 
tool
21 Defame verbally
23 Fifth Avenue 
retailer
25 Final word
26 Even though
30 Low-cost and 
inferior
33 Early synthetic 
fiber
34 Pinch, as 
piecrust
35 D.C.’s nation
38 Kilt-wearing 
family
39 Hotel visitor
40 Soon, to a bard
41 Rogue computer 
in “2001”
42 Uses a fireplace 
tool
43 Sci-fi robot
44 Really rich
46 With dexterity
47 Davis Jr. of the 
Rat Pack
49 Pig’s meal
51 Source of maple 
syrup
54 One of 12 at the 
Last Supper
59 Straight from the 
mouth
60 “Really!”
62 Subside
63 Cleveland’s lake
64 Carried in a bag
65 The “S” in CBS: 
Abbr.
66 Gets hitched
67 Reaches across
DOWN
1 Deep choir voice
2 Share a boundary 
with3 “Gone With the 
Wind” estate
4 Checklist detail
5 Represses, as 
emotions
6 Storied baby-
bringing bird
7 Gehrig in 
Cooperstown
8 Dairy case dozen
9 Roald who 
created Willy 
Wonka
10 Bit of shuteye
11 “Really!”
12 Scrabble pieces
13 Emcee’s lead-in
18 In apple-pie order
22 “Hurry!” on a 
memo
24 Windbags’ 
speeches
26 One of two in 
McDonald’s “M”
27 In __ land: 
spaced-out
28 “Really!”
29 A billion years, in 
geology
31 Tire leak sound
32 911 responder: 
Abbr.34 Pickled veggie
36 Gardener’s 
bagful
37 Warhol of pop art
39 Thor or Zeus
40 Comics bark
42 Forks over
43 Kicks out of the 
country
45 Brunch fare 
made with 
8-Down
46 Dimwit47 Stashes in a  
hold
48 Assortment
50 Shoe strings
52 Not very many
53 Skin opening
55 Word on an 
octagonal sign
56 Brit’s goodbye
57 Legal claim on 
property
58 Comes to a halt
61 Get __ of: dump
By Pawel Fludzinski and John Witzke
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/16/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/16/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 16, 2021
ACROSS
1 Tripoli’s country
6 College grad
10 Kill, as a dragon
14 Thorny plant
15 Latina toon 
explorer
16 Scrabble piece
17 If Nicholson sang, 
danced and 
acted, he might 
be called __
20 GQ or Cosmo
21 Photographed
22 Inhumane
27 Salty drops
31 Big name in PCs
32 __ pork: Chinese 
dish with 
pancakes
35 “High” afternoon 
meal
36 Forbidden
38 Series of missed 
calls
40 If Robinson left 
En Vogue to sing 
in Jerry Garcia’s 
group, she might 
be called __
43 Dog food seller
44 Crop up
46 Soul, to Sartre
47 Polar parka
50 Passionate about
51 Winona of 
“Stranger Things”
53 Brings good 
luck to
55 Taunt
58 Drone or worker
59 If Tomlin came 
from San 
Fernando,  
she might be 
called __
67 Trim, as a photo
68 Dry forecast
69 Religious doctrine
70 Credit card 
balance, say
71 Benchmarks: 
Abbr.
72 Jerk or twitch
DOWN
1 JFK’s successor
2 Nest egg initials
3 Flickable lighter
4 Go on and on
5 Kitchen allure
6 Samuel Barber’s 
“__ for Strings”7 Cyberchortle
8 Web addresses
9 Subject with 
numbers
10 Georgia or 
Washington
11 Pot cover
12 It may be blonde 
or pale
13 “Roundabout” 
rockers with a 
positive name
18 Word before 
hand or land
19 Capitol feature
22 Cave hanger
23 Plato’s school, 
with “the”
24 Paid back, as 
a purchase 
incentive
25 Tweezer targets
26 Whirlybirds
28 Realizes, as a 
goal
29 Entertains with a 
bedtime story
30 Give in to gravity
33 Recital rebuke
34 Flower bed tool
37 Province on four 
Great Lakes
39 Spooky
41 Bass ending42 Pendulum 
direction?
43 Links standard
45 Seemingly 
forever
48 Orange-yellow 
gemstones
49 Ukraine’s capital
52 The Nile runs 
through it
54 Detectives’ aids
56 Bosom buds, in 
texts57 Nouveau-
Mexique, par 
exemple
59 TV screen type
60 Fury
61 Easy throw
62 Laid low
63 Cut (off)
64 JFK alternative
65 Maximum 
borders?
66 Oft-candied 
veggie
02/15/2021©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
20 Event / Notices 21 Entertainment
NOTICE OF ON-SITE/VIRTUAL HYBRID 
PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area 
announces a hybrid - on-site and virtual public 
meeting via communications media technology 
to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE AND TIME: February 22, 2021 at 3:00 p.m.
ON-SITE John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium, 
County Administration Building, Gainesville, 
Florida
VIRTUAL: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, 
Facebook and the Alachua County Video on 
Demand Website [link below]
www.alachuacounty.us/video 
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when 
prompted use code 670 965 3024 and partici -
pant identification code 2522482
Live Broadcast Public Comment Call-In - Call 
1-800-876-7516
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by visiting 
our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning) or may be seen posted 
at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida one 
week prior to the meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a hybrid on-site 
and virtual meeting via communications me -
dia technology.  Public participation for this 
meeting on-site for this meeting is accom -
modated, but is limited due to social distanc -
ing requirements.  On-site public participants 
are required to wear a face-covering mask at 
all times.  For on-site public comment, par -
ticipants will be prompted and should follow 
the direction of the Chair to participate. The 
public is encouraged to participate in the vir -
tual public meeting.  The public may submit 
comments to the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area through email (escalante@
ncfrpc.org) or by calling into the public com -
ment message line when prompted to call 
during the meeting.  Public comment will be 
taken by telephone for all non-ministerial items 
on which the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area votes.  Once public comment 
is opened for an item under discussion, please 
call the public comment telephone number. 
In addition, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization will open telephone 
lines for a public comment session for the 
public to discuss items not on the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area agenda.  Virtual 
Citizens Comment agenda item calls should be 
limited to transportation planning issues within 
the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  Duration of 
the Citizens Comment agenda item may ex -
tend as long as calls are received.  For all Call-
In Comments, Callers will be put in a queue, 
and prompted when it is their turn to speak.  
TO AVOID FEEDBACK, CALLERS TO THE 
PUBLIC COMMENT MESSAGE LINE MUST 
TURN DOWN THEIR MEETING SOUND 
WHEN ADDRESSING THE COMMISSION.  
Both call-in and on-site participants should 
state their names and limit comments to three 
minutes.  The public is encouraged to submit 
any written or photographic documents prior 
to the meeting to escalante@ncfrpc.org.  Any 
questions regarding participation should be 
directed to the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area Office at 352.955.2200, ex -
tension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  
Persons who require special accommodations 
under the Americans with Disabilities Act or 
persons who require translation services (free 
of charge) should contact Michael Escalante 
at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at least 48 
hours prior to the public meeting.
2-22-21-1-201. What World Golf Hall of Famer won 82 
LPGA tournaments -- including 13 major 
championships -- from 1955-69?
2. Bryce Harper, Jeff Bagwell, Jimmie Foxx 
and Andre Thornton are tied for what Major 
League Baseball record?
3. What NHL team ended a 54-year 
championship drought with a 4-3 Stanley 
Cup Finals win over the Vancouver Ca -
nucks in 1994?
4. In what league did the London Monarchs, 
Frankfurt Galaxy and Barcelona Dragons 
compete in from 1991-92?5. What acclaimed sports documentarian's 
film credits include "Jesse Owens Returns 
to Berlin" (1968), "Wilma" (1977) and "100 
Years of Olympic Glory" (1996).
6. In 1942, right-handed pitcher Hiram Bi -
thorn became Major League Baseball's first 
player to hail from what island?
7. A 1989 Pro Bowl wide receiver for the 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers and the 1990 NFL 
Defensive Rookie of the Year for the Chi -
cago Bears share what name?
1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/section/spanishalligator.org/section/spanish
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
FROZEN RAW BEEF In Bulk For Your Pets. 
$1.50/lb. Call Mike, 334-414-7297.     
2-22-1-24
25 Lost & Found
If you find something, you can place a FREE 
FOUND AD in our lost & found section. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   13 
ScrabbleGrams  solution
 Sudoku  solution
solution below
place a free place a free "found""found"  ad in the ad in the   alligatoralligator   classifieds!classifieds!   
  Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  or emailor email   classified@  classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
 found something? found something? CryptoQuote  answerSolitude either develops
the mental power or
renders men dull and
vicious. — Victor Hugo
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
solution over there
answers over there©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.Sports Quiz  answers1. Mickey Wright.
2. Walks in a game (6).
3. The New York Rangers.
4. The World League of 
American Football.5. Bud Greenspan.
6. Puerto Rico.
7. Mark Carrier.Florida gymnastics defeated 
Kentucky 197.50-196.875 despite 
missing four starters due to 
COVID-19 protocols.Follow our newsletter!
Sign up for the alligatorSports newsletter, delivered to 
your inbox every Tuesday! Scan the QR code and select 
"sports".Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
THE HOSPITALITY AND RESTAURANT 
INDUSTRIES WERE AMONG 
THOSE AFFECTED
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Businesses in Gainesville used to wait all 
year for college football gamedays.
University Avenue felt like a mini carni -
val with streets filled with cars and hundreds 
dressed head to toe in orange and blue as they 
loitered on the street.
Close to the stadium, nearly every corner 
of campus featured tailgates with a cornuco -
pia of subs, beer and rowdy Gator maniacs. 
These fanatics didn’t just pull up from around 
Gainesville to see the orange and blue attack 
their prey —they came from all pockets of the 
Sunshine State to frequent local bars, hotels 
and restaurants.
The Sweetwater Branch Inn, with its 
charming garden, Victorian-style architecture 
and ornate rooms and cottages befitting of  a 
southern mansion was one of those hotels. 
Located at 625 E. University Ave., the inn at -
tracted an upscale clientele. 
But the COVID-19 pandemic put the nearly 
30-year-old famed inn on the brink — only to 
be saved by $325,000 worth of PPP loans. The 
business is just one of hundreds of others that 
nearly went belly up after being delivered two 
near-fatal gut punches. The first was caused 
by the global recession, and the second by 
a more Gainesville-specific phenomenon: 
the reduced number of fans at Gator football 
games.
This past fall, average game attendance 
was below 15,000, according to data request -
ed from the University Athletic Association. 
Inside the cathedral of Gator football, there 
were far more cardboard cutouts than fans, 
adorned with everyone from babies to Harry 
Styles.
As an older establishment, the Sweetwa -
ter never witnessed as much of an uptick in 
business on football Saturdays as compared 
to hotels near Interstate 75, general manager 
Cornelia Holbrook said.  Gainesville added 
15,000 hotel rooms before the 2019 season, 
which increased competition for the inn.
Before the pandemic, the inn’s average 
nightly occupancy rate was about 65%, Hol -
brook added. Lines for the breakfast buffet 
would be long, and the inn had a communal 
feeling, relying on word-of-mouth and online 
reviews to gain occupants. 
Those occupancy rates plummeted last 
March. While Sweetwater usually raked in 
about $18,000 a month, the figure was close 
to $500 in April. Holbrook said she tried to 
keep as many employees on staff as possible, 
but there was virtually nothing for them to do 
in those early months.
The events the hotel hosted, which Hol -
brook said have yet to start up again, account -
ed for about 65% of the revenue. However, 
she said the inn pinned its hopes on football 
Saturdays as well.
Average hotel occupancy in Gainesville 
during this season’s home football games was 59%  — a 26% decrease from the year be -
fore, according to data from Elizabeth Reyes, 
the sales and marketing manager at Visit 
Gainesville, the city’s main tourism agency.
Of the 1.1 million booked hotel nights 
in Alachua County, 6% came from the pre-
pandemic football season, Reyes wrote in an 
email.
The Red Roof Plus near I-75, located at 
3500 SW 42nd St, brought in visitors on a 
budget. It cannot boast a beautiful garden 
or meticulously furnished rooms like the 
Sweetwater, but this accommodation still saw 
big boosts during the football campaign as 
orange-and-blue faithful looked for a cheap 
place to rest their head. 
During a normal season, the Red Roof 
usually sold out the whole weekend, general 
manager Mery Lugo said. This season, less 
than 10 rooms were filled on any given week -
end. 
The occupancy rate dropped by 15% in 
October and November of 2020 compared to 
the previous year.
Football weekends in 2020 felt like any 
other weekend, which never used to be the 
case, Lugo said. The lobby was barren, and 
staff anxiously awaited for guests like chil -
dren waiting for candy on Halloween.
“We had our regulars who would come 
every weekend, and that just didn’t happen,” 
Lugo said. “Many of them were older and de -
cided not to go to games this season.”
Lugo was originally optimistic when UF 
announced Sept. 3 that the stadium would be 
open to fans for the season.
That buoyancy sunk quickly, despite Lu -
go’s best efforts through promotions and spe -
cials.
Restaurants weren’t spared either. 4Riv -
ers Smokehouse, located at 3262 SW 35th 
Blvd, typically boomed on football Saturdays. 
Gators paraphernalia throughout the eatery as 
it felt like  attending a Gators-themed party. It 
would be packed to the brim with customers 
and catering orders to on-campus tailgates, 
general manager Zachary Salzer said.
The Gator game against Auburn on Oct. 5, 
2019 was the most profitable day in the com -
pany’s history, Salzer said, as the restaurant 
made about $92,000 through catering, in-
store and takeout sales.
“We had over 100 deliveries alone,” he 
said. “So, we set an all-new sales record 
across the board.”
All that ended this past season. UF de -
clared Sept. 3 that there wouldn’t be tailgat -
ing on-campus.
But catering at 4Rivers has recovered to an 
extent, Salzer said. The joint has gone back 
to catering weddings, UF events and even the 
Vanderbilt men’s basketball team before its 
game against Florida Jan. 27.
The atmosphere a year later doesn’t com -
pare, however.
“In 2019, gamedays were thrilling,” he 
said. “Everyone, including our staff, would 
be wearing orange and blue, and we’d be 
packed. But in 2020, we actually had less 
people than a normal day come into the store 
those days.”
Many fans were watching the game from home and weren’t interested in coming into 
the restaurant, Salzer said. In March, 35 peo -
ple were laid off, but they were all hired back. 
After more than a month operating to-go only, 
Salzer said the number of patrons coming into 
the restaurant is increasing. Inside, it feels the 
same as it did pre-COVID, despite masks and 
social distancing.
“I think a lot of people in Gainesville are 
really sick of COVID at this point, and espe -
cially with more vaccines coming out, people 
are going to feel comfortable with going out 
again,” Salzer said. 
The Spot, which serves up heaping por -
tions of Greek food, is a classic hole-in-the-
wall joint. The establishment, located at 16 
NW 18th St, is easily lost in the hoopla of the 
more noticeable midtown institutions. After 
all, it’s hidden on the ground floor of a park -
ing garage.
But the restaurant is across the street from 
the stadium, which led to a large influx of 
people on game days.
“We were super busy usually,” owner Kla -
jdi Kola said. “We counted on those seven, 
eight games, and this season we had none of 
that.”
Monetary expectations have been low -
ered by a third, Kola said, and the venture 
has managed to survive with sales increasing 
daily. 
The Greater Gainesville Chamber of Com -
merce, which attempts to stimulate local busi -
nesses, has provided webinars and initiatives 
to aid these enterprises, said Atticus Stein -
metz, a data analyst.
Two of those programs — Eat GNV and 
the Gainesville Hospitality Council — have aided struggling service industries, said Staci 
Bertrand, vice president of economic devel -
opment. The programs help through regular 
meetings and social media posts, advertising 
dining establishments of every cuisine. The 
Hospitality Council has more than 20 hotel 
members, and the EAT GNV Facebook page 
has nearly 13,000 members.
However, the chamber lowered financial 
expectations for franchises this year, Bertrand 
said.
“Our goal is to have businesses maintain 
and survive,” she said.
Not all areas of Gainesville struggled dur -
ing football season. Newer areas like Celebra -
tion Pointe and Butler Town Center, which 
are mostly outdoors, thrived, she said. 
“Much of the climate is suppressed right 
now, but in our region, sporting events bring 
optimism,” she said. “And just having those 
events, even if it’s a limited number of attend -
ees, have an impact, both emotionally and 
financially.”
To Bertrand, better days are ahead for 
Gainesville’s businesses once people are vac -
cinated and sporting events kick off with full 
swing.
These businesses will be swinging for the 
fences when Gator football returns this Sep -
tember, confident that, after nearly a year of 
striking out, they will once again be hitting it 
out of the park.
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgHow a reduced football season impacted the local business scene 
Shannon Ahern / / Alligator Staff
Reduced capacity at Gator football games were like a gut punch for many businesses 
after months of the pandemic.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021   ALLIGATOR   15 
SOFTBALL
A CRUSHING 
DISAPPOINTMENT BECAME 
A CRUCIAL DECISION
By Rachel Slay 
Sports Writer
The 2020 Florida softball team 
was riding a six-game win streak. 
No. 7 Florida sat on a 23-4 record, 
including a 3-0 sweep in the SEC 
Opening Weekend against Auburn 
and a 5-2 victory over bitter rival 
Florida State. They lost just twice at 
home and outscored opponents 154-
53. The Gators were rolling full steam 
ahead until the season derailed.
Florida’s softball team walked out 
of its media room with heavy hearts 
and tears in their eyes. The team’s 
promising spring season was cut 
short March 2020 due to the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Fueled by a graceful combination 
of pain and passion, first baseman 
Kendyl Lindaman, outfielder Jaimie 
Hoover and pitcher Katie Chronister 
took the field Feb. 13 as fifth-year 
seniors. 
The NCAA brought a pillar of 
hope on March 30, 2020 and granted 
all student-athletes an extra year of 
eligibility if their spring season was 
canceled due to the pandemic.  
The news of the season’s demise 
struck Hoover like a truck. She sat 
back in disbelief and struggled to stay 
composed as the unimaginable truth 
set in. She had another opportunity 
to play in the swamp, and she didn’t 
hesitate. 
“I just knew that we had 
unfinished business to be handled,” Hoover said. “There was not a doubt 
in my head that I (was) gonna take 
it.”
Hoover stepped to the plate 169 
times and collected 33 RBIs in 2019. 
She held a .325 batting average with 
three RBIs and seven runs in just 40 
at-bats at the 2020 season’s end. 
To Hoover, her hard work was 
paying off. There was more gas in the 
tank and a lot more to prove.  
“If we had finished we would have 
been in a really good place, possibly 
with rings on our fingers,” Hoover 
said. “We’re going to continue where 
we left off.” 
By the time the NCAA’s 
announcement came, UF had closed 
its campus and moved all classes 
online. 
Head coach Tim Walton left the 
decision to come back up to each 
senior, Lindaman said. As players 
were home with their families, 
Walton let his seniors sit back and 
think about what was best for them. 
Not finishing last season on their 
own terms left a bad taste in her 
mouth. To Lindaman, an extra year 
playing at UF was a gift.
“I didn’t even need to talk to my 
family about it,” Lindaman said. 
“It was probably one of the easiest 
decisions I’ve really made.”
She entered 2020 as a three-
time National Fastpitch Coaches 
Association All-American and made 
three appearances on the USA 
Softball Collegiate Player of the Year 
Top 50 Watch List. 
Lindaman was a primary suspect 
in all cases of Gator success during 
the 2020 season, with a .410 batting average and 22 RBIs. 
“Being able to end the season 
the way that we want to, going out 
together as a team,” Lindaman said. 
“That’s something I think of when I 
say ‘unfinished business.’”
Unlike her two teammates, 
Chronister had a lot to contemplate 
before deciding to return. 
Chronister, a left-handed pitcher, 
finished the brief 2020 season with 
a 1.08 ERA in 13 innings and five 
strikeouts. The Gainesville native 
cruised through her final season 
while getting her ducks in a row for 
her future.   
The pitcher graduated that 
spring with her bachelor’s degree in 
sports management. She decided to 
pursue a master’s degree in sports 
management and considered taking a 
graduate assistant position.
The options bounced around her 
head as she stood at the crossroads of 
working or playing for the team. She 
was certain Florida softball would 
be part of her future, but she didn’t 
know in what capacity that would 
happen.
She found solace in having a 
plan B, but knew her softball career 
wasn’t meant to be over. She had 
been thrust to the final sentences 
of a monumental chapter in her life 
and forced to skip pages of milestone 
moments. 
To Chronister, the end of her 
career had been taken from her too 
soon. 
“I just felt heartbroken for a couple 
of days,” Chronister said. “I don’t 
think I was mentally prepared for it.” 
The intangible characteristics of the 2020 team, coupled with stellar 
athletic performance, was what made 
it so unique. 
“I felt included with anything I 
was doing, whether I was playing 
on the field or not,” Chronister said. 
“That’s kind of a special feeling that 
you have when you’re with a group 
of girls.” 
Naturally, the Gator softball team 
is competitive. However, the players 
focus on something not counted on 
the stat sheet: having a good time. 
“Honestly, if you’re not smiling, 
then why are you doing it?” Hoover 
said. 
If Hoover isn’t dancing before a 
game, something is off. Her pre-game 
playlist includes Drake,  Megan Thee 
Stallion and more to kick off the good 
vibes. 
“He (Drake) isn’t really hype but 
he gets me moving,” she said as a 
subtle groove passed through her 
shoulders. 
There is a cool balance between 
competitive intensity and having fun 
on the field, Chronister said. As the 
opponent’s starters are announced 
before games, Chronsiter replays 
scouting reports in her head. Whether 
she’s pitching or not, she wants to 
stay sharp and help her teammates. 
Despite her desire to stay focused, 
she can’t help but smile at a certain 
scent that greets her every time she 
takes the field. She isn’t met with the 
sweet fragrance of grass or the thick 
aroma of freshly raked clay. Rather, 
it’s right-handed pitcher Natalie 
Lugo’s perfume that greets her. 
Lugo always does her makeup 
for games, crafting each lash to 
perfection and, after spending so 
much time next to her, Chronister 
now associates the scent of Lugo’s 
perfume with game-time.
On game days, Lindaman arrives 
early to hang out with her teammates 
to soak up every moment of this 
season and cherishes those off the 
field through the laughs, stories and 
smiles the team shares.
“Yes, it’s great to be winning and 
being on the field with my team but 
it’s the moments outside of softball… 
getting to know them as people. 
Lindaman said. “Not as players.”But social distancing guidelines 
shrunk the team’s options for bonding 
activities. 
The team usually spent a day at 
Walton’s lake house, going out on the 
boat and playing games. The lake day 
didn’t happen this year, but the girls 
had a movie night around Christmas 
where they watched “Miracle” in 
the stands at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium. 
The team also shared presentations 
with pictures of their family to learn 
more about each other. 
“I love getting to know everyone 
and their background and where they 
come from,” Lindaman said. 
The trio was given a nickname by 
their teammates: “the Great-Grandma 
Gators.” They welcome this new title 
with open arms as each is a leader in 
their respective position group. 
As veterans, the girls draw from 
years of experience to help their 
younger teammates on-and-off 
the field. They want to help them 
overcome failure and take care of their 
mental health as student-athletes. 
“Being a good person on and 
off the field is bigger than softball,” 
Hoover said. “That’s a lifetime thing 
that we can work on and get better 
at.”
An 11-month drought of 
competition allowed plenty of time for 
character building off the field. Now, 
it’s time for the Gators to remind the 
country who they are on the field. 
The team is antsy, and the seniors 
are chomping at the bit during the 
season’s start. They’ve been stoking 
the coals of extinguished flames, 
preparing for the chance to reignite 
the fire. 
“I want to win the natty,” Hoover 
said. “I want to win, and I want to go 
far with this team because I think we 
can do it.” 
The season will be the last for 
Hoover, Lindaman and Chronister 
– what most would call a somber 
thought.   
But for them, it couldn’t have 
started sooner.
 
@racheljslay
rslay@alligator.orgUnfinished business: three seniors return to Florida softball with extended eligibility
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Forward Madison Alexander plays against College of Charleston Saturday. The Gators won 5-1.Alligator File Photos
Seniors Katie Chronister (left), Kendyl Lindaman (center) and Jaimie 
Hoover (right) all return to the diamond after the team’s promising 
spring season was cut short due to COVID-19.
SOCCER16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2021
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
saturdaysaturday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS
        &        &
KARAOKEKARAOKE
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
::
$$33
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
 LEMON DROPSLEMON DROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDE FIRST MAGNITUDE 
DRAFTSDRAFTS
$$33
$$44
TEQUILA SHOTSTEQUILA SHOTS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD
DRAFTSDRAFTS
$$779999
BURGER BASKETSBURGER BASKETS
$$779999
CHICKEN NACHOSCHICKEN NACHOS
LIVE DJ @ 10LIVE DJ @ 10 pmpm
 99pm pm IN THE BACK BARIN THE BACK BAR
 LIVE DJ @ 10LIVE DJ @ 10 pmpmBASEBALL
FLORIDA BASEBALL FELL 
BEHIND AFTER IT FAILED TO 
CLOSE EARLY 
EIGHT-RUN GAP
By Sara Kate Dyson
Sports Writer 
Fans scattered around Florida 
Ballpark sat in anticipation Sun -
day afternoon, awaiting the start 
of this weekend’s rubber match  
against Miami. 
But as the first eight runs 
crossed the plate, the cheers came 
only from Miami’s dugout.
Florida fell behind early in the 
last game of its series against Mi -
ami and faced unexpected pitch -
ing blunders, which head coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan blames for the 
Gators’ struggles the entire week -
end.
“The offense did the job, but 
the bottom line is the pitching did 
not,” O’Sullivan said.
Left-handed pitcher Hunter 
Barco kicked things off with a ball 
to the back of Miami outfielder 
Jordan Lala. This snowballed into 
a three-run first inning before the 
Gators even grabbed their bats.
The next couple of innings told 
a similar story. 
Shortstop Josh Rivera’s error 
granted one run in the second in -
ning for the Hurricanes. Miami’s 
Raymond Gil sailed a ball over the left-center wall for a solo shot  
in the third.
In the top of the fourth inning, 
Barco gave up another run before 
his afternoon came to an end. 
Freshman right-hander Hunt -
er Mink then took over for the 
Gators, but Miami still knocked 
in two more runs before another 
three-run inning came to an end. 
The Gators struggled offen -
sively early on, a contrast from 
the pattern established earlier in 
the weekend.
In the first inning, Jacob 
Young’s double extended his hit 
streak to 632 days. However, 
three consecutive strikeouts fol -
lowed, and Young was left strand -
ed. In the bottom of the third, two 
runners managed to get on base, 
but neither crossed home plate. 
It wasn’t until the bottom of 
the fourth inning that Gator fans 
had something to cheer about.  
Florida delivered three consecu -
tive singles, which finally put a 
run on the board. However, even 
with the bases loaded and just 
one out, the Gators failed to cut 
farther into the deficit.
Then, the momentum seemed 
to flip in the fifth inning when the 
Gators started to climb back. 
A couple of Miami fielding 
blunders and a single from Jor -
dan Butler scored one for Florida. 
Still down by six runs, something 
clicked for the Florida offense. The Gators earned back two 
more in the sixth after a pair of 
Young and catcher Mac Guscette 
singles, a walk and a balk. 
The Gators inched even closer 
in the seventh. Rivera beat out 
an infield single to open the in -
ning and scored moments later 
off a Sterlin Thompson double 
to left-center. With two outs, a 
hard-hit line drive off the second 
baseman’s glove sent Thompson 
home and cut Miami’s lead to just 
two runs. 
That’s where the comeback 
ended. 
While the defense blanked the 
Hurricanes, the Gators couldn’t 
make up the difference at the 
plate. The Hurricanes took game 
three — and the series — with a 
final score of 8-6.
As the unanimous preseason 
No. 1 team, no one, including 
O’Sullivan, expected Florida to 
fall two games to one against No. 
11 Miami.
“I guess the best word to 
describe it was unexpected,” 
O’Sullivan said. “There’s no ex -
cuses, we’ve just got to get bet -
ter.” 
Florida will look to bounce 
back against North Florida in 
Jacksonville Tuesday.
 
@sarakatedyson
skatedyson@alligator.orgToo little, too late for Gators in series loss to Miami
THIS WEEK IN GATOR SPORTS
Monday
Women’s Basketball vs. Kentucky || 88-80 Loss
Tuesday
Men’s Basketball at Arkansas || 75-64 Loss
Wednesday
Softball vs. Jacksonville || 1-0 Win
Women’s Golf at Moon Golf Invitational || Tied for 11th
Thursday
Women’s Basketball vs. Alabama || 77-70 Loss
Friday
Lacrosse at North Carolina || 5-1 Loss
Women’s Tennis at Alabama || 5-3 Win
Men’s Tennis vs. Alabama || 4-1 Win
Baseball vs. Miami || 8-5 Win
Softball vs. Georgia Southern || 8-3 Win
Gymnastics vs. Kentucky || 197.50 - 196.875 Win
Saturday
Soccer vs. College of Charleston || 5-1 Win
Baseball vs. Miami || 10-9 (F13) Loss
Softball vs. Georgia Southern || 2-1 Win
Softball vs. Charlotte || 5-3 Win
Men’s Basketball vs. Georgia || 70-63 Win
Sunday
Softball vs. Charlotte || 4-0 Win
Softball vs. Georgia Southern || 11-0 Win 
Men’s Tennis vs. Auburn || 6-1 Win 
Women’s Tennis at Auburn || 4-2 Loss
Baseball vs. Miami || 8-6 Loss
Women’s Basketball at Missouri || 96-80