We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Critter Creek Farm Sanctuary
The safe haven houses over 200 animals,  pg. 6
Remembering racial terror
Gainesville unveils new historical marker,  pg.4Driveway drill sessions
Florida volleyball’s Merritt Beason felt her 
sport could play a bigger role for girls in her 
hometown. So she started volunteering with 
her old middle school team,  pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 10
No car? No problem.
Hitch oﬀers private and shared rides from Gainesville to Orlando, 
Jacksonville, Tampa, and more. 
First ride is FREE!* CODE: UFNEWS1 ridehitch.com *discount up to $50
Liana Barros / / Alligator Staff
Jennifer McKathan (left), American Cancer Society health systems manager, embraces Pam 
Clevenger (right) after she receives a breast cancer survivor sash at the Making Strides Against 
Breast Cancer event in Celebration Pointe on Saturday, Oct. 23, 2021. Clevenger, survivor for 12 
years, is also a UF Health cancer patient navigator. Read more on page 8.
GAINESVILLE RESIDENTS 
WEIGH IN ON HOW 
STUDENTS CAN CHANGE 
GAINESVILLE FOR 
THE BETTER
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students come to Gainesville 
with the promise of education, 
new friendships, experiences 
and overflowing opportunities. 
However, their residence is 
temporary, and they may not realize 
how their actions could impact the 
surrounding community.
The Rev. Gerard Duncan, 
a pastor at Faith Ministries in 
Gainesville, said he has worked 
with students through the David & 
Wanda Brown Center for Student 
Leadership, a UF center providing 
guidance and resources for student 
organizations. He said it’s getting 
harder to live in Gainesville’s 
historic communities because the 
people native to the area can no 
longer afford to live there.
“A university can build relationships within a community 
where there’s trust, and they can 
communicate,” Duncan said. “That 
relationship, historically, has been 
broken. Most community neighbors 
are very hesitant because of the 
broken relationship. They’re taking 
our jobs, taking our community, 
taking our houses.”
Peggy Macdonald, a public 
historian and former director of the 
Matheson History Museum, said 
the concept of ACRs — a nickname 
for Alachua County residents — 
creates an idea that residents are 
“townies” separate from UF.
“Gainesville doesn’t view UF as 
separate,” she said. “There were so 
many people over the years who 
have gone to school at UF, who 
have worked for UF. The entire 
town of Gainesville stops when 
it’s homecoming. So, there’s a long 
tradition of embracing UF.”
UF dates back to 1853, when 
Florida established the East Florida 
Seminary, a public school that 
was merged with three others to 
eventually become UF, Macdonald 
said.
By Max T aylor
Alligator Staff Writer
Dr. Sankalp Gilda was exhausted. 
He balanced 60-hour work weeks with 
a doctoral student load at the behest of 
his supervisor, migraines and regular 
discrimination from his status as an Indian 
international student. 
His exhaustion worsened throughout the 
nine months of his supervisor’s taunts. 
Once, Gilda found out his supervisor 
told his department he was going to a 
conference in California. The supervisor 
was actually flying out to visit his girlfriend. Gilda reported it to the department.  
How dare you complain against me 
and put my potential tenure in jeopardy? 
You know you have already switched 
supervisors once, right? You know you are 
on a visa, right?
The supervisor forced Gilda to apologize 
and threatened to quit working with him 
— putting his graduation and legal status 
at risk. To maintain an active student visa 
status, international doctoral students must 
have their graduate work supervised by a 
faculty member.
So Gilda apologized. But the supervisor 
didn’t let him go without one last dig. Are you apologizing to me because you 
really mean it, or because you know I can 
impact your future job prospects?
His supervisor was Zachary Slepian, a 
Harvard-educated assistant professor who 
joined the UF astronomy department in 
2018.
Gilda, a 29-year-old UF doctoral 2021 
graduate, filed a formal complaint with 
the federal Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission against UF’s astronomy 
department for discrimination, harssment, 
unpaid wages and intentional infliction of 
emotional damage. He also filed a lawsuit 
against UF for unpaid wages.He first realized his work environment 
was problematic when Slepian texted him 
at night, on the weekends and even during 
his lunch hour. Slepian questioned Gilda’s 
whereabouts and demanded he get back to 
work. 
When Gilda objected, Slepian would 
change the subject or call him “submissive.”
Slepian expected Gilda to work from 8 
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday — 
he worked anywhere from 50 to 70 hours 
per week.
However, Slepian’s other graduate 
student — who was white — had a set 
weekly meeting time and usually worked 
the 20 hours per week required by the UF students and Gainesville’s Black 
neighborhoods: A ‘broken relationship’
UF astronomy doctoral graduate files lawsuit for discrimination, unpaid wagesSEE STUDENTS,  PAGE 4
SEE DISCRIMINATION,  PAGE 5Dr. Sankalp Gilda was called an ‘idiot,’ ‘submissive Indian’T oday’s Weather
THE MAJORITY PARTY 
DOMINATED LEADERSHIP 
WITHIN COMMITTEES SINCE 
AT LEAST FALL 2020
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
Gator Party has kept a grip on 
senate committees for the past 
three semesters. This semester is no 
different, with 100% of nominated 
committee members belonging to 
the majority party. 
Gator Party has held a majority 
in Senate for more than a year since 
Spring 2020 when it won its first 
executive ticket. Now, with about 70 
Gator senators in the chamber, the 
composition of Senate committees 
echoes this majority.  
Committees are responsible for 
reviewing bills, recommending 
replacement senators, amending 
the budget and enforcing senator 
requirements, among many other 
responsibilities.
Currently, Gator holds 97.5% 
of representation in committees. 
The remaining 2.5% amounts 
to one senator: Minority Party 
Leader Gabrielle Adekunle, 
who is guaranteed a spot on 
the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee, according to SG codes. 
This distribution is 
disproportionate with Senate’s 
composition, of which Gator 
accounts for about 70% of Senate 
seats, and Change 12%. Fifteen 
percent of seats are empty and it’s 
unclear what party the remaining 
3% of senators belong to.
Despite holding 12 Senate seats, 
Change doesn’t have any appointed 
representation in the committees.
Data compiled by The Alligator 
shows since at least Fall 2020, 
about 80% of nominated committee 
members have been affiliated with 
Gator, translating to at least 43 out 
of 54 counted nominees. It’s unclear 
what parties the remaining 11 
belong to.
The data was collected through 
past Replacement and Agenda 
recommendations on senate 
meeting agendas. A majority of 
committee seats are filled in the meeting following ratification of that 
semester’s election results. 
Senate recently approved 
three members for Budget and 
Appropriations, four for Information 
and Communications, six for Rules 
and Ethics, and four for Judiciary. 
Senate also approved four chairs 
to rule over these committees, all 
of whom are affiliated with Gator 
Party. 
Four out of six members on 
the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee are also elected: the 
Senate President, Pro-Tempore 
and two Members-at-Large. This 
semester, all four members are 
Gator Party. 
A UF Supreme Court case in 
February 2021 established suspicion 
on Gator Party’s trend of favoring 
their own senators for committee 
seats. Although the current data 
doesn’t account for all committee 
members appointed for the last three 
semesters, it continues the pattern. 
While the number of 
Gator committee members is 
disproportionate, just three of 12 
Change senators applied for a seat.
Ethan Sawyer (Change, District 
D), a freshly elected senator, 
applied for a seat on the Budget and 
Appropriations and Information and 
Communications committees but 
didn’t get either one. He believes 
this is because he didn’t know the 
answers to questions about the 
specific functions of the committees 
he applied to. 
“I also felt like, going in there, 
I shouldn't have been expected 
to know the details of those 
committees, considering I had just 
started like a week prior,” he said. 
Sawyer, a 19-year-old political 
science sophomore, said he 
understands why Gator senators 
got all the seats. It makes sense for 
a political party to pick candidates 
whose goals line up with what it 
wants to accomplish. 
“If [Change] were in that same 
position, being the ones on the 
other end of the table ... we would 
probably pick people that we felt like 
aligned with our moral compasses 
the same way or our party beliefs 
the same way,” he said.
While it may make sense to some, Communist Party president 
Alfredo Ortiz considers this trend 
as discrimination. He has witnessed 
the same trend in replacement 
Senate seats, and filed a case with 
the UF Supreme Court focusing on 
dampening party favoritism.
According to data collected 
by members of the Communist 
Party, 98% of replacement Senate 
seats since Spring 2019 have been 
affiliated with the majority party at 
the time. The remaining 2%, totaling 
to one senator over two years ago, 
belonged to a minority party. Ortiz 
believes this proves discrimination. 
“This is something that the 
majority party uses after elections 
to boost their percentage of the 
seats and to maintain control over 
legislation,” Ortiz said.
The Communist Party collected 
the names of nominated replacement 
senators through Senate agendas. 
Ortiz said it found out senators’ 
party affiliations through Senate 
minutes, election results and social 
media. 
The Alligator was only able to 
confirm 28 out of the 69 nominated 
replacement senators listed, about 
41%, were affiliated with the 
majority party at the time since 
2019. Public records requested for 
party affiliation forms were not 
available in time for publication. 
Ortiz wants the court to alter the 
composition of Senate committees 
by making it so they are proportional 
to the number of seats each party 
has. He’s confident the Supreme 
Court will side with him on this 
case. 
The court decided to hear his 
case as of Sunday.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 10
 Committee seats are 
disproportionately Gator Party
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
Carolina Ilvento / / Alligator Staff Carolina Ilvento / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
ALERT
Plasma is needed now. 
This is a call you can’t 
ignore. Because 
patients can’t wait.
New donors receive
up to $800 your
ﬁrst month.
Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th St
Gainesville
(352) 378-9431
*Must be 18-69 years of age, weigh at least 110 pounds and be in general good health to donate plasma. In addition to 
meeting center donation criteria, you must provide a valid photo ID, proof of current address, and proof of Social Security 
number or Border Crossing Card to donate. Valid for new donors at participating centers only. Management reserves all rights. 
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
be smart.
eat local.
5001 NW 34th Blvd
352-505-6644   •   africanunique.comGrocery, Beauty, Fashion, Wellness
THE REPORT LISTED SIX 
NON-CRITICAL VIOLATIONS 
AND ONE DIRECT VIOLATION OF 
THE AMERICAN WELFARE ACT’S 
REQUIREMENTS FOR 
VETERINARY CARE
By Bryce Brown
Alligator Staff Writer 
Rays of sunlight beamed into a cage, il -
luminating the trimmed vegetation and the 
painted metal bars of two monkeys’ reno -
vated habitat. 
The enclosure, filled with logs and leafy 
vines, was a new home for Mike and Molly. 
The pair of black-handed spider monkeys 
now live at Jungle Friends Primate Sanctu -
ary, a non-profit sanctuary that cares for 
retired lab research monkeys, ex-pets and 
monkeys confiscated by authorities. 
The primate sanctuary has a number of 
refurbished enclosures boasting new play 
equipment for the monkeys, but it wasn’t 
always like this. 
In July, the sanctuary faced potential 
shutdown after an inspection revealed 
seven violations of animal safety require -
ments.  
The report listed six non-critical viola -
tions and one direct violation of the Ameri -
can Welfare Act’s requirements for veteri -
nary care. 
A consulting veterinarian didn’t inform 
owner Kari Bagnall and Dr. Bobby Collins, 
the attending veterinarian, about a con -
trolled substance prescribed to one of the 
monkeys. The critical violation was linked 
to employees not knowing when to contact 
the attending or consulting veterinarians, 
Bagnall said. 
The inspection report also detailed an 
accumulation of feces in the enclosures, 
insect infestations, expired medications, 
rusty cages, understaffing and overgrowth 
that attracted pests and vermin. 
Jungle Friends, located at 13915 N 
State Road 121, was given until Sept. 24 
to improve its conditions, but authorities 
extended the deadline. Bagnall said she 
didn’t know the new deadline, and the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture couldn’t 
be reached to confirm the date. Authorities 
inspected the sanctuary after complaints from former employees and volunteers 
about the rough conditions primates en -
dured. 
The decline in the sanctuary’s condi -
tion was caused by an uncharacteristically 
rainy dry season that led to overgrowth, 
Bagnall said. Understaffing was also exac -
erbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The sanctuary raises funds through 
private donations and tourists who visit 
through an Airbnb experience program. 
Since the pandemic, the sanctuary has lost 
more money than it has brought in, Bagnall 
said. She has used Paycheck Protection 
Program loans to ensure staff gets paid. 
“We’re trying to get more people inter -
ested, but it’s really hard,” Bagnall said. 
“People are in trouble. Everyone’s in trou -
ble right now. It’s just a weird situation.”  
When the initial Sept. 24 deadline ar -
rived, Bagnall said the sanctuary still had 
a lot of work to do across the 150 habitats 
home to more than 250 primates.
The sanctuary, Bagnall said, has since 
streamlined communication between at -
tending veterinarian Collins and the con -
sulting veterinarians: Dr. Fred Schirmer at 
West End Animal Hospital and Dr. Darryl 
J. Heard at UF. 
Food storage rooms are now clean and 
organized, Bagnall said. There have been 
no insect or pest issues since the sanctuary 
has implemented stringent daily cleaning 
duties. 
Sara Smith, a volunteer of more than 
20 years, said employees now rake food 
waste every day and clean out fecal matter 
weekly. 
The overgrowth has been cut back in 
some enclosures, which allows for employ -
ees to ensure overall cleanliness and see 
whether rodents or snakes sneak in, Smith 
said. Monkeys have been moved out of 
overgrown enclosures that still need to be 
refurbished. 
The sanctuary has doubled its staff to 12 
members since the USDA investigation be -
gan. She aims to have 25 employees within 
the next year. 
Bagnall said she fired several staff mem -
bers after the inspection for slacking on 
cleaning duties, neglecting to check expira -
tion dates and not communicating with the 
rest of the staff.
In search of a more dependable staff, Bagnall has implemented a paid working 
interview process in which candidates 
complete up to eight days of on-site duties 
to determine if they’re suitable for the posi -
tion. The prospective employees, however, 
aren’t required to have prior experience 
with monkeys. 
Lenny Finnegan, a landscape mainte -
nance employee, left his position as a car 
mechanic to work for Jungle Friends two-
and-a-half months ago. 
Finnegan, who has refurbished around 
20 to 30 habitats, said it’s difficult to com -
plete all needed maintenance each day. He 
often has to take on different roles because 
there aren’t enough employees. 
“Getting some of my habitats cleaned 
up and getting things moved around, 
that’s where more hands would help so 
I wouldn’t have to come off and go from 
maintenance to caregiver,” he said. “But 
we’re getting there.” 
Marie Finnegan, a monkey caregiver at 
the sanctuary, noticed a big change in the 
monkeys’ behavior since the sanctuary be -gan its cleanup. The animals appear hap -
pier, she said, and staff has collaborated 
better than before. 
“We have been working our booties 
off,” she said. “Sunrise to sundown, mak -
ing sure that this is getting done. We want 
to make sure that they’re happy and that 
they’re safe.” 
Lora Lattimer was hired a month ago 
and said despite the issues, the monkeys 
are treated better than the humans.
“[Kari] took it upon herself that there 
was a need, and she rescued these mon -
keys,” she said. “She’s not the problem. 
Kari’s the solution.” 
The USDA and Florida Fish and Wild -
life, the two investigating agencies, haven’t 
provided comment on the most recent in -
spection of Jungle Friends. The authori -
ties will conduct a courtesy visit Nov. 3 in 
which they will outline unresolved issues 
and how they should be addressed.
@brycebrownnn
bbrown@alligator.orgJungle Friends Primate Sanctuary moves forward following inspection violations
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
A squirrel monkey walks around its enclosure at the Jungle Friends Primate 
Sanctuary on Tuesday, Oct. 12, 2021.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021By Erina Anwar
Alligator Contributing Writer
The City of Gainesville unveiled 
a new historical marker to com -
memorate Black individuals who 
were victims of post-Reconstruction 
lynching.
About 50 Alachua County com -
munity members gathered in front 
of the Alachua County Administra -
tion Building Saturday morning for a 
dedication ceremony to honor those 
who were identified as victims of 
racial terror between 1868 to 1874. 
County Commissioners unveiled 
a historical marker engraved with 
information on lynchings that took 
place after the Reconstruction era. 
The project was created by the Ala -
chua County Community Remem -
brance Project and the Equal Justice 
Initiative.
The marker replaced a spot that once belonged to a statue of “Old 
Joe,” a confederate soldier. The stat -
ue commemorated soldiers of the 
Confederate States Army and was 
taken down in 2017 after increasing 
protests at Alachua County Com -
mission meetings.
The historical marker is engraved 
on both sides with information on 
lynching on a local and national 
level after the American Civil War.
One side is titled “Lynching in 
America,” and honors the story of 
thousands of African Americans 
who were lynched during Recon -
struction because white leaders 
wanted to maintain racial, economic 
and social control. It also states that 
Florida had one of the highest per 
capita lynching rates in the nation.
On the other side of the marker: 
“Reconstruction-Era Lynchings in 
Gainesville.” This side provides in -
formation on racial terror that oc -curred in Gainesville specifically. It 
lists individuals identified to have 
been lynched between 1868 and 
1874: Harry Franklin, Mr. Stephens, 
an unnamed person, Christopher 
Cummings, Henry Washington, Al -
exander Morris, Sandy Hacock and 
Eli.
“Most people didn’t think in 
their lifetime that we would be able 
to put a marker here to honor the 
men who were lynched in the city of 
Gainesville,” said Evelyn Foxx, pres -
ident of the Alachua County branch 
of the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People. 
“We’re just trying to bring truth to 
the whole process.”
The NAACP and the United 
Church of Gainesville went up to the 
Equal Justice Initiative headquarters 
in Montgomery to propose a collab -
oration to create historical markers, 
Foxx said.
The Equal Justice Initiative is 
working with Alachua County, 
among dozens of other counties na -
tionwide, for its community remem -
brance project. They started the his -
torical markers as a continuation of 
the soil collection efforts that took 
place in February.
“We have a lot of exciting things 
in store,” said Bre Lamkin, Project 
Manager for Racial Justice Efforts at 
the EJI. “There are several sub-com -
mittees operating here in Alachua 
County all of whom intend to host 
soil collections, historical markers 
installations and essay contests.”
The information on the markers 
was largely compiled by UF Ad -
junct Associate Professor of African 
American studies and a filmmaker, 
Patricia Hilliard-Nunn and director 
of the Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program, Paul Ortiz. Both conduct -
ed research and composed the liter -
ature on both sides of the historical marker. Hilliard-Nunn passed away 
last year, but she is remembered by 
her work and passion for social jus -
tice.
Hilliard-Nunn’s husband, UF 
Levin College of Law lecturer Ken -
neth Nunn, recounted how she de -
cided to dedicate her time to this 
project.
“She wanted to make a film 
about Gainesville history. That re -
quired her to do a lot of oral history 
with people around town,” Kenneth 
said. “The question of unspeakable, 
unremembered events used to come 
up a lot. Nobody recognized it or 
talked about the fact that this oc -
curred.”
Kenneth said Patricia would con -
tinue digging and finding descen -
dants of people who were lynched. 
After continuing to speak to them, 
she convinced them to share their 
stories.
“It empowered and embold -
ened people to begin to speak their 
truths,” Kenneth said.
Members of the Gainesville City 
Commission and Alachua County 
Commission also said they sup -
port and advocate for the markers. 
Gainesville mayor Lauren Poe also 
spoke at the unveiling.
“The citizens and public officials 
of Gainesville failed in their basic re -
sponsibility to safeguard fellow citi -
zens, to uphold the rule of law and 
to offer equal justice to each indi -
vidual,” Poe said. “On behalf of the 
City of Gainesville I offer our deep -
est and sincerest apology for such 
racial terror lynchings that they ever 
happened in our city.”
Florida state Rep. Yvonne Hayes 
Hinson spoke out on a need to end 
years of oppression that continues 
through what she called “the new 
Jim Crow” in the prison system.
“As a nation we declare that all men are created equal. Do we really 
mean it?” Hinson said. “We must 
unify and revolt and protest to these 
radical changes. Build bridges with 
our neighbors, not walls of division. 
Make it uncomfortable for hate to 
live here.”
Hinson spoke about her propos -
al of a bill to end cash bail for the 
many individuals sitting in jail with -
out a trial because they cannot af -
ford bail. She is also advocating for 
a bill that recognizes unpaid prison 
labor as slave labor. Both bills will 
be proposed during the upcoming 
legislative session in January.
The ceremony also held a perfor -
mance from the Caring and Sharing 
Learning School. Elementary school 
students in the fine arts program 
sang the Black National Anthem, 
“Lift Every Voice and Sing,” and 
performed a modern-dance piece to 
music from the movie, “Harriet.”
Gainesville resident Tarena Stan -
ley, 37, attended the event with her 
daughter, a fourth grader at Caring 
and Sharing Learning School. She 
believes the best way to introduce 
children to this history is being 
transparent about the injustices to -
ward African Americans that hap -
pened in the past.
“I think it’s important to be hon -
est. It’s important to not sugarcoat 
it,” Stanley said. “Simply phrase it 
in a way that a child would under -
stand.”
Her 9-year-old daughter, Laila 
Stanley, said she learned of the his -
tory of racial terror from class and 
teachers in the after-school arts pro -
gram.
“It made me feel happy,” Laila 
said.
 
Erina Anwar is a contributing 
writer for The Alligator.New historical marker commemorates victims of racial terror in Gainesville
Aude Gagnon-Roberge / / Alligator Staff
A historical marker is unveiled at the Alachua County 
Administration Building on Saturday, Oct. 23, 2021. The marker 
commemorates victims of lynching and says that at least 12 
Black people were lynched in Gainesville.
The East Florida Seminary was originally 
located in Ocala but moved to Gainesville in 
1866.
When Florida Agricultural College in Lake 
City, St. Petersburg Normal and Industrial 
School and South Florida Military College were 
merging with East Florida Seminary, it was 
unclear whether UF would lay its roots down 
in Gainesville.
“The community of Gainesville fought hard 
to get UF and won over Lake City,” Macdonald 
said.
At first, she said many of UF’s faculty and 
students had ties to the Confederate Army. UF 
was established in Gainesville in 1905.
“It was a white, male-only school,” she 
said. “It replaced a Florida center, which had 
a long tradition first in Ocala of being pro-
Confederate.”
Now in 2021, activists say Gainesville’s 
Black neighborhoods are being erased because 
of the city’s growth brought forth by the school 
that residents fought to bring here.
“There are more people speaking up in the 
community against gentrification,” Macdonald 
said. “That has gone way back to the origins of 
the Fifth Avenue Art Festival.”
Nkwanda Jah, 67, was just one of the early 
organizers involved with the festival, which 
dates back to the 1970s. Organizers were 
concerned about gentrification and thought one way they could help was to celebrate the history 
of the Fifth Avenue and Pleasant Street area, 
one of Gainesville’s historic Black communities, 
Jah said.
Some East Gainesville residents like Jah 
believe there are numerous ways UF students 
can help the community around them. She said 
students are especially needed for volunteer 
tutoring at local schools and clubs.
Her nonprofit, Cultural Arts Coalition, 
hosts a science club at several schools and 
public libraries to engage elementary school 
students with science activities, she said. The 
organization also has a bus that it turned into a 
mobile interactive science station that travels all 
over the county.
“The more volunteers we have, the more 
clubs we can have,” Jah said.
Gentrification creates barriers between 
people, said Faye Williams, a 66-year-old 
Porters Quarters resident and founder of 
cultural and activism center M.A.M.A.’s Club.
Williams believes that by not educating 
students about the history and people of 
Gainesville, UF is purposefully separating 
students from residents.
“Maybe we need students to come over to 
our centers and help our children,” Williams 
said. “Or maybe come over and take our 
children over to the art gallery. We need 
to live in one world. We got to learn how to 
communicate with each other.”
JoJo Sacks, a 24-year old coordinator for the 
local activism hub the Civic Media Center, said 
she volunteered at the CMC when she was a UF 
anthropology student.
Originally from South Florida, Sacks didn’t 
know about the history of Gainesville at first. She said she learned not by her schooling at UF 
but by showing up for community initiatives 
happening around town and getting to know 
people.
“UF doesn’t really do a good job at educating 
its students about the community that the 
university is situated in,” she said.
The CMC has been around for 28 years and 
was started by people who, for the most part, 
weren’t native to Gainesville, Sacks said. The 
organization tries to support those with ties to 
Gainesville who have been residents of the city 
for longer.
“I definitely think that a lot of students realize 
that there is much more to Gainesville than the 
university when they come to volunteer with 
us,” she said. “I’ve definitely seen that happen.”
Alexandra Quintana, a 20-year-old UF 
political science senior, said she goes downtown 
a few times a week as an intern with the State 
Attorney’s Office. In her free time, she goes to 
the eastern corner of campus to hang out with 
friends at 4th Ave Food Park and walks over to 
Cora P. Roberson Park.
Quintana said she became aware of 
the gentrification in historically Black 
neighborhoods in Gainesville through 
volunteering.
As vice-president of Take Action Florida, 
Quintana has helped organize volunteering 
events at St. Francis House, which helps 
fight homelessness in the area. She has also 
volunteered at the CMC.
“I think Civic Media Center is kind of like 
that heart of that region,” she said. “Because I 
feel like it does really bring that area together, 
and, for me at least, keeps me up to date with 
all the things going on.”However, Quintana said she recognizes that 
as a Gainesville transplant who will likely leave 
after four years, she contributes to gentrification.
“Obviously, I’m not part of that community, 
so I can’t really speak on those experiences,” 
she said. “But from an ally’s point of view, I just 
try to support when I can.”
Students should try to get involved with 
community organizations in any way possible, 
she said. Students should follow activists and 
local organizations that share opportunities for 
student volunteers on social media and host 
events to inform students about community 
issues.
Rachel Wolfrey, a 21-year-old UF political 
science and public relations junior, said she 
spends more time off campus than she does 
on campus. Wolfrey considers herself more 
of a Gainesville resident than a resident of her 
hometown of Fort Lauderdale. 
“When I turned 21 last week, I changed my 
driver’s license to here,” she said. “All of my 
mail gets sent to here, my car registration is 
here, and I use this as my primary address for 
everything.”
As a transfer student from UCF, Wolfrey 
finds herself being most fascinated with what 
Gainesville has to offer besides the UF campus.
“Gainesville is such an amazing place, 
and there’s so many amazing people,” she 
said. “People really take for granted that this 
is people’s home. They don’t take the time to 
learn about the area whatsoever or its historical 
significance.”
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgSTUDENTS,  from pg. 1GentrificationThe newest marker from the Alachua County Community Remembrance Project is now unveiledMONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
AMELIA’S WAS CLOSED 
FOR ALMOST TWO MONTHS
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Amelia’s reopened its doors Thursday 
to the general public for the first time since 
its owner, Andy Fass, died.
The Italian eatery, located on 235 S 
Main St., was closed to the general pub -
lic for nearly two months after the loss 
of Fass, a man just as well-regarded for 
his character as he was for his food. The 
45-year-old died on Aug. 26.
Fass was not Amelia’s first owner. The 
man who would become known for his cu -
linary mastery had received his law degree 
from the University of Florida but ultimate -
ly decided that the legal profession was not 
for him.  
While visiting his sister in Vermont in 
the early 2000s, Fass formally embarked 
on his culinary journey by beginning his 
studies at the New England Culinary In -
stitute. He ultimately bought Amelia’s in 
2007 with his mission not only being to 
serve delicious dinners but to give patrons 
a warm dining experience.      
Lisa Zucker, Fass’ 41-year-old sister, 
said she looked forward to welcoming 
guests back to dine at her late brother’s 
restaurant. She has no doubt the restaurant 
will continue to be a success.
“His servers are all the same that were there before he passed away,” she said.   
Zucker said guests can now once again 
enjoy the variety of veal options as well as 
one of her personal favorites, the Crostini 
NY –– a crispy bread with spinach and ar -
tichoke parmesan cheese. Some other op -
tions on the menu include the Surf and Turf 
Adriatico with the choice of either a grilled 
NY strip or Bistro filets, the Lobster Ravi -
oli Alfonso served with a marinara cream 
sauce and Linguini Bolognese, a pasta dish 
including carrots and ground beef.     
“When people come to eat at the restau -
rant, that’s the greatest gift for us keeping 
his legacy alive,” she said.  
Juan Calama, 44, an attorney who was 
Fass’ roommate in law school at UF, said 
he had different emotions while anticipat -
ing the restaurant’s reopening.  
“The sense of him being not physically 
present, obviously, it makes us sad,” Cal -
ama said. “But it makes us also happy to 
know that his legacy continues.” 
Gainesville residents Pete and Lani Mc -
Quade said they have been going to Ame -
lia’s since before Fass became its owner 
in 2007. The couple visted the restaurant 
Friday night.
Lani McQuade reminisced about how 
diligent Fass was in greeting his guests, 
making them feel welcome and often en -
tertaining them with a musical surprise.
“If it was a special occasion, like a birth -
day, he’d come out with his saxophone,” 
she said.Pete McQuade noted how accommo -
dating Fass had been in his life especially 
when he would enter the restaurant with 
very large parties. 
Although he was sad to hear of Fass’ 
passing, he said the restaurant’s standards 
continue to impress.    “We are ecstatic that they’re open 
again,” he said. “We just hope that it con -
tinues. Gainesville needs a really wonder -
ful restaurant like Amelia’s.”
  
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgDowntown Gainesville Italian restaurant reopens after owner’s death
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Kam Kutzke, Amelia’s Fine Italian Cuisine server, prepares a drink on Thursday, 
Oct. 21, 2021. The restaurant’s temporary closure followed the passing of Andy 
Fass, Amelia’s owner and chef. “I don’t know how 10 people can do what that 
one man was doing,” Amanda Bailey, Amelia’s operational manager, said.
graduate student contract. 
Gilda even stayed past 7 p.m. 
several times because Slepian 
would make long phone calls to 
his girlfriend in California before 
meeting with him. Slepian also 
tried to push Gilda into listing 
him as a co-author on his paper 
because he “paid [Gilda’s] salary.” 
Gilda started developing 
migraines, feeling nauseous 
and suspecting he had ADHD 
in November 2019 — seven 
months after he began working 
with Slepian. The symptoms 
worsened from the stress of 60-
hour work weeks and Slepian’s 
maltreatment.
Gilda told Slepian he was 
considering seeking professional 
help for his undiagnosed ADHD, 
which was later confirmed by 
a psychiatrist. The encounter 
quickly soured, according to his 
EEOC complaint. 
I don’t pay you to make 
excuses. I pay you to write papers 
and make me famous.
Gilda objected to Slepian’s 
statement and expressed his 
discontent with his tone. But 
Slepian fired back. 
Don’t ever talk back to me. 
I won’t tolerate backtalk from 
someone like you. Stay in your 
lane, don’t antagonize me and you 
might have a future in America.
Slepian made other racially 
insensitive comments, reminding 
Gilda he was on a visa and calling 
him an “idiot” after he brought up 
his concerns about discrimination.
“None of this — the demand to be present at the department at 
all times, the demand to stay late 
so he could prioritize personal 
affairs, and statements such as ‘I 
don’t give a s---’ and ‘I don’t give 
a f---’ — was ever demanded by 
Zack to his other student,” Gilda 
wrote in his formal complaint. 
On more than six occasions, 
Gilda attempted to report Slepian’s 
behavior to astronomy department 
chair Elizabeth Lada, who started 
working at UF in 1996. 
Lada told Gilda to “try and 
get along” and to “focus on [his] 
research.” She laughed when he 
brought up Slepian’s verbal abuse, 
dismissed his concerns and asked 
him to see her if Slepian hit him.
In January 2020, Gilda met 
with the deans of the College 
of Liberal Arts and Sciences. In 
retaliation, Slepian quit Gilda’s 
graduate committee. 
The committee gave Gilda 30 
days to find a new adviser — or 
he would be kicked out of his 
doctoral program.
“There are large power 
dynamics at play, and pretty 
much no guardrails to protect you 
if things go sideways,” Gilda said. 
“The culture really is [to] keep 
your mouth shut, focus on your 
work, don’t make a lot of noise 
and get out.”
After Gilda found a new 
adviser, the committee assigned 
him a rushed deadline. He was 
expected to pass his graduate 
exam and write a first-author 
paper in four months — tasks that 
normally take doctoral students 
around three years.
Gilda found a way to meet his 
deadline and graduated in August. A month later, he took to Twitter 
to share his experiences with 
Slepian, no longer worried about 
it affecting his future at UF.
Ryan Loomis, a 29-year-
old Harvard doctoral graduate, 
knew Slepian in graduate 
school. While working at the 
Harvard Smithsonian Center for 
Astrophysics, he heard Slepian 
make inappropriate comments 
about female colleagues and 
speakers. 
Slepian would refuse to respect 
anyone he considered “beneath 
him,” Loomis said.
“Everything that [Gilda] 
describes in terms of confirming 
the demeaning and belittling 
behavior is very much in line 
with what I experienced,” Loomis 
said. “Not a single colleague I’ve 
spoken to from the CFA since then 
has been surprised by this.”
Josh Speagle, a 28-year-
old Harvard doctoral graduate, 
also encountered Slepian while 
working at the CFA. Slepian 
was known for discrimination, 
harassment and condescending 
remarks during his time at 
Harvard, Speagle said. 
Speagle was offered a 
professorship at UF in April 2020. 
He felt reluctant to accept the 
position, as Slepian worked in the 
same department, and decided 
to confront him about the verbal 
abuse allegations while at the 
CFA.
The pair scheduled a talk 
for May 2, which, Speagle said, 
resulted in 40 minutes of Slepian 
berating him and asking who had 
made those allegations.
“I think I cried for the better 
part of an hour afterwards, and it 
took me quite a while to come to 
terms with what had happened,” Speagle said. “I would classify 
his behavior as being incredibly 
aggressive and bullying.”
Speagle declined the job offer 
the next day.
Krista Romita Grocholski, a 
34-year-old former UF doctoral 
student under Lada, also 
reached out to Gilda with similar 
encounters.
She said Lada discouraged 
her from asking questions and 
reprimanded her for asking for 
help. Romita Grocholski called 
Lada’s advising style “neglectful 
and isolating” and recalled how 
her emails to the professor once 
went unanswered for two months.
After scheduling a meeting 
with her graduate council to solve 
these issues, Romita Grocholski 
said Lada reprimanded her.
“It was just an opportunity 
for Elizabeth to beat me down,” 
she said. “And then no one stood 
up for me. From that point on, I 
knew that I couldn’t trust any of 
the faculty to care what happened 
to me or not.”
Romita Grocholski believes 
the problem extends beyond the 
astronomy department, however.
“I think that there’s a larger 
culture that UF cares more about 
its ranking than its graduate 
students,” Romita Grocholski 
said. “It doesn’t get to that ranking 
without graduate students.”
UF filed a motion on Oct. 14 to 
dismiss Gilda’s first legal action 
based on unpaid overtime wages. 
The formal charge Gilda filed 
with the EEOC hasn’t yet been 
investigated, but Gilda believes he 
has a strong case due to Slepian’s 
history of discrimination.
Lada and UF spokesperson 
Hessy Fernandez declined to 
comment on the situation due to ongoing litigation. Slepian 
didn’t respond to email and 
phone requests for comment as of 
Sunday. 
However, in an email to a 
former colleague, Slepian wrote 
he didn’t do or say anything that 
Gilda claims. 
“The allegations that [Gilda] 
has made are horrendous, and they 
represent words and behaviors 
that I would never do, and would 
equally abhor in any colleague if 
I were to hear of it being done by 
them,” Slepian wrote in the email.
Gilda encourages graduate 
students in his position to keep a 
journal of any discrimination or 
harassment they face and press 
charges after they graduate.
“Unfortunately, I think 
litigation is the only way where we 
can actually start to bring about 
systemic changes,” Gilda said. 
“I would encourage: note, note, 
note. Document everything.”
After Gilda’s Twitter thread, 
students from universities across 
the country messaged him and 
chronicled similar experiences in 
graduate student programs.
“I hoped I would become 
famous for my research,” Gilda 
said. “Hopefully that will happen 
too, but it actually feels good that 
I’m part of — or at least I’m trying 
my hardest — to bring about 
positive change.”
Despite the challenges, Gilda 
graduated with four first-author 
papers, 12 contributed and invited 
talks and a $150,000 Hubble 
grant. But above all, he stood up 
to a supervisor who, he believes, 
considered himself invincible.
mtaylor@alligator.org
@MTaylor_JournDISCRIMINATION , from pg. 1Concerns dismissed by UF6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
Seymour, challenged by a herd 
of cows, hoofed his 3,000 pounds of 
stubbornness into the ground. But 
between the headbuts, he laid his 
head down and twisted his leg into 
his curled horn. 
Chris Amerman could read the 
water buffalo’s face. A little help 
here? 
He rushed over to his aid, and 
Seymour stood up once again. He 
parted ways with Amerman and 
tramped back to his calm life on the 
pasture. 
But Seymour’s home is no regu -
lar farm. 
He lives in Critter Creek Farm 
Sanctuary, a 210-acre farm located 
at 12626 NW County Road 231 in 
Gainesville. The land houses 56 
farm animals: 20 pigs, 5 mini don -
keys and 31 cows.
The idea of a sanctuary lingered 
in the back of Erin Amerman’s mind 
since 1997. After Chris and Erin 
married, she wanted to buy a 100-
acre plot of land on a creek because 
it attracts wildlife. 
Eighteen years later, the small 
seed of an idea sprouted into Crit -
ter Creek. Opening a sanctuary was 
one of Erin’s long-term goals, even 
from childhood.
By age 14, she gave up all animal 
products and became vegan. 
“We feed songbirds and then we 
murder chickens and turkeys by the 
gazillions,” she said. 
The farm grew, and she needed 
more hands to tend for animals. 
Sheena Drost was drawn to 
Ritchie, a small red-and-white calf, 
when she first visited the sanctuary 
for Oinktoberfest, a Halloween mar -
ket. She applied to volunteer when she left the farm that same day.
“He just stole my heart,” Drost 
said.
The 38-year-old Santa Fe zool -
ogy student began to work as the 
office manager at Critter Creek in 
September 2020. She’s now a mem -
ber of the farm’s board of directors.
Drost also adores Rupert. The 
chunky pinkish pig snorts in cre -
scendo as Drost calls him. 
“He’s my baby,” Drost said. 
“He’s my big baby.”
Workers begin a typical day feed -
ing the animals, conducting health 
checks and repairing its facilities. 
They recently opened Imperial’s 
Palace, a horse care area in Critter 
Hills, a 200-acre ranch close to Crit -
ter Creek, with one of the horses as 
its namesake. 
As the sun fades into the night, 
Erin and Drost mount their buggy 
car, drive into one of the many 
fields and take in the sight of the 
cows, pigs and other farm animals 
grazing collectively.
These moments are the few in 
which employees get breaks. The 
sanctuary is bombarded with calls 
on a daily basis. 
Some are lighthearted; others 
aren’t. Many people will blackmail 
the Amermans and tell them they’ll 
slaughter their animals if the couple 
doesn’t rehome them. 
“We’re not the pound where you 
take your unwanted critter,” Erin 
said. “We can’t function that way.”
The sanctuary also receives ani -
mals at the center of cruelty cases. 
Local law enforcement typically 
seizes cows on the brink of death 
from landowners who seek tax ex -
emptions and mistreat them, she 
said. 
The Lionel and Amos case was 
the most brutal instance of animal 
cruelty that the team  encountered, she said. The cow and pig duo came 
as a package in June 2021 during 
the farm’s roughest rescue. 
The critters were left to rot in the 
scalding Miami heat amid a heap of 
cardboard boxes — Lionel on the 
bottom and Amos on the top. They 
were dehydrated and surrounded 
by decomposing animals.
The two were rescued by the So -
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to 
Animals and were soon transferred 
to the Critter Creek Farm Sanctuary. 
“They really attest to the power 
of love,” Erin said. “Through their 
friendship and their bond, they’ve 
really been able to recover remark -
ably well.”
The Amermans, however, felt 
like their work wasn’t enough. So, 
in 2019 they opened Critter Hills, 
which is reserved for the more vul -
nerable animals, she said.
The farm has three full-time paid 
workers who care for animals, who 
are usually severely malnourished 
before arriving at the farm. Critter 
Hills houses 162 animals: 114 cows, 
11 horses, five donkeys, three tur -
keys, two rats, a water buffalo, a 
bison, a group of cats and a pack 
of dogs.
She is satisfied with her work 
but will not rest until there aren’t 
any animals left needed to be res -
cued.
“I recognize that having 400 
acres of animal sanctuary is great 
and saving the couple hundred ani -
mals we’ve saved is wonderful for 
them,” Erin said. “It feels like not 
enough. There’s so many animals 
in need.”
And she has found another way 
to do more — directly involving the 
community.
The sanctuary hosts a plant-
based farmer’s “Moo-ket” once a 
month, where families can drink 
ice-cold lemonade, eat cupcakes 
and feed the dozens of cows on the land. 
Her inspiration for the sanctuary 
stemmed back decades, specifically 
to when she was 7 and in search of 
a pet.
She walked into her local pet 
store; her eyes focused on the ham -
sters. 
A worker took one out of the 
glass container and placed it on Erin 
hand. She knew hamsters weren’t 
her ideal pet when it bit and peed 
on her.
The worker recommended Tem -
pleton as an alternative option. Her 
face crinkled in confusion.
How are rats pets?
Her question was soon answered 
as the tiny black-and-white rat 
crawled up her arm to her shoulder.
When Erin brought the small animal to school for show-and-tell, 
word spread that some of the teach -
ers were disgusted. She overheard 
that they wanted to throw him out.
“I was completely enamored 
with my little rat person and 
thought he was just the best thing 
ever,” Erin said. 
And years later, her regard for 
the lives of animals — especially 
those who aren’t “typical house 
pets” — has never wavered.
“Farmed animals almost never 
get any kind of happily ever after,” 
she said. “To be able to offer that to 
even just a few is everything.” 
Now, Critter Creek tries to give 
those animals a feel-good ending.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgA farm animal’s ‘happily ever after’: Critter Creek Farm Sanctuary
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Pigs are seen at Critter Creek Farm Sanctuary on Friday, Oct. 22, 2021.
AS ONLY 16 SENATORS RULED IN 
FAVOR OF VOTING TO MAKE THE 
RESOLUTION AN ACTION ITEM 
ON THURSDAY, THE VOTE WILL BE 
HELD AT THE FACULTY SENATE’S 
NOVEMBER MEETING
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
UF faculty and staff have expressed their 
dissatisfaction with the university’s COVID-19 
response through petitions and demonstra -
tions since August. On Thursday, they took 
another step by pushing up the voting for the 
no confidence and security in the administra -
tion.
UF Faculty Senate held a meeting Thursday 
afternoon, introducing the COVID-19 no-con -
fidence resolution, which is scheduled to be 
voted on Nov. 18.
If voted in favor, the COVID-19 no-confi -
dence resolution would formalize the faculty 
and staff’s disappointment in both the state 
and university leadership’s COVID-19 policies. 
The vote does not fire anyone in the adminis -
tration.
The resolution of no-confidence was first 
drafted in August as they were concerned 
about the university’s COVID-19 pandemic protocols.
The original resolution asked the UF ad -
ministration to reconsider the Fall 2021 plan 
and work closely with the Senate to make 
plans and events transparent to the university 
community.
As changes were made to the resolution, 
it now includes another vote of confidence 
aimed at the leadership of Florida State Uni -
versity Systems Board of Governors regarding 
its handling of COVID-19 in schools.
Despite plans of discussion, the resolution 
was not heard in neither August nor Septem -
ber senate meetings due to conflicts with Sen -
ate Steering Committee approval and calls to 
redraft the proposal. The committee felt there 
were some inaccurate statements, such as the 
faculty providing no input to the policy.
The original no-confidence resolution was 
inspired by Penn State University’s faculty 
senate no-confidence resolution against its 
administration’s COVID-19 plan. UF’s Faculty 
Senate states the university’s Fall COVID plan 
falls short of faculty expectations and does not 
create a sense of safety and confidence among 
faculty, staff and students.
The resolution states the plans lack flexibil -
ity and accommodations with no vaccination, 
masking or testing mandates, and in-person 
teaching requirements without social distanc -ing, upsetting many faculty members.
Delaying the vote to November would 
mean that the faculty and staff issues with 
UF’s COVID policies would further be post -
poned despite several petitions and demands 
made to mandate masks and vaccines since 
late August, when campus reopened amid the 
surge of the Delta variant. Now, with cases go -
ing down, some senators argue the resolution 
is no longer relevant. 
Now, finally introduced Thursday, faculty 
senators will vote on the resolution Nov. 18.
Maureen Long, a faculty senator and pro -
fessor for the comparative, diagnostic and pop -
ulation medicine department said there needs 
to be autonomy in the decisions made from 
the UF administration to the faculty because 
COVID-19 is not going away.
“I really believe that it does need to move 
and the reason it needs to move, whether it 
fails or passes, there needs to be a good talk 
about it as an action item,” Long said. “It’s 
been discussed everywhere, but there’s really 
been no action for us, and that’s how we felt 
the whole time during COVID.”
Other faculty senators said there was no 
need to vote on the resolution as Florida COV -
ID-19 cases and infection rates have decreased.
As the senate came to vote on making the 
resolution an action item Thursday, only 16 senators ruled in favor of the motion.
Mark Hostetler, a professor and extension 
specialist in the UF Wildlife Ecology and Con -
servation Department, said he hopes the reso -
lution will pass in November. But he believes 
the Senate Steering Committee had minimized 
the language and effect of the original resolu -
tion which he presented.
“The original resolution just said we’re not 
confident in the Fall COVID policy and here’s 
some of the reasons,” Hostetler said. “This 
one went overboard to point the finger at the 
state.”
He said the university continues to claim 
that its hands are tied when it could have 
banded together with other Florida institu -
tions to  defy  the state government ,  following   
the science for the wellness and safety of their 
faculty, staff and students.
What is also at stake is academic freedom, 
Hostetler said. He thinks UF needs to take a 
stand on this issue.
“Managers do things right, leaders do the 
right thing,” he said. “And what is happening 
is our leadership, our managers, are not show -
ing leadership. They’re just managing what 
the state is trying to do.”
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgUF Faculty Senate pushes back vote on COVID-19 ‘no-confidence’ resolutionThe farms houses more than 200 animalsMONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
ABOUT 30 PEOPLE GATHERED TO 
DEMONSTRATE OUTSIDE 
OF ITS MAIN OFFICE
By Bryce Brown
Alligator Staff Writer 
The sounds of blaring car horns and indig -
nant voices bellowed across the streets outside 
Collier Companies International’s main office 
Thursday when about 30 residents protested 
the housing company’s decision to evict ten -
ants receiving supplemental income. 
Protesters gathered at 220 N Main St. to 
share their experiences — which they be -
lieve were violations of their rights — with Collier Companies.
Collier Companies is a housing man -
agement and real estate company based in 
Gainesville that owns 11,271 apartment units 
across Florida, Georgia and Oklahoma. Some 
of the company’s tenants say it has discrimi -
nated against lawful forms of income.
Collier Companies could not be reached for 
comment as of Sunday evening.
June King, a Collier resident, contracted 
COVID-19 last year and could not work to pay 
rent. 
She was able to use Emergency Rental As -
sistance Program payments toward her rent, 
and while COVID-19 took a toll on her health, 
she didn’t realize it would also cost her her 
home. New management arrived at the complex 
last spring, and King was unable to provide the 
rental assistance payment on time. Her prop -
erty manager then told her she will not be able 
to renew her lease when it expires Dec. 31. 
King is still unsure what will transpire after 
her New Year’s Eve deadline. 
“I just feel that it’s wrong,” she said. “I 
think I was deceived.” 
The Renters Rights Ordinance was passed 
by the city of Gainesville earlier this year. The 
ordinance protects tenants from discrimination 
based on lawful sources of income, such as 
Section 8 vouchers, Social Security, child sup -
port and housing assistance. 
Alachua County Labor Coalition chair Shei -
la Payne said the organization has spent years 
trying to get the ordinance passed. Now it’s not 
being enforced.   
The Section 8 voucher program, also known 
as the Choice Voucher program, is a federal 
program that helps elderly, disabled and low-
income individuals afford adequate housing 
in the private market. Social Security, which 
is regulated by the U.S. Social Security Admin -
istration, is a social insurance program that 
provides supplemental forms of income and 
benefits for retirees and disabled individuals.  
But in the spring, Collier stopped accepting 
those forms of payment despite the ordinance 
mandating them not to.
The company isn’t the only property owner 
in Gainesville to enforce this policy.
Carrie Saites, a resident of Hunter’s Run 
Apartments owned by Royal American Man -
agement, said she applied for rental assistance 
program payments with them Jun. 26, but on 
Aug. 10 she was given a five-day eviction no -
tice by an Alachua County Sheriff’s officer. 
Although her federal funds have been dis -
tributed, they have not been processed by the 
housing management despite her multiple at -
tempts to bring it to their attention. She has been charged $375 in late fees.   
Saites said she felt alone in her situation be -
fore attending the protest.  
“We’re not just one, we are many,” she 
said. “And we have many stories, and we have 
many different situations. This pandemic can’t 
tear us apart anymore.” 
Payne said Collier and other big corpora -
tions are having tenants sign monthly leases 
so they can continue to raise their rent prices, 
which ultimately leads to evictions. This tactic 
is to bring in student renters who often have 
the means to pay steeper prices. 
But with steeper prices, tenants are faced 
with inadequate living conditions. Residents of 
Collier and other companies have voiced their 
complaints numerous times about sanitary and 
utility concerns that aren’t being fixed.  
The labor coalition receives reports of AC 
units that haven’t worked in years, holes in 
roofs and molding, Payne said. In addition, 
tenants have complained about having diffi -
culty getting their security deposits back. 
Tenants refrain from calling code enforce -
ment for fear of eviction, she said.
“There’s just not enough affordable hous -
ing, so people end up being at the mercy of 
these landlords,” Payne said. “The goal [of the 
protest] is to send a warning that it’s just not 
acceptable.”
Payne said the coalition has directed tenants 
who have reported discrimination to Three 
Rivers Legal Services Inc, an organization that 
provides free legal services to low-income in -
dividuals. The labor coalition and Three Riv -
ers may bring a lawsuit to the Department of 
Justice.
“It will take all of us to stop this,” Payne 
said.
@brycebrownnn
bbrown@alligator.org
By Zachary Carnell 
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 1,700 people gathered to 
march around Celebration Pointe 
and raise money for victims of breast 
cancer Saturday morning.
The event, Making Strides 
Against Breast Cancer of Gainesville, 
was hosted by the American Cancer 
Society to clinch a $100,000 dona -
tion goal as part of a campaign that 
kicked off in August. It soon turned 
into a victory march.
Participants had the choice to 
walk or run a 1k or a 5k. The march 
started at 9 a.m., but the ACS had al -
ready reached its goal hours earlier. 
“When I went to bed last night 
at 11 o’clock, we were $2,000 away 
from the goal,” said Kyle Stone, the 
ACS Senior Manager of Community 
Development. “When I woke up this 
morning at 4 a.m., we were $1,000 
over goal. So we’re doing really 
well.” 
ACS will use the donations for 
cancer research and to provide free 
lodging and rides to treatment for 
people with breast cancer, Stone 
said. 
Jennifer McKathan, the ACS Can -
cer Control Strategic Partnership 
Manager, said it will also fund a 
reach-to-recovery program, a phone 
app that connects breast cancer pa -
tients to survivors. “They’re able to understand 
them better,” McKathan said. “What 
they’re going through, their journey, 
their difficulties, the side effects, 
mentally what goes through your 
mind when someone tells you you 
have cancer.”
The World Health Organiza -
tion recognizes breast cancer as 
the most common form of cancer 
worldwide. Despite its widespread 
impacts, survivors of breast cancer 
cheered, laughed and smiled as mu -
sic boomed around the event’s pla -
za, which was decorated with pink 
tents, pink balloons and a big, pink 
blow-up couch that was at least 10 
feet tall. 
ACS also offered pom-poms, pho -
to opportunities and pink hair dye to 
attendees. Cheerleading teams from 
Eastside High School, Buchholz High 
School, Gainesville High School and 
Westwood Middle School all attend -
ed the event, with some dancing in 
the center of the plaza. 
The main sponsors, UF Health 
and the North Florida Regional Med -
ical Center, both had surgeons at the 
event as well. 
“I look forward to it every year,” 
said Lisa Spiguel, a breast surgeon 
at UF Health. “It’s just such an awe -
some opportunity for the community 
to come together and really support 
an awesome cause.” 
She also explained women need to start screening for breast cancer 
once they’re 40 years old. Some are 
at a higher risk than others and may 
need to get screened sooner, Spiguel 
added. 
Sean Benoit is the chief medi -
cal officer at North Florida Regional 
Medical Center, an ambassador for 
Real Men Wear Pink and a trained 
surgeon. He further reinforced the 
seriousness of breast cancer. 
“We’re still trying to figure out 
all the reasons why it occurs,” Ben -
oit said. “It can be deadly if left un -
treated.”
More than 280,000 people will be 
diagnosed with the disease in this 
year alone, Benoit added. 
Many people at the event have 
felt the ramifications of breast can -
cer, either personally or through 
family members and friends. 
Madeline Torres, 58, came from 
Ocala and attended the event with 
her son Brendan and her husband 
Eddie, who was holding a “Team 
Maddie” sign. She credited them for 
getting her through intensive treat -
ment. 
“Six years cancer free,” Torres 
said. “My cousin did this beautiful 
sign. Greatest family support. And 
after eight rounds of chemo, double 
mastectomies, 83 rounds of radia -
tion, and I’m still standing tall.”
Other people at the march lost 
loved ones to the disease. Cassandra Davis, 67, said she lost 
her mother to breast cancer roughly 
20 years ago and now attends the 
Making Strides event every year. 
“I was glad to see all these people 
that are still able to walk and enjoy 
and survive,” Davis said after finish -
ing the march. “Nice crowd. Good 
atmosphere. Lots of good volun -
teers.”
Stone praised the new event 
chair, Fitz Koehler, for this year’s 
increased enthusiasm. A race an -nouncer and breast cancer survivor, 
Koehler roared with encourage -
ment as people crossed the finish 
line. Throughout the event, she an -
nounced how long survivors have 
been free of cancer. 
“It’s meaningful. This is the vic -
tory lap,” Koehler said. “Today is a 
celebration of life and a celebration 
of the good things to come.”
Zachary Carnell is a contributing 
writer for The Alligator.Collier Companies tenants protest firm’s refusal of some government-assisted payments
Breast cancer awareness campaign marches well past $100,000 finish lineEli Nino / / Alligator Staff
Lea Guthrie (left) and Izzy Myers (right) sit in front of The Collier Companies 
building  during the Protest for Tenant Discrimination on Thursday, Oct. 21, 2021.
Liana Barros / / Alligator Staff
Brenda Sims (left), 59, and her sister Tonia McCray (right), 53, 
start the 5K walk during the Making Strides Against Breast 
Cancer event in Celebration Pointe on Saturday, Oct. 23, 2021. 
Sims, diagnosed with stage one cancer in November 2020, is a 
cancer survivor after undergoing treatments earlier in 2021.
The American Cancer Society reached its goal of $100K 
in donations for breast cancer with a march SaturdayKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Diamond debut
Florida baseball hosted its first opponent since the 2021 
season ended Saturday, splitting a double-header with Georgia 
Southern and debuting an overhauled roster, pg. 12 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE NONPROFIT’S FIRST IN-PERSON 
BOOK SALE SINCE FALL 2019 
RUNS OCT. 23-27
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
With more than 500,000 books, records, 
games, CDs, DVDs, paintings, posters, puz -
zles, magazines and more, there’s something 
for everyone at the semi-annual Friends of the 
Library book sale. But when the nonprofit’s 
current president, Jonathan van Blokland, 
looks back on his years working the event, 
he’s most enraptured by the people. 
Van Blokland, 81, has been involved with 
Friends of the Library since 2008, collecting 
memories from more than 20 book sales and 
thousands of interactions. 
He said he likes to work his way through 
the crowds and get to know the visitors — old 
and young, individuals and families, first-tim -
ers and seasoned veterans. He recalled meet -
ing people who traveled from out of state and 
camped out in front of the building in anticipa -
tion. He recognized a family of four or five kids 
that seemed to grow in size each visit. 
His favorite interaction was with an older 
local couple who attended every day of the 
sale for 20 years without ever missing a single 
one. 
“In the years I’ve been there, I really cannot 
find anybody to dislike,” van Blokland said. 
“Find a nice fellow who likes books, and you’ll 
be happy the rest of your life.” 
Friends of the Library, located at 430-B 
N Main St., hosted its first in-person book 
sale since Fall 2019 Saturday, kicking off the 
five-day comeback event that will last until 
Wednesday. Hours for all upcoming days are noon to 6 p.m. For the first time in the sale’s 
history, customers are able to pay with credit 
card, in addition to cash and check. 
Items will continue to be sold at their 
original prices, ranging from 25 cents to $4, 
on Monday. Tuesday, items will be sold at 
half-price, and on Wednesday, items will be 
priced at only 10 cents. The Collector’s Corner, 
which features signed and first-edition copies 
of books, is open the first four days of the sale 
and houses the only items listed outside the 
original price range. 
The sale is run entirely by a force of close 
to 100 volunteers, some who traveled from out 
of state to help. Hundreds of books and other 
items — all donated by the community — are 
stored in cardboard boxes, ready to replenish 
the sale stock whenever needed. Profits are do -
nated to the Alachua County Library District. 
As the largest of its kind in Florida and 
one of the largest in the southeastern United 
States, the book sale is especially significant in 
its contribution to the Alachua County Library 
District. Friends of the Library has been sup -
porting ACLD since after its first sale in 1954. 
Rachel Cook, Alachua County Library Dis -
trict spokesperson, said Friends of the Library 
has provided the district with $5.4 million of 
support since 1986, including $25,119 during 
the 2020-2021 fiscal year and $351,000 in staff 
scholarships. 
Cook said the profits are used to fund lit -
eracy programs, author visits, marketing cam -
paigns and physical materials, among other 
projects. In the past, profits have been used to 
add eight quiet reading rooms to eight branch -
es of the library district. 
All customers and volunteers at the sale are 
required to wear masks inside the building, 
and the number of visitors allowed inside at 
once is limited to allow for social distancing. With two years passing since the last in-
person sale, van Blokland said he and other 
Friends of the Library members were initially 
unsure what the turnout would be — espe -
cially on the first day, which he said usually 
accounts for 70% of the sale’s profits. 
“It’s a bit like when you have a baby,” he 
said. “We just don’t know what sort of baby 
we’re going to be producing.” 
Evidently, the baby was a hit.
Hundreds of customers lined up outside 
Friends of the Library early Saturday morn -
ing, with many visitors arriving long before 
the building opened at 9 a.m. The line snaked 
through the parking lot and down Main Street, 
eventually curving along Sixth Street and 
around the block. 
Groups of all ages and sizes waited in the 
sun, armed with tote bags, backpacks and 
cardboard boxes waiting to be filled with 
books. Some customers camped out the night 
before, said 83-year-old Linda Connell, who’s 
been volunteering with Friends of the Library 
for 43 years. 
Nadia Jimenez traveled up from Orlando 
with her mother, Lisa Scott, to attend the 
book fair with her sister, Maya Jimenez. All 
three sported tote bags, ready to be filled with 
books, over their shoulders. For Nadia, 25, 
and her sister, 21, their trip was just one in a 
long line of book sale visits over the past few 
years, but they wanted to bring their mother 
for her first time. 
Nadia graduated from UF in 2018, and 
she said she’s had luck using the book sale 
to supplement her growing book collection at 
an affordable price. She rarely goes in looking 
for something specific, but she leaves with full 
duffle bags, regardless. 
Maya, who graduated from UF this year, 
said the book sale is an opportunity to pursue a love of reading in a more environmentally 
conscious way. 
“It’s sustainable,” she said. “You’re giving 
a book a second life.” 
Lilla Moye, 84, who’s been volunteering 
with Friends of the Library for 25 years, said 
the popularity of the book sale reflects her 
hope. 
“It goes to show that there are still people 
who read,” she said.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.orgFriends of the Library sale gives thousands of books ‘new life’
SHOPPINGSHOPPING
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Attendees gather in line outside of 
the Friends of the Library book sale 
on Saturday, Oct. 23, 2021.  Most 
of the people in the line had been 
waiting for at least two hours.
THE WOOLY LIT UP IN 
SHIMMER AND VIBRANCE 
OCT. 15 TO CELEBRATE THE 
LATE MUSIC VISIONARY
By Kristine Villarroel 
Avenue Staff Writer
Walking into The Wooly felt like 
entering a colorful smoke cloud 
vibrating with pounding metallic 
beats. Inside, a sense of community 
and celebration filled the room.
On Oct. 15, the downtown 
Gainesville venue hosted a bubble -
gum bass dance party in tribute to 
the late music producer SOPHIE, 
who passed away earlier this year. 
SOPHIE stood at the forefront of 
a group of musicians defining the 
subversive “hyperpop” genre clus -
ter.The Wooly often hosts events 
catering to specific audiences, such 
as the monthly Pop Punk & Emo 
Night most recently held on Friday, 
the Neon Liger electronic dance 
party held on Saturday, the upcom -
ing Von Dutch & Velour 90’s and 
2000’s dance party happening on 
Nov. 5 and the recently announced 
Taylor Swift dance party on Jan. 22.
Themed nights and special 
events allow attendees to connect 
with others who share interests 
and help foster local music-focused 
communities by giving different 
niches the chance to dance and en -
joy together.
Alf Posen, who helped host the 
event, described it as a dance party 
to celebrate a queer and transgen -
der artist. Music was provided by 
Gainesville DJ Drew Love, who has 
been a part of the local music and EDM scene for 20 years.
“The whole hyperpop and bub -
blegum bass thing is something I’ve 
been getting into a lot lately,” Love 
said. “I listen to it a lot at home. I 
wasn’t expecting it to be like,‘I get 
to play a whole night of this.’”
Hyperpop is best defined as 
a genre cluster with a variety of 
EDM influences ranging from ac -
cessible house and techno to more 
experimental, obscure subgenres 
like breakcore. A pioneer to the 
sound, SOPHIE paved the way for 
the genre to flourish and gain rec -
ognition. 
SOPHIE’s approachable mu -
sic creates a sense of community 
through joy and celebration.
“I see a lot of the different styles 
that she was melding into one big 
thing,” Love said. “There’s a lot of 
influence from goth in some of her stuff, there’s a lot of influence from 
Detroit house in some of her stuff, 
there’s even breakcore and noise 
going on.”
The unique and innovative 
sounds within SOPHIE’s music 
take elements from various genres 
and, at times, imitate sounds found 
in daily life, like bubbles popping 
or metal clanking. Other hyperpop 
acts incorporate glitch, distortion 
and static sounds to their music to 
create an electrifying soundscape. 
“My biggest fear [at the event] is 
that the sound technician is going 
to keep trying to clear up the dis -
tortion that’s actually in the track,” 
Love said. “It’s supposed to sound 
like it’s clipping. That’s the song.”
The Wooly’s walls and floor 
vibrated to the beats of SOPHIE 
staples such as “Immaterial,” hy -
perpop markers such as 100 gecs’ “money machine” and even nostal -
gic cuts such as 3OH!3’s “DONT -
TRUSTME.” 
Attendees were too busy danc -
ing with strangers to think about 
anything other than the moment.
In a 2018 interview with Sophia 
the Robot, SOPHIE mentioned be -
ing all about visibility. On Oct. 15, 
the Wooly became the stage for this 
message. 
“[It’s about] hearing hyperpop 
music in a public setting and be -
ing with other people who like it,” 
said Helmut Carter, a UF microbiol -
ogy and cell science senior and the 
owner of the Instagram account @
ufhyperpoppers. “[It’s all about] 
dancing, having fun, and meeting 
people.”
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue
@ktnedelvalle
kvillarroel@alligator.orgGainesville celebrates SOPHIE’s legacy with dance party
CELEBRATIONCELEBRATIONBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE 
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953        
11-8-21-5-6
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath -
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680    
11-8-21-5-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    RRoouugghh  aanndd  ________
11..    PPiillll55..    SSmmaallll  ddoonnkkeeyy  
22..    HHaappppiillyy  66..    UUnnsskkiilllleedd
33..    CCeerrttaaiinn  ffeemmaallee  ffeelliinnee77..    PPllaasstteerr  ccoommppoonneenntt  
44..    SSmmaallll  BBEEUUTTLLMM
AABBTTTTEELLBBRROORRUU
PPTTIIEENN
RREEIIYYLLRRMM
NNSSEEOOSSIILLUUMMYYPPGGSS
MMAAAATTBBNNAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TTuummbbllee    55AA--BBuurrrroo    66AA--IInneepptt    77AA--GGyyppssuumm
11DD--TTaabblleett    22DD--MMeerrrriillyy    33DD--LLiioonneessss    44DD--BBaannttaamm    BB--BBiillll  MMuurrrraayy1100--2255--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  aacccciiddeennttllyy  bbrrookkee  RRoobbeerrtt  DDee  NNiirroo’’ss  
nnoossee  wwhhiillee  ffiillmmiinngg  ““MMaadd  DDoogg  aanndd  GGlloorryy..””
BONUSDONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil -
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RV’s 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response- Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                        10-25-8-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-13
GET VACCINATED TODAY!13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Catherine Cetta
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/25/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/25/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, October 25, 2021
ACROSS
1 Duo
5 “Who’s there?” 
reply
10 Acquire
13 Cartoon maker  
of a cactus 
costume
14 Student’s 
assignment
16 Artist Yoko
17 Starring role
18 Roma is its 
capital
19 Once around the 
track
20 Flexible desk 
accessory
23 Yalie
25 VCR format
26 Support for a 
painting
27 “Divine Comedy” 
author
29 Acceleration 
control
32 Filmmaker’s 
monochrome 
background
35 Medieval 
Icelandic 
collection
36 Save like mad
37 Govt. workplace 
monitor
41 Indecisive sort
43 Sport with 
meshed sticks
47 Teatime treat
48 Last choice, 
perhaps
49 Communication 
syst. with hand 
signals
51 Govt. code-
breaking org.
52 Mental refresher 
... and a hint to 
the circled letters
57 Barbie’s beau
58 List of mistakes
59 Like granola
62 SASE, e.g.
63 One who loses 
on purpose?
64 Fairy tale bully
65 X or manta 
follower
66 Salon filing aid
67 They open locks 
and start cars
DOWN
1 Bud
2 King beater3 Pictured in one’s 
mind
4 Second chance
5 __ whiskey
6 Heads of France
7 Bridge
8 Spy for the other 
guy
9 Guitarist Clapton
10 Bring up the  
rear
11 Tooth covering
12 Knock over
15 Hire
21 Something to 
bake in
22 Zero deg. at the 
equator, say
23 Barely beat
24 Pie crust 
ingredient
28 Earl Grey, for 
one
29 Barely  
discernible 
amount
30 “You are __”: 
mall map info
31 Bordeaux and 
Chianti
33 Hall & Oates’  
“__ Gone”
34 Opposite of pros
37 Like meds 
needing no Rx38 Era for Fred, 
Wilma and 
Pebbles
39 Egg layers
40 Bailiwick
41 Copied with 
intent to deceive, 
as a signature
42 Emerald __: 
Ireland
43 Student’s hallway 
hangout
44 Goddess of 
wisdom45 Dicey
46 “The Last Jedi” 
villain Kylo
49 Daisylike flower
50 Like many 
Stephen King 
stories
53 Cleveland’s lake
54 Utah city on I-15
55 Inevitable 
outcome
56 Cozy corner
60 Attempt
61 “Absolutely!”
By David Poole
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/19/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/19/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, October 19, 2021
ACROSS
1 In the thick of
5 “Honey, I __ 
the Kids”: 1989 
comedy
11 Brown bag 
staple, initially
14 Waves from the 
back of a boat
15 Like some 
sandpaper
16 Sam Adams, e.g.
17 Flickered-out 
flames?
18 “24” analyst 
Chloe __
19 Operate
20 Good thing 
to have for a 
change?
22 A lot
24 Judith of “Down 
Home”
25 Diplomat’s post
27 Reacted to a 
really bad pun, 
perhaps
30 Thrash about
31 Think tank output
32 South African 
grassland
33 Place to bowl
37 Hunk of bacon, 
say
38 Flood deterrent
39 Like a 
Frappuccino
40 Severe criticism
41 Word with teen or 
golden
42 Nab in a trap
43 The Ellery Queen 
Award is one
45 Mideast or 
Midwest
46 Motorcyclist’s 
invitation
49 “You’re gonna 
need a bigger 
boat” movie
50 Biblical prophet
51 Apple known 
by its first three 
letters
56 Notable period
57 Words to live by
59 R&B’s India.__
60 Actress de Armas
61 Light, as a fire
62 Demolish
63 Bench press 
muscle, briefly
64 Barflies
65 Winter rideDOWN
1 Blown away
2 Calf-covering skirt
3 DIY furniture 
brand
4 Movie with 
Minions
5 Got a run home
6 Avocation
7 __ avis
8 “Spoon-bender” 
debunked by the 
Amazing Randi
9 Code-breaking 
org.
10 Jedi Master  
Obi-Wan ___
11 Repair bill 
heading
12 B.B. King genre
13 Female donkey
21 12/24 and 12/31
23 Meteors, and 
what three Down 
answers aptly 
contain
26 Manufactured
27 Genie’s offering
28 Run without 
moving
29 “Hud” Oscar-
winner Patricia
30 Flu symptom32 Diner list for 
animal product 
avoiders
34 Antioxidant berry
35 Old Roman 
fiddler
36 Eve’s first home
38 Italy’s Como, per 
esempio
42 Fixed with thread
44 Arizona MLBers
45 Workers’ rewards
46 Inexpensive47 “SNL” producer 
Michaels
48 Author Asimov
49 Rapper with the 
2013 #1 album 
“Born Sinner”
52 Also includes
53 Face-to-face 
exam
54 XL or L, but not 
LX
55 Take to heart
58 Brazil metropolis
10/18/2021solution  on page 10
solution  on page 10
Notice of Plan of Dissolution for the Florida 
Coalition Against Domestic Violence 
Foundation, Inc. and Florida Coalition Against 
Domestic Violence, Inc. A Plan of Dissolution 
was entered by the Circuit Court of the Second 
Judicial Circuit in Leon County, Florida under 
case no. 2020 CA 00437. The plan may af -
fect a creditor’s or party-in-interest’s rights. 
The Plan may be obtained by emailing info@
moecker.com or calling 954-252-1560. Any 
objection to the Plan must be filed with the 
Court on or before December 30, 2021, or the 
objection is waived.                         10-25-4-20
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Notice To All Creditors of the Florida Coalition 
Against Domestic Violence Foundation, 
Inc. (the “Foundation”) If you are a credi -
tor of the Foundation, to assert a claim for 
payment, claim forms can be obtained by 
emailing info@moecker.com or calling 954-
252-1560. Completed claim forms must be 
mailed to Michael Moecker & Associates 
Attn: Mark Healy 841 Prudential Drive 12th 
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32207 or emailed to 
mhealy@moecker.com. Questions related to 
potential claims can be directed to Mark Healy 
at 904-210-7023. All claim forms must be sub -
mitted by January 31, 2022, or any right to a 
potential distribution may be waived.    
10-25-4-20
the 
independent 
florida
we inform. you decide.
Notice To All Creditors of Florida Coalition 
Against Domestic Violence, Inc. (“FCADV”) If 
you are a creditor of FCADV, to assert a claim 
for payment, claim forms can be obtained 
by emailing info@moecker.com or calling 
954-252-1560. Completed claim forms must 
be mailed to Michael Moecker & Associates 
Attn: Mark Healy 841 Prudential Drive 12th 
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32207 or emailed to 
mhealy@moecker.com. Questions related to 
potential claims can be directed to Mark Healy 
at 904-210-7023. All claim forms must be sub -
mitted by January 31, 2022, or any right to a 
potential distribution may be waived.     
10-25-4-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds! Call 373-FIND  or 
email classified@alligator.org  today..Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
Window Treatments Bundle- UPDATE 
YOUR HOME  with Beautiful New Blinds & 
Shades. FREE in-home estimates make it 
convenient to shop from home. Professional 
installation. Top quality - Made in the USA. 
Call for free consultation: 866-636-1910 . 
Ask about our specials!                   10-25-1-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES  in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems 
at AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime war -
ranty & professional installs. 
Call Now! 888-460-2264  BATH & 
SHOWER UPDATES in as little as ONE 
DAY! Affordable prices - No payments for 
18 months! Lifetime warranty & professional 
installs. Senior.& Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264               10-25-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
lnogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. lnogen
10-25-1-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-18
19 Connections
Date
ParanormalDate.com
10-25-1-19
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY15 Services 20 Events/Notices 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
Housekeeping/Personal Assistant experi -
ence preferred, permanent part-time 15 
hrs per week, $15 per hr to start. 3 days a 
week MWF or Sat. Mostly afternoons call 
after 5pm 352-378-9771.        10-25-21-2-14
Wanted Web Designer
Wanted, someone to incorporate a pay wall 
into a website. Please add Call 352-494-
9920 or email papkemac@earthlink.net
11-1-21-3-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Yard work &/or light household duties. 5-6 
hrs a week, flex schedule, $10-$13 depend -
ing on experience, If interested please call 
352.278.8071                            11-22-21-7-14
Help Wanted Donut Connection
Baker needed, experience preferred but 
will consider trainee. Also hiring counter/
drive thru sales. Salary depends on experi -
ence. To apply, Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com.
11-1-21-2-14
Volunteer Intern Psychology Office
We are looking for volunteer interns to serve 
at least 2 full days per week in our private 
practice clinic from now until the end of the 
semester or longer. Qualified candidates must 
have excellent writing and proofreading skills 
and attention to detail. Familiarity with medi -
cal and/or neuropsychological terminology a 
plus. In addition to front office duties, major 
responsibility involves taking information from 
complex histories and doctor notes and tran -
scribing them into report templates. We are 
working on some demanding legal cases with 
this being a great opportunity for exposure for 
neuropsychology students interested in diag -
nostics and forensics.
Send vita to info@cpancf.com with letter of 
interest.                                        11-1-21-2-14
EDEP NOW HIRING
for the PERFECT college job!
Weekends & Holidays OFF!!
Never work past 6 p.m.
Energetic People needed to work  
with elementary kids
Extended Day Enrichment Program
is the Alachua County Public Schools  
after-school program.
It is full of fun activities. Positions are 
available at various schools.
Must be 18 or older &  
have a high school diploma
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Activity Leaders $11.25 per hour
Background Investigation Conducted, Drug 
Testing Required, Affirmative Action,
Equal Opportunity Employer
Applications Available Online
www.sbac.edu
For more information call 352-313-6533
11-1-21-2-14
15 Services
Career Training and Medical Billing -TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! Become 
a Medical Office Professional online at CTI! 
Get Trained, Certified & ready to work in 
months! Call 877-324-4096. 
The Mission, Program Information and Tuition 
is located at CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-
information.                                        10-25-1-15
Tired of laundry? Need help? We wash, dry, 
& fold. Only $1/LB. Free pickup & delivery. 
SudShare.com or 833-783-7427. Use code 
CLASS for $10 off.
10-25-1-15CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
I would rather be handsome for an hour than pretty for a week.
—Tilda Swinton
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021
solution  belowMONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
 By Kaitlyn Wadulack
Sports Writer
Olivia Moore ventured over to 
her neighbor’s driveway, ready for 
volleyball lessons every day   during 
quarantine. 
In that Gardendale, Alabama, 
driveway, Florida volleyball 
outside hitter Merritt Beason 
trained Moore, now a seventh 
grader at Bragg Middle School, and 
other girls who wanted to learn 
more about volleyball. 
“It was just something that 
I guess I was pretty good at, and 
Merritt was always so passionate 
about,” Moore said.
In high school, Beason 
volunteered her time coaching the 
Bragg Middle School volleyball 
team in an attempt to rejuvenate 
the sport in her hometown. The 
aspiring teacher used the driveway 
drills as a way to mentor young 
girls.
The lessons began during 
Beason’s junior year of high school. 
She decided to play for Gardendale 
High School again after training 
with her club team her sophomore 
year.
Volleyball, however, isn’t 
the biggest sport in Gardendale. 
Most girls grow up yearning to be cheerleaders.
“My one goal was to get little 
girls in my town to hear about 
volleyball,” she said. “I wanted 
little girls to know what volleyball 
was, and I wanted them to see me 
and to see that, ‘Oh hey, I can do 
this and I can go get a full ride.’”
She reached out to Bragg 
volleyball coach April Thomas 
prior to her junior year to help out 
with training the middle school 
team. Thomas immediately took to 
the idea; most sixth graders who 
try out never played volleyball 
outside of gym class.
So, Beason became an assistant 
volleyball coach at Bragg for her 
final two seasons of high school. 
She came in for summer practices 
to improve the team’s skills, either 
through running drills or working 
with the hitters. 
The new assistant coach held 
the girls to a higher standard of 
play and encouraged them to 
achieve the goals they set.
“She really, really pushed them 
in what was expected,” Thomas 
said. “She would be even harder 
on them discipline-wise or skill-
wise than even I would be.”
Thomas watched Beason’s 
leadership qualities shine even 
during her younger playing days. While she was a Bragg student, 
Beason taught her teammates vital 
skills, such as volleyball rotations. 
“The volleyball coach that 
we had at the time was not very 
knowledgeable about volleyball,” 
Thomas said. “So Merritt, even as 
an eighth grader, was pretty much 
leading that team.” 
While coaching the middle 
schoolers, Beason would tell the 
girls that her gift comes from God. 
“Her faith is the forefront,” 
Thomas said. “She lets all these 
kids know that her gift comes from 
God, and she’s been granted this as 
her platform to do God’s work.”
As a Christian, Beason said God 
blessed her with more than she 
deserves, and her goal is to ensure 
his light is shining through her in 
all that she accomplishes. 
“Ultimately, my goal is that 
glory isn't a reflection of me, and 
it's a reflection of him,” Beason 
said. “One of my main goals is 
to make sure that I'm using my 
platform and my skills and abilities 
that he's given me for him and for 
his kingdom.”
Working with the volleyball 
team pushes Beason one step 
closer to what she wants to do 
in the future. She has always 
loved working with children, and that love motivated her dream 
to become an elementary school 
teacher. She would even make her 
younger brother play school with 
her; she was the teacher, and he, 
the student.
Beason, however, credits her 
first grade teacher, Kathy Casaday, 
for inspiring her to pursue teaching. 
Over the summer of her elementary 
school days, Beason would help 
Casaday cut out things she needed 
laminated or sort the books in her 
classroom.  
“I will never forget that,” Beason 
said. “That definitely was probably 
the kickstarter of me wanting to be 
an elementary school teacher.”
Those who have worked with 
Beason have seen the passion and 
dedication she brings to everything 
she does. When she came to UF, 
she learned how to play right-side 
hitter — an entirely new position. 
Senior outside hitter Thayer 
Hall said Beason’s dedication 
and willingness to step up as a 
freshman gave her goosebumps.
“Just the energy, the light, her 
smile, it's something that brightens 
up the court,” Hall said. “I don’t 
think we would be us without her 
in that position, and we perform at 
our best when she is on the right 
side.”
Beason’s ability to learn and her 
talent in the sport helped get her 
to where she is now, head coach 
Mary Wise said. 
“She's a terrific learner and why some young players in any sport 
can get on the court or field sooner 
has to do with their ability to 
learn the differences between high 
school and college sooner,” Wise 
said. “They eventually all get there, 
just some can learn it quicker, and 
that’s where Merritt is today.”
Although Beason may not 
currently be coaching the Bragg 
team, the girls she taught still reach 
out to her through social media 
to update her on their volleyball 
accomplishments.
“I truly loved it, and I got to 
know those girls a lot,” she said. 
“It's just super cool having that 
bond with those younger girls.”
As a seventh grader on the 
Bragg volleyball team, Moore 
believes Beason is the reason for 
her newfound love of volleyball. 
She still remembers Beason’s 
advice from every practice.
Reset your heads. 
Get all of the past plays, bad 
sets and bad hits out of your 
heads and focus on the serve 
that is about to come over.
With years of coaching the girls, 
Beason is proud to see how her one 
goal kickstarted volleyball in her 
community. She hopes to return to 
Gardendale and continue inspiring 
girls like Moore from her driveway. 
 
@kwadulack
kwadulack@alligator.orgBeason’s building blocks: How one student-athlete introduced volleyball to her community
Catherine McCarthy / / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Merritt Beason jumps and sets her sights on a kill against Texas A&M on Oct. 16.Courtesy to The Alligator
Florida volleyball’s Merritt Beason (center), pictured while she 
was still in high school, poses with some of the players on the 
middle school team she coached.
Before her collegiate start at UF , freshman outside hitter 
Merritt Beason would coach the girls in her town on volleyball12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2021
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$559999
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   
&& KARAOKE KARAOKE
on theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$44offoff
allall  FLATBREADSFLATBREADS
$$33
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
KEY LIME PIE KEY LIME PIE 
SHOTSSHOTS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
nightnight
GO GO 
GATORS!GATORS!
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
BASEBALL
THE FLORIDA GATORS BASEBALL 
TEAM RETURNED TO FLORIDA 
BALLPARK FOR A FALL BALL 
SCRIMMAGE AGAINST 
GEORGIA SOUTHERN
By Sara Kate Dyson
Sports Writer
The last time the Florida Gators baseball 
team hosted an opponent at Florida Ballpark, 
it was eliminated from the collegiate 
postseason and saw its College World Series 
chances disappear with a 19-1 loss to South 
Alabama. 
Last year’s unanimous preseason No. 
1 fell short of the extraordinarily high 
expectations set for them at the start of the 
2021 season. Now, the Gators return for a 
brand new year, with a relatively brand new 
team. 
The Gators hosted a double-header 
scrimmage against Georgia Southern 
Saturday to offer a first look at the 2022 
squad. The Eagles took game one 3-1, while 
the Gators won game two, 7-6. 
Though the early loss to Georgia Southern 
threatens to spark conversation over the 
status of this year’s Florida team, the panic 
button shouldn’t be pushed just yet. The 
Gators certainly have room for improvement 
after Saturday’s showing, but they show 
glimpses of hope as well. 
Here are three takeaways from the first 
fall ball head-to-head.
A Young Squad
One of the first things to remember about this year’s baseball squad is how young and 
new the team actually is. 
Between the end of last season to the 
start of fall ball, the Gators lost 20 players. 
Twelve of the departing players were 
pitchers, including weekend starters Tommy 
Mace and Jack Leftwich, meaning fans 
should expect several young arms on the 
mound in the spring. On Saturday alone, six 
freshman pitchers saw action. 
First-timers burst onto the scene on 
Saturday. Freshmen Deric Fabian, Ty Evans, 
Michael Robertson, Rene Lastres, Jorge De 
Goti, Matt Prevesk and Corey Robinson all 
made appearances. 
As of now, the Gators roster consists of 
16 freshmen, nine of which are pitchers. 
While it’s easy to start criticisms after one 
preseason show, this inexperienced roster 
may just need some more time to find its 
footing. 
Fabian Family Affair
Florida generated success throughout 
the 2021 season at the plate. Four Gators 
finished the season with above .300 batting 
averages and totaled a team average of .278. 
One vital piece of this offense elected 
to return to Florida, and his name is Jud 
Fabian. Fabian, despite being drafted in the 
second round by the Boston Red Sox, chose 
to play for the Gators for another year. 
Last season, Fabian mashed 20 home runs 
and earned the highest slugging percentage 
on the team with .560. The power on 
Saturday, however, came from someone 
with the same name but a different face. 
Jud’s little brother, Deric, lifted fans out 
of their seats, launching two pitches over the wall — one in each game — to elevate a 
Gators offense that lagged a bit in game one 
and early on in game two. 
Though veterans Sterlin Thompson and 
Wyatt Langford each knocked another over 
the wall in game two, the newest Fabian is 
definitely one to watch at the plate. 
On the Mound
The age-old Florida pitching dynasty 
looked at risk to crumble once again this 
season. Beyond just the uncertainty from 
the freshmen arms, the veterans found their 
own struggles on Saturday. 
Sophomore right-hander Brandon Sproat 
gave up two hits and an earned run in his opening two innings in the second game. 
Sophomore lefty Timmy Manning also 
struggled in his inning of work, giving up 
three hits and a pair of earned runs. 
On the bright side, returning starter 
Hunter Barco didn’t miss a beat. Barco 
opened up game one with six consecutive 
outs, including four strikeouts, in his two-
inning appearance. 
Though the Gators could use some work 
and fine-tuning, the good news is there is 
plenty of time before the season’s first pitch 
in February.
@sarakatedyson
skatedyson@alligator.orgThree takeaways from Florida baseball’s first big fall appearance
Ryan Haley / / Alligator Staff
Florida Ballpark, which debuted last season, hosted two scrimmages between 
the Gators and Georgia Southern on Saturday.
